K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that DJS (UK) Limited, trading as PiggyBank, (DJS),  gave him short  term 
loans which  were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this service on Mr Bs behalf by 
a claims management  company. But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by 
Mr B.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans and four instalment loans DJS provided to Mr B 
between March 2017 and September 2018.  Loan 2 was repayable  by one instalment and 
Loans 1 and 3 were  repayable by three  monthly  instalments. Loans 4 onwards were  
repayable by five monthly instalments. All of the loans except Loan 7 have been repaid. A 
summary of Mr Bs lending  history  is as follows:
Loan number 
Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount 
Highest monthly 
instalment amount 
     1. 20/3/17 31/5/17 £200 £88.98
     2. 30/7/17 6/8/17 £100 £105.60
     3. 17/8/17 29/9/17 £300 £135.72
     4. 23/11/17 20/12/17 £350 £133.51
     5. 20/12/17 3/4/18 £400 £155.95
     6. 3/4/18 31/8/18 £700 £251.50
     7. 10/9/18 Unpaid £350 £119.52
In its final response letter  DJS said it would uphold Mr Bs irresponsible lending complaint 
about Loans 6 and 7 and offered to refund the interest and charges paid on those loans.
The adjudicator noted that DJS had offered  to settle  Loans 6 and 7 and so said she wouldnt 
include those loans  in her assessment. She recommended that Loans 4 and 5 also be 
upheld.
DJS disagreed and responded  to say that there  had been a break in borrowing between  
Loans 1 and 2 and between Loans  3 and 4 which showed that Mr B wasnt  in a continuous  
lending cycle. It said that it had taken into account  Mr Bs income and expenditure, his credit  
file and it added a buffer to make sure the loan was affordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
As DJS has upheld Mr Bs irresponsible lending complaint about Loans  6 and 7, I dont 
propose to investigate those loans below.  But I will refer to them  in my award. 
When DJS lent to Mr B the regulator  was the FCA and relevant regulations and guidance 
included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC). The CONC contained  guidance for 
lenders about  responsible lending. 
Ref: DRN32297512DJS needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that DJS should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that DJS was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
DJS did a number of checks before it lent to Mr B. It asked him for details of his income and 
expenditure. Mr Bs declared income  before  all the loans  was £1,900. And Mr B declared his 
expenditure as £500. DJS noted from its credit check that Mr Bs credit  commitments were 
higher than hed declared. So it assessed Mr Bs disposable  income  at between £748 and 
£833. 
DJS also checked Mr Bs credit file before agreeing to the loans. It has provided this service  
with brief information about the results of its credit checks which didnt contain any adverse 
information that I think should have  caused additional concerns to DJS. Mr B has provided 
his credit report to us. I can see that he was taking out at least three other  payday  loans with 
other lenders at the time of Loans  4 and 5.
Ref: DRN32297513I think that the checks DJS carried out before agreeing Loans 1 to 3 were proportionate. The 
repayments that Mr B needed to make on Loans 1 to 3 were relatively modest compared to 
the income that he declared to DJS. I dont think the repayments were so large  that its 
obvious they wouldve caused  Mr B financial difficulty.
So given Mr Bs repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for DJS to 
ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to show  the lending was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr B provided or the information DJS shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I dont think DJS was wrong to give Loans 1 to 3 to Mr B.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of DJSs lending history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which the lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so DJS should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
Loan 4. I say this because:
Mr B had taken out a loan of £200 eight months earlier  in March 2017 and he was 
now asking for a loan of £350.  He hadnt made  any inroads  into his debt over this 
time and paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to DJS over an 
extended period.  
By Loan  4, Mr B had been borrowing from QQ for around eight months. 
There were  some  small gaps between loans being repaid and a new loan being  
granted. But, I dont  think it would have  been  reasonable for DJS to conclude  these  
gaps were any indication that Mr Bs finances had moved on from whatever situation 
had required his previous loans.
The chain of lending  of around 18 months between Loans  1 and 7 doesnt  reflect  the 
intended use of high-cost short-term  credit.
I can see that as DJS didnt stop lending at this point, Mr B went on to take out high cost 
loans for almost ten months more  and the loan amounts mostly increased. 
I think that Mr B lost out because DJS continued  to provide borrowing from Loan 4 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time that Mr B had been taking out short  term loans was likely to have 
had negative implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market  for these high-cost  loans.
Ref: DRN32297514The fact that Loans 4 and 5 were repaid doesnt mean that they were  repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr B undue difficulty.  
I should add Ive considered the other main points DJS has made to this service.
I note that DJS said that all of the loans  except Loan  7 had been paid early or on time. But I 
think DJS will (or ought to) know from previous decisions  that this service considers there 
will be times when the pattern of lending alone is enough to indicate  that a consumer is likely 
to be in financial difficulty  or would otherwise be harmed should relending continue.  So it 
follows that successful repayment of a loan doesnt automatically mean it was repaid 
sustainably. 
DJS also said that it had taken into account  the information on Mr Bs credit file and that 
provided by Mr B. And it had added a buffer  to make  sure the loan was affordable. But, DJS 
will know  from previous decisions (as well as whats set out on our website)  that there are 
cases where this service considers the overall  lending pattern and not just the affordability of 
each loan. When a consumer borrows numerous  loans over a long period of time, its most  
likely that the loans arent being used for their intended purpose of temporary cash flow 
problems. As DJS will know, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..may be symptomatic  of unsustainable 
lending patterns. And I think that is the case here.
 
So, I think that DJS needs to pay Mr B some  compensation relating to Loans 4 and 5 along 
with what it has already offered in relation to Loans  6 and 7. 
As I wasnt sure whether DJSs  offer for Loans  6 and 7 included the writing off of any unpaid 
interest and charges from Loan 7, I asked  the adjudicator to send my proposed  award in 
respect of those loans  to DJS and to ask for its comments. DJS responded by showing its 
refund calculations. As I dont know whether the calculations were  in line with my proposed  
award, I think its easier to repeat here what Id asked the adjudicator  to send  to DJS about 
Loans 6 and 7 in addition  to my redress for Loans 4 and 5.
So DJS should put things  right as follows.
putting things right  what DJS needs to do
DJS should:-
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on Loans 4 to 6 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
with regard to Loan 7, refund all the interest and charges that Mr B has paid on this 
loan, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refund from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 7;
apply the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 7, and 
pay any balance to Mr B;  
remove all entries about  Loans 4 to 6 from Mr Bs credit file; and
Ref: DRN32297515remove all entries about  Loan 7 from Mr Bs credit file once its been repaid from the 
refunded interest and charges referred to above.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DJS to take off tax from this interest. DJS must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If DJS intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order DJS (UK) Limited,  trading as PiggyBank, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr B paid on Loans 4 to 6 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on the refunds from the date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
2.With regard to Loan 7, refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr B has paid on this 
loan, and pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refund from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement;
3.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 7;
4.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  7, and 
pay any balance to Mr B;  
5.Remove all entries about Loans 4 to 6 from Mr Bs credit file; and
6.Remove all entries about Loan 7 from Mr Bs credit file once its been repaid from the 
refunded interest and charges referred to above.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires DJS to take off tax from this interest. DJS must give Mr B 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If DJS intends to apply 
the refunds to reduce  any outstanding capital balances, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3229751