K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Mrs E complain  that Countrywide  Principal  Services Limited  mis-sold  them  a 
mortgage product.  They  want matters put right.
background
Mr B and Mrs E wanted a mortgage  and took advice from Countrywide, a mortgage  broker.  It 
recommended a product which was taken out. Later,  Mr B and Mrs E said that Countrywide 
shouldve recommended a cheaper  product so the product they took out on its advice  was 
mis-sold; they supplied  evidence of the existence of the cheaper product and that it was for 
the same  length  of time.  They were also unhappy about not receiving a £200  refund for the 
valuation and the lack of communication from Countrywide. Mr B and Mrs E also thought the 
estate agent staff behaved  improperly and Countrywide hadnt investigated their complaints.
Mr B and Mrs E didnt pay all of Countrywides  fees and complained. It said that its staff 
recommended products  that best met the consumers needs and which they were  likely to 
get; this wasnt always  the cheapest possible product. Countrywide said that the fact that a 
particular lender had a cheaper mortgage  didnt mean the product recommended was mis-
sold. 
Countrywide pointed  out that Mr B and Mrs E were given written advice as to why the 
product was recommended (Mrs E had a good experience of a particular  lender  and the 
survey could be upgraded) and they didnt raise any concerns at the time. It also noted that 
later in the process Mr B asked about cheaper  rates and was told the matter  could be 
reviewed but it would be mean restarting the whole  process; Mr B asked Countrywide not to 
do that. It also said that it was paid the same commission regardless of which lender was 
recommended and that the mortgage documents made it clear  the valuation  fee had to be 
paid and wasnt refundable.  Countrywide  denied poor communication and pointed out the 
mortgage offer was obtained within just over six weeks. It refused to write off its fees as it 
had carried out the work  required.
Mr B and Mrs E complained to us. Mr B said hed told Countrywide that he liked the cheaper  
lender at the first meeting, but this was ignored. The investigators  view was that 
Countrywide hadnt acted fairly or reasonably. Its advice letter didnt talk about the many 
cheaper mortgages that appeared to be available and the reasons given for the choice of 
lender werent  good enough. Mr B and Mrs E came  to a broker  to find out the options,  not to 
be automatically recommended  a current lender   the investigator  said Countrywide had a 
duty to point out the cheaper  options. He also noted that most lenders allowed the survey to 
be upgraded. The investigator  calculated  the financial loss to be £941.10  and said that this 
was the amount Countrywide should  pay to Mr B and Mrs E.
Countrywide disagreed.  It said its duty was to recommend a suitable  mortgage, not to act as 
a mortgage comparison  service. If its reasoning was flawed, Mr B and Mrs E shouldve  
pointed that out at the time. It also said that Mr B and Mrs E were  told they could go 
elsewhere for a mortgage and chose not to do so. Mr B and Mrs E didnt disagree, and said 
they had been caused financial difficulties but didnt  give any evidence of this.
my provisional view
In my provisional view,  I said:
Ref: DRN36858572Countrywide is right to say that the role of a broker isnt necessarily  to offer the cheapest 
possible product  and it isnt a comparison  service.  The brokers role is to recommend a 
suitable mortgage which meets the needs  of the consumer.  That doesnt mean though that 
brokers shouldnt look at the cheapest product  available  it simply means that it can be 
appropriate to recommend  a more expensive product  for a particular reason and because its 
suitable to meet the consumers needs. 
But in Mr B and Mrs Es case, Countrywide  didnt recommend  a suitable mortgage. In its 
reasons why letter,  Countrywide said the mortgage  it recommended was suitable  because 
Mrs E liked her current lender and the ability to upgrade  the survey. 
The evidence from Mr B and Mrs E was that Mr B told Countrywide that he also liked his 
current lender (which offered the cheaper 1.79% mortgage). They said that virtually from the 
outset the adviser  was recommending  the mortgage  from Mrs Es current lender and it 
wasnt until later that Mrs E mentioned that it was her current  lender.  Mr B and Mrs E told 
this service that they didnt have a particular  preference  for a lender and were more  
interested in a competitive  interest rate. Countrywides evidence on this point is that it said in 
the reason why letter  that Mrs E preferred her current lender; there was silence about 
Mr Bs views.
If a consumer feels strongly that they prefer to use a particular lender, that can justify a 
recommendation by a broker. However, its reasonable to expect the broker to make it clear 
that due to the strength  of feeling  of the consumer the other options havent been  
considered. This didnt  happen in Mr B and Mrs Es case until much  later in the process (and 
I deal with this below). I also think its more  likely  than not that Mr B did say that he also liked 
his current lender; there will have been  a discussion about current  lenders in any event and 
Mr B liked the lender  enough to later find out what it couldve offered. Its also more likely  
than not that when  current lenders were  discussed  that both consumers expressed their 
views, not just Mrs E. And all Countrywide  has said is that Mrs E liked her current  lender, 
not that she insisted on using it.
The second  reason given  for the recommendation was the ability  to upgrade  the survey. But 
most surveys can be upgraded. The cheaper  lender has confirmed that it was possible to 
upgrade its survey.  And when Mr B and Mrs E took out the mortgage  Countrywide 
recommended, they didnt  in fact upgrade the lenders valuation   they got their own survey, 
which couldve been done for any mortgage as the private survey was for Mr B and Mrs Es 
benefit. So the point of recommending  the mortgage  didnt in fact work in practice  as Mr B 
and Mrs E didnt upgrade  the lenders survey  and other products had the same  feature.
There is little difference  between  the fees charged  to get either  the cheaper mortgage or the 
mortgage recommended  by Countrywide,  which could justify the recommendation.  
Countrywide says that Mr B and Mrs E shouldve spotted  the flawed reasoning and objected 
at the time. But Mr B and Mrs E arent financial service specialists; they went  to Countrywide 
for expert advice. The fact that the reasons given justifying the recommendation are 
unpersuasive does not mean  that its fair and reasonable to expect members  of the public to 
spot that. 
Ref: DRN36858573Having reviewed the mortgage recommended, and the reasons given as to why Countrywide 
believed it to be suitable, I dont think it met Mr B and Mrs Es needs  the mortgage 
recommended wasnt  suitable. The point about upgrading the survey wasnt required, and 
couldve been met by many products.  Theres  no evidence Mrs E was only interested  in 
products from her current lender and no record by Countrywide about Mr Bs view on that 
topic. The reasons given  to explain why the mortgage met their needs and was suitable dont 
stand up to scrutiny in my view.
And while Mr B did later expressly  ask about cheaper mortgages  (and Countrywide  admitted 
it hadnt checked),  given  the timings of the transaction and risk of loss of the property, I dont 
think it was unfair or unreasonable  for the mortgage  to be completed. I think in all the 
circumstances of this case,  the difference in cost to Mr B and Mrs E between  the product 
recommended and a five year 1.79% product should be refunded in full.
Mr B and Mrs E raised complaints about  the actions  of the estate agency staff.  That is 
outside the jurisdiction of this service. I also note that the investigator didnt deal with the 
valuation fee point. The documents accepted by Mr B and Mrs E said that the valuation fees 
was not refundable. While I appreciate  that they have said they were  verbally  given different 
information by Countrywide, I think its fair and reasonable to bear in mind the written 
information given  at the time and the fact that the valuation was carried  out. I dont think  this 
should be refunded. 
What about Countrywides own fees? Mr B and Mrs E paid £249 and owe another £250 for 
the services provided.  Given Countrywides unsuitable advice about the mortgage, I dont 
think that its fair or reasonable for Mr B and Mrs E to pay for that advice. I appreciate that 
other work was carried out to complete the mortgage by Countrywide,  but the majority of the 
work is recommending a suitable mortgage,  something which  Countrywide  didnt do. I think  
that its fair and reasonable for the balance of fees to be written off and for the £249 paid to 
be refunded, together with simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from the date of 
payment until the date of refund. If Countrywide considers that it is required by HMRC to 
deduct income tax from the interest payment, it should provide Mr B and Mrs E with the 
appropriate documentation which will allow them to reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Mr B and Mrs E have been  put to trouble  and upset due to Countrywides failings. They 
havent shown  evidence of additional  financial  loss, but they are paying more  than they 
should for the mortgage. They have had to complain, and they feel let down. In all the 
circumstances of this case,  I think £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to 
them is fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional view, Countrywide  first said that it had refunded  the £249 paid 
for its fees,  and then accepted that it hadnt.  It also calculated the likely amount to be paid to 
Mr B and Mrs E in respect of the extra interest they will have to pay a year and said it would 
want to see Mr B and Mrs Es mortgage statement to make a payment each year (and pay 
8% interest on the amount it paid). 
Ref: DRN36858574Mr B and Mrs E felt that they should  receive  more  compensation   on top of what Id 
proposed, they wanted another £200  for the original valuation  and their survey costs for the 
private survey they got. They also repeated again  that they felt Countrywide  had caused  
them financial difficulties.
Ive thought carefully about both my provisional view and what  the parties have said in 
response. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for Mr B and Mrs E to receive  the 
survey costs they seek. As I explained in my provisional view, they were given information in 
writing that confirmed valuation fees werent refundable and the extra survey was done 
privately by Mr B and Mrs E  theres  no reason for me to find Countrywide  was responsible 
for the additional  survey. And Im not persuaded that Countrywides failings are responsible  
for any financial difficulties faced by Mr B and Mrs E, which are unevidenced  but appear to 
be linked  to their personal circumstances.
Accordingly, I see no reason to change my provisional view and will confirm it as my final 
decision. I reiterate  that the extra interest needs to be calculated by Countrywide over a five 
year period,  not one year, and should be paid within 28 days of Countrywide being  notified 
that Mr B and Mrs E have accepted this decision,  if that is what they decide  to do. This will 
ensure that this matter is resolved promptly, rather than drawn  out over several years. It also 
means that theres  no need to pay 8% interest in respect of the extra mortgage interest  as 
Mr B and Mrs E will already have received this compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and Countrywide Principal Services  Limited 
should pay Mr B and Mrs E the difference between the cost of the mortgage product 
recommended and the mortgage product of 1.79% which shouldve been recommended  
over a five year period, £200  for the trouble and upset  caused,  write off the £250 balance  
due for its fees and refund the £249 paid for its fees,  together  with interest as outlined  above 
in respect of the fee refund. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr B and Mrs E to accept or reject my decision before 26 March  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3685857