K820x#14complaint
Mr B, represented by a claims  management company (CMC), complains  that CASH  ON GO 
LIMITED (trading as Peachy) lent money  to him he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr B entered into loans  with Peachy. The first was for £500, taken out in December 2017 
and repayable over 12 months. Mr B repaid this loan early  in February 2018. The second  
was for £400  taken  out in April 2018. In May 2018, this loan was topped  up by a further  
£300, increasing the amount borrowed to £700. This was repayable  over 12 months. 
Mr B says that Peachy didnt carry out adequate  affordability checks before  providing the 
loans. He says he was in a spiral  of debt and the loans werent affordable. 
Peachy says that before providing the loans it asked for information from Mr B about his 
income and expenditure. It says the loan repayments were spread over a number of months 
and that the repayments were affordable based on the information provided.   
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint.
Mr B didnt accept our adjudicators view saying that a credit check  would  have revealed  he 
couldnt afford to repay the loans  and that he had multiple other payday loans and defaults. 
As the complaint hasn't been  resolved informally, it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide. This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Peachy needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
In this case I think the checks carried out were reasonable. Mr B provided  information about 
his income and expenses and this didnt raise any concerns  regarding  the affordability of his 
repayments. The repayments werent a substantial amount of his income.
I understand Mr Bs comments  about  his other debts at the time. However  given the 
information he had provided, the size of the loan repayments compared  to his income, and 
that he repaid  the first loan early,  I do not find that there were  reasons for Peachy to carry 
out further checks. As the checks it did suggested the loans were affordable  I do not find I 
can say they shouldnt have been provided.
Because of the above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN32617452my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3261745