K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about Covea Insurance plc. He isnt happy about the way it dealt with 
a claim under his motor  insurance policy.
background 
Mr A was involved  in a road traffic  accident with another car which he says happened on             
18 February 2017. Mr A says he was moving out of an allocated parking space in a car park 
and the third partys  car came too close to his car, so he applied his breaks.  But the third 
party was unable to avoid Mr As vehicle and as a result hit the front of his car, knocking his 
number plate off. 
He reported the incident to Covea on the same day. But because he felt there was no 
damage other than the number plate falling  off, Mr A didnt believe it would have an impact 
on his insurance  premiums.
Mr A says upon renewal  of his policy on 13 December 2017  he was shocked to see an 
increase on his premium.  But he put this down to the fact that the claim in February  2017  
was settled in favour  of the third party. As Mr A was dissatisfied, so he contacted  our 
service. 
We notified Covea  of the concerns that were raised and it investigated Mr As complaint. 
Covea said the third partys car was inspected on 1 March 2017. After  completing the 
inspection it said all the damage was new and consistent with the incident which occurred on 
18 February 2017. And while  Mr A said the third party hit his car, Covea  said there was no 
evidence to suggest they were liable for the accident. It went on to explain that Mr A pulled 
out from a parked space into the path of the third party, so his claim was settled on a fault 
basis.
Covea apologised  for the time it took to issue its response and explained  its complaint  
process was not followed and this is what caused the delay. 
Our investigator looked into this complaint. She said Covea had acted fairly and reasonably.  
She explained that she had considered the terms and conditions of the policy and Covea 
had acted in line with these when settling  the claim. 
She also explained following her assessment of the complaint that the premium that Mr A 
was charged was calculated fairly. However  she did feel Mr A suffered some trouble and 
upset which  warranted  financial  compensation. But she went on to say the delays in Covea  
investigating the complaint wouldnt have impacted the outcome of the claim, it was a failure 
on Coveas part. So she asked Covea to pay Mr A £75 compensation. Covea agreed with 
the outcome the investigator reached but Mr A still remained  unhappy  as he felt the third 
party was at fault and that his premiums have been  impacted by this. So, the case  was 
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Ref: DRN35483862In order to keep  the issues  that Mr A has complained about separate, Ill address these 
under subheadings below.
settling the claim in favour of the third party
I understand that Mr A feels strongly  that the third party driver was to blame for the incident, 
and more should have been  done by Covea  before  it decided  Mr A was at fault. But its 
important to note that Ive not looked at who I think is at fault as its not our role to do so. Ive 
looked at whether Covea reached its decision to settle the claim reasonably  on the evidence 
available, acted in line with the terms and conditions and provided a clear explanation  as to 
why it reached the decision  it did.
The terms and conditions  of Mr As policy with Covea Insurance say: 
We are entitled to decide exactly  how to carry out any legal proceedings or settle any claim 
and to: 
take over and defend  or settle any claim in the name of any person, company or firm 
insured by the policy
Alongside the testimony of Mr A and the pictures  and drawings he shared, Covea has also 
shared a detailed  engineers report which indicates the areas  in which  the third partys  
vehicle was damaged. 
Mr A said when he moved out of the parking space  he saw the third party vehicle 
approaching from the right, and as a result applied his breaks. Hes explained he stopped 
dead before the third party struck his vehicle  leading  to the number plate becoming 
detached from his car. Hes also explained that the third party  had swerved in an attempt to 
avoid a collision,  but was unable to prevent the impact to Mr As vehicle. 
The engineer has confirmed that there was damage  to the bodywork of the third party 
vehicle on the nearside. Having considered Mr As recollection of events and the damage 
listed in the report, I dont  think Covea  has acted unreasonably in concluding  that the 
damage to the third party vehicle was likely to be caused by the incident and contact made 
by Mr As vehicle.
In addition to that the engineer has said that there appeared to be no pre-incident damage  to 
the third party  vehicle. And the work carried out appears to be solely in relation to repairing 
and painting the nearside of the vehicle, which again is consistent with the circumstances 
surrounding the incident. 
Mr A says hes not at fault because he stopped his vehicle and he says the third party may 
have been driving too fast at the time. I appreciate  why Mr A feels  this is the case however 
as he was in the process of moving out of the parking space at the time the incident 
occurred Covea have  said he was at fault. And while I have taken on board Mr As view that 
the third party  driver may have been driving too fast, there is no evidence  to show that this 
was the case.
Having reviewed the evidence provided and the explanation given by Covea as to why it 
reached the decision it did Im satisfied  that it has settled the claim fairly and in line with the 
terms of their policy. 
Ref: DRN35483863increase in Mr As premium upon renewal
In December 2017, Mr A received the terms for the renewal of his policy. These showed that 
his premium for the forthcoming year had increased  from £463.45 (for the previous year) to 
£1,065.25. 
An insurer  is entitled to decide how much they want to charge  a customer based  on their 
underwriting criteria and offer those terms accordingly. The customer in return has the 
choice to accept  these or move to a different insurance provider.  
Despite this, Ive reviewed the evidence Covea has provided in relation to the premium 
increase. The information suggests that the premium would have inevitably increased in 
December 2017  due to changes which would have  impacted on all of their customers.  Based 
on this Im satisfied that Covea has been fair in the approach it has taken in calculating the 
premium. 
delays in resolving  the complaint
In Coveas final response from August 2018,  it apologised  for the time it took for it to resolve  
the complaint.  
Whilst I can see that they hadnt  had a chance  to review Mr As complaint when he first 
made contact with our Service on 18 December  2017, they were made aware  of the 
circumstances surrounding  Mr As dissatisfaction on 25 January 2018. Covea didnt address 
Mr As concerns until 1 August 2018. Covea has apologised  for not following its complaint  
process. But considering  how long Covea  took to respond  to Mr As concerns, I agree with 
the investigators findings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and Covea Insurance  plc should put this 
right by awarding Mr A £75 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Jade Rowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3548386