K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the valuation Covea Insurance  plc made on his car following a claim 
on his motor insurance policy. Hes also unhappy  the car was declared a total loss. 
background
Mr Ks car was damaged in an accident and taken to a garage.  Mr K said the engineer there  
thought the car was repairable. But Covea took the car to an approved garage where it was 
deemed to be beyond economical repair.  Covea  then had an independent engineer assess  
the car and he too thought it was a total loss. 
Covea offered Mr K what it said was the cars market value. But Mr K thought  his car was 
worth more. He thought  new for old should apply.  He thought his policy had been  changed 
to market  value.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Covea 
had reasonably decided that the car was beyond economical repair. She thought  its offer of 
the cars  market value  at the time of loss, as provided by the motor trade guides, was fair 
and reasonable.  She didnt think the new for old applied as Mr K wasnt  the cars  registered 
keeper. 
Mr K replied  that he thought his car wasnt a total loss and the policy  had been changed to 
market value. He thought his car was worth  more based on advertised  prices hed seen at 
the time.  Mr K asked for his complaint to be reviewed. So its come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ks frustration. He was involved in an accident  through  no fault of his 
own. I was sorry to learn that he was hurt at the time. Then his car was deemed to be 
beyond economical  repair and he was left out of pocket due to the outstanding finance.  Mr K 
has told us that his car was later repaired for less than Coveas engineers  estimates and is 
being sold on for a profit.  
But Covea said Mr Ks car was damaged beyond economical repair.  Were not engineers. 
We dont assess how much  damage  has been caused  to a vehicle as this is a matter  for the 
experts in these situations, the insurance companies  and engineers. Our role in these 
complaints is to determine whether  an insurance  company has considered all the available  
evidence and whether it can justify its decision  about repairs.
Mr K said the garage the car was first taken to said the car was repairable.  Then Coveas  
approved repairer  estimated the required repairs based on photographs.  I understand that 
Mr K doesnt  think a photographer  attended the garage. But I havent seen evidence that 
shows that Coveas  estimate was incorrectly  arrived at. 
Because Mr K disagreed  with the repairs estimates, Covea then agreed with Mr K that an 
independent engineer should physically inspect the car to assess the repair  costs.  I think this 
was fair and reasonable as its what Id require in the case  of similar  disputes.  
Ref: DRN35719302The independent engineer agreed that the car was beyond  economical  repair.  Covea 
estimated the repair costs  as £17,000 which Mr K said was less 60% of its valuation.  So he 
thought it should repair the car. 
But the car was deemed to be a category S write-off, i.e. one with severe  structural damage. 
So the estimate didnt allow for further  repairs that would be required following further 
inspection. Mr K didnt believe that the car had suffered severe  structural  damage.  But I think 
it was reasonable  for Covea to rely on the expert  independent engineers  evidence.  So I 
cant say it was wrong for Covea to decide  that the car was beyond economical repair.
Covea said that Mr Ks policy provided  for the cars  market value in the case of its total loss. 
Ive checked this and I agree that this is the policy term. The alternative would be an agreed 
value policy, but I cant see that this is the case.  The investigator  invited  Mr K to provide any 
evidence he had to show that the policy had been changed. But I cant see that hes done  
this. So I cant say its unfair or unreasonable for Covea to apply the market  value term. 
Covea offered Mr K £32,090 as the pre-accident market value of his car. But Mr K thought  
he couldnt replace his car for less than £35,000.  The investigator has explained this 
services approach to car valuations in that we dont provide  valuations  for cars but seek  to 
assess whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
I can see that Covea  followed  our approach and looked for cars of the same  make,  model, 
mileage and condition  in the trade guides  at the date of loss. It obtained two valuations  and it 
offered Mr K the average of these. I think this was fair and reasonable as it was made 
according to our approach. And so I dont require Covea to increase its offer.  
Mr K has provided examples of cars advertised  at higher prices at the time of Coveas offer.  
But we dont  find advertisements  particularly persuasive as these are essentially  asking 
prices and arent selling  prices. Its for this reason  that the trade guides are used  as they 
provide evidence of likely retail selling prices.  
Mr K provided evidence that his car had been repaired and was for sale at a profit  to the 
repairer. But, as explained  above,  were not engineers.  We cant  consider how repairs were 
carried out. So, whilst I can appreciate Mr Ks frustration, I cant  comment further  on this 
point. 
Mr K thought  his car should  be replaced under the new for old policy term. But, as the 
investigator has explained, the policy says that this applies  if he is the cars owner.  In Mr Ks 
case, his car was supplied under a personal contract  lease agreement. So he isnt the cars 
registered keeper.  In this case I agree that the new for old term doesnt  apply.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Ref: DRN35719303Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3571930