K822xcomplaint
Mr Ms complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  is about the investments 
he was advised  to make in 2015.
background 
Mr M first met an RBS adviser in April 2014 to discuss his plans to invest. After several 
further discussions a full review meeting took place in June 2015. 
Following that meeting,  RBS recommended that Mr M put £1 million in a discretionary 
management service  with Standard Life. Through that service, the large majority of Mr Ms 
funds were invested in a Personal Portfolio and an International Bond, with a small allocation 
to a stocks and shares ISA. RBS also recommended  that Mr M invest  in a Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).
In January 2017 Mr M said he had concerns about  the amount hed invested. He was told 
the minimum investment  in the service  with Standard Life would be £500,000. Mr M decided 
that was still too much  and so he surrendered the full portfolio of investments RBS had 
recommended, at a total loss of around £6,000.
Mr M complains about the advice  he was given by RBS, and says he was vulnerable  at the 
time. He complains he was told the minimum investment was £1 million,  and there  were  
more suitable  options available.
RBS have said the investments they recommended were suitable  for Mr M. They say they 
took account of Mr Ms personal circumstances and only conducted a full review meeting 
with him after several earlier discussions.  
Our investigator thought the advice  RBS gave Mr M was unsuitable. He said RBS should 
compensate Mr M and put him as close as possible to the position  he would probably now 
be in if hed been given suitable advice. 
RBS disagree with our investigator and have asked  for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before making their recommendations, RBS should  have considered Mr Ms financial  
situation, his knowledge and experience of investing, and his investment objectives. 
That would include taking account  of his attitude  to risk, his purpose in investing, and how 
long he wanted  to invest his money  for.  
Ive seen a copy  of the paperwork  relating to Mr Ms meeting with RBS in June 2015,  and the 
earlier discussions. The adviser discussed  with Mr M his personal and financial 
circumstances, and his investment  aims  and objectives.
At the time of the meeting  in June 2015, Mr M wasnt receiving any regular income from 
employment. He was receiving income  from another source but that was due to come to an 
Ref: DRN36463652end in 2019. Mr Ms net disposable income was about £2,000  each month and he had no 
major expenses planned. Mr M had two dependent children.
At the time,  a large portion  of Mr Ms assets was tied up in property.  Excluding  that he had 
over £1.2 million available in liquid assets.
The advisers report said that Mr M was looking to invest  £1 million.  That would leave him 
with over £200,000  in savings. He was expecting to sell a holiday home which  would likely  
generate over £100,000. The adviser  also noted that, although he hadnt factored it in to his 
recommendations, there was a high probability  of Mr M receiving another large  payment in 
the near future.  
The adviser noted that Mr M had invested in a stocks and shares ISA for several years prior 
to 2015. He was classified  as an inexperienced  investor, but with a good  general 
understanding of some  of the factors that would need to be considered  in planning  his 
investments.
The adviser recommended that Mr M should  initially invest to generate  capital growth. 
From 2019,  when his source of income would end, his objective  should then change to 
income generation. The recommendation was based on Mr M investing over at least  a ten 
year period.  
The adviser asked  Mr M a series of questions to determine his attitude to risk. Mr Ms risk 
category was assessed as medium. That was the fourth of seven risk categories and 
investors in that category were  described  as balanced in their risk tolerance. The description 
said that investors would  typically  invest across  both growth asset types  (such  as shares 
(UK and overseas), property and high yield bonds) and defensive asset types (such as 
cash, UK gilts, and corporate bonds), but with greater  emphasis on growth asset types.
Our investigator thought Mr Ms answers to the adviser were consistent  with someone 
whose attitude  to risk was lower than medium. Of the 18 questions  Mr M was asked,  our 
investigator thought  his answers to the following six questions  suggested he was a lower risk 
investor:
I think of myself as a risk taker with my financial investments   disagree
I feel that I am much more willing to take investment risk when compared with other
investors  disagree
Uncertainty around money and investments makes me feel uncomfortable  agree
People who know me say I would  take financial risks  disagree
I worry about things  going wrong with my financial  decisions  agree
Others would say that I like taking risks with my money  disagree
RBS disagree with our investigators view. They say that, if taken  out of context,  the answers 
above would  indicate a lower tolerance  of risk. But there were 11 other  questions  and overall  
Mr Ms responses showed that he was prepared to accept the risks associated with a 
medium risk investment strategy. They note that Mr M strongly agreed with the following two 
statements:
I expect my investments to sometimes go down in value as well as up  strongly 
agree
I would  be happy to tolerate fluctuations in the value of my investments to get a 
better return in future  strongly  agree
Ref: DRN36463653RBS have said the purpose  of the questionnaire was to arrive at an indicative risk tolerance,  
and this would then have been discussed  in more  detail with Mr M. Theyve said the 
paperwork shows Mr M agreed the medium category matched his attitude to risk. 
Ive looked carefully  at the answers Mr M gave to the adviser  about  his attitude to risk. 
I understand his answers would have been considered overall,  and a more detailed 
conversation would likely have taken place. But ultimately the adviser was responsible for 
assessing Mr Ms attitude to risk and offering advice that was suitable for him. 
Mr Ms answers indicated that he didnt  view himself  as a risk taker  or someone  more willing 
to take risks than other investors. He also agreed  that uncertainty  around  money  and 
investments made him feel uncomfortable  and that he would worry about  things  going  wrong  
with financial decisions. At the same time, Mr M was content to accept  some  losses and 
understood that investments could  go up or down. He was prepared to accept that in order  
to get a better return in the future.  
Based on the answers he gave, I think Mr M said enough for the adviser  to question whether 
his attitude to risk should really have been  categorised as medium   the fourth out of seven 
categories. And from the paperwork, I can see the adviser did identify some reasons why 
Mr M might not fit the medium risk profile.  
The adviser said Mr Ms experience and existing investments werent  fully supportive of him 
being able to afford to take a medium level of risk. And I agree with the advisers comments 
at the time that the introduction of a medium risk profile for an investment of £1 million 
appeared to be a significant change in Mr Ms overall risk profile.    
The adviser thought it was suitable  for Mr M to invest a relatively high amount (86%  of his 
liquid assets) at a medium level of risk because he was looking for a long term income 
stream. The adviser  also said it was likely that Mr M would receive substantial additional 
funds, and the spending on his children might diminish once they started  working. And he 
thought Mr M could cope  with a potential loss as he was retaining a large liquid reserve  and 
his income could improve. 
Its true that Mr M was left with a cash reserve of over £200,000, which was substantial in 
comparison to his net monthly expenditure. But his income at the time was modest in 
comparison to the amount  he was investing.  
Although there was the prospect that Mr Ms income  could increase, that wasnt guaranteed. 
And the adviser  had said he wasnt factoring it into his recommendations. 
There was therefore  no guarantee  that Mr M would  be able to recoup  any losses  from his 
investments and I think the adviser should have given greater weight to that in 
recommending to Mr M how much he should invest and at what level of risk.
Overall, I can see that the adviser  was focused on the objective  of initially  growing  Mr Ms 
money to maximise the income  hed be able to draw  from it a few years  later.  And Mr M 
would have needed to take some risk in order to achieve that objective.
But on balance, I dont  think the advisers  justification for going ahead with a medium risk 
assessment was sufficiently strong or should  have outweighed the concerns hed identified.  
It meant that a larger proportion of Mr Ms funds would be invested in growth asset types, 
Ref: DRN36463654including shares.  And I think  that exposed too much of his money to the risk of severe capital 
losses that hed be unable to replace. 
 
In summary,  I dont think RBS recommendation met Mr Ms objectives or was suitable for 
him. I think the adviser exposed a large  proportion of Mr Ms assets to more risk than he was 
willing and able to accept. Ive therefore decided to uphold this complaint.
RBS have said Mr M went on to invest even more at the same  level of risk when he 
reinvested some 18 months later. But Mr Ms circumstances  were  different then,  and so that 
doesnt affect my decision on the advice RBS gave  him in 2015.
other complaint points
 
Mr M says he was vulnerable at the time RBS made their recommendations. I appreciate 
that Mr M was going through  an extremely difficult time. He first met an RBS adviser in 
April 2014, and the adviser noted he had some  concerns about whether Mr M was in a 
position to make important decisions about his finances. 
The adviser met Mr M several other  times and by June  2015 was satisfied that Mr M was 
able to make  the necessary decisions.  I think RBS did what  they could to take account  of 
Mr Ms circumstances  and that by June  2015  it was reasonable for them to go ahead  and 
offer him their advice. 
Mr M also complained about the review meetings he had. But the meetings werent  
conducted by RBS so I cant  look at Mr Ms concerns in this decision.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr M 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr Ms circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
In my decision, Ive said Mr M was advised  to expose a large proportion  of his assets to 
more risk than he was willing and able to accept. In calculating compensation, I think  RBS 
should assume Mr M would have  invested  the same amount, but differently. I think  thats fair 
because Mr M would have wanted to do something with his funds, and the benchmark  Im 
using is based  50% on the value of fixed rate bonds   an investment with little or no risk. 
As Mr M sought  advice  elsewhere having  surrendered his investments with RBS, and 
incurred additional  costs, RBS should  repay  the adviser fees that Mr M paid.
compensation for funds invested  in Standard  Life discretionary management service
To compensate Mr M fairly, RBS must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
Ref: DRN36463655payable. RBS should also pay interest as set out below.
Repay the advisers  fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the 
fees were paid to the date of the settlement. If the above comparison shows that no 
compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the fair value 
can be offset against the fees with interest.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment name
status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
Standard Life 
Discretionary Management Portfolio (Personal Portfolio, International Bond and 
stocks and 
shares ISA)
 surrenderedfor half the 
investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other  
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds
date of 
investmentdate surrendered 8% simple  per year 
on any loss from the 
end date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  RBS should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
compensation for the SIPP
To compensate Mr M fairly, RBS must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable. RBS should add interest as set out below. 
Ref: DRN36463656If there is a loss, RBS should pay into Mr Ms pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not be paid into the pension  plan 
if it would  conflict with any existing  protection or allowance. 
If RBS is unable to pay the total amount into Mr Ms pension  plan,  it should  pay that amount 
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a taxable 
income. Therefore,  the total amount  should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax 
that would  otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr Ms actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would  have been  able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
Repay the advisers  fees together with simple interest at 8% a year, from the date the 
fees were paid to the date of the settlement. If the above comparison shows that no 
compensation is payable, the difference between the actual value and the fair value 
can be offset against the fees with interest.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If RBS deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr M how much  has been  taken off. RBS should give Mr M a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment name
status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date) additional interest
SIPP  surrenderedfor half the 
investment: FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other  
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate surrendered8% simple  per 
year on any loss 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  RBS should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
Ref: DRN36463657published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why are these remedies suitable?
For both the funds invested in the Standard Life discretionary management service and the 
SIPP, Ive decided on the methods of compensation set out above because:
Mr M wanted  income with some  growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr Ms risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean  that Mr M would have  
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint against 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc.  
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should put things  right in the way Ive set out above. 
They should  provide details of their calculation to Mr M in a clear,  simple format. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3646365