K821x#15complaint
Miss D complains that Nationwide Building Society didnt help her when she made a mistake  
paying money into a Junior Individual Savings Account (JISA).
background
Miss D had set up two individual JISAs  for two children.  She made a deposit of £500 into 
one of the accounts. But shed intended  to pay £250  into each of them. She phoned  
Nationwide to ask it to transfer  £250  from one to the other. But it said it couldnt  do that 
without a letter from Her Majestys Revenue and Customs (HMRC).
Nationwide said the rules about  JISAs  and withdrawals from those accounts  are set by 
HMRC. So it had no control over the process. 
Our investigator contacted HMRC which said it would be willing for Nationwide to move £250 
from one account  and place it in the other. In light of that response,  he didnt think  
Nationwide had done enough  to help Miss D when she first asked it to. So he thought it 
should pay her £150  for the poor customer service itd given her.
Nationwide wasnt happy with his opinion. It said now HMRC had confirmed it could transfer 
the money it was happy to do so. But it didnt  think  it should  pay any compensation. It said 
HMRC had told it not to refer any cases to it because it wouldnt  authorise any requests 
where the customer has transferred the payment online  in error. And it said HMRC had 
recently confirmed that the ISA regulations do not allow the payment made  into the JISA to 
be reversed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide said its position on the referral of cases to HMRC was clear.  But its also clear to 
me that after our investigator contacted HMRC and explained the situation it agreed that 
Nationwide could move  the money from one account to the other.
Nationwide sent us (undated) guidance  from HMRC which did indeed say HMRC wouldnt 
authorise any requests  that funds had been  transferred online in error. But the document 
went on to say: we can consider cases where the customer has transferred funds  to the 
wrong JISA/CTF and the money is to remain within the wrapper but in another childs  
account  for instance if the customer has two children and they make two payments to one 
childs CTF instead of one payment to each childs account.
I asked Nationwide  to comment on this but again it referred to recent guidance from HMRC  
dated 7 November 2018 which set out the only circumstances  in which  a withdrawal was 
permitted from a JISA which didnt include the situation Miss D found herself in. But it didnt 
make any comment  on the undated  guidance which did include that situation. That guidance 
was clearly available at the time Miss D raised her problem with Nationwide. So I think it 
couldve taken Miss Ds request to HMRC which would have saved her a lot of stress and 
inconvenience. And I agree with our investigator that £150 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN38966992I cant order Nationwide to transfer  the money from one account to the other. But I can tell it 
to liaise  with HMRC to confirm its agreement  that the money  can be moved. Our investigator  
will give Nationwide the relevant contact details at HMRC.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint.
To put things right Nationwide  must pay Miss D £150 compensation and must liaise with 
HMRC to confirm its agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 February  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3896699