K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC reduced her credit  card limit unfairly. 
Background
Mrs M had a credit card limit of £15,000  with Lloyds and made a payment of £8,350 to repay 
the outstanding balance  on 30 August 2018.  On 3 September 2018 Lloyds took a direct 
debit payment of £600 but it was returned to Mrs Ms bank account the following day. 
On 9 September 2018 Lloyds issued  a credit card statement  which said Mrs M had to pay 
£44.08 by 4 October 2018.  Mrs M accesses her statements with Lloyds online.  Lloyds  says it 
sent Mrs M a text on 4 October 2018  as a reminder but it wasnt successfully delivered.
Lloyds sent two letters to Mrs M over the following weeks asking her to make a payment but 
they were incorrectly addressed and not received. Lloyds also wrote  to Mrs M and said it 
would reduce her credit  limit to £500 due to the missed payment. 
Mrs M complained and Lloyds agreed its letters chasing her payment hadnt  been correctly 
addressed. Lloyds offered Mrs M £75 and said no adverse information about the missed 
payment was showing on her credit  file. 
Mrs M referred  her complaint to our service. The investigator said Lloyds decision to reduce 
the credit  card limit was reasonable as Mrs M hadnt  made  the payment due on 
4 October 2018. The investigator said we couldnt  force Lloyds to reinstate the credit limit 
and that its decision  not to review  it as Mrs M is currently  living abroad was reasonable. 
Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators view and said Lloyds  decision to reduce her credit  
limit came after she didnt receive its reminder  letters, not after she missed the payment. As 
Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators view her complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs M is upset  that her credit limit has been reduced.  Its clear that the 
missed payment that was due on 4 October 2018 was a mistake and I agree that she didnt 
receive the reminder letters  Lloyds sent.  But Im not persuaded Lloyds has acted unfairly  by 
reducing the credit limit. 
Mrs M says she didnt  check  her online statements after she repaid the outstanding balance  
on 31 August 2018 as she believed the account  had been fully repaid. I understand why 
Mrs M thought that was the case.  But interest is charged on the account  in arrears which 
meant a further  £44.08 was due to fully repay the outstanding debt. Lloyds continued to 
send Mrs M statements online as it had previously done and the September  2018 statement 
confirmed what was left to pay by 4 October  2018.  Whilst  I understand why Mrs M thought 
her balance had been repaid, I havent found  anything to show that was something Lloyds 
had told her or it acted  incorrectly  by charging residual interest  after the outstanding balance 
was repaid. 
Ref: DRN31684652Lloyds accepts it incorrectly  addressed two reminder letters and that its unlikely they were 
received. Ive reviewed  both and can see the address is incomplete. But those letters  were 
sent after the payment due date had passed. So Mrs M was already in arrears at that stage. 
I know Mrs M feels Lloyds decision to reduce her credit  limit came  about because those 
letters werent responded to in time but Im not persuaded  thats the case. The credit  limit 
was reviewed because  the account  was in arrears.  And the credit card terms allow  Lloyds to 
suspend new spending with immediate effect  as well as reduce a credit limit. Lloyds has 
acted in line with the terms.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M but the evidence Ive seen  shows the credit limit was reduced  
because of the missed  payment. 
Mrs M has queried a text message Lloyds says was sent on 4 October 2018 and asked why 
it wasnt sent to an alternative  number  if it wasnt  delivered. But Lloyds  contacted Mrs M in 
line with the information she had registered  in relation to her credit card. The system is 
largely automated  and I wouldnt expect Lloyds to subsequently check  its records for 
alternative numbers. Im satisfied Lloyds  tried to send Mrs M a text in line with the records  it 
had. 
I agree  the situation went on longer than it should  have because  Lloyds letters  were 
incorrectly addressed.  Whilst I agree that the service Lloyds provided should have been  
better, I think its offer of £75 fairly  reflects the impact of the errors.
No arrears or adverse information  was reported on Mrs Ms credit file. 
Lloyds says Mrs M cant apply for her credit limit to be increased as she currently lives 
abroad. I understand why Mrs M wants Lloyds to reinstate the credit limit but Im satisfied its 
decision to reduce it was reasonable. And any subsequent decision to increase Mrs Ms 
credit limit will have  to meet Lloyds lending criteria. Lloyds says it will only consider 
increasing credit limits  for card holders living in the UK and thats  a decision its entitled to 
make. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M but I havent  been  persuaded  to uphold her complaint. I agree 
Lloyds incorrectly addressed two letters but Im satisfied the £75 its agreed to pay fairly 
reflects the impact of its mistakes. I havent found that Lloyds' decision to reduce Mrs Ms 
credit limit was caused because she didnt respond to its incorrectly  addressed  letters.  The 
evidence Ive seen  shows that decision was made because Mrs M missed a credit card 
payment. I leave it to Mrs M to decide  whether she wishes  to accept Lloyds offer of £75. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3168465