K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the fees and extra interest that White  Label Lending Limited 
has charged on their secured loan. They say that they are unfair and do not reflect the actual 
costs involved.  They want some of the fees and charges removed from their account.
background 
Mr and Mrs M took out a secured loan for around £10,500 with White  Label in 2008.  The 
loan was over a 10 year term. 
Mr and Mrs M fell behind  with payments. And they say that White Label sent out field agents  
to complete income and expenditure forms with them, but that each time they were  forced  to 
commit to an unrealistic  payment arrangement. 
Mr and Mrs M complained to White Label  in October  2018 about the fees and extra  interest 
added to their account. They said that the loan balance was still over half of what  they had 
borrowed, which was unfair. And they said that they had been charged  over £400 for field 
agent visits but only recalled meeting with 2 advisers.
White Label didnt uphold their complaint. It said, in summary:
It could confirm that any charges levied reflected the amount of work involved in 
administering certain requests  and were not made unnecessarily or without careful  
consideration;
Fees had been debited to their account when the account had been in arrears  and 
there had been no arrangement in place  or an agreed arrangement had not been  
maintained. Fees  were also incurred when further legal action had been required  in 
relation to the arrears. Letters were sent on each  occasion  that the arrears  fees were  
debited. It had reviewed  the fees debited  and these had been charged correctly;
Prior to October 2012 there were also occasions  whereby fees were charged.  
However, given the time which had elapsed Mr and Mrs M were  out of time to raise  a 
complaint regarding these fees;
Mr and Mrs M were  made aware  of the additional interest  that would be incurred as 
the account was in arrears, and this had also been detailed within their annual  
statements. As the account initially  went into arrears in 2009  they would have been  
aware of the additional interest  at that time;
White Label  had attempted to assist  Mr and Mrs M throughout the term of the loan 
and had agreed arrangements that had been  deemed sustainable.  However, as the 
agreed arrangements had not been  maintained  they had been left with no option  but 
to commence legal proceedings and ultimately obtain a suspended  Court Order for 
payments;
There had been a requirement  to instruct Field Agents on several separate occasions  
throughout the term of the loan as it had been unable  to contact Mr and Mrs M to 
discuss the arrears. On one occasion Mrs M refused to see the agents and on 
another the property was visited a number  of times without success.
Ref: DRN35015732Mr and Mrs M werent happy with White  Labels response, and referred their complaint to 
this service.
Our adjudicator explained that White  Label had only consented to this service investigating 
the fees and charges on the account from October  2012 onwards. And he agreed that any 
part of the complaint relating to events before that time was out of time under our rules. But 
he did look at fees and charges incurred after October 2012. 
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator said, in summary:
Between October 2012 and the end of 2015  Mr and Mrs Ms arrears  on their account 
were always  under £1,000. In 2016 and 2017  the arrears started to grow,  and White 
Label requested  that Mr and Mrs M complete an income and expenditure chart.  This 
showed a disposable  income if the non-priority debt was not considered.  So he felt 
that White Label  had tried to understand Mr and Mrs Ms financial position to assess 
what could be paid onto the loan;
He had reviewed  the fees charged for legal costs, enforcement fees and field agent 
visits in line with White  Labels  terms and conditions and contact notes. And he felt 
that White Label  had charged these fees fairly  as it had to have some dialogue with 
Mr and Mrs M and take the necessary action to bring the account up to date;
He had also reviewed  the monthly management fees. He noted that there were 
occasions where a monthly management fee had been  applied when Mr and Mrs M 
had paid at least  the contractual monthly  payment  the previous month. He felt that 
this was unfair, and recommended that these fees (amounting to £617) should be 
refunded to Mr and Mrs Ms account together with 8% interest;
White Label  had stopped charging  and applying  any further interest on the account, 
would not charge  or apply further  default charges and had suspended any further 
action or litigation  for repossession. He felt that this was fair;
He recommended that Mr and Mrs M should complete an income  and expenditure 
form and openly engage in dialogue with White Label to find a reasonable way 
forward to repay  the outstanding balance.
White Label accepted the adjudicators recommendations.  But Mr and Mrs M did not agree 
and asked for their complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. They said again that they 
felt that the fees and charges applied to their account were excessive and unjustified.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 10 December 2019. I said, in summary:
As our adjudicator had explained, under our rules  we can only consider matters that 
happened in the last six years  (unless we think the consumer could only reasonably  
have become aware that they had cause to complain in the last three  years).  As 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  been aware  of them at the time (by way of letters  and 
statements), this meant we couldnt  consider any interest, fees or charges incurred 
Ref: DRN35015733before October  2012, which was six years before  Mr and Mrs M raised their 
complaint;
Mr and Mrs M had been in arrears for most of the period Id looked at, and various 
payment arrangements  were  broken. Clearly, the loan was in arrears, and White 
Label was entitled  to take steps to recover the money owed to it in accordance  with 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms loan agreement. And it was entitled to apply charges in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions in these circumstances;
We dont provide an auditing service  or carry out a forensic  analysis of mortgage  
records. But, having looked at the transaction history, I was satisfied that the charges 
for legal  costs, enforcement costs and field agent visits were in line with the terms 
and conditions of the account  and based on the conduct of the account.  In particular, 
although I noted that Mrs M had said she only recalled meting two field agents I was 
satisfied that on other  occasions field agents were instructed and visited the property 
but were unable to make contact with Mr and Mrs M. So even though  Mr and Mrs M 
didnt meet the field agent I was satisfied  that costs were incurred;
In relation to the monthly  management fee I explained that when an account was in 
arrears it typically  required more work and management than would otherwise be the 
case. It was common for lenders to charge  for this, and to do so by way of a set fee 
(rather than on an individual  case by case  basis);
Our adjudicator had identified a number of fees that he felt had been applied  unfairly  
as Mr and Mrs M made payments of at least the contractual  monthly  payment in the 
month the charge was applied for. And, having  reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms account  I 
agreed that even  though they were applied in accordance with the terms and 
conditions they were applied unfairly  for the reason  our adjudicator identified;
Our adjudicator suggested that these  fees should be repaid together with 8% 
interest. But in order  to put Mr and Mrs M back into the position they should have 
been in my provisional view was that, instead, the fees should be reversed. This 
meant that White  Label would need to rework  Mr and Mrs Ms account to remove the 
fees and any additional interest  charged on the fees.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr and Mrs M nor White Label  Lending  have made any further  comments following 
receipt of my provisional  decision.  So, in the circumstances, Im not persuaded to change my 
view, and I confirm  my provisional  decision here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order White Label  Lending  Limited to reverse 
the mortgage arrears  fees incurred in:
August 2013
October 2013
November 2013
April 2014
Ref: DRN35015734September 2014
December 2014
February 2015
April 2015
May 2015
October 2015
December 2015
May 2016
November 2016
December 2016
July 2017
August 2017
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 February  2020. 
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3501573