K820x#14complaint
Mr J and Mr B complain  that the fees and charges applied to their secured  loan with
Elderbridge Limited  were  excessive. They complain that when they repaid the loan early, 
they had to pay around £2,000 of fees and charges that they hadnt known
about before.  They  would like Elderbridge to refund these charges.
Mr J has managed the complaint throughout.
background
In September  2007  Mr J and Mr B took out a secured loan with GE Money Secured
Loans Limited (GE Money). They borrowed around £13,500 over a 30 year term.
The loan has been in and out of arrears  over the years.  In September 2012 GE Money was 
granted a possession order, suspended  subject to Mr J and Mr B making  their contractual  
monthly repayments plus an agreed additional amount towards the arrears. 
In 2016 the loan was transferred to Elderbridge.
In early 2018 Mr J repaid the loan. Mr J says it was at this point that he found
out there were around £2,000 of fees and charges to be repaid, in addition to the 
loan balance. He complained to Elderbridge.
Elderbridge issued its final response  on 12 March  2018. It said it hadnt applied any fees or 
charges since it took over the loan in 2016. And it upheld Mr Js complaint in part about 
historic fees charged  by GE Money.  It reviewed all the fees and charges  applied since  2012 
and agreed to refund £210 of charges, plus £35.26 of interest. Elderbridge  refunded these 
charges as it said they had been applied in months  when they didnt think  it was fair to do 
so. It wouldnt look at fees applied before 2012 as these were  more than six years before 
Mr J made  his complaint.  It didnt think any other  charges had been unfairly applied during 
the period it would look at.
Mr J didnt accept Elderbridges final response and brought the matter to us. Our 
investigator didnt  think  we could look at fees and charges applied  to the loan more than six 
years before Mr J brought his complaint. But she reviewed the charges that had been 
applied since March  2012. She thought Elderbridges offer to refund £210 of charges was 
fair to settle the matter.
Mr J didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint again.
I issued a decision dated 1 August 2019, setting out which  parts of Mr Js complaint we 
could consider. I agreed with our investigator that were only able to look at the fees and 
charges that have  been applied to the loan account  since 2012 and explained why this is. In 
this final decision I have  reviewed the fees applied since March 2012.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN34834602Ive looked at all the fees have been applied  to this loan account from March 2012.  Ive 
considered the terms and conditions of the loan agreement and whether Elderbridge and the 
predecessor lender were  able to charge these fees under the loan agreement.  Im satisfied 
that the loan agreement gives  the lender the ability to charge these fees.  But Ive also 
thought about whether it was fair for the lender to apply these fees in the loan in Mr J and Mr 
Bs specific circumstances.
To help determine  whether it was fair to apply  the charges, Ive looked  at the contact 
between Mr J and Mr B and the lender and Ive considered whether I think it was reasonable 
for Elderbridge, or GE Money as the previous loan owner, to have applied a charge at that 
time.
There are five separate occasions where  default fees  had been  applied when I dont think  it 
was fair for the lender to do so. Im satisfied that in September 2012, November 2012, May 
2014, July 2015 and October 2015  the contact history from the time shows that either Mr J 
(or Mr B) had reached out to the lender and had tried to set up an arrangement to make  
payments, or had an agreement set up which they complied with. It would seem  unfair  to me 
to apply a default fee in months were Mr J and Mr B were making the repayment required of 
them under an arrangement,  or where  they had pro-actively tried to set up an arrangement 
with the intention of making  repayments. 
The default  fees charged for these five separate occasions total £210, consisting of four fees 
of £40, and one fee of £50. This is the same  amount  that Elderbridge has already offered to 
refund to Mr J and Mr B having completed its own review of the loan account since  2012. 
Elderbridge has also offered  to refund the interest  charged on these five fees.  I think this is 
reasonable to settle the matter.
Mr Js complained that he didnt know about the fees that had been  applied to the loan until 
he came  to repay the loan early. Elderbridge has shown us copies of letters, correctly 
addressed, that were  sent to Mr J setting out the fees and charges that had been applied  to 
the account. On one such letter,  dated  30 December 2013, Mr J is told that there are 
currently accrued fees of £1906.23 on the loan account. 
I accept that Mr J and Mr B may well have forgotten about these fees and charges until they 
came to settle the loan, but I think the lender took reasonable steps to make them aware that 
charges had been applied  in line with its tariff and the terms and conditions of the loan. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, to the extent that I consider the offer 
already made by Elderbridge Limited  to be fair and reasonable  to settle the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J or Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2019.
Emma Peters
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3483460