K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them  a monthly  premium  payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August. In that I said I wasnt thinking of 
upholding the complaint.  Our adjudicator had initially thought the complaint should  be upheld  
because Mr W had a pre-existing medical  condition when he and Mrs W bought  the policy.
Mr W gave us some more  information   which showed hed only been diagnosed with his 
condition sometime after he and Mrs W bought  the PPI. So he would have been able to 
claim on the policy if hed been unable to work  because of this condition.
I thought this made the PPI suitable for Mr and Mrs W and didnt think it had been mis-sold.
I described the PPI as single premium in my provisional decision. I should  have  said 
monthly premium.  This doesnt affect my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander has accepted the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs W tell me that theyd originally taken  out a mortgage (with Santander) in 1982, 
and that they were  shopping around  for a new mortgage in 1990  as they were thinking of 
moving house. They say they were talked into buying the PPI, and were told it would help 
them get a mortgage offer and show they were responsible borrowers.  They say they didnt 
actually move  so didnt  change  their mortgage for a few years.
They acknowledge they signed the relevant  papers and say its likely the benefits were 
explained to them. They dont think this means  the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. They point out that, 
if theyd though PPI was necessary, theyd  have bought it years before they did.
Im afraid neither of these  points persuades  me I should uphold this complaint. As I said 
before, from what we know about  how Santander sold these  policies at the time,  it would 
most likely have given  Mr and Mrs W a choice about  buying  the PPI. I agree the member of 
staff was recommending the PPI as a good  thing  but that in itself doesnt mean the PPI 
was mis-sold. And I havent seen anything that suggests Mr and Mrs W were unfairly 
pressured into buying the PPI. 
I have thought about Mr and Mrs Ws comment that theyd have bought  the PPI earlier if they 
thought it appropriate. But I also have to consider  that, from what Mr and Mrs W say, they 
werent actually applying for a new mortgage  in 1990  only thinking about it. Ive also taken 
into account that Mr and Mrs W already  had a mortgage without PPI  so its likely they knew 
they didnt have to have  it.  
Mr and Mrs W also said they were disappointed  that Santander doesnt have all the 
paperwork for the PPI or their mortgage. We only asked Santander for information  about 
Ref: DRN32420772what happened in 1990, when the PPI was sold, as paperwork from other  times  isnt 
relevant. I dont know if its got paperwork from other  dates  but that doesnt affect this 
decision. And as I said before, sometimes paperwork does go missing or get destroyed, 
especially from so long ago. Thats  unfortunate, but from the records I have seen  and from 
what Mr and Mrs W say, I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
For information only, Santander did say it would refund  some  of the commission  it received 
when the policy was sold. Its already told Mr and Mrs W about  this, and says that once this 
complaint is finalised,  the refund will be sent to Mr and Mrs W.
my final decision
My decision  is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 November  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN32420773Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold  them  a single  premium payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1990 Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage and the bank recommended they also take out
PPI to protect their repayments. The PPI covered Mr W only. It cost just over £27 a month
and would have covered  the mortgage payment  if Mr W had made  a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs W say they both had good sick pay at the time and felt pressurised into buying
the PPI. Mr and Mrs W think the bank was wrong  to sell them the policy.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint, because she thought the policy  wasnt suitable  for Mr
W, as he had a pre-existing illness  that would have made it difficult for him to claim if hed
been ill. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been
passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Im not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for
this.
This is a difficult  case  to decide because of the lack of available evidence from the time of
the sale.  So Ive based my decision on the evidence I do have and what I think is most  likely
to have happened.
Mr and Mrs Ws main  concern was that they thought they had to have the PPI. Santander
doesnt have the actual paperwork for either the mortgage or the PPI. But this isnt surprising
given the sale took place nearly  30 years  ago. I wouldnt expect  either Mr and Mrs W or
Santander to keep paperwork  indefinitely.  Santander has sent us a sample of the sort of
documents Mr and Mrs W would have seen and explained  how it sold PPI at this time. It
says the PPI would have been explained to Mr and Mrs W, and a check made  that the policy
was suitable for them.
From what we know about how Santander sold PPI at the time,  its likely Mr and Mrs W were
given a choice about buying  the PPI. And I see that it was set up to cover  Mr W only.  That
does suggest that a conversation  took place about the PPI at the time as Santander
suggests, and it was tailored to suit Mr and Mrs Ws needs. I think its also likely  Santander
sent the relevant  literature to Mr and Mrs W after the sale, because thats what  normally
happened. It also appears  that Mr and Mrs W would  have signed  a direct debit mandate  to
make the payments for the PPI. I think this would have been before the PPI actually started,
as theres normally several weeks delay between buying PPI and cover starting, which is
when the mortgage  begins.  Thats what Santander normally did, and I cant  see any reason
why it would  treat Mr and Mrs W differently.
Ref: DRN32420774Santander has sent us some  internal  records of the payments made for the PPI. They show
it being  collected regularly  from 1993  the details for the very early years  are no longer
available. It appears to have been collected separately from the mortgage payments.
Overall, I think  Santander  most likely  gave  Mr and Mrs W enough information  for them  to
know they had the PPI, even  though  I do understand why theyve forgotten this over the
years.
Santander says it advised Mr and Mrs W to buy the PPI. This means that it needed to
ensure that it met their needs. From what I know of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the
time, I think the policy was suitable for Mr W.
- Mr W was eligible for the policy, and it doesnt  look like hed have been affected  by any
of the significant limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those  relating to pre-existing
medical conditions. Mr W originally told us he was diagnosed with a medical
condition that might have made it difficult for him to claim. He said that was in 1990  the
same year he bought the PPI. If that was the case  then the PPI might not have been
suitable for him  and out adjudicator thought that was a good enough  reason  to uphold
the complaint. Santander  asked us to check the dates, and Mr W has now told us he
wasnt diagnosed with his illness until 1994 or 1995. If thats the case, then his illness
wasnt pre-existing  and hed have been able to claim  for any illness, even if related  to
his condition. Unlike our adjudicator, I think the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs W.
- Mr W says he would have  received generous sick pay if he couldnt work. But this policy
would pay on top of these  benefits and for much longer than Mr W would get his full
salary, as it could pay for up to three years if Mr W was too ill to work. A mortgage is a
big commitment, and I think Mr and Mrs W would have had some use for the policy.
- Santander  needed to give Mr and Mrs W enough information for them  to make an
informed choice about buying the policy. I dont know exactly when they were  told what
the PPI would  cost. But I do think theyd have  known  it cost something as theyd have
signed a direct debit mandate. The policy was competitively priced and apparently
affordable, and I dont think when Mr and Mrs W first knew the cost affected their
decision to buy the PPI.
- Its possible  that Santander  could  have provided  more  information about the policy,
particularly in regard to the things that it didnt  cover. But Mr W wasnt affected by any of
these things at the time, so I dont think that more  information  would have caused them
to change their minds about buying the policy. So they arent  any worse  off as a result of
anything Santander may have done wrong. So theres nothing  that Santander needs to
do to put things right.
I realise that this provisional decision will be a disappointment to Mr and Mrs W. If they have
documentary evidence that Mr W had a pre-existing illness before he and Mrs W bought the
PPI in 1990,  then Ill consider that before  reaching my final decision.
my provisional  decision
Im not intending to uphold this complaint,  for the reasons given  above.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3242077