K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limiteds (L&G) actions have 
left him without life and critical  illness insurance.  
background
In August  2018,  Mr H applied for a decreasing term assurance policy with L&G, via his 
independent financial  adviser, including life, critical illness and total permanent  disability 
cover.
On 3 September 2018, L&G sent Mr H its offer of terms, open until 8 November 2018.  
Because Mr H had disclosed a back problem, L&G excluded claims for back  problems on 
the total permanent disability section  of the policy it offered  him. 
That day Mr H called  L&G twice, unhappy  that it hadnt asked for medical records  about his 
back before  deciding to put the exclusion on the policy. Mr H said he couldnt  work if he had 
a back problem, so the policy wouldnt be of as much use to him with the exclusion. He also 
said he wasnt willing to pay for the policy if L&G didnt get his medical records,  unless it 
reduced the premium.  And he added that while he wasnt going to refuse its offer,  he would  
probably shop  around, as hed had cheaper quotes elsewhere. L&G said it didnt think it 
needed to look at Mr Hs medical information.  It said its underwriter would do as it sees fit 
and invited Mr H to send  medical evidence if he wanted it to review its decision.  
On 18 September  2018, Mr H called L&G again to say he didnt agree with the exclusion,  as 
the issue was a pulled muscle that resolved with physio and exercise, he had a day off work 
and saw a consultant who had no concerns.  Mr H said he asked for an x-ray due to an 
unrelated family history. And that another  broker told him L&G should look at his medical  
records, which hed consented  to in his application.  
L&Gs call handler agreed for an underwriter  to review Mr Hs application again and said if 
they request information it would likely be from his GP. The call handler said that if there was 
a change they would contact Mr H. Towards the end of the call Mr H checked again that 
L&G would email  him if they changed  the offer.  And Mr H said he hadnt been  able to speak 
with his financial adviser. 
On 4 October 2018, Mr H unfortunately  suffered a heart attack. A few months  later he got in 
touch with L&G to ask if this would affect  its offer. After requesting Mr Hs medical  
information to consider  this, L&G said it wouldnt offer him any cover  at all, due to his heart 
attack.  
Mr H complained that L&G hadnt asked  his doctor for medical records about his back 
problem. And that if it had let him know its decision was unchanged he could  have got cover 
elsewhere, before his heart attack. 
In response, L&G said it emailed Mr H on 19 September 2018 to say its offer was 
unchanged, as well as a chaser and a further  email on 5 December 2018 to say it was 
cancelling his application if it didnt hear back. And that Mr H didnt chase his application and 
there was a delay  in him letting them know about his heart attack. 
L&G also said it doesnt get medical  information  if it can decide based  on the information 
provided in an application  form. And that the information it received after Mr Hs heart  attack, 
Ref: DRN37205152which also included information about his back problem, supported  its earlier decision to 
apply the exclusion. L&G added that even if it had approached  Mr Hs doctor on 
18 September 2018, it would have been  unlikely  to receive a reply before he had his heart 
attack.
 
Unhappy with this, Mr H brought his complaint to our service.  And L&G clarified it actually 
emailed Mr Hs financial adviser  on 19 September  2018, and not Mr H. But it maintained  that 
clarification from Mr Hs doctor wouldnt have made  a difference due to its underwriting, and 
that Mr Hs symptoms were in the year before his application and were bad enough for him 
to see a GP and consultant, which suggests  his pain wasnt short lived.  
 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Hs complaint. When she initially  asked Mr H what he 
would have done if L&G had got back to him on 19 September 2018, he said that if it still 
wasnt going to cover his back  after checking his medical records then he might  have  
accepted its offer and shopped around in the future. Or he might  just have gone elsewhere. 
Mr H also said he might have gone  back to his financial adviser, or made enquiries about his 
back issue, although that might have prolonged  things.  
In a later call, Mr H told us he waited to hear from L&G and didnt chase it, as he assumed  it 
was looking at his medical records and didnt  know until after his heart attack that it didnt 
have to. And if he had known otherwise,  he might  have taken up L&Gs offer, even  though 
he doesnt think theres anything wrong with his back, as other insurers  could take time to 
check his records and say the same  thing. And because time was passing  and he needed 
critical illness cover  he said his financial adviser  didnt tell him the back  exclusion wasnt  
on that part of the policy.
Mr H also went  on to say that if L&G had got back to him to say it had looked  at his medical 
records and wouldnt cover his back then he might have accepted that, but it hadnt  done 
that. He feels it shouldnt have made the decision without looking at his medical records. And 
he said that between  3 and 18 September 2018  he spoke with two other  brokers,  answering 
health questions  with one, and was told to wait and see what  L&G said about  the back  
exclusion.  
Our investigator said L&G had shown it had fairly  applied the back exclusion. And while it 
hadnt let Mr H know its offer was unchanged, she didnt  think he would gone ahead if it had 
done so. She also explained that she didnt think hed have been offered terms by another  
provider before his heart attack. So she said she wasnt  asking L&G to do anything.  
Mr H didnt agree. He says that if L&G had got back to him, he would probably have 
accepted its offer even though it excluded back cover. He says the two other brokers  he 
contacted used L&G, so there would have been no point  in starting applications  with them.  
And now he cant get cover elsewhere.  So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator. Ill explain why.
I recognise Mr H feels L&G should have looked  at his medical records  to consider the back  
problem he disclosed in his application. But I dont think L&G needed to do this, as its 
underwriting guidance  supports its decision to exclude back  related  claims in the 
Ref: DRN37205153circumstances Mr H disclosed. And, L&Gs shown me that even if it had looked at his 
medical records at that stage, it would have always applied the same exclusion, based  on 
the medical records it later obtained. 
Mr H also says L&G didnt tell him it didnt have to get his records, so he didnt chase it after 
18 September 2018 as he assumed it was doing this. And that its failure  to tell him its offer 
remained unchanged the following day means  he cant  get cover now. But having listened to 
the calls Mr H had with L&G, I think it made him aware it didnt have to look at his medical 
records on 3 September  2018, as it told him it didnt think  this was necessary and that its 
underwriter would do as it sees fit. 
On 18 September  2018, L&Gs call handler  did tell Mr H that if it asked for his medical 
records when reviewing  his application  again  then this would be from his doctor.  I 
understand this could  have raised his hopes  that it might  consider getting his records  after 
all. But I dont think this was enough for Mr H to reasonably assume  he hadnt heard back 
from L&G because it was asking for his medical  records, as L&G had only explained who it 
would approach if it did decide  to ask for his medical  records.
And while L&Gs call handler said it would be in touch with Mr H to re-confirm the outcome of 
the review, Mr H went on to confirm he understood it would email him if its offer changed. 
This, alongside the fact that Mr H knew the terms of L&Gs existing  offer, means I think  he 
was only expecting to hear back if it removed the exclusion, which  it didnt. And I dont think  
Mr H felt any urgency to check in with L&G, as its offer was open until early November 2018. 
So, while I think L&G should  have contacted Mr H on 19 September  2018, especially as he 
told it he hadnt been able to get in touch with his financial adviser,  Im not persuaded he 
was always expecting to hear from it, or that his actions  depended on this. 
And, overall,  even  if L&G had told Mr H its offer was unchanged that day, Im not persuaded 
that he would have accepted it before having his heart attack, with the back  exclusion in 
place. Or that he would  have managed  to get cover he was happy with elsewhere  in time. 
Ive taken into account Mr Hs reasons behind saying he probably would have accepted  
L&Gs offer,  with the back exclusion  in place. But hes also told us more  than once that he 
might only have accepted L&Gs offer with the back exclusion in place  if it had looked  at his 
medical records. So Im not persuaded Mr H would have accepted  its offer if it had told him 
for the final time on 19 September that it was not going to look at his medical records. 
Especially when hes also told us he thinks L&G shouldnt  have made  a decision on his back 
issue without checking his records. 
Mr Hs strength of feeling that L&G should look at his records, and that it hadnt  offered him a 
policy that was right for him, is also clear  from the recordings Ive listened  to of all his calls 
with it. Particularly, when he said the policy  was useless  to him without back cover  and that 
he wasnt willing to take it out if L&G didnt look at his records. Its also clear from the call on 
18 September 2018 that Mr H felt L&G would see his back wasnt  an issue  if it looked  at his 
medical records. And I dont think his feelings would have been any different the next day if it 
had told him its position was unchanged.  
 
I think that Mr Hs calls with L&G reflect his thoughts and priorities  at the time, without the 
benefit of hindsight, so its fair to place weight  on them. And I have to decide whats  more 
likely than not to have happened. And Im just not persuaded Mr H would have accepted  
L&Gs offer if it had contacted him, when  he knew it still hadnt looked at his medical records.
Ref: DRN37205154Its possible Mr H would  have shopped around  instead. And I dont think  the chance other  
insurers might have  said the same thing  would have put him off doing  that. Especially when 
hes said hed been told that an insurer should get his medical records.  I think he would have 
been hopeful that another  insurer might  do that and not exclude claims for back problems. 
And my view on this is supported by the fact that Mr H told L&G in January 2019  that if he 
had known L&Gs offer remained unchanged he could  have gone elsewhere.
However, Mr H would have only had ten working days  to do that between  
19 September 2018 when  L&G should have contacted  him and his heart attack.  And I think 
some of that time would have been  taken up by initially going back  to the two other brokers 
he had spoken  with, as he hadnt had gone  through a full application  with them  yet as far as 
I can tell. And any insurer would have had to consider his application and any disclosures 
hed made,  which can take time. So, Im not persuaded Mr H would have been offered cover  
that he was happy with elsewhere and agreed  to go ahead with it before his heart  attack. 
This means  I dont  think it would be a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint for me 
to say that L&G is responsible for Mr H not having  cover in place as a result of it not telling 
him on 19 September that its offer was unchanged. And, I think its more likely  than not that 
even if it had got in touch  with Mr H on that day, he still wouldnt have had critical illness 
cover in place when he had his heart attack.
And I think L&Gs acted  fairly  by now refusing  to offer Mr H any cover due to his heart  attack. 
This is because Im satisfied it has followed its normal underwriting  guidelines to reach this 
decision.
This all means that, despite my natural sympathy  for Mr Hs predicament,  I have decided not 
to uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3720515