K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Virgin  Money plc wont freeze  interest on his credit card account, 
without affecting  his credit file, while  he looks for work.
background
Mr S has unfortunately lost his job, and he wanted Virgin to help him by just freezing the 
interest on his credit  card account. He complains  that the only options Virgin has given him 
would affect his credit file. 
Virgin says thats  right, if it does amend his regular payments  then it would tell credit 
reference agencies  about that. But it thinks hed be better off going onto a payment plan, 
which would be noted on his credit file, than he would be if he fails to pay then defaults. That 
usually has a much more serious impact on someones ability to get credit in future. Virgin  
did waive charges  for the first month,  after he contacted it about having  lost his job.
Mr S thought  that what Virgin  was doing breached the standards set by the Lending 
Standards Board. Virgin says that the Board doesnt regulate its members,  and it couldnt  
offer him anything  more than it already had. It did waive  interest for a further  month, but it 
says that it wont do that for any longer without any note on his credit file. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. He said that Virgin didnt have 
to waive  further  interest. Mr S didnt agree, and he wanted a final decision from an 
ombudsman, so his case came to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
as our adjudicator,  and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr S thinks  Virgin has breached the standards set by the Lending  Standards Board, so it 
should report itself to that board. Our service isnt a regulator, so we wouldnt look to police  
Virgins application of these standards overall.  But our service does take them  into account 
when considering what a business  has done  to try to help someone whos having financial 
problems. So Ive done that. And I just dont  agree  with Mr S that theyve been breached.
The relevant  provision in the standards says Firms  should consider freezing or reducing  
interest and charges when a customer is in financial difficulty. Virgin has already frozen 
interest for Mr S for two months. And, crucially, theres no requirement here, or in the 
Financial Conduct  Authority handbook which underpins this standard,  for the business to 
keep what its doing a secret, when it offers to freeze or reduce interest. So I dont  think that 
what Virgins done so far, or what its offering to do now, breaches this standard.
If Mr S isnt able to pay Virgin back in the way he originally agreed to when he opened his 
account, then Id expect Virgin to act positively and sympathetically. And it has offered him 
help. But I also think that Virgin  is entitled to inform  credit reference agencies  of any steps  it 
takes to help Mr S. So I dont think that Virgin has made a mistake,  or acted unfairly or 
unreasonably, if its said that credit  reference agencies will be informed if Mr S takes up a 
payment plan. 
Ref: DRN35979172I know that Mr S will be disappointed, but I dont think  his complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3597917