K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains that Volkswagen Financial Services  (UK) Limited (VWFS) unfairly 
charged her an Option to Purchase (OTP) fee when  she returned a car following 
the termination of a Personal Contract  Plan (PCP).
She also says VWFS  unreasonably delayed in arranging for the car to be collected 
and treated her inappropriately during  a phone call when she challenged the OTP fee.
Mrs S had been assisted in her complaint by her partner, Mr J, and he also dealt  with 
VWFS on her behalf. But for ease Ive referred  to Mrs S rather  than Mr J throughout this 
provisional decision as its her complaint. 
background
In March 2018 VWFS processed a handback  request  from Mrs S. It advised  that the 
handback process would take four weeks and said that a third party  company would be 
in touch to arrange  for collection of the car.
Just over two weeks later, Mrs S enquired with VWFS about when the car would be 
collected. She was told her request  had been  passed on to the necessary company and 
she should contact  that company directly. However when Mrs S contacted the company 
concerned it said no instructions had been received from VWFS. VWFS said it would send 
a further request to the company.
Two days later Mrs S told VWFS that no contact  had been made about  collecting the car 
and asked for it to be collected by mid April. In mid April VWFS  made  internal  enquiries 
about whether  a request  for collection had been  sent out as the third party company had 
again said no request had been  received by it.
The car was collected in the second week of May 2018.
After informing VWFS that she wished  to hand  back the car Mrs S was advised that she 
would incur a £60 OTP fee which VWFS said was in line with the agreements terms and 
conditions. Mrs S disagreed that this fee was due as she hadnt purchased the car. VWFS 
told Mrs S that she was still liable for the OTP fee as this was an admin fee. It said it was 
referred to as the OTP fee internally  and referred to VWFS acting as her agent to sell 
the car. Mrs S complained  to VWFS.
VWFS didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint. It said that section  12 of the PCP agreement  said 
that when you have paid all amounts under this agreement and by the time the final 
payment is due, ask us in writing to act as your agent to sell the vehicle in accordance 
with this clause  and returned the vehicle to usand paid the Option to Purchase Fee then 
your obligation  to pay the final repayment  maybe fulfilled.  VWFS said the OTP fee was 
a valid charge which Mrs S had agreed to pay by signing the agreement.
VWFS also said it noted Mrs Ss complaint about  the third party  companys delay 
in collecting the car and had passed  this part of her complaint on to that company.
Mrs S was unhappy at VWFSs  response and complained again to VWFS when it continued 
to send her letters saying the £60 was outstanding.  During a phone call in June 2018 Mrs S 
complained that she had been  upset by the agent shed spoken with who had said that if the 
Ref: DRN39326422money remained outstanding  this could have a detrimental impact on her credit  file. She 
said she felt threatened over not paying the fee.
VWFS didnt uphold Mrs Ss complaint about  its agent. It said the agent had given 
information about the potential outcome  of an unpaid outstanding amount and the 
impact this may have  on a consumers credit file. It said it was under a duty of care to 
ensure its customers were aware  of the facts.
Mrs S complained to this service. Our adjudicator recommended that her complaint  should 
be upheld.  He said that he didnt think it was fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances for VWFS to apply the OTP fee.
Our adjudicator said that the outstanding £60 fee had resulted in a number of letters  
including collection letters being  sent to Mrs S and she had been advised that non-
payment would affect her credit file.
Our adjudicator said he thought it would be fair for VWFS to cancel the £60 OTP fee and 
correct any adverse information on Mrs Ss credit file. He also said that £100 
compensation would be reasonable to address the distress and inconvenience caused by 
being unfairly charged and the delay  in having  the car collected.
VWFS disagreed  with our adjudicators view. It said in addition to the points it had 
already raised  that the fee had been charged in line with UK Law and Regulation.
VWFS also said that it thought £100  compensation was excessive. It accepted there  had 
been a delay in collecting the car but Mrs S hadnt incurred any fees or charges due to 
this.
As the parties  werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Looking at the agreement  signed by Mrs S Id seen that the OTP fee was raised  in three  
different places within the terms and conditions. This fee was included in the total amount 
payable under the agreement and also under sections 2 Payment  and 12 Our agency  
to sell.
I thought that Section 2 was clear the OTP fee referred to was only payable should the 
consumer decide  to buy the car. However I thought it was unclear  whether the OTP fee 
included in section  12 was a general admin fee thats payable  at the end of the 
agreement. So I thought  the agreement wasnt clear  as to what this fee was for and when 
it becomes payable and that makes it unfair.
VWFS said that the term OTP came from the Consumer Credit Act 1974  under section 189
which was the definitions section. Reading that section  I could see OTP is mentioned 
several times and I didnt think it was clear exactly what  part of Section 189 VWFS were 
relying on. Its also provided other arguments  as to why this fee was chargeable but I 
didnt think it was fair to apply the fee when it appeared  reasonable to say from one of the 
terms of the agreement that it would only arise when the vehicle was being  purchased.
Accordingly I didnt  think it was reasonable or fair for VWFS to charge Mrs S the OTP fee of
£60 as she hadnt exercised her option  to purchase the car and the agreement wasnt  clear 
as to why this amount  would  be charged.  I intended  to ask VWFS to cancel this charge and 
Ref: DRN39326423to remove any adverse information about this matter  that may have been included in Mrs  
Ss credit file about this agreement.
Id seen that Mrs S completed the hand back form at the end of March  2018 but the car 
wasnt collected until May 2018. Id seen that Mrs S was advised the handback process  
would take four weeks and that the contract  was due to run until the third week  of April.  So 
this means the car was collected just under three  weeks  late. VWFS said Mrs S hadnt 
incurred any additional  costs over this delay.  Mrs S said the car was stored on her drive and 
was an inconvenience.
While I accepted  the car remained Mrs Ss responsibility until it was collected and that it 
would have been irritating for it to remain on her drive after the contract  had ended  I didnt 
think this would have  caused her undue  distress or inconvenience.  I didnt have any 
evidence that having the car for this extra time led to any extra expenditure for Mrs S.
Id listened to the call between Mrs S and VWFSs agent which had upset Mrs S and led her 
to feel threatened. I didnt think  the agent had been  impolite or said anything that was 
inappropriate given  VWFSs position on the charge at the time.  The agent explained why 
VWFS was writing to her about  the outstanding amount and what  may happen should it 
remain outstanding.  I thought the agent  gave standard advice that Id have  expected to be 
given. The agent was also very clear  that if Mrs S disagreed with VWFSs  decision to 
require payment of the £60 fee then she had a right to complain to this service.
So although  Id seen that our adjudicator  had recommended £100  compensation to Mrs 
S for her distress and inconvenience at having the car collected late and for being 
charged the £60 OTP fee I disagreed that in these  circumstances that was fair and 
reasonable. I didnt  think the impact on Mrs S had merited  compensation and I wasnt  
intending to ask VWFS to make that payment.
Im intended  to partially uphold Mrs Ss complaint  and ask VWFS to cancel the invoice for 
the outstanding £60 and ensure that any adverse information recorded on her credit file 
about this agreement was removed.
Mrs S has disagreed with my provisional  view.  She says that she was upset over the threat  
to her credit rating made by the agent in their phone call over the outstanding OTP fee. She 
says she took that very seriously. Mrs S also says that she was upset  at the delay  in 
collecting the car. She had told VWFS there would be storage charges if it didnt collect the 
car promptly. She says Ive agreed  VWFS  shouldnt have charged  the £60 fee so why is it 
ok if VWFS to act less than honestly.  
VWFS has accepted my view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs S is disappointed  at my view but I dont  think I can reasonably  say VWFS  
has acted with bad faith. As explained  above  I thought the £60 OTP fee was unfair as it was 
unclear in the agreement what it was and why it was being applied.
Ref: DRN39326424I dont agree that VWFSs agent  threatened  Mrs S, they explained the impact  of not paying 
an outstanding  invoice which, at that time,  VWFS  considered it was entitled to apply. What 
had been said was standard advice in the circumstances.
I do understand that having the car left on the drive for the three weeks would have been  
frustrating. Ive seen  that Mrs S warned  VWFS she would apply storage charges but I 
havent seen any evidence that the car being there had incurred  any actual costs to Mrs S.
So looking  at the evidence again  I havent  changed  my mind.  Im partially upholding Mrs Ss 
complaint and to resolve this complaint Im asking  VWFS to cancel the £60 OTP fee invoice.  
I understand from VWFS that there has been no adverse information recorded on Mrs Ss 
credit file as a result of the OTP invoice so no action in that regard is required.
Im not asking VWFS to pay Mrs S compensation as I dont think  its proportionate to any 
inconvenience that was caused  to Mrs S for the delay in collecting the car and being 
charged the OTP fee.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im partially  upholding Mrs Ss compliant. Im asking 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  to cancel the outstanding £60 OTP fee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3932642