K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax sold their house  for less 
than the market value. Mr and Mrs M would  like Halifax  to reduce their remaining balance  to 
reflect what  the sale price  should have been.
background 
Mr and Mrs M voluntarily  gave up possession of their semi-detached home to Halifax  in 
September 2018. They saw that it was being advertised by Halifax for £106.000.00 which  
they believed  was at an undervalue. Mr and Mrs M say that it was worth more.
Halifax says that it commissioned reports from valuers registered with the RICS. They got 
reports from these firms both dated 10 September 2018 and both for about  £105,000. 
Halifax then advertised  the property for £106,000 and it sold within two months for £107,000.
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with the lack of information on one of the reports.  They also 
said that the comparable properties  cited in the reports were not a helpful  comparison and 
led to the house being undervalued. Halifax said that it had acted properly in getting 
valuations from suitably  qualified valuers  ad achieved its aim of selling the property  as close  
to the valuations offered as possible. It noted  that it hadnt sent Mr and Mrs M a proper copy  
of one of the reports and offered them £50 in compensation. Our adjudicator  felt that Halifax 
had acted fairly and didnt  recommend  that this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have  clearly had a hard time recently and they have my sympathy. It must 
have been difficult  for them to give up their home.  They  are not convinced  that Halifax  got a 
fair price for it.
The difficulty  for Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  is that Halifax  did what  we would expect it to do 
which is to engage  firms  of suitably qualified surveyors to use their expertise to provide them 
with a valuation  to enable them to market  the property. I appreciate  that Mr and Mrs M 
disagree with that valuation  but they are not valuers nor have they provided any independent  
report that would challenge the valuations provided  to Halifax.  So, it seems reasonable for 
Halifax to have relied on the valuations it received and to have marketed the house at a price 
close to what the house was valued at. It then sold it for a price  just above those valuations.  
Mr and Mrs M also have  an issue with the fact that the property was sold within a couple of 
months and wasnt allowed to stay on the market for longer. But where a property has been 
repossessed its recognised that a quick sale will normally benefit the borrower.  It means 
that at least part of the outstanding balance will be reduced and properties  that arent lived in 
tend to deteriorate  and go down in price  if left on the market  for any length  of time. So, for 
the reasons stated I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I note the offer from Halifax  still stands 
of £50 for not forwarding them a proper copy of one of the reports and I will leave it to them 
to accept that if they wish.
Ref: DRN32650722my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3265072