K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that she was misinformed about the charges for her cover  when she 
took out a travel insurance policy through TICORP Limited (TICORP).
background
On 21 September  2018 Mrs R phoned TICORP to arrange travel insurance for a holiday 
shed booked for the following September.  She was asked about any existing medical 
conditions and as shed been insured with TICORP the previous year, it had a record of 
these. She was asked  if there were any changes. She said that she was waiting for laser 
treatment for glaucoma. She also declared  that she was taking an additional tablet  for 
high blood pressure. 
She was told that her declared medical  conditions wouldnt be covered until her laser  
treatment had been completed  and when shed been discharged from any further 
checks. Her declared  medical conditions would  then be reinstated to her policy.,  She 
was quoted £75.31  for cover, and she paid this. No mention  was made about any 
additional charges that might be imposed when her declared medical conditions were 
reinstated.
When Mrs R received  her policy documents three days later she noticed that her 
declared medical conditions hadnt  been included for cover. She enquired  about  this and 
was again told these would be reinstated as soon  as shed  finished  her laser treatment. 
Again, there was no mention  of any further  charges.  
Mrs R phoned TICORP on 19th December  to tell it that her laser  treatment had been 
completed. TICORP told her that her declared  medical conditions  would therefore now 
be put back onto her policy and that there  would  be an extra  charge of £91.71  including  
an administration charge of £10. This came as a complete surprise  to Mrs R as shed 
been covered  for the same conditions the previous  year and her total premium had been  
£85.She couldnt  understand why there  was such an increase in her total premium, 
which was now £167.02. TICORP explained that Mrs R was now one year older, and the 
countries she was going to be visiting were different to those shed visited  on her trip the 
previous year.
Mrs R believes  she was misled, and says she wouldnt  have bought  the insurance if 
shed been told that there  would be more to pay to cover her medical conditions.
TICORP accepts  that Mrs R hadnt  been expressly  told that thered be an additional 
charge to pay to cover  her declared medical conditions once shed confirmed that her 
laser procedure had been completed. But she was referred  to the medical  declaration 
that shed received after taking out the policy, which stated:
Applicable to you and anyone else named on this policy
If your declared medical conditions have been excluded due to one or more of these 
conditions requiring surgery or tests, for which you are on a waiting list, or for which you 
are waiting to be fully discharged from all post-operative follow ups and further 
investigations. We may be able to re-assess  your cover once your circumstances 
change.
Please contact our Customer Services Team  on the above telephone number to arrange 
for these  conditions to be included  within the standard  'terms  of your policy. An 
additional premium and administration fee may be required. (My emphasis added)
Ref: DRN32285292TICORP says that this provided  Mrs R with the information about a possible additional 
charge, and that Mrs R had a 14 day cooling off period in which she couldve cancelled  
the policy if she wasnt happy with any additional charge.
TICORP refunded to Mrs R the £75.31 shed paid for cover which didnt include her 
declared medical conditions.
Mrs R was very dissatisfied and phoned TICORP on 19 December 2018 to raise a 
complaint.. She believes that if she hadnt  declared  the fact that shed be having laser 
treatment for glaucoma, her previously declared  and accepted  medical conditions 
wouldnt have been removed from her policy, and she wouldnt have been  charged £91 
to add them back again. She feels TICORP should honour the price she paid to include 
full cover and if it did so, shed be happy for the policy to be reinstated. Although  shed 
received a refund, she wanted  to complain to ensure that other  people  werent misled as 
she feels she was. She was told shed receive a response to her complaint within three 
days.
As Mrs R hadnt received  any response from TICORP by 7 January 2019, she phoned it 
to chase for a response. She explained  that shed received  a refund, but was still waiting 
for an explanation as to why shed been misinformed when she took out her policy.  
TICORP explained to her why her policy was likely to have  cost more, including  the fact 
that shed taken out the insurance nearly 12 months before travel, so the underwriters 
were on risk for any cancellation for a longer  period of time that the previous year. She 
was offered a 30% discount on the base cost of a new policy, but no discount  could  be 
offered on the additional premium to cover  her medical conditions.
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with TICORPs explanation in its final response  letter  as to why 
she was misinformed about her policy and why, when she made a formal  complaint, 
TICORP failed to pass this to its complaints department. She says she was caused a lot 
of distress in having to chase this up. She brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator considered that TICORP hadnt behaved fairly towards Mrs R, and her 
view was that it should pay Mrs R £100 compensation. TICORP has responded, 
disagreeing with our investigators view. Its asked  that the complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman, so its now been referred  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mrs Rs complaint 
and Ill explain why.
In its final response letter,  TICORP states  what it understands Mrs Rs complaints  to be. 
These were  as follows:
 
Mrs R wasnt  made  aware that her pre-existing medical conditions  were excluded  
from cover.
She wasnt aware that thered be an additional  premium required to reinstate her 
declared medical conditions onto the policy.
She was unhappy  with the difference in price  between  this years policy and last 
years as she felt there was no change in the medical declaration and any other 
changes to the cover requirements were minimal.
Ref: DRN32285293She felt her complaint wasnt dealt with and she wasnt contacted within  the time 
frame given.
Ive listened to the recordings of all the telephone calls between  Mrs R and TICORP, 
and I think the above  is an accurate summary of what Mrs Rs complaints are. Ill deal 
with each of these in turn.
In Mrs Rs first call to TRICIORP  on 21 September 2018, TICORPs agent does in fact 
explain that because  Mrs R had said that she was waiting for laser treatment for 
glaucoma, all her existing medical  conditions,  which  had been included  for cover the 
previous year, would  be excluded until she contacted TICORP to let them  know that 
shed had the treatment and had been  discharged from it. Her existing medical 
conditions would then be reinstated back onto her policy.  She was quoted a premium  of 
£75.31. 
So Im satisfied that Mrs R shouldve been  aware that cover for her existing  medical 
conditions would be removed until shed had her laser treatment.. This was explained to 
her again  when she phoned TICORP on 24 September after shed received her policy 
documents to query why cover  for  her declared medical conditions had been removed. 
The second  complaint was that Mrs R wasnt aware that an additional premium might  be 
charged to reinstate her declared medical conditions. Shes correct in saying that 
TICORPs agent made no reference  to there  being any additional  charge for reinstating 
the medical cover that had been  removed whilst she was awaiting her laser procedure.
I agree  that Mrs R was misled. I dont think the fact that the medical declaration  that Mrs 
R was sent referred  to a possible charge brought this sufficiently to her attention. By that 
time Mrs R had purchased the policy and although she had the right to cancel it within  
14 days, I consider  that this was a significant  omission in the information  that Mrs R was 
given when she took out the policy. Had she been  told that thered be an additional  
premium to pay, and what this was likely  to be, I think  its likely  she wouldve declined 
the cover  as it was so much more than the cost of the cover shed had for the previous 
year.
Mrs Rs third complaint was about  the new premium TICORP wanted  to charge her to 
cover her declared medical  conditions. Shed been  covered  by TICORP the previous 
year for the same medical conditions  and thered been no change  to any of these other 
than one more  tablet being  taken  for blood  pressure. I think she wouldve had every  
reason to believe that her premium would be reasonably similar to that for the following 
year.
It took Mrs R many  phone  calls and an official complaint to get an explanation from 
TICORP. She feels her complaint was ignored, and I think  it wouldve remained ignored 
until she chased for a response as it hadnt  been passed on within  TICORP.
My conclusion is that I consider that in failing to expressly tell Mrs R when she took out 
the policy, and was quoted a premium, that when her declared medical conditions were  
reinstated onto the policy there  might  be an additional premium  to pay plus an 
administration fee, TICORP misled Mrs R. And I think  she suffered some upset in trying  
Ref: DRN32285294to get an explanation from TICORP as to why the additional premium  was so much  more 
when thered been only a minor change  in her declared medical  conditions.
TICORP has refunded Mrs R her premium of £75.31, and has offered her a 30% 
reduction on the base  cost of another policy, but this doesnt satisfy  Mrs R as it amounts 
to a negligible  reduction in premium. Mrs R calculated this to amount to £6, which she 
considered to be an insult.  I think she was caused considerable upset by the 
experience. She certainly spent considerable time seeking clarification from TICORP, 
and then having to chase  for a response to her complaint.
I think in these circumstances  it would be fair for TICORP  to pay Mrs R compensation of 
£100 for her upset  at the lack of clarity that it provided when she wanted to renew  her 
insurance with it and its failure to deal with her complaint within the timeframe it had 
stated it would. In awarding  her this sum, Ive taken into account that Mrs R has already 
received a refund of her premium, so hasnt suffered any financial loss, and still had 
plenty of time before her trip to find alternative insurance, so she wasnt prejudiced  by 
having to source  insurance elsewhere at the last minute.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mrs Rs complaint, and I require 
TICORP Limited to pay Mrs R compensation of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.   
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3228529