K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say that they were mis-sold regular premium mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) by Leeds Building Society (LBS).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 12 February  2019, a copy extract of which  is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision.
LBS have confirmed it has nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs W have responded and I have 
considered their further comments but overall  it doesnt change the outcome of their 
complaint.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new evidence  or arguments have been provided, I see no reason  to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against Leeds Building 
Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN36839362extract of provisional decision
background
Mr and Mrs W jointly took out a mortgage  with LBS in 2002. At the same time they each took 
out a regular premium  PPI policy to cover their mortgage  payments if either  one of them  
were unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost their jobs for up to 12 months per 
claim. The cover was included free for the first six months after which a monthly premium 
became payable.
Our adjudicator thought their complaint  should be upheld because he didnt think  Mrs W was 
eligible for the policy and didnt think the level of cover suited their needs. 
LBS disagreed.  So the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im currently  considering not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
The sale took place  over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
LBS needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs W that they had a choice in taking out PPI. 
Mr and Mrs W say this wasnt done.  But they havent given us much detail about  why they 
thought this which is understandable considering the amount of time that has passed. And 
the only documentation LBS has been able to give us from the sale is sample  documentation  
that was in use at the time.  So I dont  know exactly what was discussed about PPI or how it 
was presented. 
I have considered this sample documentation carefully. Because the PPI application form 
was entirely separate from the mortgage  application  and gave you a number of different 
options  including the option not to take PPI - and there is nothing on any of the other 
mortgage documentation about PPI being  mandatory - I think its likely that LBS wouldve 
made Mr and Mrs W aware that PPI was optional. And I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs W 
had PPI because  they agreed  to take it by selecting  PPI cover and signing the PPI 
application form. Ive not seen enough  to say that they werent  given a choice or that they 
didnt agree to buy it. 
This was an advised  sale. What  this means  is that LBS not only had to provide information  
about PPI in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way so that Mr and Mrs W could make an 
informed choice about buying  PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to recommend  PPI 
that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws needs and circumstances.
I dont know if LBS did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think  the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs W for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN36839363To be eligible to claim on the policy  you had to be working  consecutively  for six months 
at the point of sale. Mrs W says she had only been working  for two months and 
therefore wouldnt  have been able to claim on the policy.  
But I dont think this matters as the policy was free for the first six months and she 
wouldve been able to claim on the policy by the time she started paying premiums for it. 
Ive seen nothing  to show me she tried to make a claim during this period, so I dont 
think she has suffered detriment here. Mr W was eligible for cover from the start and it 
doesnt look like they wouldve  been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim. 
Mr and Mrs W say they were  entitled to some sick pay and their parents were  
guarantors on their mortgage and wouldve covered their mortgage payments if they 
couldnt work  or lost their jobs.  But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay 
and for potentially longer covering them for up to 12 months  if they were  unable to work  
due to accident or sickness  or if they lost their jobs. And I dont think  they wouldve 
wanted to put their parents in the position  where  their savings were utilised to cover their 
mortgage payments.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs W in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve been interested in protecting them.
I accept that the benefit level taken wouldve meant  if either  Mr or Mrs W had a 
successful claim  on the policy almost the entire  mortgage payment wouldve been 
covered. But I dont think selecting  a high level of benefit makes the policy  unsuitable. It 
merely provides them with the peace of mind knowing they could also cover other 
regular bills such as utilities.
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to them  at the time.  And if 
they decided they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel it. 
I also need to consider  whether LBS gave Mr and Mrs W information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. I dont know if LBS did give all the information as it 
shouldve. But for the same reasons  that the policy  was suitable and based on what  
Mr and Mrs W have  told us about their circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still 
taken out the PPI if theyd been given all the proper information at the time of sale.
So this means  I currently  dont think Mr and Mrs W were worse off as a result of any wrong 
doing by LBS.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against  Leeds 
Building Society.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3683936