K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Marshall Motor  Group  Ltd trading as Marshall  of Lincoln (Marshall) 
mis-sold a finance agreement it brokered  for him. 
background
In April 2015, Mr C got a new car on a three  year finance agreement. He traded in his 
previous car for £5,000 and used this (along  with an additional £500) as a deposit for the 
agreement. The monthly payments were set at around £190.  He says he was persuaded by 
Marshall to take out a Personal Contract  Purchase (PCP) agreement. He says he was given 
the impression  he could exchange the car in two or three years  for another  one, like for like, 
and keep his monthly  payments roughly the same. 
Mr C also says the sales person told him there  was a guaranteed minimum future value 
(GMFV) on the PCP agreement. He said he was given  the impression by the salesperson 
that the GMFV was always underestimated,  meaning there  would be significant equity in the 
car at the end of the agreement to use towards  a new PCP.  
In September  2017, Mr C asked Marshall to look into exchanging the car. But Marshall  
explained that because Mr C didnt have any deposit (as there was very little equity on his 
current car), the monthly payments on the new agreement would be more than double. Mr C 
said that had this been made clear to him he wouldnt have taken out a PCP at all. He says 
he would  have part-exchanged his previous car and used a personal  loan to pay the 
remaining balance. He feels  hes been duped out of his deposit of £5,500.  
Mr C says other staff working for Marshall had told him that they are aware the original 
salesperson (who no longer works for Marshall) had been giving similar advice to other 
customers. 
Marshall said the agreement Mr C was given wasnt a PCP  it was a hire purchase 
agreement. It said there  was no GMFV just a balloon  payment at the end of the agreement.  
It said it wasnt possible to predict whether there  would be any equity in the car until the end 
of the finance  agreement. This is because it would depend on market conditions,  the 
mileage and overall condition of the car. 
Marshall said the salesperson would have  presented information about the different finance 
options. It said the salesperson wasnt a financial advisor and it was up to Mr C to make his 
own decision  about what to do. It did accept that Mr C genuinely thought he could swap his 
car for a new one and keep the payments the same. But it didnt  think  it was a reasonable 
thing for him to assume. This was because without  a big deposit or balloon payment it would 
leave a large amount unpaid. He was also given all the paperwork to read and sign which 
detailed how the agreement worked. 
Mr C didnt accept that response.  He said the online  account for his finance showed  it was a 
PCP and it also had an annual mileage allowance (a feature of a PCP). But he noted the 
finance agreement  itself was headed hire purchase agreement which was very confusing. 
He said that Marshalls  reply suggested  he ought to have known hed need a deposit on any 
new PCP agreement. But he said this was his main issue  the salesperson had told him 
there would be equity in the car so he wouldnt need  a deposit. 
Ref: DRN37435912I sent Mr C and Marshall my provisional decision on 25 March 2019.  I explained  why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. I said:
Im satisfied that Mr C has entered into a hire purchase agreement  that is a PCP. This is 
because it has all the features normally associated with PCP agreements,  and the finance 
provider has also confirmed it is a PCP. 
Although I broadly agree with Marshall when it says it doesnt really  matter whether the 
agreement says PCP or GMFV,  I do think Marshall has caused  uncertainty  and confusion for 
Mr C. This is because  it has insisted Mr C doesnt  have a PCP agreement, when this is 
exactly what he does have and what Marshall  brokered  for him. So I think Marshall  should  
pay Mr C compensation for the inconvenience  and trouble this has caused him. In the 
circumstances I think £200  is fair. 
The main  issue of Mr Cs complaint is about what  he says he was told by the salesperson.  
And in particular the benefit of taking  out a PCP agreement instead of what Mr C was 
originally intending  to do. 
Marshall is right in that it is required to explain the finance agreements  to customers  and that 
this in itself doesnt make them advised  sales. Unlike the investigator  I dont  think  the 
salesperson was giving regulated financial advice to Mr C. But I dont think  that makes a 
difference to the outcome Ive reached anyway. 
The paperwork given to Mr C doesnt say that equity  would be guaranteed. Marshall  also 
says that it would have been reasonable for Mr C to realise that a future value couldnt be 
guaranteed. But there  is more to consider here. 
Whilst the paperwork Mr C was given  wasnt misleading or factually inaccurate,  there wasnt 
anything written that would have contradicted what he says he was told. The paperwork is 
silent on how the GMFV is actually calculated, so Mr C couldnt  have known  whether  it was 
set artificially low or not. It also wouldnt have  alerted him to the possibility  that he might not 
be able to swap the car for a new one and keep his monthly payments broadly the same.  
Ive found Mr Cs explanation of how the sale was conducted to be credible  and consistent.  
Marshall has also said that it believes what he says.  I believe Mr C when he says he 
intended to part exchange his car for a used car and pay the rest with a personal loan. I also 
accept that he was told he could return two to three  years later and swap  it for a similar 
model whilst  maintaining similar low monthly payments. Lastly, I believe he was told the 
GMFV (or balloon  payment) was set artificially  low in order  to ensure there  was sufficient 
equity for a new agreement on similar  terms.  
Its not clear exactly how some of this was positioned in the conversations with Mr C. But 
overall I think the salesperson said or alluded  to things which  meant that Mr C didnt  have an 
accurate picture  of the agreement  he was entering  into. I think this created a misleading  
impression of how the agreement worked,  and what benefits it would have. 
Im satisfied Mr C had a very clear  idea in his head of how he was intending to finance the 
purchase of his new car. The strength  of what was said by the salesperson was such that it 
made Mr C change his original, preferred decision.  I find it unlikely any reasonable person 
would do this unless  they were strongly  led to believe  it would be more beneficial  to them. 
Ref: DRN37435913Mr C has explained why (knowing what he knows now) a PCP was a less affordable option 
for him in the long term.  And I accept he wouldnt have entered into this agreement had he 
been given all the information  by the salesperson in a clear way. So I think Marshall  now 
need to put things right. But doing  so isnt straightforward. 
Mr C has now entered  into his second  PCP agreement but for a lesser  car. He was able to 
take a small amount of equity from the agreement brokered by Marshall to his new 
agreement (£901.36). This was a significantly smaller deposit than the £5,500 he had prior 
to entering the first agreement.  And in order to keep his monthly repayments to a similar  
level, Mr C has had to settle  for a lesser car. 
Mr C has said that he would like the £5,500  deposit  refunded to him. I agree that in principle 
this is the financial  loss he suffered by entering  into the PCP agreement. This is because  
that deposit was largely lost when his PCP agreement  came to an end. But putting things 
right in this case isnt quite as straightforward  as simply refunding  Mr Cs deposit. This is 
because Mr C entered into this agreement over three years ago. Hes also had the benefit  of 
driving a brand new car during that time at a reduced monthly cost, because of the value of 
the deposit he put forward. 
Ive also considered that if Mr C hadnt entered into the PCP agreement, his £5,500 would 
have gone into a different car, which would  have depreciated  in value over the course of the 
last three  years  and it follows, so would the value of his deposit. Mr C did also have some 
equity from the agreement brokered  by Marshall (albeit significantly less than he put in). So 
to give Mr C the full £5,500  now would  place him in a better  position then he should 
reasonably be in. 
There isnt a perfect formula for working  out what the correct  remedy should  be. But taking 
into consideration all of the factors  Ive mentioned  above, I think directing Marshall  to pay 
Mr C £2,000 is fair and reasonable  in these circumstances.
Both Mr C and Marshall accepted my provisional  decision and had no further comments to 
make. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties have  nothing  further to 
add, I see no reason to come to a different conclusion to what  I set out in my provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN37435914my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Marshall  Motor Group Ltd to:
Pay £2,000  representing Mr Cs financial loss due to being  misled into entering  into 
the PCP agreement. 
Pay £200 compensation for the trouble  and inconvenience caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 May 2019
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3743591