K820x#14complaint and background
Mrs O says Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.  She took out PPI at the same time as she applied  
to re-mortgage  in 2007. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint saying Mrs O had a pre-existing medical condition that 
wouldnt have been covered under the policy. He said Santander  shouldnt  have 
recommended the policy  without  pointing  this out to Mrs O, so she knew she wouldnt have 
been able to make a related claim. He didnt think Mrs O would have taken out the policy if it 
had done this. Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint was 
passed to me.
In my provisional decision (which forms part of this final decision)  I set out why I wasnt 
planning to uphold the complaint. I asked Mrs O and Santander to let me have any more 
information by 15 March 2019 before I made a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our approach to complaints about the 
sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Mrs O responded to my provisional decision saying she had no further information to 
provide. Santander  did not respond. So it follows I have  no reason to change  the findings or 
outcome I set out in my provisional decision
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
 Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36045612copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs O says Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as Abbey National, mis-sold  her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2007 Mrs O took out PPI at the same time as she applied to re-mortgage in one of Santanders 
branches. It gave her accident, sickness and unemployment cover and she paid a monthly amount for 
it.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint saying Mrs O had a pre-existing medical  condition that wouldnt 
have been covered under  the policy. He said Santander shouldnt have recommended the policy 
without pointing  this out to Mrs O, so she knew she wouldnt have been able to make a related claim. 
He didnt think  Mrs O would have taken out the policy if it had done this. Santander disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Our approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here. 
Im currently  not planning to uphold Mrs Os complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs Os pre-existing medical condition
Santander recommended the policy  to Mrs O so it had to take reasonable steps to find out about  her 
circumstances and check  the policy was suitable for her. It also had to give her enough clear 
information so she could make an informed  decision whether or not to buy it.
It seems that Mrs O couldve been affected by the exclusion in the policy relating to pre-existing  
medical conditions. This is because  Mrs O had an ongoing condition  when she took out the policy. 
This means  she wouldnt  have been  able to claim  on the PPI if she was unable to work because of it. 
And I cant see that Santander considered this, or made Mrs O aware of it, during the sale.  
But I dont think better advice or information about this exclusion wouldve changed  Mrs Os decision.  
I say this because Ive seen no evidence that Mrs Os condition wasnt under control  at that time.  
Instead shes  told us that shed had no time off work because of it, over a period  of around 18 years - 
she took medication daily and her condition was stable, not affecting her day-to-day life. In such 
circumstances, its generally not a condition that causes people to be off work for as long as needed  
to claim on the policy. And the policy wouldve still covered Mrs O for conditions that were  unrelated, 
or if she lost her job. 
So when she took out the policy, I dont think she wouldve felt her condition was a likely reason  she 
might need to claim on it. I think it unlikely  Mrs O wouldve made  a different decision if better advice  
and information had been provided. On balance I think she would  still have taken out the policy.  
the other aspects of the sale
Ive also reviewed the other aspects of the sale to make sure Mrs O hasnt lost out because of any 
other problems. I dont  currently think she has and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make it clear the PPI was optional and Mrs O had to agree to buy it. 
Ref: DRN36045613The bank has provided a copy  of the High level needs analysis that records the interview that took 
place as part of the sale. Whilst the copy Ive seen is unsigned by either party, this shows Mrs O said 
she wanted  to protect her mortgage repayments, and had no alternative way to do this at the time. A 
letter was then sent after the meeting that confirmed  the bank  had recommended PPI and that Mrs O 
had agreed  to take it out. 
Her mortgage offer also stated You are not required to take out any insurance through Abbey  and 
made clear that only buildings insurance  was a condition  of the mortgage offer.  And although Mrs O 
has said she was advised quite strongly  to have the PPI, Ive not been told about anything  Santander  
did or said that would in my view amount to unfair pressure.
So, overall,  I think Santander made it clear  that PPI was optional and Mrs O agreed to buy it.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs O, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for her based on 
what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time. Mrs O told us she was entitled to full sick pay from 
her job but she cant recall for how long. The PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for each 
successful accident or sickness claim. Given her job and time in role, I think its reasonable to 
conclude that the PPI would  have paid out for significantly longer than (and in addition  to) her work  
benefits. It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover. 
Mrs O was borrowing a large sum of money over a long time, in her sole name, secured against her 
home. Given the consequences of not being able to make  her mortgage repayments, I think  the cover 
would have been useful  for her if she was off work  sick or lost her job. And as she was paying  for it 
monthly, she could cancel it if her situation changed or she no longer wanted it.
Its possible the information Santander gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But Mrs O chose to take out the policy  and so appears to have wanted this type of cover.  I dont 
know when the cost was made clear but the policy  was competitively priced and apparently affordable 
for her. Ive explained above why I dont think Mrs O would have made  a different decision with better 
information on the exclusion for pre-existing medical  conditions. And I cant see she was affected  by 
any of the other main exclusions or limitations. So overall I think it unlikely Mrs O wouldve  made  a 
different decision if better information  had been provided. I think  its likely  she would still have taken 
out the policy.
It follows I dont currently think Santander mis-sold  the policy.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above Im not planning to uphold this complaint.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3604561