K820x#14complaint
Mr and Ms P say they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS).
background
Mr and Ms P took out a joint mortgage with BOS in 2003. At the same  time they took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy to cover  their repayments if either were unable  to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost their jobs. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  she didnt think there
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented  as optional and thought
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Ms P. 
Mr and Ms P disagreed. They say that they werent given sufficient information on the costs  
of the policy.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Ms Ps complaint.
The sale took place  over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mr and Ms P that they had a choice in taking the policy.  
Mr and Ms P havent provided any real specific details about  the sale which  is 
understandable considering the amount  of time that has passed. And BOS havent  given us 
any of the documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know  exactly  what was discussed 
about MPPI  or how it was presented.
But from what I know about BOSs  sales documentation and processes at the time, I think 
its likely  that it wouldve made Mr and Ms P aware that MPPI was optional  and that Mr and 
Ms P had MPPI because they freely chose to take it rather than anything else.
Ive not seen enough to say that they werent  given a choice or that they didnt agree to
buy it.
I can see from BOSs  internal records that the policy was sold during a meeting at a branch. 
So to put Mr and Ms P in the best possible position  Im treating the sale as if BOS advised 
them to take the policy. What this means  is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about MPPI  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so that Mr and Ms P could  make  an 
informed choice about buying  MPPI. It also had to make  sure that if it were to recommend 
MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mr and Ms Ps needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN34088862I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable
recommendation for Mr and Ms P for the following reasons:
They were eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like they wouldve been caught  by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr and Ms P say that they were  both entitled to a good level of sick pay and had 
savings they could use to  make  their repayments if they couldnt work.  But the policy  
wouldve paid out on top of this and for potentially longer, covering them for up to 24 
months if they were  unable to work due to accident or sickness or if they lost their 
jobs.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Ms P in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Ms P wouldve been  interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Ms P at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel  it.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mr and Ms P information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if BOS  did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same  reasons  that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Ms P has told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if theyd  been  
given all the proper  information.
So this means  Mr and Ms P arent  worse  off as a result  of any wrong doing by BOS.
my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr and Ms Ps complaint against Bank of Scotland  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 November 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3408886