K821x#15complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about the advice she was given by Greystone Financial Services  
Limited (Greystone) to invest  in the Rock Asset Management UK Industrial Fund (which I will 
refer to as the Rock  Asset fund). She says shes suffered substantial  losses  as a result of 
the investment  and wants reimbursement  of those losses.
background
I sent my provisional decision on this complaint  (dated 24 July 2019) to Greystone and     
Mrs H. The background  to the complaint  and the reasons I intended to uphold  it were set out 
in that decision. A copy of the provisional  decision is attached and it forms part of this final 
decision. 
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
Greystone said that although it didnt agree with my findings  it would  accept the provisional 
decision in order to bring closure  to the matter.  It asked for clarification of what  Id meant by  
the term date transferred in outlining how I proposed it should calculate  appropriate 
compensation. And it asked for confirmation of whether  the Financial Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) was going  to recover the money it had paid to Mrs H in the 
event Mrs Hs complaint was upheld. 
Mrs H confirmed she had no further points to make.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision that Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld.  
Mrs H transferred her SIPP to another provider in 2018. Greystone should use the date of 
that transfer in its calculation  of redress (which I understand  was 25 June 2018). If suitable  
advice had been given at outset Mrs H would  have received a return on the money invested 
in the Rock Asset fund up until that date  which for compensation  purposes Ive said should 
be in line with the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total  Return Index for the reasons 
explained in my provisional decision.  
The FSCS has already  confirmed to us and Mrs H that it intends to recover the money it has 
paid to her. Im not aware that position has changed.  However Mrs H is, in any event,  
required to update the FSCS about the matter as per her re-assignment  of rights.  I think  if 
Mrs H accepts the final decision its reasonable when shes  alerting the FSCS to obtain 
confirmation that its going to recover the money  it paid to her. She can then provide  a copy  
to Greystone. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
I order Greystone Financial Services Limited  to calculate and pay compensation to Mrs H 
as set out in my attached  provisional decision (and clarified above). 
Ref: DRN35946002Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019 .
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35946003Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs Hs complaint is about the advice  she was given by Greystone Financial Services Limited  
(Greystone) to invest  in the Rock Asset Management UK Industrial Fund (which I will refer to as the 
Rock Asset fund). She says shes suffered  substantial losses as a result  of the investment and wants  
reimbursement of those losses.
background
In September 2007 Greystone advised Mrs H about setting up a self-invested personal  pension 
(SIPP) to receive the benefits from a pension sharing  order.  The value of her share  was about  
£122,000. A file note dated 11 September 2007 headed  Fact Find Update recorded  that Mrs H was in 
rented accommodation  but was intending to use £330,000 from her divorce settlement to buy a 
house. And she had about £170,000 which she was deciding what  to do with. She had some pension  
from the time she had worked  for a bank (about £30,000). And she was due to receive £30,000 a year 
maintenance payments  up until her children finished full time education. 
Mrs H was assessed  as having a balanced  attitude to investment risk. Of the £122,000  to be received 
in the pension, £20,000  was recommended to be invested in a NDF Growth Kick Out fund and 
£40,000 in the Rock Asset fund. The remaining balance  was to be held in cash.
In May 2009  a further recommendation was made  to invest £20,000 into a Skandia Protected Portfolio 
and £20,000 in the Catalyst ARM Assured income plan.
The Catalyst  Investment Group Limited, provider of the ARM Assured  income plan, subsequently 
went into liquidation. Mrs H made a claim through the Financial Services Compensation Scheme 
(FSCS) and she received  a settlement of her claim in 2014.
Later on the Rock  Capital Group plc, provider  of the Rock Asset fund, also became  insolvent. Mrs H 
made another claim through the FSCS. She recovered the majority of the initial capital that shed 
invested. 
Mrs H complained to Greystone in March  2017. Greystone didnt uphold her complaint. Mrs H 
subsequently referred her complaint to us. 
Greystone didnt think we had jurisdiction to consider the complaint. One of our ombudsmen issued  a 
decision dated 3 November 2017 saying that he thought we had jurisdiction  to consider it.
One of our adjudicators  considered the merits of the complaint. He thought  it was about the suitability  
of the overall pension portfolio rather than just the advice to invest in the Rock Asset  fund. His view 
was that the portfolio wasnt invested in an appropriate manner and he thought  that the complaint 
should be upheld. 
Greystone didnt agree  with the adjudicators findings. It said,  in summary:
The FSCS had paid Mrs H the majority of the sum she had invested so it couldnt  see how we 
could award her the full capital sum plus any lost investment growth. This would be double  
recovery. We could only make an award for the lost growth  which it had already offered as a 
goodwill payment. 
It disagreed with the adjudicators decision to expand the complaint  to include the suitability of 
the establishment  of the SIPP. It hadnt seen any indication that Mrs H had expressed 
concern about the SIPP itself.
Ref: DRN35946004An expanded complaint  about the SIPP  was in any event time barred. It was made 6 years 
after the event. 
It didnt  agree that the SIPP was unsuitable.
It was recorded at the time of the advice  that Mrs H had  a balanced attitude to risk and is 
prepared to accept some more  adventurous funds  providing  this forms part of a balanced 
approach. It was therefore expressly  stated that she was prepared to accept more 
adventurous funds within her portfolio.
The investment in the Rock Asset fund was suitable as a first step towards  developing a 
diversified and balanced  portfolio  and in the context of all of Mrs Hs assets. The pension 
shouldnt be considered in isolation.
It didnt  agree that the Rock Asset fund was very high risk. Or that it was unsuitable purely  
because it was unregulated. It thought that Mrs H was in a category of investor to whom  UCIS 
(Unregulated Collective  Investment Scheme) could be promoted; Category 2 Annex 5 of the 
COB rules provided that firms could  promote a UCIS to a person for whom it had taken  
"reasonable steps" to ensure that the investment was suitable. It considered that the 
consultant would have  taken "reasonable steps" to ensure that a UCIS investment generally, 
and this investment in the Rock  Asset  fund in particular, was suitable for Mrs H in compliance 
with Category 2.
It said the advice should be judged  against the common practices  and guidance available in 
2007. The regulator  had made various  statements  about  UCISs in 2010. This was well after 
the economic crisis  which  resulted in a large  scale reconsideration  of UCISs by the Financial 
Services Authority (FSA  as it was known at the time). It did not accept the 2010 statements 
by the FSA were relevant to the 2007 position. 
The enclosures provided  with the suitability report showed the firms adviser provided 
comprehensive information and explanation  about the nature  and risks of the investment.
The claimed  loss wasnt caused by the advice. It was the unprecedented and unforeseeable 
fall in the commercial property market which led to losses. It thought the complaint should  be 
dismissed as at heart it was about investment  performance.  
The proposed method for calculating  compensation wasnt fair and reasonable. It thought any 
redress should be based only on the initial  investment into the Rock  Asset fund. It said the 
use of an index would  transform the investment into a capital  secure  investment and 
indemnify Mrs H for the risks she was prepared to accept  but did not achieve. And it thought  if 
the investment  was considered unsuitable we should  consider  whether a more modest 
proportion of the investment  would have been reasonable. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
what is Mrs Hs complaint?
I have to decide,  in the first instance, what the complaint  is about. The Ombudsman Scheme is 
intended to deal with complaints in an informal  manner. We have an inquisitorial remit and 
complainants dont have to precisely  define their complaint  as theyd need to do in bringing legal  
action in court; Im able to look more widely at the correspondence to determine the scope  of the 
complaint made.  
Ref: DRN35946005In this particular case I think the complaint is largely set out in Mrs Hs initial complaint letter to the 
firm dated  3 March  2017. I note that, in particular, Mrs H said she was concerned with the advice 
given in respect of the Rock Asset  Management UK Industrial Fund.  This investment  has resulted 
in substantial losses of c £40,000 and I am seeking full reimbursement of these  losses from 
Greystone. 
She went onto say:
The advice  I received  in relation to my investment in the Rock Fund was imprudentThe scale 
of the investment was out of all proportion to the other investments in my portfolio  ..To  put it very 
bluntly why were so many eggs put in one basket?... Why was such a large proportion  of my fund 
invested in a single item so soon after Greystone  assumed management  responsibility.I am looking 
for full reimbursement  of the losses arising from this disastrous investment.  My emphasis added.
I think  the complaint  made here was specific in that it was about  the Rock Asset fund and the losses 
related to that particular investment. In assessing  its suitability this necessarily requires an 
assessment of the suitability of the whole  portfolio. But in my view, in this particular  case, the 
complaint is about the Rock Asset  fund itself. So Im not considering the advice  about the suitability  of 
the SIPP  (although the firm has said such  a complaint  would  be out of time Ive seen no evidence  to 
suggest that Mrs H was aware or ought reasonably have been  aware that the SIPP was unsuitable  
more than three years  before she made her complaint  albeit thats no longer material).  And any 
compensation (if the advice  about the Rock Asset fund is found  to be unsuitable) would be based on 
the losses  flowing from that initial investment alone.
The firm has said it doesnt  think the Rock Asset fund was high risk. However it was a specialist fund 
concentrated on a small portfolio of 10 commercial properties. It was subject to liquidity risks and 
there was with no established secondary market for it. Its success depended  largely on the value  
generated from a few properties in a single asset class. And the investment was unregulated and so 
had fewer regulatory restrictions and protections. 
The Information Memorandum itself said that 
Commercial property is viewed as a higher risk investment and of less liquid nature than some other 
asset classes.
It also said the fund was structured with the objective of delivering 100% return on equity for investors 
over a seven  year period; it was projected to deliver  an annualised rate of return  after all costs of 
10.5% per annum.  These would have been considered higher rates of return  even in 2007. 
The relationship between risk and reward is well known. In my view the fund presented  significant 
risks and the adviser should have been  aware  of those risks when he was making his 
recommendation given all the information  available.  Whilst he may have given Mrs H documentation 
that warned of the risks that didnt  change his duty to provide  suitable advice. Mrs H had employed  
the firms services to advise her on her pension because of its expertise. She was paying the firm for 
its professional  advice  and she was entitled to rely on it. 
The Rock Asset fund was a UCIS. And as I have  explained above,  it presented significant  risks  both 
in terms of capital erosion  and illiquidity.  The regulators  view is that UCIS are only likely  to be suitable 
for a small proportion of an investors portfolio. Greystone has said the regulators various statements 
about UCISs were made well after the advice  was given to Mrs H. They were made after the 
economic crisis and werent relevant to the 2007 position.  
The FSA had identified  issues  surrounding the sale of UCIS in 2009 and the 2010 report  found  that 
firms werent carrying  out UCIS business in line with the existing legislation and regulators rules and 
principles. Whilst  the report focused on sales in 2008/09 the rules  and principles werent  materially 
different in 2007.  So  I think it was relevant to what good industry  practice looked like in 2007. And the 
2010 Report didnt change anything  in terms of the requirements on firms to provide  suitable advice 
Ref: DRN35946006which applied when the advice to invest in the Rock Asset fund was given.  I think the unregulated  
nature of the investments  ought  to have alerted Greystone that there were additional  risks over and 
above those that normally applied  to regulated  investment funds. So they needed to be treated with 
caution.
Greystone has said that Mrs H was in a category of investor  to whom UCIS could be promoted;  she 
was a person  for whom  it had taken "reasonable steps" to ensure that the investment was suitable. 
However I cant see there is a record of what steps the adviser took to ensure the investment was 
suitable. Mrs H doesnt  appear to have been a particularly  sophisticated investor  or had significant 
knowledge or experience of this type of investment. On the basis of the evidence currently provided 
Im not persuaded  Mrs H did fall within  any of the categories of investor to whom a UCIS could  be 
promoted. 
Portfolio construction isnt an exact science. And whilst I accept that a balanced risk portfolio can 
include a range  of assets presenting differing level of risks, whats suitable  will depend on the 
characteristics of the particular  investment and the investors own particular circumstances.
 
Mrs H was recorded  as being a housewife  at the time that the advice was given. She was in her 
forties and reliant for income, at that time,  on the maintenance  payments from her ex-husband. These 
were due to cease when her children left full time education. So there was some uncertainty  about  her 
ability to build  up further pension  provision.  And although I accept  that Mrs H had another  £170,000  
as part of her divorce  settlement she hadnt decided what she was going  to do with that money. 
Diversification is a well-known principle of investment risk management. Yet £40,000 of Mrs Hs SIPP 
was invested in the Rock Asset fund which  was highly  specialised and presented significant risks.  The 
aim of the pension  was to build up a fund that Mrs H would rely of for income at retirement. Although  
Mrs H had agreed to accept  a balanced  risk she wasnt in a position to speculate with a third of the 
pension transferred  to her. 
Im not persuaded  the recommendation resulted in a balanced risk portfolio  that was suitable for Mrs 
Hs circumstances.  Its success  (or otherwise) was heavily weighted  towards  the performance of the 
Rock Asset fund. There wasnt a spread of investments in different asset classes to provide a 
balanced portfolio  almost  one third of the pension fund was invested in a single UCIS presenting 
significant risks. 
So like the adjudicator, Im not persuaded that the advice was suitable given Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time. In my view it didnt provide for a balanced  portfolio  and presented a greater degree of risk 
than was suitable for Mrs Hs circumstances.
Greystone has said that the investment was suitable as a first step towards developing a diversified  
and balanced portfolio.  However exposure to risk starts from the period of investment. Its reasonable  
to take future plans into account and its a well-known strategy to gradually move  into lower risk 
assets over time as an investor approaches retirement. But that is from a starting position  of being 
appropriately invested in the first place.  If the degree of risk was materially  too high in 2007, the fact it 
might reduce at a later date is of little benefit if theres a significant reduction  in the value before  its 
repositioned.  
Greystone has said that the losses  werent caused by its advice; they were caused  by the financial 
crisis and the unprecedented  and unforeseeable fall in the commercial property market. However I 
dont agree this is the case. 
The risks of the investment  were known at outset  and the firm itself has said that they were  disclosed  
to Mrs H. Once Mrs H had been exposed to the risks the investment presented the possible losses 
were reasonably foreseeable.  The extent of the losses may not have been expected given the impact 
of the financial crisis. But that is the nature of the market in times of stress. The fall in the value of the 
fund was linked directly  to the type of investment  it was and the type of assets it contained; the losses 
Ref: DRN35946007were clearly foreseeable. In my view the losses flowed  from the unsuitable advice  to invest  in an 
investment exposed to significant risks. So I dont intend to dismiss  the complaint. 
Greystone has said it is unfair to award  Mrs H the full amount  of compensation  given  she has already 
recovered the majority of the initial investment that was lost by the FSCS. And it has already offered 
to compensate her for the investment losses that she might  have suffered.  
As I have said above, Im satisfied that the total losses  Mrs H has suffered flow from the unsuitable  
advice that was given by Greystone. And the position is that Mrs H is legally  bound  to repay  the FSCS 
the amount that it has paid to her. So Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to award Mrs H the full 
amount of compensation subject to confirmation from the FSCS that it will reclaim the money  from 
Mrs H.
my provisional  decision
Accordingly, my provisional decision is that I uphold the complaint. 
fair compensation
My aim is that Mrs H should be put back as closely as possible into the position  she would probably 
now be in if she had been given suitable advice. I intend to order that Greystone Financial Services 
Limited should calculate and, subject  to what I have said in the above paragraph, pay compensation  
to Mrs H on the following basis. If the FSCS confirms  it isnt seeking to recover the money  from Mrs H 
then Greystone can reduce the compensation it pays to her by the amount she has already received 
from the FSCS in respect of the Rock Asset fund.
I take the view that Mrs H would  have  invested  differently.  Its not possible  to say precisely what she 
would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mrs H's circumstances and objectives when  she invested. 
what should Greystone do?
To compensate Mrs H fairly, Greystone  must:
Compare the performance  of Mrs H's investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and compensation  is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Greystone should add interest as set out below.  
If there  is a loss, Greystone  should pay that amount  direct to her. But had it been possible  to 
pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should  
be reduced  to notionally  allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs H's actual or expected marginal  rate of 
tax at her selected retirement age. I think Mrs H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in 
retirement. So the reduction would  equal the current basic  rate of tax. However, if Mrs H 
would have been  able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of 
the compensation.
 Pay to Mrs H £300  for the upset caused by the unsuitable advice which  resulted in incurring  
substantial losses.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Greystone deducts  income  tax from the interest it 
should tell Mrs H how much has been taken off. Greystone should give Mrs H a tax deduction  
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN35946008actual value
This means  the actual  amount paid from the investment  at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a return using the 
benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Greystone totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
 Mrs H wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment  risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  It would  be a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return. 
 Although it is called  income index,  the mix and diversification provided within  the index is close 
enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable  measure  of comparison  given Mrs H's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
 The additional interest is for being deprived  of the use of any compensation money  since the 
end date.
Greystone Financial Services Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mrs H in a clear, 
simple format.
David Ashley
ombudsmaninvestment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional 
interest
Rock  Asset  
Management 
UK Industrial 
FundtransferredFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple  per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Ref: DRN3594600