K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about how Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc and its agents handled his 
claim, made under his property insurance  policy, following an escape of water  in his flat.
For ease of reading, any references to Ecclesiastical  include  its agents.
background
Mr C bought a flat in April 2018. Before  he moved in, he discovered there had been a leak 
from the en-suite  shower that had caused  extensive  damage to the property. The freeholder  
of the building has buildings insurance  with Ecclesiastical, which covers all the flats. Mr C 
made a claim at the end of April 2018.
Mr C initially appointed his own contractor to identify the cause and fix the leak. The 
contractor installed a dehumidifier  and provided a quote for all repairs.  Ecclesiastical said 
this was much higher  than expected. It instructed its own contractor to complete  a report 
which quoted  considerably less for the repairs. But Mr C pointed out some repairs that had 
been missed off and a second report was produced to include these.
During this time Mr C raised  a complaint about  how his claim was being handled. He said he 
had received poor customer service from Ecclesiastical including avoidable delays to the 
process. For example  it took 5 weeks for it to install drying equipment in the flat. He also said 
he had been given incorrect information  a number of times by Ecclesiastical, including  in the 
first repairs  report. Further he had not been offered alternative accommodation when he first 
raised the claim, instead having to insist on it at a later date. 
Mr C also said he was out of pocket as he had continued to pay the service charge for the 
flat while  he had been accommodated  elsewhere.  And he had intended  to rent out the 
second bedroom, so had lost out on that income. He said the poor handling of the claim had 
caused him significant emotional distress that had resulted in him attending  counselling. 
Ecclesiastical upheld  Mr Cs complaint. It accepted there had been some  delays and 
incorrect information given and awarded £500 compensation for the poor service. However it 
said that the policy doesnt cover  Mr C for loss of rent or the service charge  so it wouldnt be 
able to refund these.  
After some back  and forth Mr C eventually accepted  a cash  settlement for the claim in June 
2018, based on a revised  report of repairs. The final settlement paid was £41,144.18. This 
was made  up of £29,366.18 for repairs, £13,038 for alternative accommodation, £740 
towards a second  survey  and £500 compensation. 
However, Mr C felt the impact of the poor service had been significant and £500 
compensation was not enough to make up for it. He bought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. He said that although Ecclesiastical  had made some  errors, it had rectified  these 
quickly and £500  was sufficient to compensate. Mr C didnt  agree so the complaint has come  
to me to review.
Ref: DRN36781272my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that the circumstances  have caused Mr C considerable  stress.  And it no doubt had 
an impact on many  areas of his life. But when deciding on this complaint I have looked at the 
actions of Ecclesiastical and its agents. Rather than just the impact of the leak itself. I have 
done this by looking at how it handled  Mr Cs claim, what it got wrong  and what  it has 
already done to put things  right. 
Mr C has raised  a number of different complaint points.  As this is an informal service I 
havent responded to every one. I have  only addressed what I consider to be the key issues.  
However I want to reassure Mr C that I have  considered all the points he raised  when 
reaching my decision. 
Customer service and delays
Mr C is unhappy with the amount of time it has taken  for his claim to be processed. He says 
Ecclesiastical caused  a number of unnecessary delays by providing incorrect information  
and this has caused him additional stress.
Having reviewed all correspondence relating  to the claim, I can see that there were a 
number of times where incorrect  information was given and this caused  some delays. For 
example, when the first repair estimate  was produced, Mr C identified  a number of repairs 
that had been missed  off the estimate. This would have taken Mr C time to scrutinise. It also 
meant a further  report was required before  the settlement could be agreed,  which again took 
additional time. 
I can also see there was a delay to an emergency payment being made towards the 
beginning of the claim to cover Mr Cs costs.  I agree  this would have caused Mr C 
inconvenience and distress as he would have  been  out of pocket  while waiting for the 
payment. 
Having said this, I dont  agree  that Ecclesiastical  provided poor service  on the whole. It kept 
Mr C updated throughout  and answered  his questions promptly.  Mr C regularly contacted 
Ecclesiastical, often sending numerous  emails in one day. This is understandable 
considering the impact  the claim was having on his life and the worry it was causing  him. 
However Ecclesiastical dealt with his correspondence  promptly,  politely and by meeting as 
many requests as it could.  Sometimes  covering costs that went beyond the policy cover to 
do so.
Ecclesiastical has already given Mr C £500  compensation for poor customer  service which  is 
in line with what I would have recommended based  on the delays. I therefore think this is fair 
and wont be asking  it to do anything further.
Alternative accommodation
Mr C was unhappy that Ecclesiastical  didnt offer alternative accommodation from the start of 
the claim.  
Ref: DRN36781273I can see from the report from the initial loss adjustor that Mr C was asked about where he 
would stay. He said he would be able to stay with family and friends. I appreciate  this 
arrangement would be unlikely to last for a long time. When it was no longer possible, Mr C 
informed Ecclesiastical  and it agreed to pay for alternative accommodation from that date. It 
was Mr Cs own decision to stay with family  and friends  to begin with so we wouldnt expect 
payment for alternative accommodation  to be made  at the same time. So I think this is fair 
and cant say Ecclesiastical should have done anything differently.  
Mr C also said that hotels  were only initially booked for short periods of time which meant he 
was constantly  uncertain  about where he would  be staying from one week to the next. I can 
appreciate this would have  caused distress and would have been very unsettling  for Mr C. 
However I dont think Ecclesiastical should have acted differently. At that time it was waiting  
for confirmation of how long the repairs would take, so that it could arrange a more long term 
and preferable form of accommodation for Mr C. So although I can see this would have been 
distressing, I can understand why Ecclesiastical wasnt  able to book  longer  stays to begin  
with.
Additional costs
Mr C says there are further costs  that werent  included in the settlement that should be 
reimbursed. This includes the service charge for the flat that he has continued to pay and 
rental income he would  have got from the second  bedroom. 
Having looked  at the policy I can see the exclusions listed in the relevant section include
consequential loss of any kind. I therefore  agree that Ecclesiastical are not liable for these 
costs.
I have considered whether Ecclesiastical  applied this term fairly. As Mr C has been unable to 
provide any evidence of how much  rent he would  have achieved, or that he would have been 
able to rent it out straight away, it would be difficult to reimburse these costs. I understand 
that the reason for this is that Mr C hadnt  yet moved into the property. However, the process 
of renting the room may have taken some time. And, without a tenant already lined up, it isnt 
possible to know how much income  he would have missed out on. I therefore think  its fair 
that Ecclesiastical havent covered the loss of potential income.
Regarding the service  charge, paying this is a requirement of being  a leaseholder in the 
building. And it is payable whether the owner is living in the property or not. Therefore, I 
agree that Ecclesiastical  shouldnt cover this cost.
Impact
I do not doubt the impact the events  have had on Mr C. The situation would be very 
distressing and be likely to cause significant inconvenience for him. However I think  it is 
likely that the biggest  impact  would be from the leak itself and the damage that was caused 
to his property. 
Mr C was expecting to move into his first home. Instead he has faced prolonged stays in 
temporary accommodation and a lengthy insurance  claim. These are the unfortunate 
consequences of an event of this kind. I can see there were things that Ecclesiastical got 
wrong. Which may have  increased the inconvenience and distress  he experienced. But I 
dont think these mistakes affected the overall  impact of the claim significantly. There  were  
some delays and some  incorrect information was given.  But when errors were made they 
Ref: DRN36781274were quickly  rectified. And delays  were not much longer than would  be expected with a big 
claim that involves a number of contractors. So although I sympathise  with Mr Cs situation, I 
think the £500 compensation Ecclesiastical  has already provided is fair. So I wont  require 
Ecclesiastical to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint. I therefore dont require 
Ecclesiastical Insurance Office Plc to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3678127