K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains about Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limiteds  (LV) handling  of her 
claim for legal expenses insurance.  
Where I refer to LV, this includes their agents  and claims handlers.
background 
The detailed background to this complaint  is well known to both parties, so Ill only provide 
an overview here.
Mrs W was in dispute with her neighbours. The neighbours alleged  that Mrs Ws garage was 
built on land they own. Mrs W alleges that the neighbours have erected a fence that is on 
land she owns. She says this interferes  with her right of way into her garage. Mrs W says the 
neighbours agreed not to pursue their claim that the garage is on their land and to remove  
the fence. But the fence  wasnt  removed.
Mrs W contacted  LV to make a claim under her policy,  she wants the fence to be removed.  
LV asked one of their panel  solicitors  Ill refer to as M to look into her claim. M considered 
claims of trespass and interference with a right of way.
But ultimately they concluded that the prospects  of success were  less than 51% for both 
parts of the claim. This was largely due to the fact that the precise position of the boundary 
was unclear. Based on Ms opinion LV declined the claim. The policy  includes a requirement 
that there  are reasonable prospects of success for cover to be available. 
Mrs W complained  about M, she didnt think theyd  considered all the evidence  and was 
unhappy with the service  shed received. M provided  a response,  they said if Mrs W 
obtained a surveyors  report to show the boundary, they would look at things again to see if it 
impacted the prospects of success.  But the cost of that report wouldnt be met by LV under 
the policy. 
Being unhappy with this Mrs W contacted a barrister  to assist her outside  of her insurance 
policy. The barrister liaised with M and again  asked that LV fund a surveyors  report.  LV 
declined to do so. They highlighted that the policy says that costs  of reports to show  the 
claim meets the requirement for prospects of success, are to be met by the policyholder. 
They also said that if Mrs W provided a supportive  opinion of the prospects from her 
barrister, they would further  consider  the claim. 
Mrs W obtained a Chartered  Surveyors  report in January  2018.  But this concluded  that 
further work  was required to establish the exact  location of the boundary.  M further 
considered this report, but it didnt change their opinion  on the prospects of success. 
Mrs W complained  to LV. Their complaint response  only covered her dissatisfaction with M. 
Mrs W then referred  her complaint  to our service. One of our investigators looked into it. She 
didnt think LV had acted  unfairly. But she could see that Ms initial report on the prospects of 
success was completed  by a paralegal under the supervision of a senior paralegal. 
Our investigator didnt  think the legal opinion was obviously wrong, and as Mrs Ws own 
barrister agreed that an expert report was needed to identify  the boundary, she didnt think  it 
Ref: DRN31316162was unreasonable for LV to rely upon  it. But she asked LV if they would have  a qualified 
solicitor look at it again, to be sure. LV agreed. 
Our investigator thought this was a fair resolution  to the complaint. Mrs W disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. Shortly  before this complaint was 
allocated to me, LV provided  a solicitors opinion that also said there  were  insufficient 
prospects of success.  The solicitor also raised  concerns  about  the proportionality of pursuing 
the claim.  Our investigator shared this with Mrs W and let her know that, taking everything 
into consideration, I didnt think LV needed to do more. Mrs W didnt respond with any 
comments, so I can now go ahead with my decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. I 
know this will be disappointing for Mrs W, so Id like to explain why.
I understand that Mrs W was unhappy with the actions of M. But as a legal  firm M arent 
covered by our jurisdiction, so I cant comment on their actions. I can see that Ms response  
included referral rights to the Legal  Ombudsman  who may be able to assist  if Mrs W remains  
dissatisfied. I can only look at the insurer, LV in this case; Ive considered  whether  theyve  
acted within  the policy terms  and fairly. 
Mrs Ws policy says We will not pay any legal expenses if your claim does not have and 
continues to have  a reasonable chance  of success. This is a very common requirement  in 
legal expenses insurance and not one Id consider inherently unfair.  Litigation  can be 
expensive and a privately paying  client wouldnt generally continue  when advised not to. So I 
dont think an insurer should  have to either. 
All the legal  opinions involved  in Mrs Ws case are broadly in agreement  that the starting 
point for considering a trespass or interference with a right of way is to know,  definitively, 
exactly where the boundary between her property  and her neighbours is. None of the legal 
professionals have indicated that Mrs W claim against her neighbour is more  likely than not 
to succeed without first establishing this. 
Mrs Ws policy also says You must  provide at your own expense information relevant to 
your claim such as reportsto help your legal  representative assess  whether:
your claim  is covered;
your claim  has and continues to have a reasonable chance of success;
the cost of legal  expenses  to pursue your claim is proportional
Again I dont think this is an inherently  unfair  term and it is also common  in legal  expenses  
insurance. It is for Mrs W to show that she has a valid claim under her policy  and the policy  
is clear that the cost of obtaining  reports to help show  this arent covered. I dont think  LV are 
being unreasonable in declining  to pay for further  reports. 
LV themselves arent  legal experts, so I think it is fair for them to rely upon  suitably  qualified  
legal advice when  making decisions about  claims, unless that advice  is obviously wrong. LV 
say that when Mrs W is able to provide a report which establishes the location of the 
boundary to her property,  or if she can provide her own favourable barristers opinion  on 
prospects, they will look again  at the claim. This is what  Id expect them  to do.
Ref: DRN31316163Until the prospects of success have  been established and the claim accepted, I wouldnt 
expect LV to fund the claim. I understand this will be disappointing  for Mrs W, but I dont 
think LV need  to do more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3131616