K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold them a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  in 2003 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in a branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £230.60 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £12.95 a month. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as a cleaner.  He has told us he was not entitled to any sick 
pay and didnt have  any other means of repaying  their mortgage should  he be unable to 
work. Mr B doesnt appear to have  had a medical  condition at the time of the sale.  
Barclays has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2005 when 
Mr and Mrs B re-mortgaged  their property.
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Bs representative  says:
Barclays failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Barclays should have 
told Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Barclays should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
Ref: DRN30940802The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion. They said that they were told at the time that they probably wouldnt get their 
mortgage without  taking the PPI. So they dont think they had a choice.
 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Barclays, selling insurance  at this time:
Ref: DRN30940803The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Barclays at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Barclays was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Barclays gave advice, whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Barclays gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of, I must 
then go on to consider  whether  and to what extent Mr and Mrs B suffered loss or 
Ref: DRN30940804damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and Barclays, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
Did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI policy  was optional.  
Barclays have provided a copy of the Demand and Needs statement which their Barclays  
mortgage adviser completed with them at the time of the sale.  I can see that the advisor 
recommended the PPI policy  to them and that Mr and Mrs B accepted this recommendation. 
I can also see that Mr and Mrs B signed a separate part of their mortgage application dealing 
with PPI, together with a direct  debit mandate for this cover, choosing the amount of benefit  
required and confirming  that the policy should only provide cover for Mr B.
In responding  to our adjudicators view, Mr and Mrs B said they were told at the time they 
would probably  not get their mortgage without taking the PPI. So they dont think  they were  
given a choice.  I accept that its possible  that the adviser they spoke to wrongly mis-led them  
in this way. But Mr and Mrs Bs recollection of the sale doesnt appear to be that detailed or 
vivid, which  isnt surprising given how long ago it took place. So I dont  think it would be fair 
for me to conclude  that the policy was mis-sold for this reason, based  only on what 
Mr and Mrs B think they remember happening now. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs B knew the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. But I can understand why 
they may not be able to recall this now.
Did Barclays provide  advice?
Barclays says it did provide advice during this sale. And from what  Ive seen I think  this was 
the case.
 
This means  Barclays had to advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Barclays took some steps to establish  whether  the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs B. The adviser  had information about some of 
Mr and Mrs Bs financial  circumstances  as part of the mortgage  application.  But although a 
demands and needs  statement was completed to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs B 
had a need for the policy, I dont think this shows that Barclays did enough to ensure the PPI 
was suitable, for example, by finding  out more  about whether Mr Bs health or employment  
terms might  mean he wasnt likely to be able to receive the full potential  benefits of the cover 
provided by the policy.
Ref: DRN30940805Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Barclays advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Barclays did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching this conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   Mr B would not have received any sick pay 
if he was unable  to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to have 
been limited and they didnt have any savings they could fall back on. The policy 
would have helped  Mr and Mrs B manage the consequences if Mr B was unable to 
work.
-I havent seen  anything to make  me think the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt  
affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. In 
response to a query from us, Mr B says he had a gap in his employment between the 
job he was doing for a short  time before taking out the policy and his previous job. 
But he wasnt able to say how long this gap was for. So, on the available information, 
I dont think it would  be fair for me to conclude that this would have been likely to 
have affected  the benefits the policy could have  provided to Mr and Mrs B. And there  
was nothing else about Mr Bs employment  or occupation which  would have made it 
difficult for him to claim. He also hasnt  told us about  any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim. 
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given 
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances. And a mortgage  is a big financial commitment   one 
where Mr and Mrs Bs home was potentially at risk should  they have been unable to 
make the repayments. 
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Barclays  gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Barclays was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr B was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs B 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Barclays  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs B agreed  to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN30940806Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B, Im not persuaded 
Barclays did enough to present information  about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Barclays gave Mr and Mrs B all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Bs representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Bs. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Bs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs B have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Barclays ought to have done either. 
what effect did Barclays shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs B suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Barclays  didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr and Mrs B. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs B suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs B would  have still taken out the policy,  had Barclays done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Barclays took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Barclays had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN30940807Mr and Mrs B say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs B had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Barclays advised  that that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  
Mr B was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment,  they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Barclays told them the exact premium  at the point 
Mr and Mrs B applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs B would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for over a year,  
so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Barclays at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs B would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Barclays made clear exactly what  Mr and Mrs B would get 
back in return in the event Mr B made  a successful  claim. But I think  its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs Bs expectations about  what the policy would pay in the event of a claim was 
significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr B knew  about or 
ought to have known about  in the 12 months before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
Ref: DRN30940808on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr B was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr B wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr B didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs B had known Mr B could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both 
the job and any similar gainful  occupation  which in the insurers  view he might  reasonably  
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr B was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Barclays may not have  told Mr and Mrs B that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for, 
but they didnt have  any other means to fall back on. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr B be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time, ensuring their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr B was made  redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Bs representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
Ref: DRN30940809the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Bs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs B found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Barclays should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think Barclays misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Barclays s statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Barclays 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Barclays  gave Mr and Mrs B, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2003 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Bs representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Barclays negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs B and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Barclays had been in breach of its duty 
of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN309408010my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 October  2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3094080