K820x#14complaint
Mr O doesnt think  its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which he was discharged  
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 14 June 2019.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint and explains why I dont 
think RBS needs  to pay Mr O any compensation.
RBS has confirmed that its received my provisional  decision. It hasnt asked me to 
reconsider any of my provisional findings  but it has sent me some  new information.  It has 
sent me evidence to show that Mr O owed RBS more than £26,000 when his trust deed  
came to end. It also says that, as its already reduced Mr Os debt by the amount  it offered  in 
its letter dated 28 March  2014, it wont now undo this even if I confirm  my provisional 
findings that it didnt need to pay Mr O any compensation.
Mr O has also confirmed that hes received my provisional decision. Ive listened to a 
recording of the conversation he had with our adjudicator.  Mr O doesnt think Ive reached 
the right outcome because he says RBS would  have received tax relief on any bad debt and 
its not fair for them  to keep the PPI compensation too.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that the amount of money Mr O got when he made his 
claims on the PPI policies was more  than he actually  paid for the policies. So he hasnt lost 
out as a result of what RBS did wrong.  Mr O and RBS havent said they disagree  so I 
remain of the opinion that RBS doesnt  need  to pay Mr O any compensation.
And as RBS doesnt  need to pay Mr O any compensation, I dont think  the tax relief  it 
received, if any, is relevant in this case.
The additional information  RBS has provided  doesnt make a difference  to my decision or my 
reasons for it  so I dont  think  I need  to say more  about it. And if it chooses not to undo what  
its already done,  so be it.
In short,  nothing Mr O or RBS has said has changed my mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont think 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc needs to pay Mr O any compensation. So Im not going to 
tell it to do anything.
Ref: DRN37702162Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37702163copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr O doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use his payment protection  
insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  a debt from which he was discharged  when his protected 
trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr O has had a number of loans with RBS.  With three loans, RBS sold him PPI.
Below, Ive included some  basic  information  about these loans:
Loan ending 4866  (Loan  1): 13 May 1999-9 November 1999
Loan ending 8709  (Loan  2): 7 June 2000-17 August 2001
Loan ending 1370  (Loan  3): 17 August  2001-
RBS has told us Loan  2 refinanced Loan 3.
In this decision,  Im looking  at the policies sold with Loans 2 and 3. Ive issued a separate  provisional 
decision about the policy sold with Loan 1.
In 2014, Mr O contacted RBS to complain  that the PPI policies were  mis-sold.
On 28 March  2014,  RBS wrote to Mr O. It accepted that the PPI policies had been mis-sold. 
It didnt offer Mr O any compensation  for the policy  sold with Loan 3 because hed made  successful 
claims on the policy and received a lot more than hed paid for it. 
Hed also made  a successful claim  on the policy  sold with Loan 2  but RBS worked  out hed paid 
more for the policy than the value of the successful claim, so it offered to refund the difference. And it 
offered to add simple interest (at 8% per year)  on the extra  hed paid.
However, in November 2002, Mr O had granted a trust deed  which  became a protected trust 
deed  for his creditors. A protected trust deed is an alternative  to bankruptcy  (which is called 
sequestration in Scotland).  It is a legally-binding  agreement between a consumer and his creditors,  
which is administered by a trustee. The consumer  transfers his property to the trustee, who has the 
power to collect and realise assets, and distribute the estate  among the creditors according  to their 
respective rights and preferences. The right to compensation for a mis-sold  PPI policy is, as an asset, 
usually vested  in  or transferred to  the trustee for the benefit of the creditors. A trust deed will 
invariably include provisions relating to the discharge  of the consumer from his debts, the restoration 
to him of any surplus, and the discharge  of the trustee.
Mr O was discharged from his trust deed in January  2006.
The reason why this complaint has been referred to our service is because  RBS wants to use the PPI 
compensation in partial payment of monies owed  and left unpaid when  the trust deed came to an end. 
Mr O doesnt  think this is fair.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  R of the Financial  Conduct Authority  (FCA) 
Handbook to take into account:
Ref: DRN37702164(1)relevant:
(a)law and regulations;
(b)regulators  rules, guidance and standards;
(c)codes  of practice; and
(2)(where appropriate)  what  [the ombudsman] considers to have been good industry  practice at 
the relevant  time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Can I look into this complaint?
RBS says I cant consider this complaint. It says it is out of jurisdiction because  Mr O accepted its 
offer  which it made as a gesture of goodwill and without an admission of liability   in full and final 
settlement of his complaint.  It has sent us a copy of the settlement form Mr O signed  on 
19 April 2014, which says:
I wish to accept the Banks net offerin full and final settlement of all or any claims which I might 
have against [RBS]  or any subsidiary companies in respect  of my [RBS]  [PPI] policies for [Loan  
2].
[]
If I am subject  to an Individual Voluntary  Arrangement  (IVA), Protected Trust  Deed, Bankruptcy or 
Sequestration, any payment  will be made to the relevant account I hold with you. Any 
disbursements due under  the terms of the arrangements  will then be managed by the Groups  
Insolvency Team.
I understand that the offer will take into consideration any arrears on my account
First, and for the avoidance  of doubt, this complaint is not out of jurisdiction.
We were set up by parliament  under  the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (as amended). And 
DISP 2 of the FCA Handbook  which is subordinate legislation made under the 2000 Act  explains 
when we can and cannot consider a complaint. There is no rule that says we, as a service, or I, as an 
ombudsman, cannot consider a complaint if the consumer has accepted an offer.
However, I can dismiss a complaint without considering its merits  if I think there are compelling 
reasons why it is inappropriate for the complaint to be dealt with under the Financial  Ombudsman 
Service (DISP 3.3.4 R). As our service  is here to resolve complaints that consumers  and businesses 
cant resolve themselves, it may not be appropriate for us to get involved if the consumer has already 
accepted an offer. But it will depend on the individual circumstances of each complaint. And even if I 
assume RBS means  to say I should exercise my discretion to dismiss this complaint in accordance  
with DISP 3.3.4 R, I dont  think it would be appropriate to do so in this case. Ill explain why.
Read in context, I dont think the settlement form makes it clear  that RBS means  to keep Mr Os PPI 
compensation.
In my opinion,  the words  If I am subject to[a]  Protected Trust Deed, instead of, If I have been, 
indicates that what  comes next doesnt apply to consumers like Mr O, whose trust deeds have come 
to an end.
Likewise, for consumers  who have been discharged from their debts on termination  of a trust deed, I 
dont think its unreasonable  for them  to assume they dont have an account or arrears with RBS.
Ref: DRN37702165In these circumstances, I think  it would  be very unfair to conclude that a consumer in Mr Os position  
would or should have  realised  what RBS wanted to do. So Im not going to dismiss  this complaint 
without considering its merits.
Finally, RBS told us it made  its offer as a gesture  of goodwill  and without an admission of liability.  But 
it didnt.  When it wrote to Mr O on 28 March 2014,  it said:
the Bank is prepared to uphold your complaint and offer you the following  redress.
As it has upheld his complaint that the PPI policies  were mis-sold, I dont  need to decide whether or 
not they were. Instead, I need to decide whether or not RBS needs to pay Mr O any compensation  
and, if so, how much.
Does RBS need to pay Mr O any compensation?
In June 2000,  Mr O borrowed £12,500 from RBS. He borrowed an extra  £2,424 to pay for PPI up 
front. This type of policy is called a single premium PPI policy. And Mr O had to pay interest on the 
extra he borrowed.
If the loan had run to term, Mr O would have paid £454.20 in interest on the extra he borrowed for 
PPI. So in total,  he would  have paid £2,878.20 for PPI  which is £47.97 per month.
Mr O made 14 payments  before he refinanced Loan 2 with Loan 3.
He cancelled the policy when he refinanced the loan, and RBS reduced his loan balance by 
£1,488.16  this was a partial refund of the upfront cost of the PPI policy and an interest adjustment to 
reflect the actual term.
So in total, the policy cost Mr O £1,390.04.
He made 14 payments of £47.97,  which is £671.58.  The remaining £718.46 of unpaid PPI was carried  
over into Loan 3.
Ive explained this in some detail because what was paid and when  makes a difference in this case.
DISP App 3 of the FCA Handbook  tells businesses  how to put things  right if they mis-sold  PPI.
The rules say a business should refund everything the consumer paid for PPI (DISP App 3.7.3 E). But 
it may deduct the value of any successful claims (DISP  App 3.7.5).
And Mr O made a successful claim on the policy and received  £1,025.41. RBS has deducted this from 
the cost of the policy (£1,390.04) and offered to refund the difference  (£364.63)  with simple  interest.
In this case, I dont think this is necessary.
I say this because Mr O also made successful  claims worth almost £7,000 on the policy he purchased  
with Loan 3. This money was paid into his current account. And in total, Mr O only made  payments 
worth £5,500 towards Loan 3 before he granted his trust deed. So he didnt personally  pay anything  
towards the loan. This means he didnt personally pay anything towards the PPI policy he purchased 
with Loan 3 or the £718.46  that was rolled over from Loan 2 into Loan 3.
So RBS doesnt need to pay Mr O any compensation for the policy sold with Loan 3. And it doesnt 
need to pay him any compensation  for the unpaid PPI that was rolled over from Loan 2 to Loan 3.
Finally, as the claim he made on the policy  he purchased  with Loan 2 (£1,025.41) was more than he 
paid for it (£671.58), RBS doesnt need to pay him any compensation for this either.
Ref: DRN37702166Put simply, I dont think Mr O has lost out even if the PPI policies were mis-sold  so I dont think RBS 
needs to pay him any compensation  for either PPI policy.
As I dont think RBS needs to pay Mr O any compensation, I dont need to decide  whether  or not its 
fair for it to nominally  reduce  any monies  owed  and left unpaid when his trust deed came to an end.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont think The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc needs to pay Mr O 
any compensation.
So unless the comments and information I get by 14 July 2019  change my mind, I wont tell it to do 
anything.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3770216