K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1987
alongside a mortgage. Mr P and Ms S say Bank of Scotland PLC, Halifax  at the time, mis-
sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr P and Ms S say they were told the PPI was compulsory, and that they needed to take it 
out in order to take out the mortgage.  Ive considered  what theyve said, but Mr P and Ms S 
havent given  us much more detail about  what exactly was said to them  to make them  think  
this. The policy was sold more than 30 years ago, so while  I cant  expect them  to remember  
everything that happened at the time it is also difficult to rely on this statement alone to 
conclude something  untoward happened. But in cases where there  is little or no evidence,  I 
have to consider  what both parties  have said, and what we already know about how PPI was 
being sold in similar circumstances, in order  to reach a decision on what I think  is more likely 
to have happened.
Its not surprising  that most of the paperwork from the sale is now no longer available, 
considering this PPI was sold such  a long time ago. Halifax  says that it wouldve presented  
the PPI as optional and wouldve only added it to Mr P and Ms Ss mortgage with their 
explicit consent. And from what weve seen of these  types of sales,  there was usually a 
discussion around PPI and some documentation where Mr P and Ms S wouldve had to 
make an active  selection  to add the PPI to their mortgage  and Ive seen  persuasive  
evidence that anything different happened in this case. 
So, without any stronger  evidence  to the contrary, I think its more likely than not that Mr P 
and Ms S chose to take out the PPI, knowing it was something they didnt have to have. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr P and Ms S so it had to check that the policy  was right 
for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example, it doesnt look like they were affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.
Mr P and Ms S both say they were entitled  to some sick pay from their employers which  they 
couldve used to keep  up their repayments.  But the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months if either or both Mr P and Ms S were made unemployed, and up to 24 months if 
either or both of them were off sick  which  wouldve been  for longer than and in addition to 
their sick pay entitlement. So, in that case their sick pay couldve been  used  for other  
expenses. Their mortgage was a substantial financial commitment  and the consequences  of 
failing to meet their repayments could mean they lose their home,  so I think having a policy  
like this gave them additional peace of mind  and I dont think their sick pay and savings 
meant the PPI was unsuitable for them.
Ref: DRN38317642Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr P and Ms S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it
shouldve been.  But it seems like it would have been useful for them  if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So, I dont  think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P and Ms S. But
Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr P and Ms S about  that. Because  Halifax didnt 
tell Mr P and Ms S, that was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax  has offered  to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr P and Ms S.
But Bank of Scotland PLC does have  to pay back to Mr P and Ms S any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium   if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 February  2021.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3831764