K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls complaint is that Plus500UK Ltd (Plus500) had a responsibility  to address indications that 
trading in his execution  only contracts  for differences (CFD)  account had become out of control/a 
gambling problem.  He says Plus500s failure to do so allowed his out of control  trading to take 
place and caused, wholly or partly, his financial loss in the account. He wants his loss reimbursed.
Background
Mr L applied for the CFD trading account  in July 2017. Plus500  applied an 
appropriateness test to his application. The outcome of the test concluded that the 
CFD trading account was unsuitable  for Mr L. He was informed of this outcome and 
given the option  to proceed with the opening  of the account  at his discretion.  
Evidence suggests that he was also given warnings about the inappropriateness of 
the account, about the risks in CFD trading and about potential  exposure to risks 
outside his knowledge  and experience. He decided to proceed with the account  and 
after around a fortnight  he began CFD trading within it.
In January 2018 Mr L declared, to Plus500,  an out of control trading/gambling 
problem. His core arguments were that Plus500 should not have let him open  the 
account at the outset,  it should  have identified his gambling problem earlier than his 
declaration and it should have  stopped  his ability to continue  trading. Mr L referred 
the complaint  to this service because Plus500  did not uphold it. 
In the main, Plus500 said the account was deemed inappropriate for Mr L but he was 
able to proceed with it only after agreeing to additional risk warnings;  in response to 
criticism about its promotional materials being a form of undue influence  it said the 
materials complied with regulation, were  sent to clients  who had given consent and 
that Mr L could remove himself from the mailing list; in response  to criticism of 
promotional bonuses  also being  a form of undue influence it said Mr L retained his 
discretion to decline such bonuses and that its terms and conditions expressly 
excluded liability for losses  arising  from trading with such  bonuses; in response  to 
criticism of its upgrading of Mr Ls account  in August 2017 it said it was in the 
process of upgrading all of its accounts at the time and that the upgrade did not affect 
leverage in the trades (it only increased  the minimum trade size and decreased the 
overnight funding  costs); and it said it took the decision  to terminate Mr Ls account 
after his declaration of a gambling  problem.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he was satisfied with evidence  that Plus500 complied with the 
regulators rules in its process (including  the warnings) for opening  Mr Ls account  
despite the assessment of inappropriateness; he noted that Mr L had time to reflect 
on the assessment  and warnings before he began his trading;  he said sufficient  and 
prominent warnings  were given to Mr L about the risks of CFD trading; he broadly 
agreed with Plus500s points  in response  to some of the criticisms it addressed;  and 
overall he considered  that the facts  of the case and the execution only basis  for the 
account did not lend themselves to the sort of intervention from Plus500 that Mr L 
says ought to have taken  place.
Mr L disagrees with this outcome. In the main he says Plus500  must accept 
responsibility for operating on a model  that is set up to attract  gamblers; he accepts  
that Plus500 cannot monitor  all accounts but it is irresponsible  for it to monitor  none  
Ref: DRN30022132of its accounts for irresponsible use; he says Plus500 ought reasonably to have 
reviewed his (un)fitness  to use the account especially after an incident in which  he 
declared he could  not afford £100  to deposit into the account; he says Plus500  
breached the regulators  principles for businesses in terms of integrity,  skill care and 
diligence, management  and control, customers interests and relationship of trust. 
The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators conclusion.
The regulators rules on the assessment  of appropriateness are as the adjudicator 
explained. They apply  in the context  of financial products or services that are 
offered/provided on a non-advised (or execution only) basis.  Under  the regulators Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules the task in assessing appropriateness  is to establish 
a persons knowledge, experience and understanding of risks,  in relation to the product(s) or 
service(s) being offered/provided. It might be relevant that the rules do not require a firm to 
assess a clients expertise, competence or success rate in relation to the product or service.
A significant factor in Mr Ls case is that the CFD account was assessed as inappropriate for 
him. The overall effect of this, which might have  been overlooked in his complaint, is that the 
intervention he has argued for could reasonably be said to have taken place at the outset  
when the outcome of Plus500s  assessment expressly told him that the CFD account was 
not appropriate for him. To put it in another way, the outcome of the assessment told him it 
was not in his interest to open the account. I am persuaded by the idea that no other  
intervention could have been  better  than one at the outset  before  any problem trading or 
financial loss took pace. I do not accept  the arguments that have been made about Mr L 
being unduly influenced into the account or to maintain  the account by the bonus or in any 
other respect that has been argued. I consider that the assessment of inappropriateness 
was and/or ought reasonably to have been the most prominent factor in the affair.  It was 
known to Mr L at all times and it was supposed to be a deterrent not an inducement.
The regulators rules observe a persons right to exercise his/her own discretion in these  
circumstances and for a firm to do the same. Hence the provisions in COBS 10.3, as quoted  
by the adjudicator, which allow for an inappropriate product  or service provision to proceed 
so long as a warning  of inappropriateness is properly given and, in real terms, so long as the 
relevant parties  agree. This is what happened in Mr Ls case  but it does not devalue  the fact 
that by assessing inappropriateness and giving notice/warning about this at the outset,  
Plus500 did enough to let him know that the account  was not in his interest.
The argument about reviewing the matter upon  alleged indications of problems  after the 
opening of the account and/or  upon  the upgrading of the account  appears to be somewhat 
redundant. There was arguably nothing to review  given that Mr L had already been told that 
the account (and CFD trading) was inappropriate  for him. I do not consider that he would 
have needed a repeat of that message  or that Plus500 was obliged to repeat that message. 
Perhaps, on at least a best practice  basis, it could be said that the upgrading of an 
inappropriate account was ill judged, but it appears that nothing was said or suggested in the 
upgrading process to reverse or dilute  the assessment  of inappropriateness at the outset.  
Plus500s assertion  is that all of its accounts were  in the process of being  upgraded at the 
Ref: DRN30022133time. I have not seen  enough evidence to cast this into doubt  so it could be a plausible 
explanation for the upgrading decision.
If Mr Ls point  is that the alleged  indications  of problems triggered  a duty upon Plus500 to do 
more than merely declare inappropriateness  such as a duty to protect him by stopping  his 
trading  I am persuaded that Plus500  took such a step after what  appears to have  been  its 
first awareness of Mr Ls problem. Prior to the notice he gave in his complaint, evidence 
suggests that he could reasonably have been viewed, by Plus500, as no more than a client  
incurring losses (or significant  losses) in CFD trading. That, alone, is not uncommon  hence  
the risk warnings given  to him and commonly given  to traders  engaged in CFD trading. 
I have considered the incident that involved  Mr L telling a Plus500 official  repeatedly, over a 
number of exchanges, that he could  not afford to make a deposit into his account. This was 
in the context of creating a sufficient  balance in the account in order  to then make the 
minimum level of withdrawal permitted. I can understand why Mr L strongly feels  that this 
incident ought to have  indicated to Plus500 that he had a gambling  problem,  but I also 
disagree with the assertion. I do not doubt that the relevant  exchange(s)  ought reasonably to 
have informed the Plus500 official  that Mr L had what  I would term an affordability problem 
at the time. Even if such information should have been noted by Plus500,  the question arises  
as to why or in what respect it should have noted  the information. It had no obligation  to 
consider suitability of the account  or CFD trading for Mr L so affordability for Mr L would not 
have been its concern  or responsibility.  
Plus500 appears to have  had a basic level of monitoring in the account. It would have known  
about the level of losses Mr L accumulated but, as I said above, an account  holders  losses  
(or significant losses) in CFD trading would not have been  an unusual  occurrence for it. The 
existence of a gambling problem would not have  been the automatic conclusion from that. 
Even the matter of affordability does not automatically lead to the conclusion  that there is a 
gambling problem.  I must also note conduct from Mr L that could or would reasonably  have 
been perceived by Plus500 as indicative of him planning or considering the closure of his 
account. I note this with regards  to a number of withdrawal  requests he made in late 2017. 
That would not have lent itself to the suspicion of out of control  trading/gambling.  It could  
reasonably have been viewed as a retail  trader  having  had enough of CFD trading (or 
losses) and considering  closure of [an inappropriate] trading account for that reason. Overall, 
I do not consider  I have  seen enough evidence to conclude that Plus500 should have been 
alerted to a gambling problem earlier than Mr L declared the gambling  problem.  After  Mr Ls 
declaration the account was appropriately terminated. 
The points that Mr L made about the regulators principles for businesses have generic and 
somewhat regulatory  elements within them. In this respect, and as noted by the adjudicator,  
the remit of this service  does not extend  to determining the types or standards  of practices 
and or processes that regulated firms must  abide  by. That is the regulators remit. As far as 
is relevant to Mr Ls complaint, I address the points  as follows:
COBS 10.4.2 (R) says a firm  is not required to make a new assessment [of 
appropriateness] on the occasion of each separate transaction   by its client(s),  
and that a firm providing clients with a regulated service complies with the rules for 
assessing appropriateness  provided  that it makes the necessary appropriateness  
assessment before  beginning that service.  This confirms  a firm is not required to 
monitor  appropriateness  after the initial  assessment  as Mr L has suggested.
Ref: DRN30022134In terms of paying due regard to Mr Ls interest, I disagree with his assertion that 
Plus500 failed  to do this. As explained  above,  Plus500s assessment of 
inappropriateness at the outset  and warnings and notices in this respect paid 
sufficient regard  to his interest. It is arguable  that it paid the best regard to his interest  
given that he was essentially being told, at the outset,  to stay away from the account  
and from CFD trading.  He had the benefit of this awareness at the beginning of this 
matter  before losses happened   and he did not have to learn about the 
inappropriateness of CFD trading, for him, by suffering losses.
Mr Ls reference to relationship of trust has been presented in the context of a firms 
duty to ensure suitability of its advice. No such duty relates to his complaint because  
Plus500 had no advisory role towards  Mr L, his account existed on an execution only 
basis.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 25 February  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3002213