K820x#14complaint
Miss T has complained about National House-Building Council (NHBC). It provides the 
building warranty for the block  of flats where she lives. She thinks it delayed making a 
settlement for a claim made  in respect  of common parts of the property.
background
Miss T lives in a flat within  a block that NHBC issued a building  warranty for. Her home  
suffered water ingress  around  the windows. NHBC became involved under Section 3 of its 
policy. In 2015  and into 2016 investigations  were on-going into the damage.  
In December 2016 NHBC issued a final response  to Miss T in respect of a complaint shed 
made about how long enquiries  were taking. Miss T felt the claim could  have been  resolved 
in 2016. NHBC accepted  that there had been some  delays to date and offered £500 
compensation. It said the claim was accepted and it had asked for quotations for repair  to be 
returned to it. It said following this it would look to issue a cash settlement.
Quotes were received  in February 2017  but by August 2017 no settlement had been made 
and Miss T complained  to NHBC again.  In September  2017 NHBC issued a further final 
response in which it accepted  that thered been further delays  but explained that all 28 
residents needed  to agree to the settlement. It offered a further £500 compensation. It said 
that 22 out of 28 signatures had been received,  a settlement on that basis would be made. 
Miss T remained  unhappy and complained to this service. Our investigator felt that NHBC 
had caused delays but had provided adequate compensation. 
Miss T wasnt  satisfied. She said she had sold her flat finally  in 2018 but at a lower  price 
than she should  have received due to the lengthy and on-going  repairs.  She said there had 
been further delays in December 2017  and a total of £1,000  compensation for 4-5 years of 
works was unacceptable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with regret for any 
upset this will cause Miss T, Im not going  to uphold her complaint.  I think  NHBC has 
provided fair and reasonable  compensation.  
I think NHBC did cause some delays. Notably in 2017, prior to its final response, it took time 
to complete reports and didnt clearly explain that all residents would need to sign to agree  to 
the cash settlement.  It was particularly unfortunate that delays occurred at this point when 
NHBC had previously accepted that it had already caused delays during 2016.
Progressing a claim of this nature would always have taken some time. I can only require 
NHBC to provide compensation in respect  of upset  caused by avoidable delays. From the 
evidence Ive seen  Im satisfied that NHBC has fairly  compensated Miss T in this respect. 
I cant consider whether  NHBC  caused further  delays  after the date of its final response 
issued in September 2017. And, whilst  this service can award compensation for financial 
losses caused by insurers  avoidable  delays, in the first instance,  if Miss T feels  she can 
show that her house sale was directly affected  by delays  she should tell NHBC this and 
Ref: DRN35333642provide evidence of that. Her financial loss would then have to be considered  separately  to 
the distress and inconvenience  shes suffered. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against National House-Building 
Council.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3533364