K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the cost of her home insurance with U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  up 
until 2014. She was then quoted a renewal premium but found that UKI was offering the 
same branded policy for much less online.  
background
Ms B first took out a policy with UKI in 2007.  She had a claim in 2010 and continued with the 
policy until 2014. For the renewal that year she was quoted  a price of £449. She checked  
online to find that UKI was offering  the same or similar policy for over £200  less. She put this 
to UKI who offered  to move her to that policy  mid-term. She declined  to do so and cancelled 
her policy with UKI and took out a policy with another insurer. She thought  that she had been  
disadvantaged over the years as she had been kept on a more expensive  policy  whilst being 
told by UKI that the price  was fair.
Ultimately our adjudicator  didnt uphold Ms Bs complaint. She said that UKIs pricing 
information showed the price to be fair within the criteria that it applied to all its customers.  
She thought  that, arguably,  by about 2014, Ms B might have been  better  off if UKI had given 
her more information about its alternative  policies.. But as shed cancelled  her policy  then, 
our adjudicator didn't think shed suffered any loss. And so UKI hadnt treated her unfairly.
Ms B disagreed and argued  that she had been positively misled when she rang up UKI to 
query her premiums and shed not been offered any discounts until she raised the issue  of 
the online policy being cheaper. Our adjudicator  said that, without knowing the tone or 
context of the phone call she couldnt  say whether  Ms B was given misleading information,  
but even if she was it hadnt adversely affected her financially.
The matter  has been passed to me for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
policy premium
I have considered the pricing history and the increases in the premiums Ms B was charged 
over the years.  From  this it appears that for this particular policy, UKI was following its own 
pricing criteria. It looks likely  that the policy  in 2007  had an introductory discount, which was 
then reduced over the years so that the premium  went up. It appears that the claim Ms B 
made in 2010  did then affect the price of the policy over the next two or three  years. So I 
cant say that for this particular policy, Ms B was overcharged. Thats  because  UKI applied 
its rating criteria  consistently in the way that it would  have done for any other customer.
But in 2014 Ms B did discover that UKI was offering  the same  or a similar policy online for a 
considerably lower price. UKI has confirmed to us that that particular policy  did have an 
introductory discount which would have brought it to within about £50 of the renewal 
premium she was quoted.  The claim she had made previously would also have had much 
less effect on the price  than it had previously as insurers generally rate on claims  for a 
limited period of time.
Ref: DRN38194892UKI has told us that it wouldnt  tell customers about  alternative policies when (as in this 
case) they have declined to receive  marketing material. But I dont think  that accords  with its 
duty to take reasonable  steps to communicate in a way that is clear, fair and not misleading. 
UKI has said that the alternative policy may have been available  in previous years but it 
offers different  cover  and it cant say whether  it would have been cheaper
Arguably in this case, Ms B should have been made  aware of an alternative  policy  earlier 
than 2014. And it may have been cheaper. But in deciding whether she has suffered any 
financial loss, Ive taken  into account  that Ms Bs premiums  were  affected by the claim, most  
likely until 2013. Ive also taken into account  her ability  to look online for cheaper  policies. 
And she has told us that she was able to shop around but felt dissuaded  from doing  so until 
2014. Ive concluded that by 2014, UKI should have taken more steps to keep Ms B advised  
about possible alternative policies, but as she cancelled her policy  then, I dont think  its 
appropriate to require UKI to refund any premiums.
misleading renewal call
Ms B argues that she was positively misled into believing that she was on the correct 
premium and that no other policies were available. She points  out that when she called UKI 
several years previously she was told that all insurers  had put their prices up. She says this 
persuaded her to keep renewing. When she called  in 2014 she wasnt  offered the discounted 
policy until she checked online.
Unfortunately I cant look at what was said to Ms B in a phone  call that took place several 
years before she complained to us, , as theres  no recording or detailed record  of it. So I 
cant fairly say whether  UKI gave  her misleading information. If, as appears  to be the case, 
she wasnt offered the alternative policy in 2014 until she pointed  out to UKI the policy  shed 
found online, that is unfortunate. But as she decided to cancel her policy  then, I cant  fairly 
say that she has suffered  any financial  loss. So I cant uphold  the complaint.   
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3819489