K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
background
This complaint is about four loans Satsuma provided to Mr F between July 2015 and 
September 2017. The first two loans were  repayable  in weekly instalments. Mr F had to 
make monthly repayments  on the later loans.
Mr F paid the first two loans he took out. But Mr F hasnt paid the last two loans he took out 
in June and Sept 2017. 
Heres a loan table showing further  details.
LoanDate 
openedDate 
closedLoan amount
Notes
1 10/07/2015 14/12/2015 £250 Paid
2 06/05/2016 10/05/2017 £500 Paid
3 28/06/2017 - £700 This loan was defaulted on
4 04/09/2017 - £700 This loan was defaulted on
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Fs complaint and thought loans 3 and 4 shouldnt  have 
been given. Satsuma disagrees.  
So the complaint comes  to me to decide. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr F 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN30856842the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma was required to establish whether Mr F could sustainably  repay  his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to 
be able to make their repayments  without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Satsuma told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr F. It asked Mr F to provide 
details of his income  and to tell Satsuma what he normally spent each month  including 
what he paid towards any other credit  arrangements  he had set up. Satsuma carried  out 
checks on Mr Fs credit file. Satsuma also told us it adjusted the figures  where it thought it 
helpful to try and reflect  Mr Fs real life financial circumstances as accurately as possible. 
Ive seen a summary  of the results  of those checks and they dont show anything that I think 
should reasonably have  made Satsuma think loan 1 wasnt  affordable  for Mr F.
The repayments that Mr F had agreed to make on this loan looked comfortably affordable  
compared to the income that hed declared to Satsuma. So given these repayment  amounts, 
what was apparent about Mr Fs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing history with 
the lender, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate for Satsuma to ask him for the amount 
of information  that would be needed  to show the lending  was unsustainable before agreeing 
the first loan.
Ive thought carefully about whether Satsuma acted fairly when it provided loan 2 to Mr F. On 
the face of things, the amount Mr F was asking  to borrow was still low in comparison to his 
declared income, and hed paid off loan 1, without any evident difficulty, some five months 
earlier. 
On the other hand, loan 2 was taken over a longer period  of time  possibly to keep the cost 
of the monthly  repayments down. When it was being arranged,  Satsuma  expected Mr F to 
be paying for this borrowing over a year. So I think Satsuma  could  have done  more or gone 
further in its affordability  assessment. But based on the information  thats  available  to me, 
I cant see that further checks wouldve shown up anything that ought reasonably  have led 
Satsuma to decline Mr Fs application  for loan 2. 
Ref: DRN30856843Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr F, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Fs case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
3. I say this because:
At this point Satsuma  ought to have realised  Mr F was not managing to repay his 
loans sustainably. Mr F had taken out loan 3 in the month after he repaid loan 2  
and hed now been borrowing from Satsuma for almost two years. So Satsuma ought  
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr F was having  to borrow further  to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Fs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Fs first loan was for £250 and loan 3 was for £700  an amount almost three 
times as much  as hed borrowed when he took out his first Satsuma loan. So when  
he asked for loan 3, I think  Satsuma  ought  to have  known that Mr F wasnt likely to 
be borrowing to meet a temporary  shortfall  in his income but to meet  an ongoing 
need. 
Mr F wasnt making any inroads  to the amount he owed Satsuma. He had had paid 
large amounts  of interest to, in effect,  service  a debt to Satsuma over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr F lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time over which Mr F borrowed was likely to have negative implications 
on Mr Fs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, overall, Im upholding the complaint  about loans 3 and 4.
Ref: DRN30856844putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do 
refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans  3 and 4
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
after Satsuma works  out the above  amount it has to pay Mr F, it can then take off any 
amount Mr F still owes in order to repay the original  loan balances  before paying any 
money left to Mr F, or alternatively
if there are any outstanding capital balances left after this, Satsuma should arrange  
an affordable repayment  plan with Mr F
as I understand  Satsuma passed  the debt on to a third party,  it should either take the 
debt back in order to carry out these directions itself or pass  on a copy  of this 
decision and ask the third party  to do as Ive said 
the number  of loans taken from loan 3 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So Satsuma should  remove all entries about loans 3 and 4 
from Mr Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma) should put things  right for Mr F as 
set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3085684