K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC offered him a second promotional  balance transfer on 
his credit card without making  it clear how this would affect  his existing one. Hes also 
unhappy that Lloyds wouldnt agree to reallocate his payments.
background
Mr B accepted a promotional balance transfer  offer from Lloyds allowing him 0% interest for 
33 months. He transferred  £7,500  to his credit card and set up a direct debit to pay £250 a 
month so he could clear  the balance within the 33 months.
Around 14 months later took up a second  promotional offer for 0% interest for 8 months. He 
transferred £3,200 and set up a standing  order  of £412 a month  with the intention of clearing 
this balance within the 8 months. He kept the direct debit in place.
Mr B says he then read the small print of his accounts terms and conditions  and phoned 
Lloyds to check how the payments would be allocated. He told Lloyds he was making  two 
payments to the account each month and wanted one to be allocated to the first balance  
transfer and one to the second one. He says he was told by two Lloyds employees he could 
phone again  towards the end of the second  promotion period and ask for the payments to be 
reallocated. Lloyds later told him hed been  misinformed, and the payments couldnt be 
reallocated. It offered  Mr B £50 for giving him incorrect information.
Mr B didnt accept Lloyds offer and brought his complaint to our service. He was unhappy  
that Lloyds refused to reallocate  the repayments  because this meant he wouldnt get the 
benefit of the second promotion. Hed be charged interest on any outstanding balance once 
it came  to an end. It also meant  he wouldnt get the full benefit of the first promotion. Mr B 
felt that Lloyds shouldnt have offered him the second promotion as it negated the first one. 
And he didnt think Lloyds had made this clear in the promotional material  it had sent him. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs concerns but didnt uphold his complaint.  He said Lloyds 
had allocated the payments correctly and information about this was showing on Mr Bs 
statements. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators  view.  He didnt think  Lloyds  had given him clear  
information in the promotional material it had sent him. There  was no indication that the 
second promotion might cut off the benefits  of the first promotion.  He didnt think it was fair 
that Lloyds had accepted  a transfer  fee when he couldnt benefit from the second promotion 
and the benefit of the first transfer had also been reduced.
As Mr B has disagreed, his complaint had been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided that Lloyds 
offer to settle Mr Bs complaint is fair. Ill explain  why.
Lloyds had a responsibility to treat Mr B fairly  and communicate with him in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading.
Ref: DRN32486932Mr Bs payments were  allocated to the oldest debt first in line with the terms and conditions  
of the account.  These say that payments are used to pay off balances with the highest 
interest rate first and if the interest  rate is the same, different types of balances  are paid off 
in a certain order. Mr B had two balances of the same type with 0% interest. The terms and 
conditions say: for each  type of balance, your payments will pay off the oldest balance (and 
related fees, charges or insurance) first. This information also appears on Mr Bs credit  card 
statements.
Mr B says information about  how the payments were allocated  didnt appear on the 
promotional material inviting him to take out the transfer and only on the statements after the 
commitment had been made. But Ive seen copies of statements from before Mr B arranged  
the second transfer and Im satisfied this information was on there.
I appreciate it was Mr Bs intention to make separate payments so he could clear both of his 
balances before he started  to be charged interest  on them. But I dont think  Lloyds did 
anything to mislead him into thinking  this is what he could do before he arranged the second 
balance transfer.
Mr B says Lloyds told him over the phone  that it could reallocate the payments. But this was 
a couple of days after hed arranged the transfer. So, although Lloyds has since said this 
information was incorrect, this didnt affect Mr Bs decision to take up the second  promotional 
transfer. So, I think the £50 Lloyds has offered Mr B for this is fair. 
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr B who genuinely thought his payments could 
be allocated the way he intended  them to be. But Lloyds has acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr Bs account and I think the information it provided before  he arranged the 
second balance  transfer was clear,  fair and not misleading. So, I dont see any reason to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint  
my final decision
Lloyds Bank  PLC has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So, my decision  is that Lloyds Bank PLC should  pay 
Mr B £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3248693