K821x#15complaint
Mr V says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven loans Uncle Buck provided to Mr V between October 2014 
and May 2016.  Mr Vs borrowing  history based on what Uncle  Buck provided is as follows:
Loan Date  Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
repayment
1 20/10/2014 31/10/2014 1 £200.00 £269.90
2 02/11/2014 05/11/2014 1 £500.00 £674.75
3 24/01/2015 09/04/2015 3 £150.00 £75.87
4 01/05/2015 07/07/2015 3 £345.00 £171.96
5 19/08/2015 30/10/2015 3 £125.00 £54.61
6 14/12/2015 26/02/2016 3 £150.00 £66.68
7 30/05/2016 Outstanding 3 £500.00 £248.02
Mr V has said Uncle Buck  werent  able to assess affordability as it didnt ask for bank 
statements or Mr Vs income and expenditure. Uncle Buck has said the appropriate and 
relevant checks were completed before the loans were provided.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Vs complaint in part and thought loan 4 to 7 should not have  
been given. Uncle Buck disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr V 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN36441572the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr V could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Vs complaint.
Mr V hasnt disagreed  with our adjudicators opinion on loans  1 to 3 so I wont  be looking at 
these any further  as there is no ongoing  disagreement about  them.  But I will bear them in 
mind when Im looking at Mr Vs other lending. 
Uncle Buck  asked for Mr Vs monthly  income,  which he said was between  £2,282  in the loan 
applications. It asked  for his monthly expenditure, which  he said was between approximately  
£1,057 in the loan applications. Uncle Buck also says it carried  out credit checks before  each  
loan and confirmed  the loans were  affordable at the point of application.  I have looked  
through the information provided  in a credit file provided by Mr V and I think  the checks 
should have raised concerns and prompted further checks.
When loan 4 was taken out, the credit file showed  that Mr V had opened 16 new accounts in 
the last six months  and had three  outstanding short-term loans with other providers.
When looking at all of this, I think Uncle Buck should  have questioned what it had been told 
by Mr V.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 4 would most likely  have shown  
that Mr V was having trouble in managing his money. And it was clear  that Mr V wasnt  using 
these high-cost loans  to deal with a short-term  cash flow problem. So, in these 
circumstances, Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was unlikely Mr V wouldve been  able to 
sustainably repay  loan 4  and any subsequent  loans. So, I think it was wrong  for Uncle 
Buck to provide loans 4 and 5.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr V, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
Ref: DRN36441573lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Vs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan
6. I say this because by loan 6, Mr Vs overall  pattern of borrowing suggested that he had 
become persistently reliant on short-term loans.  Mr V had borrowed on six occasions in 14 
months and whilst the amounts fluctuated, they didnt significantly decrease over this period. 
And as said above,  it was clear from the credit  file provided that Mr V had taken several  
other short-term loans with other providers at the same time.
So Uncle Buck ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr V was having to borrow  
further to cover the hole repaying  his previous  loan was leaving in his finances and that       
Mr Vs indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
In my view, the pattern  of lending itself shows that loan 6 was unsustainable.  So, I dont think  
that Uncle Buck should have given Mr V loans 6 and 7. Mr V wasnt making any real inroads 
to the amount he owed Uncle Buck. Loan 7 was taken  out 19 months  after Mr V first 
borrowed from Uncle Buck. Mr V had paid large  amounts  of interest to, in effect, service a 
debt to Uncle Buck over an extended period. The number of loans and the length  of time 
over which Mr V borrowed was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Vs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 6 and 7, as well as loans 4 and 5, and 
Uncle Buck  should  put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr V paid on loans 4 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 and 5 from Mr Vs credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 and 7 should be removed from Mr 
Vs credit file.
If Mr V still owes Uncle Buck any of the principal balance he borrowed on his final loan
Uncle Buck  should  remove all the interest  and charges  applied  to the outstanding balance.
Uncle Buck  should  then re-work the account as if all payments made  by Mr V went  to 
towards the principal.  But importantly, Uncle  Buck needs to make  sure that Mr V doesnt 
repay more  than the principal amount borrowed.
If after doing this Mr V hasnt repaid the principal he borrowed Uncle Buck  can deduct this 
from the remainder of the compensation.  If, Mr V has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple interest from the
date of payment  to the date of settlement.
And if Uncle Buck no longer owns this debt,  and it wants  to make a deduction  due to the
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr V.
Ref: DRN36441574 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Vs complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3644157