K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out with a mortgage in December 2004.  Miss P says Weaver Finance CI Limited (Weaver 
Finance) mis-sold  her this policy.
background
I issued a provisional decision (PD) in May 2019, setting out why I thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ive attached that below. And I asked both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within a certain  time. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weaver Finance has responded with information  which, essentially, it had already provided  
to us before.  
This is namely that its responsibilities  to the consumer in this particular sale were  much 
narrower than those I considered when I wrote my PD. It said its responsibilities  related only 
to a previous scheme  the Mortgage Code.
Weaver Finance said that this meant that certain aspects of what  I mentioned  in my PD were 
outside our remit and shouldnt have been used in my assessment about whether  we should 
uphold Mrs Ps complaint.  
Ive revisited - and thought carefully about  - what Weaver Finance has said. But Im afraid I 
dont think what Weaver  Finance says is correct. Im satisfied the business  was within our 
compulsory jurisdiction at the time of this sale, in December  2004. And because of this, I am 
allowed to refer to the certain  responsibilities it had as a seller, when it carried  out this sale. 
As Ive said,  Weaver Finance wasnt clear enough about what  the PPI actually cost in total 
and importantly, how the policy worked.  
So in my view, Weaver Finance fell very substantially  short of its responsibilities to Mrs P 
and thats why Im upholding the complaint. 
As I said,  there  wasnt  clear  information  which highlighted how the policy worked.  Miss P 
wouldnt have therefore known the PPI only ran for 5 years,  but her mortgage ran for 15 
years. And I dont  think  shed have known she would  still be paying  for the PPI over the full 
15 year term,  10 years  longer than the policy actually ran for.
The total costs  werent  clear enough  either.
I explained all this comprehensively in my PD but Weaver  Finance hasnt addressed  any of 
these points made by myself or our adjudicator. 
Accordingly, theres no reason for me to change  the findings I set out in my PD. 
what should  be done to put matters right 
Ref: DRN33365942Miss P borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so her mortgage was bigger than it should have 
been and she paid more than she should  have each month. So Miss P needs to get back  the 
extra shes  paid. So, Weaver Finance should:
Work  out and pay Miss P the difference between what she paid each month on the 
mortgage and what she would have paid each month  without PPI.
Work  out and pay Miss P the difference between what it cost to pay off her mortgage 
and what it would  have cost to pay off the mortgage without PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Miss P made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Weaver Finance can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Weaver  Finance to take off tax from this interest.  Weaver Finance must give 
Miss P a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Miss Ps complaint and require Weaver  Finance CI Limited  to pay the compensation 
as outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service  I am required to ask 
Miss P to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33365943summary   provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out with a 
mortgage in December 2004. Miss P says Weaver Finance CI Limited  mis-sold her this policy.
For consistency Ill refer mainly to Weaver Finance  in this decision.  
background
This type of PPI required the payment to be made up front in one single premium at the beginning of 
the mortgage term. The PPI in question cost around £1,927 which  was added  to Miss Ps £25,500 
mortgage. It was payable over the 15 year mortgage term, with interest.  
The PPI policy covered Miss P in the event of being unable to work or losing her job. Our adjudicator 
who looked at this case  said the complaint should be upheld, but Weaver Finance  disagreed and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im intending to uphold this complaint.
Weaver Finance says it didnt  advise Miss P during the course  of this sale. It also said it sold all 
products in accordance with the Mortgage Code, a precursor scheme to the one we now operate 
under. But we have been provided with a date of sale in this case of 20 December  2004 and having  
considered carefully whether Weaver Finance  and the sale are within  our jurisdiction,  I can see they 
are. Im therefore able to make a decision on this complaint. 
Having looked at the documentation  we were  sent by Weaver Finance, I accept that it is probably 
right that it didnt carry out an advised sale. But this doesnt  abrogate Weaver Finance of any 
responsibility. It still had a duty,  for example, to ensure that the information provided  during the sale 
was clear, fair and not misleading so Miss P could make an informed choice about what she wanted 
to do. 
I think  Weaver Finance  fell well short of that standard. 
Two common features  throughout the sale documents Weaver Finance sent to me is that they arent  
clear enough about what the PPI actually cost in total - and importantly, how the policy  worked. 
Like Miss Ps mortgage, the PPI was subject to interest over the whole  15 year mortgage term. This 
meant that with all the interest added, the PPI would actually end up costing her significantly more 
money than the amount quoted on the agreement she signed. I dont think this was clear enough.
Nor, in my view, is there enough clear information which highlights how this policy  works. This issue is 
very important  because I dont think  Miss P would  have known the PPI only ran for 5 years, but her 
mortgage ran for 15 years. And I dont think shed  have  known she would still be paying for the PPI 
over the full 15 year term, 10 years longer than the policy actually ran for.
So if she wanted to remain covered by PPI for the whole  term of her mortgage, shed  have had to 
take out another policy  after just 5 years. And I dont think it wouldve been clear she would have to 
pay for PPI cover all over again, whist  still paying for the expired cover.
Ref: DRN33365944Our adjudicator pointed these issues out but Weaver Finance hasnt said that much  about them, other 
than to reiterate  that this wasnt an advised sale. It says Miss P agreed to the PPI and it complied  with 
the requirements of a non-advised sale. I disagree.
As Ive said,  Im intending to uphold  the complaint  on the grounds of the poor information that was 
given to Miss P. The agreement  she was asked  to sign left out the important information and aspects 
of the PPI cover  Ive referred to above. Im satisfied that if Weaver Finance had provided more  and 
clearer information, Miss P wouldnt have bought the policy. I think she would have taken into 
consideration the shortfall in the PPI protection Ive described above and the cost of the policy, which  
wasnt clear.  
Having done this I think she would have considered it to be very poor value for money  and wouldnt 
have bought it. 
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint and direct  Weaver Finance CI Limited to pay Miss P 
compensation as Ive outlined above. 
I now invite  either party  to provide any further information  or evidence they want  me to consider by 24 
May 2019.
Ref: DRN3336594