K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a regular premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs L took out a PPI policy with their mortgage. The policy covered both Mr
and Mrs L for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs L disagreed  with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case.  I have also taken account of the
law and good industry practice  at the time the PPI policy was sold.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my
decision on the balance  of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
The main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ls needs?
- Did Santander give Mr and Mrs L the information they needed  to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there were shortcomings  in the way Santander  sold the policy,  I need  to consider whether 
Mr and Mrs L are worse  off as a result; that is, whether they would have done something
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there had been no shortcomings.
The PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs L during  a meeting with an adviser from Santander, who 
was recommending a mortgage and insurance products.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr and Mrs L and Santander when 
they were discussing  the mortgage and PPI. And, given the mortgage was repaid more  than 
12 years  ago I wouldnt expect either  party to have  many records of that meeting. Thats
unfortunate, but hasnt prevented me from deciding this complaint based on the information
and evidence we do have.
Mr and Mrs L say Santander knew they were  in a hurry to get the mortgage  because they 
thought they might lose the house they wanted. But Mr L also said he took out the mortgage  
to improve his credit rating   which is a somewhat different reason. Whichever  it was, Mr L 
says he and Mrs L were pressured  into buying the PPI. 
Ref: DRN39738102I accept Mr Ls recollections, but I have  to say that from what  we know about how Santander 
sold policies  like this at the time (and this service  has looked at many sales) its more  likely 
than not that Santander  did make Mr and Mrs L aware that the PPI was optional  and they 
decided to take it. The paperwork sent out for the policy did explain how Mr and Mrs L could 
cancel it  and they did that in 2005, some  years before  the mortgage ended.
As well as both being able to rely on some  work  benefits, Mr and Mrs L also told us they had 
substantial savings  over £20,000  that mean they didnt need the PPI if either  of them  
was ill or made redundant. Understandably  Mr and Mrs L cant  give me any evidence of this, 
but that does mean I cant give this much weight  when  reaching my decision. And Ive 
thought about the fact that some of these savings  might have been  needed  by Mr and Mrs L 
given they were buying a house, with all the associated  costs.
Im still satisfied the policy was suitable  given Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances and I say this
because:
- Both Mr and Mrs L were  eligible for the policy given their circumstances and the PPI
terms and conditions.
- The policy  was split in order to cover  both Mr and Mrs L, which  suggests a discussion took 
place about this at the time.  
- Mr L says he got 3-6 months full pay if he was ill, whilst Mrs L got some benefits  but cant 
remember how much. However,  the policy would have paid out in addition  to the 
occupational benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Mr and Mrs L could then have 
used their savings for other expenses. Overall I think  Mr and Mrs L would have had some 
use for the policy despite their existing arrangements.
- Mr and Mrs L werent affected  by any of the conditions  limiting the policys main  benefits,
such as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical
conditions. As they could  have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think  it unlikely
Mr and Mrs L needed better advice or information  about the policys  exclusions and
limitations.
- I dont  know  exactly when Mr and Mrs L were told the cost of the PPI  it may well have
been in the original meeting. But  even if Mr and Mrs L didnt know  the exact amount of
the premium when they bought the policy  I think they might  have  known approximately
what it was. Ultimately, I think  Mr and Mrs L were aware they had to pay something for
the policy and Ive seen nothing to suggest  it was unaffordable or that the benefit was
insufficient to meet  their total monthly mortgage repayments.
Its possible that some of the information  the bank gave Mr and Mrs L about  the PPI wasnt
as clear as it should have  been. As Ive already said Mr and Mrs L werent affected by any of 
the exclusions or limitations  and the policy seems  to have  been  affordable,  I think  it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs L would have  made a different decision if better information had been  provided  
overall, I think they would  still have taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN39738103my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3973810