K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1999. Mr W says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Santander hasnt  been able to provide  Mr Ws PPI application  but I dont think  this is 
surprising considering the length  of time since the sale.  It has provided  us with a copy of 
the welcome letter sent to Mr W after the policy was sold. Inside was enclosed  a 
Schedule of Cover  which laid out details of the policy including what  it covered, the 
monthly cost and the monthly benefit.  Ive seen nothing in the point of sale 
documentation to suggest the PPI was compulsory.  So on balance  I think Santander 
made it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr W so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mr W told us he was self-employed. But the Schedule of Cover document  indicates  he 
was employed  and as this is from the time of sale I think  its likely to be accurate. We 
asked Mr W for more  information about his employment - such  as how long hed been 
there and what his employee  benefits were, but didnt receive a response.  Based  on the 
information I hold I dont think this was an unsuitable  recommendation. The policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to any employment  benefits he may have  had and for up to 
12 months if he was unable to work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment. 
And it wouldve  allowed him to use any savings he may have had to cover any additional 
costs he wouldve had  at what couldve been  a difficult time. So I think he wouldve 
found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  
like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019. 
Ref: DRN33234362Gemma Farrell
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3323436