K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) made a number of errors in 
relation to her Graduate Additions account.  
background
Our adjudicators have  looked into this complaint already. They looked into a number of 
issues and it seems  as if Miss Ss main concern is that she says Barclays  told her that she 
could always keep  her Graduate Additions  account.  However, now her account has been 
migrated to a Higher Education account with a Tech pack. Miss S would like her account to 
be reverted to the Graduate Additions account.
Our adjudicators concluded that Barclays were  entitled to change the accounts it offered and 
that it had given sufficient notice to do this. Miss S did not agree with this and asked for an 
ombudsman to issue a final decision.  
In this decision I will only be looking at what seems to be Miss Ss only outstanding concern 
which is the change  of her Graduate Additions account to a Higher Education  account  with 
Tech pack.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
I know this is going  to come as a disappointment  to Miss S, but after giving her case a lot of 
thought, Im not going to uphold his complaint. I know this isnt the outcome that he was 
hoping for. But Ill explain why I have reached  this outcome below.
Barclays is entitled to change the types of accounts  it offers  its customers  and to withdraw 
certain accounts. However,  when taking these actions Barclays needs to notify its customers  
and explain  the changes clearly. I note Miss Ss comments in relation to Advertising Law but 
the terms and conditions of the account  that she signed up to do say that changes  to the 
account can be made provided that notice is given.
Barclays has said it wrote  to Miss S in October  2016  explaining  that her Graduate  Additions 
account was due to be migrated to a Higher  Education fee free account with an added Tech 
Pack in January 2017. Barclays has said it then wrote to Miss S in January 2017 confirming 
these changes had taken place.
Turning to the detail of these letters, I can see the October 2016 letter explains when her 
account is due to change,  the change to the account  fee and sets out the features of the 
Tech Pack compared to what  Miss S had at that point through  the Graduate  Additions 
account. Under the heading What  you need  to do now it explains Miss Ss options if she 
didnt want the Tech Pack.  So taking  everything into consideration, I think  Barclays took 
sufficient steps to inform  Miss S about  the changes to her account  as a result  of the Tech  
Pack migration. 
Whilst I appreciate Miss S wanted to maintain  her Graduate Additions account,  as Ive 
explained above, Barclays was entitled to change the types  of account and account features 
Ref: DRN32697152it offered.  And in this case, I think Barclays took sufficient steps to notify her of the changes  it 
was due to make and to provide her with sufficient information so she could decide what to 
do next. 
I want to reassure Miss S that Ive looked at all the information I have about this complaint. 
And Ive thought about everything shes said. But having done so, I dont think Barclays 
treated her unfairly when it migrated her account  to Higher Education  account with an added  
Tech Pack.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 April 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3269715