K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) refused to provide cover for 
Mrs P under its travel  insurance policy.
My references to IPA include its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs P had a travel  policy, insured by IPA, as part of their package bank account.
During the policy renewal  around August 2018  Mr and Mrs P had to complete medical 
screening questions.  It was established that Mrs P was scheduled for a skin biopsy in 
September 2018 to investigate her patch  of dry skin. Mr and Mrs P were going  on holiday 
before the biopsy.
Mr P understood that IPA told him it wouldnt provide any cover  for Mrs P. It said, as it had 
no way of knowing the outcome of the biopsy, the dry skin was an undiagnosed medical 
condition. Mrs P bought  separate  insurance  for the holiday.
Mr and Mrs P complained. They said IPA should  have  insured Mrs P and just added an 
exclusion on cover  for medical conditions  related  to the dry skin.
Our investigator listened to the call between IPA and Mr P when they spoke about cover for 
Mrs P. He thought Mr P reasonably understood IPA was refusing to give Mrs P any cover  at 
all. Our investigator understood that in fact IPA would have only refused to cover  matters 
related to the undiagnosed medical  condition. So he thought Mr and Mrs P had incurred the 
cost of the new policy unnecessarily. IPA should  pay the cost, £89.14, and £50 
compensation for their inconvenience.
IPA noted that the policy Mrs P bought had medical  conditions declared and covered. It 
clarified that where there  was an undiagnosed  condition it didnt cover any medical  condition,  
unless listed in the policy as standard. It said its wrong advice to Mr P hadnt disadvantaged 
Mr and Mrs P as they would still have  bought  a policy to cover her diagnosed medical 
issues.
As the parties disagreed  the matter was referred  to me for a decision.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to partly uphold  this complaint. 
I said:
The policy says under the heading Important  Health  Requirements   For All Insured 
Persons:
You must comply with the following conditions in order  to have full protection under this 
policy. If you do not comply, we may refuse  to deal with your claim or reduce the amount of 
any claim payment.
This insurance will not cover you if you: 
Ref: DRN344202323. have any undiagnosed symptoms that require attention or investigation in the future (that 
is symptoms for which you are awaiting investigations/consultations, or awaiting results of 
investigations, where the underlying cause  has not been established).
IPA hasnt been clear  about what that actually  meant for cover for Mrs P who was awaiting 
investigations. IPAs  final response letter could be read as it just not covering related medical 
conditions. Mr P could reasonably understand from his call to IPA that it was offering no 
cover to Mrs P at all. IPA has now clarified  to us that it would have offered non medical  travel  
cover and cover for standard medical conditions mentioned in the policy.  Im satisfied from 
the evidence its provided to us that the third option is what  IPA would have provided.
Having listened  to the call I do appreciate Mr P was upset  with IPAs response.  But its for 
IPA to decide what its prepared to cover. Its decided that if a policyholder is waiting for 
medical investigation it doesnt want to take the risk to provide any medical cover (accept for 
specified standard conditions). IPA does  need  to be clear about its cover so that 
policyholders are aware of the situation.
IPA gave Mr P wrong information in the call about  cover for Mrs P. However, I dont  think  
IPAs error disadvantaged Mr and Mrs P as to the new policy  premium. If IPA had given Mr P 
correct advice about cover, I think Mrs P would have  still bought another policy as she 
wanted cover for medical conditions, which werent covered as standard  under IPAs policy. 
Thats evidenced by the medical conditions Mrs Ps declared and covered under her new 
policy.
So I cant fairly say that if IPA had given correct information Mrs P would never have  bought 
a new policy. For the above reasons I think she would have done  so. That means IPA 
doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs P the cost of the new policy.
IPA should have been much clearer about the correct level of cover for Mrs P much  sooner. 
It should pay £50 compensation  to Mr and Mrs P in total to acknowledge their inconvenience 
and loss of expectation of the policy premium as IPA only clarified  its position  at the end of 
our investigation.
responses to my provisional  decision
IPA said it had nothing  further to add. Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. In summary  they said:
theyd paid £89.14 for a travel policy that Mrs P already  had through the bank  
account
Id relied on information that wasnt available to Mr P at the time of his call with IPA or 
when Mrs P bought  the new policy
the IPA policy  was a renewal of their existing policy  through the bank.  The policy  had 
previously covered Mrs Ps existing  conditions. IPA shouldnt have stopped  offering 
that cover just because she had an undiagnosed  skin condition, especially when the 
undiagnosed condition wasnt connected  to her existing conditions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34420233Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs P but their comments havent changed my mind. 
Mr and Mrs P didnt  pay £89.14 for a new policy when they already had a like for like policy 
through the bank account. The new policy covered Mrs Ps existing medical  conditions  and 
IPAs policy  through  the bank didnt provide that cover.
 
Mr and Mrs P say the policy through the bank account previously covered Mrs Ps existing 
conditions. From the call between Mr P and IPA I understand  that the policy provider for the 
policy had changed.  IPA, like any insurer, can choose  what risks it wants to cover which may 
not be the same risks as the previous  policy provider. But IPA does need to make the scope 
of the cover  clear to Mr and Mrs P. 
IPA didnt make the scope  of cover clear  to Mr P in the call. However, as Ive explained in 
my provisional decision, I think even  if IPA had been clear  Mrs P would have still bought a 
new policy as she wanted cover for her existing medical conditions.
As IPA and Mr P discussed in their call, the bank  may also have had a role in informing 
Mr and Mrs P about any change of policy cover. If Mr and Mrs P believe the bank didnt tell 
them about  the change in medical cover they may wish to complain to the bank. I cant  
advise them whether or not to make  a complaint.
Ive relied on the new information from IPA, clarifying its position on cover, to decide that the 
information it gave  to Mr P in the call wasnt clear. But the key issue is that even if IPA had 
been clear about  cover  in that call I think Mrs P would  still have bought  a new policy and 
paid the premium. 
Neither party has commented on my provisional  decision that IPA should pay Mr and Mrs P 
£50 compensation.  So Ive no reason to change my mind on that matter.
For the reasons  Ive give in my provisional findings  and these findings I partly  uphold the 
complaint. IPA doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs P the cost of the new policy. It must  pay 
Mr and Mrs P £50 compensation in total to acknowledge their inconvenience and loss of 
expectation.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require Inter Partner Assistance  SA to pay Mr and Mrs P £50 for their inconvenience and 
loss of expectation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3442023