K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC applied a marker at CIFAS, the national  fraud  
database, and made  mistakes in dealing with his account  after it was restricted  and closed.
 
background
Mr O was told that funds of £2,650 paid into his account by his tenants up to October 2018 
had been reported as fraudulent. Mr Os account was restricted  on 10 October 2018 and 
then closed by Barclays. A fraud marker  was applied  at CIFAS which Barclays  later 
accepted shouldnt have happened. Mr O was given conflicting  guidance  about  what  to do to 
get access to his money. He only received the money on 22 November 2018 and this 
caused him difficulty with his financial  commitments. He considers that Barclays actions led 
to a breakdown  in his relationship with his tenants  and then rent arrears. Barclays  paid him a 
total of £600 in compensation  for poor service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that it do anything more. She said that she recognised  
that a fraud marker like this could have had an impact on Mr Os job especially as he needed  
to tell his employers what was happening. But she didnt think that Barclays actions were 
responsible for a breakdown in his relationship with his tenants. Mr O had conflicting 
information about what he needed  to do to get the money back.  But Barclays  later request 
that he contact his tenants  and ask them to speak to their bank to explain that the payments 
were genuine  was reasonable. She thought  that the compensation  already paid was fair
Mr O didnt agree and wanted  his complaint to be reviewed. Hed already said he wanted 
further compensation for the loss of rental income of £3,325 and compensation for his 
emotional distress of £1,675.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I asked Barclays to explain to me a bit more about  the basis  for its compensation and why it 
thought this was appropriate. And more  about  how the fraudulent  funds were  dealt  with and 
why it had closed  Mr Os account.
It told me that it paid him £100 compensation on 26 October 2018  for the poor service  hed 
received in branch when hed wanted  to take out money after his account had been 
restricted. On 30 October 2018 it paid him a further £300 for the error in applying  the 
markers, the incorrect information  about how to go about accessing the money  and for 
closing his previous complaint in error. And finally a further £200  on 23 November 2018 for 
the length of time it had held the money, any lost interest and the service given by its fraud  
team. It said that as Mr O had received money  into his account  that had been reported  to the 
senders bank as originally fraudulently  obtained  it had grounds  for concern about his 
relationship with the sender. And so it took the view in line with its terms and conditions that 
it no longer wanted  to offer him an account.  But it recognised that it couldnt substantiate that 
Mr O was involved in any fraud and accepted that the marker was applied  in error.
Ive also listened  to a recording of the call with Barclays during which Mr O discovered  the 
marker had been  applied.  And he explained how long hed spent in a branch waiting to get 
access to his money. He was at that time told by staff that hed need to send proof he was 
Ref: DRN38531662entitled to the money. But during the call that instead hed need  to ask his tenants to contact 
their own bank. He was offered compensation for all this and he asked for the increased  
amount of £300  which was agreed.
my assessment
Barclays has provided evidence to show that the funds that eventually ended up in Mr Os 
account from his tenants  were reported  as being fraudulently obtained in the first place. So I 
think its shown it had grounds to investigate this and not release the money until Mr O could 
show that the money had been paid as part of a genuine tenancy agreement.
Its accepted that it made errors and provided  poor customer  service in dealing  with this. It 
was difficult for Mr O to get access to his other funds for his living expenses.  A member  of 
staff told him in a first final response  letter of 26 October  2018  that I can confirm that there 
[is] no external detrimental information loaded against you by Barclays. He found  as set out 
above that this wasnt  correct and that there was a marker at CIFAS. Hed already contacted  
his tenants for information about  the payments and had evidence about  this but was then 
told that he needed to ask them to contact their own bank.
Im afraid that I dont think  Ive a basis to hold Barclays responsible  for the breakdown in the 
relationship Mr O describes with his tenants.  It was in my view reasonable they be asked to 
help support the payments theyd  made  to Mr O as genuine  given the reports about these 
funds. Hed already naturally been in contact with them. And I also cant say that Barclays  
shouldnt have restricted his account  and then couldnt tell him it no longer wanted to provide 
banking facilities to him given the reports it had received and its documented concerns.
But Barclays  didnt in my view have  any basis to record a marker  at CIFAS. In line with 
guidance to its members by CIFAS it needed to have more than a suspicion or concern to do 
so. It had to show it had reasonable grounds to believe  that a fraud  or financial crime had 
been committed or attempted and that the evidence would support this being reported to the 
authorities. I cant see there was sufficient evidence to show that it had met this high bar and 
that Mr O had any prior knowledge  about the original  source  of money.
Mr O was already alert to the potential consequences such a marker might  have given the 
specific nature of his employment. Hed asked the first complaint handler at Barclays  about 
this and had mentioned this again  to the second.  His actions led to this error being 
discovered relatively quickly and then corrected. He was in a position to be able to explain 
what happened to his employer although clearly thats something  he shouldnt have needed 
to do.
Mr O has also been caused inconvenience  by being given incorrect information about what  
he needed to do to get access to the money  and which contributed to the delay. It seems 
that Barclays branch,  fraud and customer relations staff had a different interpretation. It was 
some time before Barclays accepted he could have this money. In the meantime this caused  
him difficulty with his mortgage  payment.
I need to think  about  the level of compensation for the errors here. For the reasons Ive given 
I wont be taking into account  the further problems with the tenants. And I note as I said from 
the call Ive listened to that Mr O did accept compensation  for the error with the marker. He 
is of course entitled  to reflect  on that later and ask me to look at it too and all of the 
circumstances. Having  done so Im not persuaded that the amount already  paid in total to 
Ref: DRN38531663cover this and all the parts of his complaint isnt adequate. And so I wont  be asking Barclays 
to do anything further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
does not need to do anything more than it has already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3853166