K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that esure Insurance Limited (esure) has declined a claim he made 
for a watch  that was stolen from him.
background
In December 2018 Mr M left his home  to go to the local shop. As he was about to get into his 
car he was approached by an individual who threatened him and stole  the watch he was 
wearing. After informing  the police, Mr M contacted esure to make a claim for the watch on 
his contents insurance  policy.
During the investigation carried out by esure, Mr M explained the watch had cost over £2000 
new and still had a retail value of over £1500. The claim was declined,  as under the terms 
and conditions of the policy, all individual items worth over £1500  have to be specified in 
order to be covered.
Mr M was unhappy with esures  decision and made  a complaint. He explained the same 
model watch could  be purchased  and replaced  for less than £1500 and so the claim should 
be accepted. As esure didnt change its mind,  Mr M referred his complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators  reviewed everything  and recommended the complaint should not be 
upheld. In summary, he said that Mr M had not declared the watch when taking out the 
policy, and it was reasonable for esure to decline the claim for the reason it did.
Mr M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review everything afresh.  He provided 
examples of where the watch could be purchased online  for less than £1500.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator,  and for broadly the same  reasons.
I understand Mr Ms watch was lost as a result  of very unpleasant circumstances, and I note 
he followed  the correct  process to make a claim against the policy.  Its not been disputed 
that the policy includes a term that requires items valued over £1500 to be specified.  It 
states:
We will not pay under  any section of the Policy for any single item valued at £1,500 or more 
that has not been listed as a Specified  Item.
Mr M says he was told the item would be covered when  he took the policy out.  He opted to 
purchase the policy online having previously  spoken with esure by phone.  Ive not seen 
anything to demonstrate Mr M was told the watch would be covered, but in one call Mr M 
was told that if any item costs more than £1500 to replace as new, then it must be specified 
on the policy.  He  was also told that if an item of this type isnt specified, no cover will be in 
place.
Its not disputed  Mr Ms watch was not listed separately as a specified item when the policy  
was taken out. So the key issue for me to decide is whether esure has acted fairly  when  
deciding the watchs  value exceeds the £1500 limit for items that arent listed as a specified 
item.
Ref: DRN33611482I note that when Mr M initially reported  the claim to esure he explained the watch had cost 
over £2000 when  he bought it, and described it as costing £1575  at that time.  He has since 
provided examples  of the watch being available for sale online for less than £1500 and so 
says it doesnt  exceed  the policy limit. 
esure acknowledged there may be instances  where  a bargain could be obtained and the 
watch can be bought  for a lower price. But when considering  the retail  value  of the watch,  it 
found that it was widely  advertised at a cost in excess of £1500  and so should have been  
listed as a specified item. Its provided examples to show the cost is in excess  of £1500, and 
having verified online, I agree the standard retail price is regularly quoted as more than that 
amount.
Im also aware that Mr M has had experience of buying and selling watches for profit  
previously, and this suggests he is likely  to have known the value of the watch when taking  
the policy out and making  a claim.  Considering  he paid in excess of £2000  and initially  told 
esure the watch was worth more than £1500, I think its fair for esure to have reached  the 
conclusion that the value  of the watch was over £1500  and so should have been a specified 
item.
Mr M has questioned why esure doesnt  just pay up to the £1500 limit in the circumstances. 
Whilst I understand his thoughts on this, I dont  think that would be the fair resolution  here.   
He was specifically  told by phone prior to taking out the policy  that if such  an item isnt listed  
there will be no cover in place, and was then referred to the policy terms and conditions  
before committing to it online.
So whilst I realise Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, Im satisfied he knew items 
over £1500 should be covered individually, and persuaded he knew  the value would  likely  be 
in excess of that amount.  In those circumstances  I cant  reasonably  say esure  has treated 
Mr M unfairly  by declining his claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against esure Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3361148