K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Hoist Finance UK Limited  (Hoist) are unfairly pursuing her for a debt
which is not hers.
background
For ease, in my decision I will refer to Hoist when talking about their agents  or 
representatives.
In late 2018 Mrs D received a letter  from Hoist  asking for payment for a debt which  they had 
bought. 
Mrs D wrote to Hoist  in late 2018 saying  that she was not responsible for the debt and so 
disputed any liability for it. She asked  Hoist to stop any collections activity  until they sent 
evidence of her liability.
In early 2019 Hoist  responded  to Mrs D acknowledging that she disputed the debt. 
Hoist went on to say they were unable to provide all the details specific  to Mrs Ds debt. So, 
they would  mark  her account as unenforceable, meaning they would not pursue any legal 
action. Hoist also said any reporting to Mrs Ds credit file would be removed. Hoist asked 
Mrs D to contact  them  to make repayments  towards the debt.  
In response, Mrs D complained to Hoist saying  that she continued to dispute that she was 
liable for this debt as she was not satisfied  that Hoist had supplied  any evidence  to show that 
the debt was hers. Hoist responded to Mrs D in a final response letter. They  said that they 
had contacted the bank  from which the debt originated. The bank said that the outstanding 
balance related to a bank account  number and a personal loan account number which  they 
provided to Mrs D. These accounts were closed to the banks recovery  services in 2008 and 
a copy of the original  credit agreement was not available. Hoist  also supplied Mrs D with a 
copy of the banks personal  banking terms and conditions from 2007.  
Mrs D was unhappy with Hoists response  and so brought  her complaint to us also adding 
that she felt the debt was unenforceable as it was statute-barred. 
I sent Hoist and Mrs D my provisional  decision on 6 January 2020. I explained that I thought 
Hoist hadnt adequately linked Mrs D to the debt. So, it should stop collections activity with 
Mrs D and compensate her for the stress and inconvenience caused. Ive copied  my findings  
from my provisional decision below.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) sets out the rules and guidelines that businesses 
must follow when pursing  debts of this nature. These rules are set out in the Consumer 
Credit sourcebook (CONC). 
CONC 7.5.3 says  A firm must not ignore or disregard  a customers  claim that a debt has 
been settled or is disputed and must  not continue to make demands for payment without 
providing clear justification and/or evidence as to why the customers  claim is not valid.
Ref: DRN33259482In their response to Mrs Ds complaint Hoist acknowledge that Mrs D disputes liability for the 
debt. So, I have looked at whether Hoist have treated  Mrs D fairly by providing clear 
justification or evidence as to why her claim was not valid.
Hoist provided two account numbers to Mrs D, one for a bank  account  and one for a 
personal loan.  Hoist have also said that the original loan agreement is no longer available  so 
are unable to evidence that these accounts  are linked  to Mrs D in that way. 
But I dont think Hoist  have provided  an adequate link between  these account numbers and 
Mrs Ds name, date of birth, address or payment history - as I would expect to see. 
Our investigator asked  Hoist to provide evidence of their communications with the original 
bank in order to show that the bank have confirmed that Mrs D is liable for this debt.  
Hoist have not provided this evidence.   
Instead, Hoist have provided  a notice of assignment  sent to Mrs D by the previous debt 
owner when the debt was purchased from them. Having  again made a request for evidence  
of a link between the account  numbers  and Mrs D, Hoist have provided the same notice of 
assignment. I am not persuaded  that this notice shows that Mrs D is liable for the debt. 
The notice only contains the debt balance, the account number and the fact that it was 
posted to Mrs D. It doesnt explain how the accounts in question  were originally linked to a 
debt belonging  to Mrs D. 
After Mrs D complained to Hoist they spoke to the bank from where the debt originated. 
The information supplied  by the bank  was very limited and did not provide any persuasive 
information which linked the debt to Mrs D.
Therefore, I dont think that Hoist have acted fairly towards Mrs D. They  have not taken 
reasonable steps to ensure they are pursing  the right person and have not provided clear  
justification or evidence as to why Mrs Ds claim was not valid.  
Mrs D claims that the debt is unenforceable and statute-barred. I cant decide if the debt is 
unenforceable or stature-barred as this can only be decided by a court.  However, I can 
decide if a business has acted fairly. And as I have already said,  I dont think  this is the case  
as Hoist have  not provided adequate  evidence  of the history  of this debt or how it is linked to 
Mrs D. 
Hoist have told Mrs D that they would not pursue any legal action and would remove any 
reporting to Mrs D credit file. However,  I think it would also be fair for Hoist  to stop all contact 
and collections activity  from Mrs D until such time that they can reasonably evidence her 
liability for the debt.
I can see that Mrs D has been caused  considerable upset by being continually pursued  for a 
debt that she says is not hers. Mrs D has also been  frustrated  that she made a genuine 
claim to dispute the debt and Hoist did not give adequate responses  to her. Mrs D has been 
inconvenienced having to take the time to write to Hoist and repeatedly explain her dispute. 
Therefore, Hoist should pay Mrs D £200 for the stress and inconvenience caused.  
the response to my provisional  decision
Both Mrs D and Hoist accepted my provisional  decision, so the case has been passed back 
to me to reach a final decision. 
Ref: DRN33259483my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision.  That means I have 
no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision 
remains the same.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I uphold this 
complaint. If it hasnt done so already, I direct Hoist Finance  UK Limited  to;
1.Stop all contact and collections activity regarding this debt with Mrs D until such time 
that they can reasonably evidence her liability for the debt.
2.Remove any records of this debt from her credit file. 
3.Pay Mrs D £200 for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Tim Wilkes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3325948