K820x#14complaint
Mrs J and the estate of the late Mr J complain  about  Phoenix  Life Limiteds advice to sell 
them an Extra Income Plan in 2000  and its advice  that they increase their benefits under this 
plan in 2014.
Mrs J and the estate of the late Mr J are being represented by their daughter (Mrs K) and 
their son.
background
In 2000 Mrs J and the late Mr J contacted Phoenix to enquire about  taking out an Extra 
Income Plan. In essence, this involved Phoenix  providing Mrs J and the late Mr J a lump 
sum (of around £26,695)  and an ongoing  monthly annuity (£115 per month)  in exchange  for 
70% of the value  of their home  which at the time was worth £165,000.  
In 2014 the late Mr J contacted Phoenix  again  to enquire about taking a further  lump  sum. 
He had some additional  expenses coming  up and enquired about how much  more equity he 
could release from the property. Phoenix offered a quote  which  Mrs J and the late Mr J 
accepted, and it paid them £27,791  (plus a very small  annuity) in exchange for an additional  
15% of the value  of the home. At this point the property  was valued at £335,000 and, after 
accepting Phoenixs  quote, Mrs J and the late Mr J retained  15% equity in their home.  
In 2018, they complained. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  In 
relation to the sale in 2000,  the investigator  said:
The evidence she had seen suggested there had been a detailed  discussion with 
Mrs J and the late Mr J at the time, before a recommendation was made. Given  the 
type of product, the investigator said that Phoenix took the extra step of insisting Mrs 
J and the late Mr J also obtain  advice from a solicitor before applying.  
The investigator said that once they had received advice, and submitted the 
application, the provider wouldve sent out a document setting out the details of the 
plan as well as Mrs J and the late Mr Js right to change their mind.
The investigator acknowledged that normally when looking at cases  about advice, 
wed expect to see certain documents  including a fact find setting out a customers  
circumstances and objectives, and a letter setting out the reasons for the advisers 
recommendation. However,  given the time that had passed, these documents 
werent available.  As a result,  she needed  to decide matters  on the balance of 
probabilities using blank versions of the form and documents  they would likely have 
used at the time.  
The investigator said that based  on the available evidence, she couldnt conclude  the 
advice provided  was unsuitable  for Mrs J and the late Mr J. And having read the 
document setting  out the products key features,  the terms and conditions and the 
explanatory guide  that was sent to solicitors, the investigator concluded that the plan 
wasnt mis-sold.  
In relation to what happened in 2014,  the investigator said:
At the time, Phoenix didnt have to ensure that Mrs J and the late Mr J obtained  
advice when asking  for an increase in benefits under the Extra Income Plan. And 
Ref: DRN31811702Phoenix confirmed  that it didnt give Mrs J and the late Mr J any advice at the time  
and said so in its letter to them in May 2014.   
Phoenix provided evidence that showed that Mrs J and the late Mr J had asked 
questions of Phoenix about  the different amounts they could have access to 
depending on the percentages they transferred to Phoenix.  The investigator thought 
this showed that Mrs J and the late Mr J understood how the arrangement operated,  
and what it meant  in terms of their ownership  of the property. 
The investigator thought that the May 2014  letter from Phoenix to Mrs Ks parents 
was clear that they could seek advice if they wanted to  but they went ahead  without  
it. And so the investigator said that Phoenix,  as it wasnt  providing advice, didnt have 
an obligation  to ensure that taking extra benefits was right or suitable for them,  nor 
whether there were better  alternatives. It simply needed to give effect to the 
instructions they received. 
The investigator also didnt think that Mrs J and the late Mr J had been misled. She 
thought Phoenix  was clear about the risks as well as the benefits of the arrangement 
 and she concluded that Phoenix  was entitled to come  up with its own way of 
calculating how much money it would pay and for what percentage of the property. 
The investigator therefore concluded that she didnt think the complaint should  be upheld. 
Mrs K didnt agree with the investigator and set out detailed  comments in response. In short, 
she said:
She was concerned about the lack of paperwork from the sale in 2000  she said that 
based on what the investigator  had said, there  was in fact nothing  to prove the 
answers given by [her] parents would have justified the sale of an Extra  Income  
Plan. 
The investigator was relying on blank documentation  supplied  by Phoenix to 
sufficiently explain a complex financial services product  in a way her parents could 
understand. 
In relation to the 2014 sale,  Mrs K said she thought it proved beyond doubt  that in 
July 2014 the financial services industry  was allowing the sale of this complex 
product to vulnerable customers on an execution only basis. She said this might have 
been why the Financial  Conduct  Authority produced a paper in 2015 called Many 
customers in vulnerable circumstances are not receiving fair treatment  from their 
financial services providers.
Mrs K said that nothing was known  of the 2000 sale other than how much money the adviser 
had made  in commission. And she said that her parents  at the time didnt need most of the 
additional money  and if they had understood how much it would cost them in equity, they 
wouldnt have taken  out the Extra  Income  Plan. 
She asked  how it could possibly be fair for her parents to have  forfeited over £321,000 from 
the sale of their home, in return for having received just shy of £83,000 in equity release. 
There was some further correspondence  between  the investigator  and Mrs K. In summary:
Mrs K thought that if Phoenix had completed  the appropriate paperwork in 2000,  
such as a fact-find,  it wouldve  retained  copies and submitted them to the investigator 
during her investigation. 
Mrs K thought the investigator ought  to be able to point out at least one reasonable 
alternative in 2000  to the plan which her parents  took out, that wouldnt have 
involved them giving up over £264,000 in return for £26,695 and £115 a month. 
Ref: DRN31811703Mrs K didnt  agree that the documentation  wouldve adequately explained the product 
to her parents,  nor that it wouldve allowed their solicitor  to do so. 
Mrs K considered that the fact that property prices had been consistently  increasing 
to be at the heart of the complaint. Looking at the evidence,  she said in the period 
immediately before Phoenix had sold the Extra  Income Plan in 2000  to her parents,  
property prices had increased  by around 16%. She said this showed that Phoenix 
relied on being more aware of this than their unsuspecting  customers. 
Mrs K maintained that in her view,  her parents shouldnt have been allowed to purchase this 
product in 2000, nor top it up in 2014. Mrs K explained  that her mothers  funds were now 
rapidly running out due to her being  in a care home,  while Phoenix had made a substantial 
profit of over £200,000. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying  that I fully understand and sympathise with Mrs Ks concerns  and 
her profound  belief  that her parents were misled  into taking out a plan which she believes 
wasnt financially worthwhile. And Id also like to confirm that Ive read Mrs Ks submissions, 
and her email exchanges with the investigator, and taken them  all into account before 
reaching this decision.  I understand there are also some questions which shed like to have 
answered. However, I hope Mrs K doesnt  take it as a discourtesy if I dont reply to each 
individual point  thats been  raised, or every question thats been asked. The reason for this is 
that in reaching  and explaining my decision, Im required to focus on the key elements of this 
complaint. And so this is what Ive done.  
And whilst I acknowledge  this will come as a significant disappointment to Mrs K, Im afraid I 
dont have much that I can add to the investigators  explanations and assessment of the 
complaint. 
Ive considered whether I should  draw  any inferences from the lack of paperwork 
surrounding the sale in 2000,  but I dont agree that would be fair. I say this because  it isnt 
unusual for paperwork  to be missing after such a long time, and I dont agree that this means 
I should conclude  that it wasnt filled out at the time or that it wasnt done properly. In 
circumstances such as these, Im required to reach my decision by making a finding on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  what I consider is most likely to have happened  at 
the time,  based  on what evidence is available as well as any wider  circumstances. 
In this case Im satisfied on balance that its more likely than not that in 2000 a discussion  
was had with Mrs J and the late Mr J which explored the benefits and risks of releasing 
equity from their home, before Phoenix recommended  the Extra Income Plan.  I think  it very 
unlikely that such  a plan wouldve been  sold to them without such  a detailed discussion  in 
addition to the advice which would also have been  given by the solicitor. The sale wouldnt 
have gone ahead without that. 
And based on the evidence available, I dont agree that the clarity  of the documentation is 
whats at the heart of this complaint  or that Mrs J and the late Mr J didnt know  or 
understand what the product involved or what they were giving up. Im satisfied,  based  on 
Ref: DRN31811704the sample documents Ive seen,  that the documentation clearly wouldve explained what  
Mrs J and the late Mr J were giving up in exchange  for the lump  sum and annuity they were 
being provided by Phoenix.  And Im satisfied  that the presence of a solicitor whose role it 
was to explain the implications of the plan to Mrs J and the late Mr J means that, on balance, 
they wouldve  understood the plan and what it involved.  
Clearly, the lack of documentation from the time hinders my ability to properly assess  the 
reasons Phoenix  advised Mrs J and the late Mr J. For example, I dont know  the specific 
reasons why Mrs J and the late Mr J needed  to raise capital, nor whether they had explored 
other ways  of doing so  nor even  whether alternatives were available  to them. But given the 
circumstances, and my conclusion above  that Mrs J and the late Mr J did understand the 
product they received, as well as the presence of a solicitor who was required to advise 
them  Im satisfied that Mrs J and the late Mr J werent treated unfairly. 
And similarly in 2014,  I think its clear that Mrs J and the late Mr J understood what  they 
were doing.  Im persuaded the notes of the calls, as well as the documentary  evidence, 
show it was clear that they would be getting  a monetary  sum in return for a percentage of the 
equity in the property  and I think this corroborates what  Ive said above: Mrs J and the late 
Mr J understood that the Extra Income Plan required them  to give up a percentage of the 
equity in the home in exchange for an immediate cash sum and an ongoing  annuity.  As the 
investigator has explained, at that time it wasnt a requirement for Mrs J and the late Mr J to 
obtain additional advice when taking extra  benefits  from the plan  and so it wasnt wrong for 
Phoenix to have accommodated  their request. 
I also understand what Mrs K has said about property prices  theres  no doubt that in 
offering this product, the business had most likely carried out its own assessment of how 
well the sale of such a product  would do for it commercially. But this is something the 
business was entitled to do  and Im not satisfied this is something I have any power to 
second guess.  In any event, I dont think thats inherently unfair, particularly when 
considering all of the circumstances of this particular sale as a whole. I dont  agree  that 
Phoenix had any guarantee that property  prices would continue  to increase in the same  way 
they had in the past  particularly  when  considering  that Mrs J and the late Mr J couldve 
chosen to sell their property at any point.    
In my view, the key issue in this complaint, and the driver of Mrs Ks concerns, is the growth  
in the value of the property throughout the decades.  But Im not persuaded that fact alone  
means her parents were treated unfairly. They  knew what  percentage of the equity in the 
property they were sacrificing  in exchange for an immediate lump  sum and an ongoing 
annuity  and the rise in property prices also worked  in their favour in 2014, when they were 
able to raise additional cash for a smaller percentage than wouldve  been in the case  in 
preceding years. 
I acknowledge and accept  that given the rise in the value of the property, the equity they sold 
in the past no longer looks like its good  value compared to the equity the business  is entitled 
to. But, for all the reasons Ive given above,  Im satisfied that Mrs J and the late Mr J 
understood that this was a possibility   and accepted this in order  to release the equity they 
had in their home when  they needed  it. 
So for these reasons, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable to ask Phoenix  to do 
anything further.  
Ref: DRN31811705my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J and the 
estate of the late Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2021.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3181170