K821x#15complaint
Mrs S has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling  of her car insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes their agents.
background
Mrs S had car insurance with AXA. Her policy started in February 2018. In July 2018,  
another driver  claimed against her policy saying Mrs S had damaged their car. In 
August 2018,  Mrs S made a claim after her car was hit by a bus. 
While the two claims were being looked into, Mrs Ss policy  came  to renew in 
February 2019. Her renewal premium increased  by over £270  when  compared  to the 2018 
policy year.  Mrs S said she called AXA to find out the reason for the increase and they told 
her the two claims being open were the reason.
Mrs S complained as she wasnt happy about  the increase. She also said there was a lack of 
communication by AXA in relation  to the claims and she had to keep  chasing  them.  I 
understand that since her complaint the two claims have  closed,  one as being her fault and 
one as not her fault.
Mrs S brought her complaint to our service  as she didnt think AXA had dealt with her fairly. 
One of our investigators  looked into it. He said he had seen evidence that AXA sent Mrs S 
letters about  the claims. So, he didnt  agree  there was a lack of communication. In relation to 
the increase in premium, our investigator asked AXA for information to see whether or not 
the increase was reasonable. AXA said they couldnt provide that information. As a result,  
our investigator recommended that AXA should  refund Mrs S the difference  between the 
2018 premium and the increased 2019  premium. He also recommended  that AXA should 
add interest on the amount of the refund from the date of the increase until Mrs S is 
refunded. As AXA didnt  agree with our investigator, the complaints been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it in part. 
Ill explain  why.
AXA said premiums were  calculated using very complex algorithms and how a policy  is 
priced is business sensitive information and not something an insurer will disclose. AXA also 
said in relation to Mrs Ss policy  that the broker was responsible for the premium calculation. 
Our investigator contacted the broker who said it was AXAs  responsibility to calculate 
Mrs Ss premium.
As the insurer it is ultimately AXAs responsibility to calculate the premium.  I accept that how 
insurers price  premiums  is business  sensitive information. But as AXA will be aware, our 
service receives various types of sensitive information from businesses, including  how 
premiums are calculated. Our service  doesnt disclose sensitive information to consumers or 
other parties. In complaints such as this we ask to see information as to how a premium has 
been calculated  to ensure  it has been done fairly  and the consumer has been  treated 
reasonably. We don't  require every piece of precise detail that an insurer  has used to 
Ref: DRN38424032calculate a premium. What we require is information from the underwriter  detailing  the 
increase and the main factors that led to the increase. As AXA havent provided that 
information I cant be satisfied that the increase to Mrs Ss 2019 premium  was reasonable. 
Im therefore  upholding this aspect of the complaint. And I require AXA to refund Mrs S the 
difference between  the 2018 premium  and the increased 2019 premium.  Simple interest at 
8% a year should be added to the refund from the date Mrs S paid the 2019  premium until 
the date of refund. 
I understand that when one of the claims closed as not being Mrs Ss fault,  AXA made a 
premium refund. Im also aware that Mrs S cancelled the policy mid-term and a pro-rata 
refund of her premium was made to her. The refund Ive asked AXA to make should 
therefore take into account the refunds already made.
Finally, as explained by our investigator, Ive seen correspondence from AXA to Mrs S 
during which  updates  were provided. I appreciate the updates might not have been as 
regular as Mrs S would have liked. But I dont think its correct  to say AXA didnt contact 
Mrs S. Im therefore  not upholding this part of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require AXA Insurance  UK 
Plc to refund Mrs S the difference  between the 2018 premium and the increased 2019 
premium. AXA should adjust that refund to take account of refunds theyve already paid 
following the closure of one of Mrs Ss claims as non-fault and her cancelling  her policy  mid-
term. Simple interest at 8% a year should be added to the refund from the date Mrs S paid 
the 2019 premium  until the date of refund.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept
or reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If AXA consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mrs S how much they have taken off. They  should  also give her a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN3842403