K820x#14complaint
Mrs P says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs P bought a monthly premium PPI policy in August 1997 at the same time as taking out a 
credit card. Neither party  has been able to recall or find out where the policy and card were 
sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ps complaint because:
I cant be sure where or how the policy was presented to Mrs P when Lloyds sold her the 
PPI policy. But Ive looked at what she did say about  how the policy  was sold and what  I 
know of Lloyds sales at that time and I consider it is most likely that she was given an 
option to have the insurance.
I have come to this conclusion because although  I havent got very much documentation 
at all, from what I know of Lloyds sales processes  at that time, it is most likely that the 
policy was presented as optional. I havent  been able to see any evidence that anything  
different happened in this sale and Mrs Ps recollections have  not persuaded me on this 
occasion that she wasnt given a choice  to have it either.
Due to the very limited  information  that has been provided I cannot  say for sure whether  
Lloyds gave Mrs P advice to have  the PPI policy but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable  
for her anyway  based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. She says she 
had 6 months full and 6 months  half sick pay but I think the benefit  provided by the policy  
would have been useful to her if she had any extended period of sickness  or 
unemployment. Any claim could  have been  paid for up to 12 months and would have 
provided her with additional  income  at a difficult time. So I think  the policy  recommended  
to Mrs P would have  been of use and so I cannot conclude that it would have been 
unsuitable for her based  on what I have seen. I also dont think there were any significant 
terms or exclusions  that would have made  the policy unsuitable.
Lloyds has been unable to provide evidence that it provided clear costs  at the time of 
sale. But I dont think Mrs P wouldve  changed her mind about taking the policy  if this 
cost was presented  clearly to her (for the same reasons why I think  the policy is 
suitable). 
Ref: DRN39886612Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its unlikely 
Mrs P wouldve  been  affected  by any of these, due to her circumstances at the time of 
sale.
In conclusion I dont  think Mrs P was mis-sold the PPI policy.  This means Lloyds doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the cover to Mrs P. But Lloyds has paid back some of the 
cost of PPI to Mrs P because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
cover to Mrs P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3988661