K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a fee-paying Advance  
account (previously  called  a Plus account), which was sold to her in May 2006.
Mrs H says that she did not agree to the account and never used  any of the benefits that the 
account came with.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and they didnt think the Advance  account  
had been mis-sold.
Mrs H disagreed and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive used that to help me 
decide this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think the packaged  bank account was mis-sold to Mrs H. I know this 
will come as a disappointment to Mrs H, but Id like to assure  her that I have considered 
everything she has provided and said.
I think it would be helpful to explain, that where  matters  are either unclear or in dispute,  as 
they are here, I need to decide what I think is most  likely to have happened,  based on the 
evidence that is available. I should also add here that Mrs Hs recollections  of events are not 
the most  detailed, which is understandable  given that the account was opened over 14 years  
ago. But there  is also very little information  that HSBC  has been able to provide from the 
time of sale,  which again is unsurprising given  the timescales involved. 
Ive started by considering whether or not Mrs H was given a fair choice in opening her 
account. 
Mrs H says that she did not agree to open the account. However, HSBC has said that its 
account opening process for new customers to the bank involved a discussion around  the 
range of accounts it offered. HSBC says only once the customer  indicates theyd be 
interested in the Advance account,  would  HSBC then go through the key features  and 
exclusions that apply  to the account with the customer.
In this case, I can see that Mrs H already held a fee-free account with HSBC prior to opening  
the Advance account  so I think she was aware  that fee-free accounts existed and were an 
option for her. 
Furthermore, in 2014 HSBC wrote to Mrs H about  changes that were  being made to her 
account. Mrs H was given  the option to not accept the changes and to remove  the fee-
paying package  from her account   but she didnt remove  the fee-paying package from her 
account. I think it likely that had Mrs H not agreed to the account and had she not wanted  
anything the account came  with, she wouldve used this opportunity to downgrade her 
account and question why she held it in the first instance.
Ref: DRN38967852I also note that shortly after the account was taken  out there is evidence to suggest  that Mrs 
H travelled abroad. Given that one of the features of the account was travel insurance and 
fee free overseas cash  withdrawals, it suggests that this was possibly why the account  was 
taken out, even if Mrs H now cant remember doing so. 
So when taking  everything that I have  seen on this case into account, I think  its more likely 
than not that Mrs H agreed to the Advance  account. And this was in all likelihood because  
she was attracted (at least initially) to the features it offered, rather  than because she felt she 
had no choice.
HSBC says it didnt  give Mrs H advice  on the suitability of the account when it was sold to 
her. Based on what both parties have said, it doesnt sound as though  HSBC  gave  her a 
personal recommendation, or assessed  her insurance needs, during  the sale.  So I think  its 
likely that the account  was sold to Mrs H on a non-advised basis.
This means  HSBC didnt  have to check if the account was right for Mrs H. But it was still 
required to give her important information  about  the account, so that she could decide for 
herself whether  to open an Advance account.
Its not clear what exactly was discussed  with Mrs H during the sale.  But I think its likely that 
HSBC, in trying to make the packaged  account  seem attractive to Mrs H, wouldve at least 
explained what the main benefits  of the account were.
I cant be sure if HSBC  gave Mrs H all of the important information  about the account during 
the sales process. After  the initial assessment, Mrs H has mentioned  that she had cancer  at 
the time of the sale. 
I note that Mrs H cant recall the sale and HSBC has very limited  records,  so I dont know  
what was said during the sale. It is possible  that Mrs H was not told of the need to declare  
her pre-existing  medical  conditions under the travel  insurance policy. But I cant  see that this 
led to claim being  declined. In addition, had she been told about  this need I cant see that it 
wouldve altered  her likely decision to take out the account, as over the years many  
documents wouldve been sent to her mentioning  this requirement and she chose to keep 
the account. I cant see anything else that Mrs H may not have been told that wouldve 
altered her decision to take out the account  either.
I appreciate that, perhaps with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs H may now feel that the account 
has been poor value for money  and regrets opening  a fee-paying  account.  But overall Ive 
not seen enough for me to say that she was mis-sold the Advance account.  I therefore think 
it would  be inappropriate  to require HSBC to refund the fees Mrs H has paid for the account. 
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2021.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38967853
Ref: DRN3896785