K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) gave her loans 
she couldnt afford to repay. Mrs A is represented by a claims management company. It asks 
for a refund of the sums advanced,  interest  and charges  and statutory interest.  
background
Mrs A took out seven  loans with Sunny between June and November 2016. All of the loans 
were repayable in monthly instalments over six months. Mrs A says the loans werent 
affordable and the repayments prevented her meeting  her essential living expenses.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He said it wasnt wrong  
for Sunny to offer loans 1 to 3. But when Mrs A asked for loan 4 there  were  signs  she was 
having trouble  managing her money. Loans  1 to 3 were outstanding. It was unlikely she 
could repay  the loan sustainably. By loan 7, Mrs As pattern of borrowing suggested she was 
reliant on short term loans  and further  lending  wasnt sustainable. The adjudicator  said 
Sunny shouldnt have offered loans 4 to 7.
Sunny didnt agree. It said the information  it had showed the loans were  affordable.  It said it 
allows customers to take out up to four loans  at a time and took all of the repayments into 
account when  assessing affordability. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs A could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Mrs As 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest  that Sunny should  have done  more to establish  that any 
lending was sustainable for a customer. Such factors include the customers  income  
particularly a lower  income   the amount of the loan repayments and the time over which  the 
loan is to be repaid,  and the number and frequency  of loans and the time over which the 
customer has been given  loans. Repeated borrowing can signal that the borrowing has 
become, or is becoming, unsustainable. There may even come  a point where the lending  
history and pattern  of lending itself demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I would also note here that Sunny  was required to establish whether Mrs A could sustainably 
repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds and 
pence calculation.
Ref: DRN31888422Loans 1 to 3 (June to August 2016)
Mrs A told Sunny  her monthly income was about £1,200  and her expenditure (on housing, 
living costs  and credit commitments) was £950. Together, the monthly instalments for the 
three loans  came to about £190. 
After meeting her stated  outgoings and the loan repayments, Mrs A was left with about £60 
each month  to meet any unexpected or additional expenses. I think  Sunny might  have done 
more thorough checks before offering loan 3. But, given the amount of the loans and that 
this was the start of the lending relationship,  I dont  think proportionate checks would have 
given it any reason to think  the loans werent  affordable or that further checks  were  needed.
Loan 4 to 7 (October to November 2016)
Mrs A took out loan 4, of £100, on 17 October. Monthly instalments were about £30, which 
when added to the instalments for loans 1 to 3 meant Mrs A needed to pay £220 each 
month.
Mrs A told Sunny  her monthly income was £1,200 and her outgoings were £825.  This 
included £550  for credit  commitments  the same as shed declared when she took out 
previous loans. But she said her essential monthly expenditure (which included  everything 
except rent and credit  commitments) had reduced to £75. 
Mrs A provided her credit  report. This shows she had four short term loans outstanding when 
she took out loan 4. The amount borrowed was over £1,000  (and interest would have  been  
added to this). Shed taken out these loans in July 2016, late September  2016  and early 
October 2016. 
Sunny says it did a credit  check. I asked Sunny for the results  of its credit check, but it didnt 
respond. In the circumstances, the best evidence I have about what Sunny knew  from its 
credit check  is the information in Mrs As credit report  that she had four short  term loans 
outstanding from other  lenders when she took out loan 4. This was in addition to the three  
loans she had outstanding with Sunny.
Mrs A repaid  loans  1 to 3 on 25 and 26 October 2016. She took out loans 5 and 6 on 25 and 
28 October. Both loans were for £200. She took out loan 7 in November  2016.
I think Sunny  should have  realised this lending was unsustainable. Mrs A took out seven 
loans over five months. She repaid loans 1 to 3 early, but immediately took out more loans. 
She also had loans from other short term lenders.  I think Mrs As use of short term loans 
should have alerted Sunny to a possible problem, such as financial difficulties, problems 
managing her money or reliance on short  term loans.  
I dont think the information  Mrs A provided  about  her essential expenditure was sufficiently 
credible to make it reasonable for Sunny  to rely on it when assessing affordability.
I think the information Sunny had about  Mrs A suggested further borrowing wasnt affordable  
or sustainable. In the circumstances, I dont think it was reasonable for Sunny to offer loans 
4 to 7 to her.
Ref: DRN31888423what should happen now?
Sunny shouldnt have given Mrs A loans 4 to 7, so it should:
A) add together  the total of the repayments made  by Mrs A towards interest,  fees and 
charges on these loans,  including payments made to a third party  where applicable, but not 
including anything its already refunded.
B) calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made  by Mrs A which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mrs A originally  made the payments, to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) pay Mrs A the total of A plus B.
D) remove  any adverse information recorded  on Mrs As credit file in relation to loans 4 to 6. 
By loan 7, the overall pattern of Mrs As borrowing means any information  recorded about 
the loan is adverse, so it should  remove this loan entirely from Mrs As credit file. If Sunny 
sold any of the loans it should  ask the debt purchaser to do the same. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. It should give 
Mrs A a certificate  showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Elevate Credit International Limited to pay 
the compensation and take the steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  21 March 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3188842