K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint even though it didnt actually sell the insurance 
complained about.  To keep things simpler, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Mrs W says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In June 2000 Mrs W opened a store card account. In January 2003  PPI was added  to her 
account following  a telephone call.
Our adjudicator felt that wed seen enough  information to uphold the complaint. He relied  on 
the fact that the policy didnt cover accident  and sickness claims if they resulted from a 
health problem  the consumer already had when  she bought it. And Mrs W had mentioned  
having a health condition  at the time - so if she needed to claim for this, she wouldnt have 
been able to. 
Our adjudicator felt that it was important that Mrs W had understood this so she could make 
a fair choice about taking out the PPI. But he didnt think that FICL did enough to make  this 
policy restriction clear to her - and if it had, then our adjudicator  didnt think  Mrs W wouldve 
taken the policy out.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
It mainly said that it didnt look like Mrs W had a pre-existing medical  condition  when she 
took the policy out  and although shed  mentioned  a date when  shed had to stop work this 
was a couple of years later. And she had also not provided any information  about what her 
condition was or how her medical condition affected her ability  to work.
So we asked  Mrs W to provide us with a bit more information about her condition  and how it 
had affected her in January 2003. When she didnt respond I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Based on all the information Ive seen and been told up to now, I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to uphold  this complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL has given us a copy of Mrs Ws completed  store card application. The PPI part of the 
form is crossed through, next to where it says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account CoverPlease debit my Account  with the relevant  monthly premium until further 
notice. 
So, although  I dont know what mightve been said about the PPI, I think it wouldve been clear 
to her from the paperwork that it was up to Mrs W to choose if she wanted to have PPI added 
on. And her store card was set up without it. 
Ref: DRN31476832FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used at the time. 
So I dont  know what it may have said to Mrs W when  the policy was sold. But based  on 
what this service knows about the sales  process, and given that the policy was added  
sometime after shed made her store card application, I think  Mrs W wouldve been  aware  
that the policy was optional.  
On balance, I think its likely that Mrs W decided to buy the policy offered to protect her card 
monthly repayments.
I dont think FICL advised Mrs W to take out the PPI. This means FICL didnt have to make  
sure the policy  was suitable for her. But it still had to provide Mrs W with clear  information 
about the policy so she could decide  if she wanted  to take it out. 
Its possible some information FICL gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs W wouldve acted differently, and not bought  the policy,  if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Ive taken into account what Mrs W told us about her circumstances. She hasnt told me 
anything about  what her employment was at the time. But looking at the sort of policy  that its 
likely Mrs W had I havent seen anything to suggest  that she wasnt  eligible for the cover  it 
offered. And it couldve paid out a benefit if she couldnt work as a result of accident,  
sickness or unemployment. It couldve covered her monthly repayments on the card each 
month until the outstanding balance was cleared if she wasnt able to go back  to work. 
Mrs W told us that she had less than 3 months  worth of savings or other insurance she 
couldve relied on to pay her card if she wasnt able to work. So it looks  to me as if having  
the policy gave  Mrs W significantly better protection than she wouldve had otherwise. So 
I think Mrs W couldve benefitted from having PPI.
 
Mrs W wouldnt have  been covered for absence from work caused  by a medical condition 
she knew about in the 12 months  before the PPI start date. 
Shes told us that her health problems led to her having to stop work  a couple of years after 
shed taken out the policy. I dont  know if this is related to the condition she mentioned  
having around the time she took out the PPI.
We asked Mrs W to tell us a bit more about  the condition that she mentioned when  she took 
out the policy that she said had caused her to take time off work.
She hasnt  responded to our enquiries  so I dont  know what  her condition  was, or when she 
first knew  about it, and especially what she knew about it in the 12 months running up to 
January 2003.  I also dont  know  if shed seen a doctor about her condition or how it affected 
her on a day to day basis prior to taking out the PPI. I dont know when, or for how long, 
shed taken time off work for it. 
Based on all the information Ive seen and been told, and looking at the probable policy  
wording, I dont feel that Ive seen enough to be able to say that its likely  Mrs W wouldve 
had reason to be concerned by the exclusion that meant she wasnt  covered for an existing 
health issue. 
Ref: DRN31476833As far as I can see, it doesnt look like Mrs W was affected by any of the other  terms that 
mightve limited the policys  benefit  to her. So, even if these werent mentioned  clearly, or at 
all, I dont think that knowing more about things the policy  didnt cover  wouldve made  any 
difference to Mrs Ws decision to take it out. 
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs W to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But, taking everything into account, I think if 
Mrs W had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she still wouldve thought the 
policy potentially useful.  Ive seen nothing to suggest that paying for the policy was a 
problem for Mrs W  and she took it out when she didnt have to, so it seems  she wanted  the 
cover. Plus she could  cancel it without further cost at any time. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  Mrs W, I think it unlikely  she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance,  I think shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
In particular, I dont  think having better information about the policys  limitations and 
exclusions for an existing  medical condition wouldve put Mrs W off taking it out. Ive not 
seen enough so far to suggest that at the time she took the PPI out Mrs W had any reason 
to think shed likely be off work sick as a result of an existing medical condition for long 
enough to want  to make a claim under  the policy. So I cant  fairly say that shes  lost out as a 
result of paying for the policy.  
This means,  as things  stand, Im not currently planning to tell FICL that it needs to do 
anything to put things right.  
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN31476834my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN3147683