K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Lloyds Bank  PLC hasnt refunded him after he fell victim to an invoice 
interception scam.
background
In Autumn 2018, Mr D obtained quotes for work to be carried out by a local plumbing firm. 
Hed received an email that appeared to originate from the correct  firm, which requested 
payment in advance  to cover costs. 
Mr D trusted the firm and so sent the £2,500 from his Lloyds account  to the account details 
provided in the email  hed received. But unknown to Mr D at the time, the plumbing firms  
email account had been hacked by fraudsters. The email and invoice wasnt  genuine. Hed 
been tricked into sending the money to an account that had no connection to the plumbers.
The following  day, Lloyds  contacted Mr D. It had identified an unusual  pattern of activity on 
the recipient account and was concerned that Mr D had fallen victim to a scam. Lloyds tried 
to recover his funds,  but no money remained in the recipient account  to return to Mr D. Mr D 
complained to Lloyds and asked it to reimburse  him for what  hed lost in the scam. 
Lloyds didnt think it was at fault, and so wasnt liable for the money Mr D had sent.  Lloyds 
said it had done  everything it could, and as soon as it had identified  the scam  it had taken 
the appropriate steps to block the recipients account. But it said the funds had already been 
removed by the fraudsters before the scam  had been identified.
Mr D asked our service  to independently review his complaint. Our investigator looked  into 
what had happened. The investigator  didnt recommend the complaint  should be upheld.  
She didnt  think Lloyds had missed  an opportunity  to identify the payment was being made in 
relation to a scam, because she didnt think it would  have stood out as being particularly 
unusual or suspicious. She was satisfied Lloyds  had acted appropriately in the steps it had 
taken in identifying  the scam, and subsequently  attempting to recover  the money  Mr D lost.
Mr D didnt accept our investigators view. In summary, Mr D thought:
- the amount  of the transfer was high for him so should have stood out as unusual;
- Lloyds hadnt matched the business payee  name hed entered to that of the recipient 
account;
- Lloyds had had all the information it needed  to identify this was a scam from the time hed 
originally authorised the payment, and so questioned why Lloyds allowed the transaction  to 
proceed;
- he had no prior knowledge of this type of fraud and didnt think Lloyds had done  enough  to 
alert him to that risk; 
- he pointed out that at least one other victim of the same email interception had been 
refunded by their bank;  and,
- he thought it unfair that there was very limited protection  for a Faster Payment.
Mr D thought Lloyds  should refund him for the money hed lost to the scammer. As a result, 
Mr Ds complaint has been passed to me to reach  a final decision.  
Ref: DRN39647982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached  the same  conclusions as those of the investigator  and for 
the same  reasons. I know  this will come  as a disappointment to Mr D, so Ill explain why I 
think what I do.
From the outset I should say that I appreciate how strongly Mr D feels  about what  happened, 
and I understand  his frustration that his bank was not able to prevent  the loss he incurred. 
He was acting  in good faith and the innocent victim of a crime. It was absolutely not his fault 
that the plumbing firm had its email account compromised and it is not fair that that Mr D has 
lost out as a result.
So, I can understand why he feels so strongly  that his money  should  be reimbursed by 
Lloyds, and why he does not accept  what the investigator said. However, the principal  blame 
here resides  with the actions of the fraudster. The fraudsters actions were designed to steal  
money from the clients of the plumbing  firm. The fraudster is liable for the money Mr D lost. 
For me to say Lloyds  is liable in this type of situation, I would need to find that the bank could 
and should have acted to prevent the loss, or that it failed to meet  its obligations in some  
other way.
The starting point  here is that Lloyds is obliged to follow Mr Ds instructions and to make the 
payments he requests  to the sort code and account number he designates, unless it has 
sufficient reason to be concerned that Mr D might  be at risk of financial harm  by doing so.
Mr D sent the payment  to the scammer  without any interaction with the banks staff. When  
Mr D made  the payment,  he didnt know he was dealing with a scammer, and sent the 
money in the genuine belief he was making the payment to defray the advance costs of the 
plumbing firm.
But this means that at the time he made  the payment, he wanted it to go ahead. He took the 
steps necessary  to authorise the payment to be made. Lloyds then had an obligation to 
make the payment he requested,  unless it had good  reason to think  Mr D might be about to 
fall victim to a scam.  It says it didnt have  sufficient reason to think  that.
Ive considered the increase of sophisticated scams in recent  years  and whether  it would 
have been reasonable  to expect Lloyds to have had a closer look at the circumstances 
surrounding this specific payment - especially as I consider that as a matter of good  practice  
Lloyds should  have been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
In thinking about this, Ive considered whether  the evidence shows the transfer  made by 
Mr D was significantly out of character or otherwise  so unusual for him to an extent that Id 
reasonably have expected Lloyds to have had concerns. To establish  this, Ive reviewed the 
payment in question  against the typical pattern of Mr Ds account  usage, in the six months 
leading up to the scam. 
Mr D had made a number of other payments out of his account in the six months before the 
scam. This included payments for larger sums  than this. The payment he made here left the 
majority of his account balance intact.  Mr D is right to point  out that the payment of £2,500 
was a larger than average transfer for his account. But I dont think  it was sufficiently so, in 
Ref: DRN39647983other words not to the extent that Id expect  Lloyds should immediately have had concerns 
about what Mr D was asking it to do, and so carry out additional checks.  
The amount  itself wasnt significantly different to the normal pattern of withdrawals and 
payments on his account, and I dont think this transaction was so unusual or suspicious in 
comparison to Mr Ds normal account activity  that, in itself,  it ought to have alerted Lloyds 
that Mr D may have been at risk of financial  harm.  This means the bank didnt do anything 
wrong by following the instructions Mr D gave and sending the money.
Mr D points out that he had entered the correct businesss payee name when he made the 
payment and that this wouldnt have matched the recipient account name. He thinks  Lloyds 
ought to have checked this before it made  his payment.  There  is a newly introduced  system  
to provide confirmation of payee  names, which has since  come into effect and would have 
meant this check would have been  carried out. 
But that new system had not been implemented at the time of this scam. When Mr D made  
his payment this simply wasnt  a check Lloyds was required  or expected  to carry out for 
transfers it didnt  have some other reason to question. As noted above, Lloyds had an 
obligation to follow Mr Ds instructions in making  payments to the sort code and account 
number he had requested. At the time of this payment, the payee  name  entered might 
typically be shown on a customers  bank  statement  but wasnt  routinely used for verification. 
So I cant say Lloyds  was liable through not taking  the additional step of double-checking the 
payee name. In the absence of other concerns about the payment it had no obligation to do 
this.
I understand Mr Ds frustration that he had no knowledge of this type of scam prior to this 
incident. In common  with other banks, Lloyds has undertaken consumer scam  education.  Of 
course, those efforts have failed to prevent all scams from occurring, such  as this one. But I 
do not consider  this means Lloyds is liable  for the loss Mr D has suffered. Neither  do I find it 
liable on the basis  that Mr D paid by Faster  Payments  transfer  rather than a card payment or 
other means, I cannot see that it was directly involved in the choice of payment method for 
this specific transaction   that seems likely to have  been the decision of the scammer.  
I would also stress that I do not consider Mr D is at fault here. I am simply considering 
whether I think the transaction he made ought to have raised sufficient concern with Lloyds  
that it should have directly  intervened,  or otherwise sufficiently at fault to make  it liable for 
what happened.
It is the case that since the time of this scam  a new voluntary code has been introduced to 
increase protection for customers. But the code doesnt apply retrospectively, and I cannot 
fairly require  Lloyds to follow a code that was not in place at the time.  
Lloyds records show that it acted rapidly  to try to recover  the money hed sent.  It took steps 
very quickly after it identified a pattern of unusual activity on the receiving account,  and so 
uncovered the scam. Unfortunately, despite  this, no funds remained. Based on the evidence, 
Lloyds did what it could  at that time to help Mr D. Fraudsters will typically withdraw funds 
very quickly leaving none by the time the scam comes  to light.  That appears to be what  
happened here. I havent seen anything to make  me think Lloyds could reasonably  have 
done more here or acted more quickly than it did.
Mr D notes that at least one other customer has been refunded by their bank following our 
investigation. In reaching a decision  on Mr Ds complaint, as I am here,  I am required to 
Ref: DRN39647984consider the specific  circumstances surrounding the payment that forms the subject of his 
complaint, alongside other relevant factors such as his own typical account  usage. These 
are unique to him, and I cannot apply considerations from another customer to deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Having considered everything, Im not going to uphold  Mr Ds complaint about  Lloyds.  I do 
appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr D. 
I am very sorry  that Mr D fell victim to what was an opportunist scam, and that he has lost 
out as a result. I appreciate that he has lost a significant sum in consequence of the 
fraudsters actions. But in all of the circumstances, I dont think  I can fairly say Lloyds should 
reasonably have prevented what happened. That means I cannot  fairly require Lloyds to 
refund Mr D. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint about  Lloyds  Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2021.
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3964798