K820x#14complaint
Mr D, curator  and representative of Trust R complains that the Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc 
(RBS for short) has treated the Trust unfairly  in relation to problems  had with online access  
to the Trust accounts.
background
A request was made to RBS to restrict access for certain individuals  to certain  accounts  held 
in relation to the Trust and associated entities.  But due to RBS actions Mr Ds access  to the 
online accounts were  blocked between 28 August 2018 and 10 September 2018. There  
were a number of surrounding issues including  issues with the correspondence  sent by RBS 
to Mr D.
Mr D tried to use the Live Chat facility to resolve the matter but wasnt able to. During  the 
period that his online access was blocked  Mr D and RBS liaised and as a consequence of 
this all payments that needed to be paid in that period were paid through  different processes.
Mr D says that he was told that the debit card with the account would be cancelled but he 
could still use it. RBS has confirmed it was never  cancelled.
Mr D says he didnt receive the card reader he ordered. RBS has said it was sent to him on 
10 September 2018.
Mr D also says that RBS correspondence fell short of his expectations.  So he complained to 
RBS.
RBS acknowledged  there had been  issues and offered £300 for inconvenience  suffered due 
to its failings. It also noted that it had waived charges for making  the payments it did whilst 
Mr Ds access  was blocked and had worked  with him at the time to minimise  the impact  of 
what had happened. As a consequence it felt that its position with regard to this complaint 
was fair in the circumstances.
Mr D didnt agree because he thinks the offer should  be more and so he brought the Trusts 
complaint to this service.  The investigator did not agree with Mr D and said RBS response 
to the issues suffered  was reasonable. As Mr D remains unhappy his complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of their complaint.
RBS and Mr D dont  agree regarding the impact of some of the things that have happened 
here. So I can only make my decision based  on the evidence provided  to me by the parties. 
In short  I must decide what is most likely to have happened.
Having considered the entirety of the matter I do not think  this complaint should be upheld.  I 
say this for the following  reasons which I see as key to this complaint. 
Although Mr D has repeatedly stated  the inconvenience suffered here was substantial, 
having considered the matter I am not persuaded it is so. I can see that although RBS has 
Ref: DRN32892992accepted it has got a number of things wrong it has also been in contact with Mr D during the 
period his access was blocked and have ensured  that the consequences of his lack of 
access were minimised.  No payments that the Trust was due to pay during  that period were  
missed. So Im not persuaded there were substantial consequences of the lack of access to 
the online banking  service. It should be remembered that Mr D did have other ways of 
managing his account during that time and he did do this. So although  frustrating I do not 
consider this period of lack of online access to have substantial impact on the Trusts 
banking needs.
There have been  other  issues like poor correspondence and being told things that didnt 
appear to be wholly  correct. But I dont see these as being key issues or having any great 
consequence. RBS has agreed  its correspondence wasnt good  and I think there was a 
degree of sloppiness there, particularly around emailing him when he asked to be sent 
letters and around the issues of to who letters had been sent or responded to. But Im not 
persuaded this had any significant impact on the banking needs of the Trust.
Similarly there were issues around being told the debit card was to be cancelled and wasnt.  
But I dont see any substantial detriment  there.  Mr D also raised  the issue  of a card reader.  
RBS has pointed to its records showing it was sent to him. But if Mr D still needs a reader 
Im sure RBS can send a replacement.
Lastly I note that Mr D has asked for £500  in compensation. I simply do not agree that the 
inconvenience caused warrants a payment of that magnitude. I say this because although 
there have  been  a number of failings on RBS part Im not persuaded that the Trust has been  
particularly inconvenienced in the round.  Yes Mr D didnt have online access for a number of 
days and so there was some inconvenience.  But I do not see this as substantially 
inconvenient alone or with the other  failings which have happened. As such  I see no 
persuasive reason  or persuasive  argument to increase  the offer already made by RBS.
I note Mr D has repeatedly stated he doesnt  think  this amount fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused. However  he hasnt  put persuasive evidence of the substantial  
consequences of these failings forward. I suspect Mr D (on behalf of the Trust R) will be 
disappointed with my decision. He is not bound to accept  it. Indeed  he can reject  it if he so 
wishes and pursue the matter further  through other avenues. But this brings to an end this 
services involvement with this dispute.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold the complaint against Royal  Bank of Scotland 
Plc by Mr D curator  and representative  of Trust R. The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc has 
nothing more to do with regard to this complaint  other than pay the Trust the suggested 
settlement it has offered  if Mr D accepts this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D on behalf of 
Trust R to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3289299