K820x#14complaint
Ms E, as a director of L (a limited company), complains that Santander UK Plc sent paper 
statements for Ls account. 
background
Ms E asked Santander  not to send paper statements for Ls account,  but the bank continued 
to do so. When Ms E complained, Santander told her it was a regulatory requirement to send  
details of the account charges in a durable  medium. Ms E was unhappy with Santanders 
response and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Santander was obliged to tell Ms E about  the account charges and that Ms E was able to 
ask for the information to be sent electronically.  But Santander doesnt yet offer this service  
for business accounts. The investigator  said this service couldnt interfere with the processes 
Santander chooses to use.
Ms E didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions. She said Santander shouldve told her 
at the outset that its internal systems meant it couldnt send the statements electronically. 
She also pointed  out that the same  fees applied to her personal account, and that she 
received statements for that account  electronically.  
Ms E said if Santander had explained why it couldnt  send  electronic  statements for Ls 
account she couldve avoided a lot of unnecessary stress and wasted time. She asked for 
her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Es frustration that statements for her personal account are sent 
electronically, but that Santander doesnt offer the same service  for business accounts. But 
as the investigator  has explained, its beyond the remit of this service to interfere with the 
processes that Santander chooses to use. 
If the banks  systems dont meet Ms Es requirements then she may want  to consider moving 
her business  banking elsewhere.
Its unfortunate that when Ms E complained about  continued receipt of paper statements 
Santander told her it was a regulatory  requirement for it to send the information in that 
format. Ms E didnt  think this was right, and I understand she spent some  time trying to 
identify the relevant regulatory provision before bringing the matter to this service.
During the course of the complaint Santander told us it was a limitation  in its own systems  
that meant  it couldnt  send electronic statements for business accounts. So again, I can 
appreciate why Ms E considers she couldve saved a lot of time if shed been told this at the 
outset.
Ref: DRN31820442However, Ms Es complaint is in connection with Ls account which  means shes  complaining  
on behalf of L. Our rules mean that I can only award compensation to L if I consider the 
business has experienced inconvenience as a result  of the banks mistake.  
I dont find thats  the case  in this complaint, but I can see that Ms E was put to some 
inconvenience because  of the misleading information she was given by Santander. In light of 
this Ive asked  the bank  whether its willing to pay £75 as a gesture of goodwill, and it has 
agreed to this. 
I realise Ms E may consider this payment is modest, but awards by this service  are not 
designed to punish a business. I think a goodwill payment of £75 is reasonable in the 
circumstances, and I wouldnt have  suggested  formal compensation to L of more than that 
amount.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint, but I leave it to Ms E to decide whether or 
not she wants to accept Santanders goodwill gesture of £75.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms E (as a director  
of L) to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3182044