K820x#14complaint
Ms As complaint arises from a home emergency insurance policy held with British Gas
Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in November 2019, part of which is copied below: 
Ms A contacted British  Gas in March 2018, as she had accidentally cut through a wire which
connected to her burglar alarm and she wanted British  Gas to fix it. An appointment was
made however the engineer contacted  her before the appointment and told Ms A that the
policy doesnt cover  burglar alarms and so there was no point in him attending.
In April 2018, Ms A contacted British Gas to arrange the annual  service of her boiler and at
the same  time mentioned  the cut wire again. She was told that accidental  damage to wiring
is covered and another engineer was booked to attend her property between 12pm and
6pm. He had not arrived by 6.20pm, so Ms A phoned British Gas and was told he was on his
way. Ms A says he arrived after 7pm and told her that as the wire was to the burglar alarm,
it was not covered and he could not repair  it under  the policy.
Ms A was not happy with this and has also complained about the amount she pays  for her
policy. She says the same  cover is being  offered  to new customers for less than half the
amount she is paying, which is unfair. She also says she has often had to pay for repairs
herself and visits have resulted in no work done by British Gas. Ms A has asked for
reimbursement of the years premiums; reimbursement of the cost of her own electrician  to
repair the burglar  alarm  (£130); and reimbursement of the premiums  shes paid over and
above those charged to new customers.
British Gas accepted that the appointment should not have been made. It apologised and
offered Ms A £30 as compensation  for the inconvenience  this caused.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He did not consider that Ms A had been
treated unfairly  in respect  of the policy premium. However, he did recommend that the
complaint about  the handling of the electrical  claim be upheld.  He recommended  that British
Gas pay an additional  £70 compensation (so £100  in total)  as compensation for the
inconvenience caused to her.
British Gas doesnt accept the investigators recommendation, so the matter has been
passed to me.
British Gas says that during the second call when Ms A phoned to book her annual  service, 
she mentioned again  that a wire had been  accidentally cut but did not say it was for a burglar 
alarm. Although she told the call-handler cover had been refused for the issue,  she didnt say 
why. If she had said this, shed have been  advised this wasnt covered but instead an 
appointment was made. Ms A had already been  told it wasnt  covered but then tried to book a 
second visit. Its call-handlers  will normally make an appointment rather  than refusing to send 
anyone out, as it is better for the contractors to see the problem  at the property  before  making  
decisions about cover. It says the £30 already offered is therefore sufficient compensation.
Ref: DRN38958162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy Ms A holds says, among other things, what is not coveredElectrical
appliances, burglar  alarms and camera  systems.  I consider it to be clear  that burglar
alarms are not covered  and therefore  the engineers  were correct.
Given this, I am not persuaded that British Gas should reimburse the costs Ms A incurred in
having the burglar alarm  repaired.
British Gas says that it would not have booked the second appointment, if Ms A had stated
that the cut wire was for a burglar alarm.
Ms A didnt phone to challenge the decision not to cover the burglar alarm.  Although  she
apparently told the call-handler  that cover had been  denied previously, she did not explain
why or question the reason. The call-handler could  perhaps have made  further enquiries and
looked into the reasons for previously  refusing cover. However, I do not consider that it acted
unreasonably in sending an electrician out to assess the situation. Agreeing to send an
electrician out is not a guarantee  that a claim  will be met. Ms A wanted an electrician to
come out and was hoping  that she would get a different response to her claim, as she did
not accept that burglar  alarms are not covered. Ms A was already aware it was potentially
not covered. Overall,  I consider the compensation offered by British  Gas to be reasonable in
all the circumstances.  Ms A is very disappointed her claim was not met but I do not agree
that this warrants any additional compensation.
Ms A is also unhappy with the premium she has been charged compared  to some new
customers and that her policy has become more expensive over the years. As the
investigator confirmed  these were mainly  as a result of a rise in the base price of the cover
and Ms A was treated  the same as other  similar  customers. Ms A says that new customers
would be charged  less but businesses  are entitled to offer incentives, such as discounts, to
attract new customers. I am also satisfied that Ms A was informed when the price was
increased and would therefore  have  had the option to decline the policy at each renewal, if
she didnt want it at the price proposed.
my provisional decision
I do not intend to uphold  this complaint as British Gas insurance Limited has already made a
reasonable offer of compensation.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further or information  or 
arguments they want considered. 
Ms A is very unhappy with my provisional  decision and has made a number of submissions, 
which Ive summarised below: 
a recording of both calls she made  (i.e. booking both appointments) should be obtained 
as a matter of urgency and before  final decision is made, as it will show British  Gas 
knew why she had asked for an electrician. 
Ref: DRN38958163I stated that British  Gas would not have booked the second  appointment if they were  
aware what  it was related to. She is dismayed  by this and it seems  I am suggesting that 
she "hoodwinked"  the call-handler into arranging the second appointment. She did not 
withhold any information from the call-handler and expressed surprise when they said it 
should have been  covered. 
She is perplexed that I and British  Gas believe she had time to waste on a second  visit 
that would have the same outcome. 
She was expected to wait in all day and British  Gas failed  to turn up within  the time 
stated, so she had to leave and her mother met with the contractor.  
I asked British Gas for recordings of the relevant phone calls but it has told us they are no 
longer available. It has not added anything further  in response to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did not say that that British Gas wouldnt have  made the second appointment if it had known 
what it related to, as Ms A has stated.  I acknowledged in my provisional decision that British  
Gas could have  made  further enquiries with Ms A about why the claim had been  refused after 
the first visit but didnt.  However, I concluded  that it had not acted unreasonably in agreeing to 
send an electrician out to assess the situation. Ms A says this wasted  her time but this is only 
because the outcome of this visit was not as she had hoped.  The agreement to send an 
electrician out was not a guarantee from British Gas that the clam would be met. Ms A is 
disappointed that her claim  was not met. I remain of the opinion  that the offer already made  by 
British Gas is reasonable and I am not persuaded that any further  compensation is warranted.  
I also remain of the opinion that British  Gas has not acted unfairly in relation to the pricing of 
Ms As policy.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint as British Gas insurance Limited has already made  a
reasonable offer of compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or
reject my decision  before 31 December  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3895816