K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Santander UK Plc (when  it was trading as National & Provincial  Building  
Society) mis-sold  them a regular premium payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs E in 1989  in connection with a
home improvement loan they arranged with Santander. The policy  provided Mr and Mrs E 
with cover if they couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs E disagreed  with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Es needs?
- Did Santander give Mr and Mrs E the information they needed  to decide whether to
take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether 
Mr and Mrs E are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different 
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive concluded  Mr and Mrs Es PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs E say they were put under pressure to buy the PPI, and that they werent  given
a proper choice.  They say Santander told them they had a better change of getting  the loan 
they wanted if they bought the policy. Ive noted everything Mr and Mrs E have said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs E and 
Santander when  the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these  events took place many 
years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Im aware that Mr and Mrs E had arranged their main  mortgage the year before, and that 
they hadnt taken PPI with that loan.  So I think they wouldve been aware that taking the PPI 
wasnt a condition of borrowing.
Ref: DRN32147722In addition, the loan application form they completed said:
Please indicate  if you wish to arrange  the following optional insurance cover
Personal Accident  and Sickness with redundancy
Personal Accidence and Sickness without redundancy
Mr and Mrs E chose  accident and sickness cover  with redundancy, and they had to 
complete a separate application  form to apply for the PPI. 
So from what Ive seen,  on balance  I think Santander  did enough to make  Mr and Mrs E 
aware they had a choice about taking the policy. Without anything else to support what 
Mr and Mrs E have  told me, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say that Santander didnt 
tell them  the policy was optional. 
Santander accepts  that it probably  advised Mr and Mrs E to take out the policy  and it
doesnt look like it was unsuitable for them based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at
the time.  I say this because:
- theres nothing to suggest  that Mr and Mrs E werent  eligible  for the cover, 
- Mr and Mrs E says they were entitled to sick pay from their employers if they couldnt
work because of sickness or accident, and that they had medical cover and death in 
service benefits. But the policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr and Mrs Es 
employer sick pay, and would have allowed them to use those benefits to cover  other
expenses. Their medical cover wouldve only covered medical  expenses, whereas 
the PPI covered their mortgage repayments. And their death in service benefits 
wouldve only paid out in the event  of death. So I think Mr and Mrs E would have had
some use for the policy, despite their existing arrangements.
- Mr and Mrs E werent affected  by any of the conditions  limiting the policys main
benefits, such as those affecting  self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing
medical conditions.  As they could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover I
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys
exclusions and limitations.
I understand Mr E became self-employed some  time after he and Mrs E took out the 
policy. But I can only consider their circumstances at the point of sale, and at that 
time Mr E was employed. So his subsequent self-employment doesnt change  my 
overall conclusions  about the complaint. 
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mr and Mrs E
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs E took out the policy  knowing  they
would have to pay something for it, and it seems the policy was apparently 
affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have made  a different decision if 
better information about the cost had been  provided.
Ref: DRN32147723Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it should have  been. But as Ive already  said, Mr and Mrs E werent  affected  by any of the
exclusions or limitations and the policy seems to have been affordable. So I think it unlikely
Mr and Mrs E would have made  a different decision  if better information had been provided
 overall, I think they would still have taken out the policy.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs E paid on their policy  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Es policy  was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Santander has been  working  this out 
and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Es commission  was less 
than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case,  I dont think  it needed to tell them about 
the commission  so I dont think Santander treated them unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  
need to pay Mr and Mrs E back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3214772