K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Provident Personal Credit Limited,  trading as Satsuma Loans, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Mr O had two loans  with Satsuma. Ive summarised some of the information Satsuma 
provided about the loans  in the table below.
Loan  no. Amount Start date Term Payments due
1 £250 09/12/2013 13 weeks £26.92 per week
2 £400 11/02/2014 26 weeks £25.85 per week
An adjudicator considered  Mr Os complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld.  Mr O didnt 
agree with the adjudicator. He said he had a credit card with one of Satsumas sister 
companies and he was constantly  making late payments on it. He also says the loans tipped 
him into default and that he had arrangements to pay with other creditors. Finally, he says 
had Satsuma verified his income and expenditure (by checking bank statements) it wouldve 
been obvious he was borrowing from one lender to pay another.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr Os case. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay  his loans in a sustainable  manner.
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Os income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks might be reasonable 
and proportionate.
Satsumas checks included asking  Mr O questions  about his income and expenditure. It says 
the information it obtained included  that Mr O declared income  of around £3,500 per month 
and had monthly outgoings  of approximately £1,050. Satsuma also carried  out credit  checks  
which show Mr O had no delinquent accounts  at the time he applied  for his loans.
I think it was reasonable  and proportionate for Satsuma to rely on the information Mr O 
provided for the two loans it approved. As this information suggested the loans were  
affordable I dont think Satsuma acted  unfairly  by approving  them.
Ive considered the points Mr O made  in response  to the adjudicator.  I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr O had problems repaying the credit card he mentioned  prior to either loan 
being approved.  The detailed credit  report Mr O provided shows  that there  were  no late 
payments to the card before February  2014   the arrears/arrangement to pay came later in 
2014. Similarly, theres no clear evidence  of adverse information recorded on other  accounts  
prior to February 2014.
Ref: DRN32342032As Ive said above,  I think Satsuma carried out proportionate checks  before lending. This 
means it didnt need to ask Mr O for further evidence  about his income and expenditure  
such as his bank  statements. And if the loans did contribute  to Mr Os financial  difficulties,  
I dont think that was something  Satsuma could reasonably have foreseen.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Os complaint about  Provident Personal 
Credit Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3234203