K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited,  trading as Barclays Partner Finance, wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr H under a conditional  sale agreement with Barclays Partner 
Finance in November  2017. Mr H says that he noticed issues  with starting the car in 
January 2018  and he contacted the dealer which told him that the issue was caused by the 
cold weather. He says that he was told by the dealer in July 2018  that it had investigated the 
engine and that there were no issues with it  but his wife broke down in the car about two 
weeks later.  He returned the car to the dealer  and he complained to Barclays  Partner  
Finance in August 2018. It arranged  for the car to be inspected  by an independent expert. 
The inspection report said that there  was an issue with the cars turbo and that, taking into 
consideration the time and mileage  elapsed since the start of the agreement,  on the balance  
of probability the issue wouldve been developing at that time. But Barclays  Partner Finance 
contacted the expert and said that itd been given  an incorrect  mileage for the car and that 
the car had been driven for more than 8,000  miles. So the expert said that the fault wouldnt 
have been developing when it was supplied to Mr H. Barclays Partner Finance paid £236.95 
to Mr H as a goodwill  gesture to reimburse him for his car hire costs.  Mr H wasnt  satisfied 
with Barclays Partner  Finances response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that the cars  
turbo failing when it had only been used for about  35,000 miles shows  that the turbo wasnt 
durable. And she said that durability was an important component of what can be considered  
satisfactory quality. She wasnt satisfied  that theres enough evidence to fairly conclude that 
the fault wasnt present at the point of sale or that the car was of satisfactory quality at the 
point of sale. Mr H had purchased another car so she recommended that Barclays  Partner 
Finance should  pay for the car to be repaired and to compensate him for having to hire 
another car while his was immobile  but only until the purchase  of the other  car.
Barclays Partner Finance  has asked  for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. 
It says that it can see no evidence of the faults being present at the point of sale so it doesnt  
feel that its liable for the repair or subsequent costs. 
Mr H says that the car has been  repaired under warranty but hed like Barclays  Partner 
Finance to cover the expenses that he incurred while he was advised  not to drive the car: 
refund for car rental, car insurance, road tax and car payments; compensation for service 
failings and a further six months  warranty for time lost waiting for a response. But the 
investigator said that she wasnt going to ask Barclays Partner Finance to refund the 
insurance, road tax, or monthly repayments  and she didnt think  any further  compensation 
was warranted  in this case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A used  car was supplied to Mr H in November 2017.  Barclays Partner Finance says that the 
car was about four years  old, had a mileage of nearly 27,000 miles and its price was £8,645.  
Ref: DRN38071852Barclays Partner Finance,  as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the 
car was of satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. Satisfactory quality also covers  
durability which means  that the components within the car must be durable  and last a 
reasonable amount of time. Exactly how long that time is will depend on a number of factors. 
Theres no dispute that an issue with the cars  turbo was identified  when the car was 
inspected by an independent expert in August 2018.  The cars mileage was recorded  as 
35,275 miles. So in less than nine months  Mr H had used the car to drive  about 8,000 miles. 
And the expert  said that the car wasnt safe to drive because  of severe oil contamination of 
the turbo.
I consider that it was reasonable for Mr H to expect  that the turbo  on the car would last 
significantly more than 35,000 miles. And I dont  consider that it was reasonable to expect 
that the car would become unsafe to drive within less than nine months and after only about 
8,000 miles of use because of severe  oil contamination  of the turbo.  So I consider it to be 
more likely than not that the car wasnt as durable as it was reasonable for Mr H to expect it 
to be. And for that reason  I consider it to be more likely than not that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when the car was supplied  to Mr H.
The car was repaired  under  warranty  in November 2018. And Mr H says that he bought 
another car in September 2018.  But Mr H wasnt able to use the car that was supplied  to him 
by Barclays Partner Finance from July to November 2018. During  that period he had to hire 
a car for his wife to use. Barclays Partner Finance has already paid £236.95 to Mr H to 
reimburse him for some  of those  costs. But Mr H says that he hasnt received a payment of 
£192  Barclays  Partner  Finance says that the £192 was the cost of the independent  
inspection which it paid to the independent  expert  and that Mr H hasnt  paid that amount so 
isnt entitled to a refund  of it. But I find that Barclays Partner Finance should reimburse him 
for the other  car hire costs that he incurred when he wasnt able to use the car between  
July 2018 and when he bought the second  car in September 2018.
But Im not persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to 
require Barclays Partner Finance to refund any other payments to Mr H or to take any other  
action in response to his complaint. And Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence to 
show that there have  been service failings by Barclays Partner Finance in its dealings  with 
Mr H.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part. And I order 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited,  trading as Barclays Partner Finance, to reimburse  
Mr H for the car hire costs that he incurred between July 2018  and September 2018. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3807185