K822xComplaint
Mr P complains that the two cars he hired under hire agreements  with PSA Finance UK 
Limited werent of satisfactory quality. 
Background 
Mr P is a driving instructor and he entered into two hire agreements  with PSA Finance to hire 
new cars. The first was dated  March 2017  and the second was dated May 2017. He says 
that he experienced ongoing problems with both cars and doesnt  think they were fit for 
purpose. He says he raised his concerns but his complaints werent dealt with in a 
satisfactory way and he was passed between various people.
Mr P says that although he was told the cars had been repaired they both continued to have 
issues. He says the problems with the cars included persistent engine faults, braking system 
failures, oil pressure problems, loss of electrics,  freezing up of instruments, faulty  light 
clusters, battery charging fault, an engine temperature fault and the crank pulley falling off. 
The problems started in the same  year that he acquired the cars. 
Mr P says that when  he returned one car to the dealer he was told the braking system issue  
was caused by the brake and accelerator  being used at the same time. He says that as a 
driving instructor he has to use the dual controls  to prevent an accident  and so this issue 
meant the cars werent fit for purpose.
Mr P says the issues have meant he has suffered significant losses  and damage to his 
business reputation.  He says that although PSA Finance says that there  werent issues  until 
April 2018 this wasnt the case and previous issues have been overlooked. He says that 
PSA Finance has sent out collections teams even though he told it the cars had been 
handed back. 
PSA Finance issued its final response  letter in January 2019.  In this it says that while there 
were issues  with the cars these were resolved by the dealership.  It noted Mr Ps comments 
that he should be compensated for the loss of earnings while  his cars were being  repaired 
but says that the manufacturer confirmed its liability was to carry out the warrantable repairs 
during the warranty  period and it wasnt required to compensate Mr P for any loss of 
earnings. However as a gesture of goodwill the dealership offered Mr P a £150 credit. 
PSA Finance says that, as the finance company, for it to be liable for the issues  Mr P had 
experienced it would need to establish that the cars werent of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply.  It says Mr P didnt  contact it about  any ongoing problems with the cars until 
April 2018, around  a year after entering into the hire agreements. 
PSA says that both agreements have been terminated. It says Mr P left the cars at the 
dealership and the cars were uplifted from there.
Our investigator thought that the offer made by PSA Finance to refund Mr P two monthly 
payments on both of his agreements and pay him £100 compensation was reasonable. She 
said this was to reflect  the time the cars were in for repair. She didnt think there  was enough  
evidence to say that the cars werent  of satisfactory  quality at the point  of supply. She noted  
that repairs had been carried out and said she didnt have evidence  to say these  werent 
successful.
Ref: DRN39350182Mr P didnt accept our adjudicators view. He said that both cars experienced the same  
issues on multiple occasions which had a negative  impact  on his business.  He said his 
complaints hadnt  been listened to and that the offer made by PSA Finance was insufficient. 
He wants PSA Finance to acknowledge the cars werent of satisfactory quality and he wants  
damages for the issues he had experienced. He said he wasnt the only driving instructor  
that had experienced these issues. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P entered into two hire agreements with PSA Finance. Under the regulations, specifically 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015), PSA Finance can be held liable if the cars 
werent of satisfactory  quality at the point  of supply. Satisfactory quality considers what  a 
reasonable person would expect taking  into account  all the circumstances. In this case  the 
cars were new when the agreements were entered into and so it is reasonable that Mr P 
would expect them to free from faults, including minor defects.
Mr P experienced a number of issues with the cars which he needed to have resolved. The 
repairs took time and as he needed the cars for his work as a driving instructor  I can see 
why this was a particular concern to him. However  for me to uphold  Mr Ps complaint in 
regard to the cars not being fit for purpose  I would need to be satisfied  that the cars werent 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
For this decision I will refer to the car subject  to the March 2017 agreement  as Car A and the 
car subject  to the May 2017 agreement as Car B. The agreements  were due to run for 24 
months however  but both agreements were  terminated early  and the cars collected from the 
dealership in March 2019.  Given Mr P no longer has the cars further investigation into any 
issues is not possible. However  I find that enough  evidence has been provided  in this case  
for me to be able to make a decision.
Based on the job cards  provided, Car A was seen by the dealership on a number of 
occasions between  August 2017 and January 2019. The first visit was for a service and 
included a complementary health  check and there  is nothing  to show that any issues  were  
raised through this process. Further  services  were carried out as would be expected at 
various mileage intervals. 
The first issue reported  in regard to Car A was in November 2017, nine months after the 
start of the hire agreement. Car A experienced an issue  with the engine management light 
(EML) coming on. The job card records that there  was no loss of power and that Car A had 
been looked at recently  due to an engine light which was linked to the accelerator and brake 
pedal being pressed  at the same time. The fault was erased and Mr P was told to monitor 
the situation. Wile I understand Mr Ps comments about the need  to use dual controls to 
prevent an accident,  based on the job card from this time it doesnt appear that a fault was 
identified that would  suggest  Car A wasnt fit for purpose.
In December 2018, a service  was carried out which included the front brake discs and pads 
being replaced. Given Car A had been  driven 32,000 miles at this time I do not find it 
unreasonable that new discs and pads were  required.  These  are serviceable items that will 
wear depending on use. Therefore I consider this wear and tear and not a fault with Car A.
Ref: DRN39350183In April 2018, when  Car A had been driven over 44,000 miles the EML came on and there  
was an oil pressure warning. At this point, repairs were carried out including  replacing the 
timing belt. A further service was carried out in May 2018 and then in July 2018  a fault was 
identified with condensation in the near side rear light.  This was replaced. While I 
understand that it was inconvenient for Mr P to have his car in for repairs, given when these 
issues arose and the mileage covered  at this point I find that repair  under warranty  was a 
reasonable remedy. 
At this time Mr P also raised concerns about the brakes and the rear brake  discs  and pads 
were replaced. As I mentioned above,  brakes  are a serviceable item and given the mileage 
covered by this time I do not find I unreasonable that replacement pads and discs  were 
required.
Following this, Car A was returned for a repair to a headlight and a service in November 
2018, by which time it had been  driven over 72,000 miles. The following month the front 
brake discs  and pads  needed replacing again and then in January 2019,  Mr P reported  a 
further issue and the crank  pulley was replaced.
Having reviewed the job cards for Car A, I find that most of these were either for services or 
the replacement  of serviceable items such as the brakes. Warning lights  did come on more 
than once but these appeared to be for different issues and as repairs  were carried out 
under the warranty  I find this a reasonable remedy.
I do not find I have anything to show that the repairs werent successful and without further 
evidence of faults present at the point of supply I do not find I can say Car A wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. 
Mr P also experienced  issues with Car B and he returned the car on several  occasions.  
However, as with the Car A, a number of the returns were  due to the services required at 
certain mileage intervals and at times recall work  was carried out as well. In regard to issues 
with Car B, Mr P reported the EML being on January  2018. At this time Car B had been 
driven over 25,000  miles.  A fault was identified and the oil and filter were  changed and spark  
plugs were replaced. While I appreciate it was inconvenient for Mr P to need repairs  to 
Car B, as these were carried out under  warranty I find this a reasonable remedy.
Mr P then returned Car B for services and also replacement  front brake discs and pads. The 
brakes discs and pads  were replaced  at around 40,000 miles.
The next issue Mr P raised  was in January 2019  when he reported the EML on and a loss of 
power. At this point  faults  were confirmed and repairs undertaken.  Given  the repairs took 
place under warranty I find this a reasonable remedy and I have nothing to suggest the 
repairs werent successful.
Overall, while  it is clear  faults occurred with Car B and repairs  were undertaken, I do not find 
that I have  evidence to say that Car B was faulty or not fit for purpose at the point of supply.  
Given the issues that arose I find that repairs were a reasonable remedy. 
Mr P has complained about the time he was without his cars due to repairs and also the 
damage the issues have caused to his business.  I can understand why this has been  
upsetting for Mr P however I also note the comments made by PSA Finance regarding the 
terms of the agreement in regard to not covering loss of earnings. A number of the visits 
Mr P made to the dealership were for regular services and wear and tear issues however I 
Ref: DRN39350184note that on certain  occasions faults were  identified that needed repairs.  I do not have 
details of the length of time that Mr P was without his car while repairs were  undertaken.
PSA Finance has agreed  to refund  Mr P two monthly payments for both agreements and 
given the evidence I have seen regarding  the repairs required  I find this reasonable. Mr P 
was offered a £150 credit  by the dealership but I can understand why he didnt accept this. 
PSA Finance has offered  to pay him £100  compensation  which  I find reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is PSA Finance UK Limited should, as it has agreed,  pay Mr P two monthly 
payments for both agreements and £100  compensation  to resolve this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3935018