K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C bought  the policy in 1989  around the same time as taking  a personal loan and 
some years after taking a mortgage.  Due to the time thats  passed,  it isnt clear exactly how 
the PPI sale took place  (for example,  by post or as a result  of a meeting or a phone call).
The policy provided  cover  on Mr C for accident, sickness  and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It cost £10 a month  at the time. For a successful  claim it offered 
to pay £200 a month to help Mr and Mrs C with their mortgage  related costs. Unemployment  
claims were  limited  to 24 monthly benefit  payments per claim. There  wasnt,  when the policy  
started, an equivalent  limit on how long the benefit could be claimed for accident  or sickness.
At the time of the sale, Mr C had been  employed  in his job for some years. A loan application 
from the time says he was a shop manager  with income more than twice as high as Mrs Cs. 
From what  Mr C has told us, they were entitled  to no more than statutory pay for sickness or 
redundancy and didnt  have any other  means,  like savings,  with which to pay the mortgage if 
they couldnt work. Mr C has told us of an operation in childhood but hasnt  told us of having 
had any other or more  recent health  issues before the policy  started.
B&B has sent us evidence to show the mortgage  account closed in 2005. Mr and Mrs Cs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, 
Mr and Mrs Cs representative says:
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  B&B should have told Mr and Mrs C 
about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs C and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
Ref: DRN38706772The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1989 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN38706773I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs case.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for them,  given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether B&B gave  Mr and Mrs C sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to enable 
them to make an informed  choice about whether to take the policy, including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Cs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs C 
and B&B,  Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs C already  had their mortgage 
when they took the PPI. So I think they wouldve  known they didnt have to have the PPI to 
Ref: DRN38706774have their mortgage  and wouldve  known  the PPI was separate  from the mortgage.  They  
also signed a separate  PPI application form to take the PPI. Ive nothing  to make me think 
they were pressured  into the cover either. Taking  everything into account, I think its more 
likely Mr and Mrs C knew the PPI was optional  and agreed to take it without undue pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
B&B says it didnt provide advice during this sale.  When Mr and Mrs C brought us their 
complaint they indicated  they couldnt  recall whether advice was given or not. With all this in 
mind, Im not persuaded B&B provided  advice. This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI 
was suitable for Mr and Mrs C. Instead, it had to give them sufficient,  appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take the policy, 
including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way 
 the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description of what 
the PPI was intended to cover (that is, it would protect their payments if Mr C were unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs C wouldve taken the policy  
without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be. Also, the form 
Mr and Mrs C signed to apply for the PPI made it clear theyd selected cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment (cover for accident and sickness only was also offered).
Im also satisfied Mr and Mrs C were  aware  of what the policy benefit amount was, as this 
was set out on the form they signed   as was the fact that cover was to be on Mr C rather  
than on Mrs C. But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt  tell us whether B&B gave 
sufficient information  about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before 
Mr and Mrs C agreed  to take the policy.
So I dont  think B&B gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  drawing 
to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Cs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact much of the premium went  to the business rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN38706775-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs C about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C have suggested. And, taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude B&B ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs C? To what extent did they 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found B&B didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs C. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not they would have 
still taken the policy,  had B&B done things  properly. 
Mr and Mrs C say they wouldnt  have  taken it and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs C had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of Mr C being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs C chose to take this policy.  So I consider its reasonable to 
conclude they had some  interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But they 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr and Mrs C thought  they 
were getting  is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this differed  is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs C have suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr and Mrs C were given  about  the benefit amount  was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policy, such as the cost,  limitations  and exclusions,  
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
It doesnt appear B&B told Mr and Mrs C the exact premium at the point  they applied.  That 
said, I dont think it likely  they wouldve taken  the PPI without some idea of the approximate 
cost. Also if when they started to pay it the cost had been significantly at odds  with what  
theyd expected at the sale, they mightve  raised  this with B&B at that time or reconsidered 
their decision. Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs C wouldve found the cost 
unacceptable if theyd  been given the exact figure when they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to illness for which Mr C had symptoms before the 
start date, any recurring injury or illness returning in the first twelve months of the policy  
Ref: DRN38706776and any illness or injury caused  by any infirmity which happened in the 12 months before 
the start and for which Mr C had received medical treatment; 
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr C wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
For unemployment the policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the 
remaining term of the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they mightve decided  not to proceed.  The limitations  on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  mightve dissuaded  some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from taking the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for them. Mr C was eligible for its benefits and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable to Mr and Mrs C should 
the insured risks have become a reality. Mr C might not have been able to claim for work 
absences related to his childhood operation, but hed never had any such work absences. 
And Ive nothing to make  me think Mr and Mrs C mightve thought  such  absences at all likely 
in future  either. So I dont  think  Mr and Mrs C wouldve been put off the PPI by this. Also Ive 
no evidence to suggest Mr C was caught by any of the other  significant  exclusions  he was 
in permanent employment for example  and hasnt told us about any other  health  issues. So, 
I think Mr and Mrs C still had some good reasons to take the policy.
Mr C has referred  to back problems in his line of work.  The policy didnt  exclude  back issues 
or place  any additional restrictions or more onerous  evidential requirements in the event of a 
claim on those  grounds than wouldve applied to any other disability  claim.  And I think  it 
unlikely Mr and Mrs C wouldve expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.  Similarly, the policy didnt  exclude  or place 
more onerous evidential requirements  on claims  relating to mental health conditions.
To make a disability claim, Mr C needed  to be totally unable to carry out his usual gainful 
employment - and not following any other occupation. I dont think  this is likely  to be too 
different to what he wouldve expected. It seems unlikely he wouldve thought hed be able to 
make a successful claim if he were still working, whether in his usual job or any other job.
B&B may not have  told Mr and Mrs C that any claim Mr C made for unemployment would  be 
limited to 24 months. This may have  differed from what they expected and mightve hoped 
for. But Mr Cs redundancy  entitlement was likely  significantly  less than even 12 months 
income. In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr and Mrs C wouldve still thought cover 
that paid up to 24 monthly benefit payments would benefit them and help them  manage the 
consequences if, in the circumstances the policy covered, Mr C were  unable to work  due to 
unemployment. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made  and could help reduce 
Mr and Mrs Cs outgoings at what could  be a difficult and uncertain time if Mr C were 
unemployed, making it less likely their home  would be placed at risk.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs C wouldve still taken the policy. It was sufficiently close to what its likely 
they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  manage the 
consequences if Mr C were made redundant, or unable  to work through  accident or 
sickness. In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not Mr and Mrs C would have 
taken the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN38706777Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same position they would have been in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken the policy. I am not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they wouldve been in if they 
hadnt bought the PPI. Thats because, while I accept  its possible they wouldnt have taken 
it, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities,  its more likely than not they wouldve still taken the 
PPI if theyd been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the PPI they were 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable, in those circumstances, to 
conclude B&B should pay Mr and Mrs C compensation, as that would put them  in a better 
position than they wouldve been in if everything had happened as it should  have done.
Im also aware Mr and Mrs C think B&B misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of B&Bs  
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr and Mrs C, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1989  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find B&B negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs C and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find B&B had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
Ref: DRN38706778think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 June  2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3870677