K820x#14complaint
Mr Os complained that Motors Insurance Company Limited (MICL)  unfairly turned
down a claim on his mechanical  breakdown insurance policy.
Reference to MICL includes its agent.
background
Mr Os car developed a fault so he took it to a garage to be diagnosed. The garage said 
there was a faulty shock absorber which needed  replacing. The garage also noticed that the 
power steering  pipe was leaking.  Because of this Mr O claimed on his policy  for the shock  
absorber and power steering pipe. 
MICL reviewed Mr Os claim  and agreed to cover the shock  absorber but said the power 
steering pipe wasnt covered. It said this was because it had failed due to corrosion and 
therefore didnt  meet the definition of sudden mechanical failure. MICL also said the pipe 
was in a condition you would expect on a 10 year old car. 
Mr O didnt agree and complained. He said the car had a health check not long before this 
fault and there hadnt been any mention of corrosion  in the health check. Because of this   
Mr O said the pipe must have failed  suddenly and unexpectedly. MICL didnt agree so Mr O 
brought his complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Os complaint and found the definition of sudden mechanical 
failure didnt cover parts which failed due to wear and tear. Because the pipe had corroded 
she agreed with MICLs decision  that the claim wasnt  covered. Mr O disagreed. He said the 
health check didnt  mention any corrosion  so the part must have failed suddenly. 
As Mr O disagreed the complaint  has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O has made a number of detailed points. Were  an informal dispute resolution service,  
set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting  on every issue  in turn. This 
isnt intended  as a discourtesy to Mr O. Rather  it reflects the informal  nature  of our service,  
its remit and my role in it. 
Mr Os policy  covers him for mechanical or electrical failure to all factory fitted  components. 
The policy defines  mechanical failure  as the sudden  and unexpected failure  of a component 
which is covered by the warranty and which requires immediate  repair or replacement.  Wear 
and tear or normal  deterioration is not covered  under the definition of mechanical  failure.
MICL said the pipe was corroded and therefore hadnt suddenly  failed. I think  the point the 
corrosion caused  the pipe to no longer  work and leak,  can be sudden  and unexpected. But I 
dont think MICL has done anything wrong  by turning down Mr Os claim.  I say this because  
the policy definition  of mechanical  failure specifically excludes wear  and tear and normal  
deterioration. Ive therefore looked  at whether MICL  has applied this fairly. 
Ref: DRN37532272I think its only fair to say a part has failed due to wear and tear or deterioration if its reached 
the end of its normal working life. MICL  said the pipe was in a condition expected on a 10 
year old car. As Mr Os car was 10 years  old and the pipe was in a condition  expected  of a 
car of similar age to Mr Os. Im persuaded its likely this part has reached the end of its 
normal working life.  Because of this Im satisfied MICL have fairly turned down Mr Os claim.   
I understand Mr Os said the health check on his car, just before the pipe failed, didnt 
mention any signs of corrosion. But this hasnt  persuaded me that MICL has unfairly  turned  
down his claim. I say this because its not in dispute that the pipe has corroded. So while  the 
report didnt mention corrosion it hasnt persuaded me this isnt the reason the pipe failed. 
Im therefore  not going to instruct MICL to do anything else. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3753227