K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about the charges Arval  UK Limited  (Arval) asked him to pay at the end of 
a finance agreement he had with them for a lease car.
background 
Mr T took receipt  of a new car in June 2015. He financed  the deal through  a three year hire 
agreement with Arval  which  was therefore  due to end in June 2018.
He sent the log book  back in the post but it was lost and he therefore  paid for a new one. 
This delayed  the return of the car and collection was arranged  for July. So Arval charged  an 
additional month hire of £224.24.
In the meantime Mr T took the car to have a puncture repaired and during the process the 
wheel was lost. This resulted in a further  delay and a further  charge for additional  rental 
months.
A collection date was arranged in September  but unfortunately  Mr T had to cancel it and 
Arval asked him to pay an aborted collection fee of £516.60.
When the car was handed back in October 2018  Arval inspected it and told Mr T there was 
damage to it that they believed was in excess of fair wear and tear. They asked  Mr T to pay 
for the refurbishment  in line with the requirements  set out in his contract. The charge was 
£745.
Mr T complained to Arval  and they agreed  to remove  one months rental charge as they 
understood the delay due to the misplaced wheel was not of Mr Ts making. But they thought 
the rest of the charges were still made out.
So Mr T referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator provided his view. He 
explained that Arval had now made an offer to settle the issue and had agreed to waive  the 
aborted collection fee of £516.60  and the further  rental charge  of £774.42. theyd also 
agreed to pay Mr T £100 in respect of the difficulties hed experienced. The adjudicator 
explained that left a bill of £869.24. He reviewed the damage charges Arval had levied by 
comparing the inspection  report  photographs with the industry standard  for fair wear and tear 
when cars are returned at the end of the lease.  In all cases  he thought the charges were well 
founded and clearly beyond reasonable wear  and tear. He therefore thought  Arvals  offer to 
settle the matter  for £869.24 was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr T didnt  agree with the adjudicators opinion. He explained that the issues hed faced  had 
been very distressing and he therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr T so please let me explain 
why.
Ref: DRN34390512Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
Section 2.1.3 of the finance  agreement  explains:
Arval shall invoice  the hirer for the cost of repairs  to a vehicle  that is subject to 
damage which, in accordance with the BVRLA  Fair Wear and Tear Guide for the Contract  
Hire Industry,  would  constitute unfair wear and tear
Ive therefore  considered  the damage and charges made by Arval  on termination against  this 
industry guideline. Ive been able to study the photographs provided by the inspector in his 
report and I think,  in all cases, the damage  that was identified was beyond  what  the 
guidelines would consider  fair wear and tear and is therefore chargeable.
I therefore dont  think theres any reason for Arval to reduce the charge of £745 that they 
made.
Arval have made an offer to settle the dispute for £869.24. They were charging for one 
month extension of the contract and the refurbishment costs and were then applying  a £100 
deduction in respect  of the difficulties they understood  Mr T had faced.
As I think  the refurbishment  charges have been correctly applied,  and that makes  up the 
vast majority of the remaining charge, I dont think Arvals offer is unreasonable. They could 
have insisted on an aborted  collection fee as its not disputed  that the collection was 
cancelled at short notice.  So I think,  in the circumstances, their offer is reasonable and Im 
not asking them to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Arval  UK Limited to 
reduce the outstanding bill and accept £869.24  in final settlement of these matters.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3439051