K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank (Lloyds) plc hasnt helped him with his financial difficulties. 
He wanted Lloyds to give him the help he would  like.
background
Mr S says he contacted  Lloyds several times from early April 2018 to discuss financial 
difficulties he was having meeting repayments,  including a personal loan repayment  with 
Lloyds. But he says Lloyds has never  followed anything up with him.
Most recently he says he went into a Lloyds branch but it couldnt  offer him the help he 
wanted. He wanted Lloyds to refinance  his current loan. He says Lloyds put a thirty day hold 
on his Lloyds loan for interest repayable. And put a payment holiday in place for March 
2019. But Mr S says he wants a longer term solution.
Lloyds said it was satisfied it had tried to help Mr S by offering various options. But these 
didnt meet Mr Ss requirements as he didnt want his credit file affected.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He found that Lloyds had followed up contact  
from Mr S, and in a reasonable timescale.  He felt Lloyds had explored the avenues he 
would expect when  a customer raised  financial problems
Lloyds accepted this view but Mr S didnt.
Mr S  said  the adjudicator  had named the wrong branch in his view,  the only help Lloyds 
offered with regard  to direct debits was to suggest  closing them  down, and the plan to be 
put in place in November  2018 was never followed up. If it had been  Mr S says he wouldnt 
have had financial problems in November 2018,  December 2018 and January 2019.   He felt 
the branch could have helped him more but didnt.
Finally Mr S says he prided himself on having continued to make  the loan repayments.   But 
said this continued  to cause him anxiety and stress. He felt strongly the loan was mis sold to 
him.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change his view. He apologised for the 
error with the branch name.  He couldnt  find any evidence to show Lloyds suggesting 
closing direct debits. Although he acknowledged  Lloyds may have said this but didnt feel 
that it was wrong  of Lloyds to do so. 
With reference to the proposed plan to be put in place from November 2018 our adjudicator 
noted that during a phone  call about  this the call was lost when being transferred  to a 
department to complete an income  and expenditure assessment. When Lloyds tried to call 
back they were only able to leave an answer  phone message. Then there  was no further 
contract between Mr S and Lloyds  until 28 January  2019 in response  to Lloyds requesting 
Mr S call the bank back. Our adjudicator felt it was reasonable for Mr S to have contacted 
Lloyds to continue  the conversation after the call was lost but didnt do so.
He did not agree that the personal loan Lloyds  agreed with Mr S was unaffordable. He noted 
the loan was applied and approved on 3 November  2017. The notes  confirmed affordability  
checks were carried  out and Mr S accepted the loan. He also noted the loan was to 
Ref: DRN31543782consolidate an existing  debt and was done  on the basis of reducing Mr Ss outgoings and 
helping him. 
Mr S didnt accept this further  view. He still felt he had no support from Lloyds despite his 
personal circumstances now being such that the will struggle to pay the monthly loan and 
other outgoings. He noted Lloyds had given him details of debt advice charities but this 
wasnt the reason  he contacted Lloyds. He still felt Lloyds should do more to help him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S feels  strongly about this situation so I appreciate he is going  to be disappointed as Ive 
reached the same view as our adjudicator.
In cases of financial hardship we do expect banks  to respond positively and sympathetically 
to consumers so I have looked in detail at the information Lloyds has sent us. 
One of the issues  Mr S has raised  is that Lloyds mis sold him a personal loan in November 
2017. He feels  the loan was unaffordable and Lloyds should  never  have offered it. 
I can see from Lloyds notes that the loan was a refinancing loan to consolidate other  loans. 
The overall effect was to reduce Mr Ss monthly  outgoings. It seems two different monthly 
payment amounts were discussed with Mr S and the loan was agreed as part of a package 
of measures to help Mr S. These included reducing  his overdraft limit to £500 and an 
agreement to closing  his Lloyds card when  the balance had been cleared.  
Its clear that affordability was discussed  there is reference to a lump sum that Mr S was 
expecting to get in the future  that he thought he might use to pay off the loan. Taking all of 
this information  into account I dont believe there is any evidence that Lloyds mis sold this 
loan.
. 
In terms of financial difficulty  I can see from Lloyds  customer  notes that Mr S raised financial 
problems on 3 April 2018 and 29 August 2018. On both occasions income and expenditure 
assessments were completed  and a thirty day breathing space was applied  to both Mr Ss 
current account and personal loan. In August the notes show  that despite raising financial 
problems Mr S was still managing to meet his repayments.
The notes dont reflect  that Mr S wasnt happy with this or wanted further or different help.
The next contact  from Mr S was on 1 November 2018 and this was the call that was lost.  I 
can see from the notes  that Lloyds called  Mr S back on the same day but was only able to 
leave a message  on his answer machine. 
I dont feel I can accept  Mr Ss view that Lloyds failed to follow  up on his phone calls. In 
April and August 2018  it offered help to Mr S when he called. In November 2018 Lloyds 
called Mr S back when the call got lost but was unable  to contact him. Lloyds could have 
tried to call Mr S again and I havent seen any evidence it did so. But having  left a message 
for Mr S to call Lloyds back I think Mr S could have done so but didnt. In fact didnt get in 
contact with Lloyds  again until 28 January 2019.
Ref: DRN31543783When Mr S visited a branch in January 2019 he was there for over four hours   that is along  
time but it seems to me from the notes that the staff were  really trying to help Mr S. As a 
result of that meeting Mr Ss accounts  were put on hold for another  30 day period. And 
Lloyds agreed  to a payment holiday for March 2019 to help Mr S.
As I understand it Mr S wanted Lloyds to refinance  his loan as he was concerned about the 
affordability of payments  going forward. Ive noted that Mr S has said that so far he has 
managed to keep  up with repayments which is to his credit.
Unfortunately Lloyds wasnt unable to agree to a refinancing arrangement.  However it 
appears Lloyds  did put a number of options  to Mr S but he didnt want  to pursue  anything 
that might  impact on his credit file. I have already said we expect banks to respond positively 
and sympathetically  when customers have financial difficulties  but that doesnt mean 
banks have to agree to everything customers ask for.  I do think the bank  were  trying to help 
Mr S during  this visit  I think that is partly  shown by the time he was in branch.. 
Mr S has said he wasnt happy that Lloyds told him to close  his direct debits in this meeting. I 
can see from the notes  that there was a discussion over one particular direct debit but the 
notes clearly state the final decision  was Mr Ss. It seems to me that Lloyds was offering 
advice to Mr S over direct debits not telling  him what to do. I dont feel I can fault Lloyds for 
that.
Ive also seen letters Lloyds sent Mr S on 1 February 2019  telling him that charges  on his 
account have  been frozen  .The letter asked Mr S to get in touch to try to work out a way 
forward. The letter said it could deal with someone  on Mr Ss behalf if that were easier. And 
it also gave details of external  agencies that could also offer help. 
I appreciate Mr S feels sensitive about being  given  details of external  agencies, he has told 
us that wasnt the help he was looking.  But that doesnt mean it was wrong for Lloyds to offer 
this. Some consumers find these  useful to use and it is a source of potential  help.
Mr S didnt respond to this letter so Lloyds sent a follow up letter  on 19 March  2019 again 
asking Mr S to get in touch to discuss the options and support it could offer.
Taking all of this information into account  I do believe Lloyds has acted  positively and 
sympathetically towards Mr S. It has put his account  on hold to give him breathing space on 
a number of occasions, allowed one payment holiday, and frozen charges on his account. It 
has offered details of external agencies that could help and encouraged Mr S to contact the 
bank to find a solution. 
I would encourage  Mr S to keep in touch  with Lloyds about  his financial situation and to 
consider all options the bank suggests  to him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019. 
Ref: DRN31543784Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3154378