K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about a key facts  document produced by Strathearn  Insurance  
Services Limited (SISL) in relation to insurance  provided as part of an investment he made. 
In summary,  Mr B says that SISL failed to disclose material information and provide 
appropriate risk warnings in the document. He says he relied on the document, and had the 
disclosures been  made  and the warnings given,  he would  not have made the investment. On 
this basis, Mr B feels SISL is responsible for the loss he suffered by making  the investment. 
background
Mr B is a member of IPIN Global Prospects Network  (IPIN). This is an investment  network  
which aims to provide  property investment opportunities to its members.  The investment 
opportunities were  typically to fund property developments such as hotels, student 
accommodation and residential care homes by way of a cash  deposit. The deposits were 
initially sent to a law firm to be held within an escrow account. The developer  then would 
draw the money  down,  when needed,  to finance the project. The property units would be 
sold by the developer before a set date and the investor would get the money  they deposited 
back, along with a share of any profits from the sale of the development. 
IPIN marketed its schemes as having  secure exit strategies (SES).  A key characteristic  
of this was protection offered to the investors.  This involved the money invested being  held 
in the escrow account until an insurance policy was taken out by the property  developer to 
protect the invested  funds. Once  the insurance  was taken  out, the developer was able to 
access the money. If a project failed or the developer  defaulted, the investors - who were 
named as the beneficiaries of the insurance contract - could claim  any difference  between  
the deposit paid and any money already returned  to them from the insurer. The insurance 
was called a Property  Deposit Bond  (the bond). 
Mr B invested in Scheme  A in May 2012  paying  a deposit of about £47,000. An insurer  
based in Nevis in the West Indies, Northern  & Western Insurance  Company (NWIC) 
underwrote the insurance provided  by the bond. The literature  provided  by IPIN in relation to 
the investment  included  the following: 
The SES application at the [Scheme A] uses a Property Deposit Bond to protect 100% of the 
deposit funds  invested by SES investors in the event that the developer defaults upon  his 
obligations within the applicable purchase agreements.
The Property Deposit  Bond  is arranged on behalf  of the developer  by Strathearn  
Insurance Services Limited.  Due to the regulated nature of the product offered any direct 
questions relating specifically to the bond aspect  of the SES offering should  be directed to 
Strathearn Insurance.
Please see Key Facts  document issued  by Strathearn  Insurance overleaf.
 
The Key Facts document (which Ill refer to as the KFD) included  the following: 
Strathearn Insurance is a specialised  advisory  services company dedicated to residential 
and commercial real estate markets. The company's  solutions are supported by leading  
international specialty insurance groups.
Is Strathearn Insurance regulated?
Ref: DRN33793882Strathearn Insurance operates with FSA Registration number 514675. You can check  this on 
the FSA's Register  by visiting  the FSA's website  www.fsa.gov.uk register or by contacting 
the FSA on +44 (0) 845 606 1234.
Whose products do Strathearn  offer?
In relation to [Scheme  A] SES application Strathearn Insurance only offer a product from a 
single international insurance company.
What services will Starthearn Insurance provide  you with?  
Strathearn Insurance recommends that you accept this policy,  as it is designed to work  
specifically with the investment proposal  developed for IPIN SES investors. Strathearn  
Insurance does  not offer advice on the SES investment  proposal,  the associated  contracts  or 
their interpretation.
You are recommended  to obtain  independent legal advice on all associated  contracts, and 
the duties, responsibilities  and obligations of the parties to the contracts.
How is Strathearn  Insurance paid?  
Strathearn Insurance is paid through  a commission payment from the insurer. This 
amounts to approximately  11% of the premium paid by the developer on your behalf.  
The insurer  has a Managing General Agent in the UK who also receives a commission  
payment paid by the developer.
Who owns Strathearn Insurance? 
Strathearn Capital  Ltd owns 100% of the Strathearn  Insurance  Limited  share capital. No 
insurer owns any share in Strathearn Insurance or its parent company.
Is Strathearn  Insurance covered by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS)?
Strathearn Insurance is covered by the FSCS. You may be entitled to compensation from 
the scheme if Strathearn cannot meet their obligations. This depends on the type of 
business and the circumstances of the claim. Insurance advising and arranging  is covered 
for a maximum of 90% of the claim,  without any upper  limit. Further  information about 
compensation scheme arrangements  is available  from the FSCS.
Mr B was due to receive a repayment of his money by 18 May 2015,  but this didnt happen.  
Later (September 2015) the company behind Scheme A went into administration.  NWIC  
went into liquidation  before this, on 16 January 2015. After he became  aware  the company 
behind Scheme A had gone into administration Mr B was told by the liquidator  of NWIC that 
there was no chance of a claim on the bond being  honoured. 
Mr B complained to SISL. He said the KFD had recommended  he take the insurance 
provided by the bond, and he based  his decision to invest  solely  on this recommendation, 
and the facts that had been disclosed about the bond. He said there was no mention in the 
KFD that the insurer was not FCA regulated or covered by the FSCS.
In response SISL  said it had no relationship  with Mr B, it had not sourced the bond,  and full 
disclosure about  the product and insurer had been  provided. After Mr Bs complaint was 
Ref: DRN33793883referred to us, SISL objected to us considering it, as it did not consider the complaint to be 
within our jurisdiction. 
I issued a provisional decision in January 2019.  I was satisfied that Mr Bs complaint was 
one I could look at. Turning to the merits of the complaint, my provisional finding was that the 
KFD was not clear or fair, and was misleading.  I also thought  it did not pay regard to Mr Bs 
interests. I found that it was reasonable for Mr B to rely on the KFD and that he likely did rely 
on it. And that if the KFD had been clear,  fair, and not misleading, and had SISL acted in 
Mr Bs best interests, he would not have gone  ahead and made the investment. A copy of 
my provisional findings is attached, and forms part of this decision. 
Mr B said he accepted my provisional  decision, and had nothing further to add. 
SISL did not accept  the provisional decision. Its representative said, in summary:
On the matter of jurisdiction, SISL  recognises  that this has been  considered  by this 
service in the jurisdiction  decision  in a similar case. Notwithstanding  this, it does not 
accept that Mr B falls within the ordinary meaning of a client. There  was no retainer 
of SISL by the consumer and no remuneration was paid by the consumer to SISL.
The context of the investment needs to be taken into account. The members of the 
IPIN network tend to be high net worth  / sophisticated investors who are familiar 
with property club type investments. SISL  understood that the IPIN members had 
self-certified to IPIN that they were  aware of the risks of making investments of this 
nature and they invested via IPIN because they sought a high rate of return, 
something which is inevitably associated  with increased level of risk.
The investors typically received advice from other  parties including their lawyers, 
IPIN and potentially, independent financial advisers and that is something that 
needed to be taken into account.  
The provisional decision appears to regard the KFD as if it had either been a policy  
summary or key features document as defined the FCA Handbook. It is actually 
Initial Disclosure Document and should  be treated as such. It is unfair to judge it 
against the standard of another type of document which  it never purported to be.
It cannot be said that Mr B relied  on the KFD as it appears quite possible that if the 
same bond had been in place and he was told of the bond  but the KFD had not 
been present,  he would  still have  gone ahead with the investment.
Each investor was required to sign their acceptance of the surety  bond  and the 
providers name  and address were displayed on the document the investor  signed.
my findings
Ive first reconsidered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whether  this 
complaint is one I can look at.  Having  done  so, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
can we consider  the complaint?
As I explained in my provisional decision,  SISL  had objected to this service  considering  this 
complaint, and a number  of others  similar  to it. It said Mr B wasnt  its customer, the deposit 
Ref: DRN33793884protection insurance wasnt a regulated product and that it did not carry out any regulated 
activity.  
This was considered  at length by us in another similar case and SISL  recognises  that the 
jurisdiction issues that are relevant to this case have  been considered in the jurisdiction 
decision in that case. So I do not want to repeat those  findings  here.  I remain of the view that 
this complaint is within our jurisdiction  for the reasons I mentioned in my provisional 
decision. I will however  address  the points raised  by SISL following my provisional decision.  
SISL says that Mr B does not fall within the ordinary meaning of a client, there was no 
retainer of SISL by the consumer and no remuneration was paid by him to SISL.
Our powers to consider  complaints are set out in the Financial  Services and Markets Act
2000 (FSMA) and in rules,  known as the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) written by the 
FCA in accordance with the powers it derives  from FSMA.  
DISP2.7.1R  says:
A complaint  may only be dealt with under the Financial Ombudsman Service if it is brought 
by or on behalf of an eligible complainant.
An eligible complainant  is defined by DISP 2.7.3R as person who is a consumer,  which  
means  "any natural person acting for purposes outside his trade, business  or profession".
And DISP  2.7.6R  says:
To be an eligible  complainant a person  must also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
(1)the complainant  is (or was)  a customer..  of the respondent
(2)the complainant  is (or was)  a potential customer of the respondent
     ..
(5) the complainant  is a person for whose benefit a contract of insurance was taken 
out or was intended to be taken out with or through the respondent 
Mr B was a beneficiary under a contract of insurance. And for the reasons already explained, 
I am satisfied that the contract of insurance was taken through  SISL.  So I consider that Mr B 
is an eligible complainant under DISP  2.7.6(5)R.
It may be that no remuneration was paid directly  by Mr B but often insurance brokers are 
paid commission by the insurer and that is what happened  here. SISL was paid commission  
by the insurer  NWIC.  As stated in the KFD the commission was paid by the developer to 
NWIC. As I understand it, the premium for the policy  was a percentage of the deposit paid by 
Mr B and, of this, some was retained  by NWIC  and some  was paid as commission  to SISL. 
In addition, I also consider  that Mr B is an eligible complainant under DISP  2.7.6(2)R.  It may 
be that there was no retainer of SISL by Mr B but I am satisfied that he was a potential 
customer of SISL and therefore an eligible complainant under the DISP rules.   
SISL in its capacity as a regulated insurance intermediary offered its services to potential 
customers. It said in the KFD:
Ref: DRN33793885Due to the regulated nature of the product offered, any direct  questions  relating  specifically 
to the bond aspect of the SES offering should be directed to Strathearn Insurance using 
the contact  details below ..
And:
 The FSA requires you to be provided with this information. Use this information  to 
decide if our services are right for you
It also referred  to our service  in the event  of any complaint  and to the FSCS  in the 
event  SISL  could  not meet  its obligations.  Thus  I am satisfied  that SISL  saw the 
recipients  of the KFD of the specific  schemes  as its potential  customers.  
It may be that Mr B did not eventually approach SISL but SISL made  its services  available  to 
him in its capacity as the regulated firm. And as noted earlier,  SISL  was paid commission in 
relation to the deposits made, whether or not the respective investors contacted  it. 
Taking all of this into account,  it is my view that Mr B was a potential customer of SISL and 
therefore eligible  complainant under DISP 2.7.6(2)R as well. 
I have therefore  reconsidered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done  so, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision on this either.  I will detail 
my reconsideration of things below. 
relevant considerations
Having reconsidered  what are the relevant considerations,  I remain of the view that they are 
as set out in my provisional decision. For completion, I have set them  out again below. 
I am required to determine this complaint  on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. When considering what  is fair and reasonable, I am 
required to take into account relevant law and regulations; regulator's rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes  of practice;  and, where appropriate, what  I consider to have  been  
good industry practice at the time.
The KFD was clearly  intended as the source of information about  the bond  for potential 
customers thinking about investing  in Scheme A.  And Im satisfied that SISL knew this. 
The FCA handbook  sets out the Principles which are a general statement of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
A firm must pay due regard to the information  needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential  client (and so potential  
customer). So SISL had an obligation to ensure that it communicated information in a 
way that was clear, fair and not misleading.
Ref: DRN33793886I consider that Principle  6 is also relevant here.  That says: "A firm must pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  and treat them  fairly. As SISL knew that potential  customers  
were being  referred  to the KFD for information about the bond it had to consider the interests 
of those potential  customers.
was the information SISL provided  clear, fair, and not misleading and did it pay regard  
to Mr Bs interests?
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I remain of the view that the information 
SISL provided in the KFD was not clear or fair, and was misleading. 
SISL says that what it provided was an Initial Disclosure Document. But the KFD was 
referred to as a key facts document by SISL itself on more than occasion. The literature 
provided by IPIN also refers to it as a key facts document and not as an Initial  Disclosure 
Document.   
In any event, as I explained  in the provisional decision, the KFD was clearly  intended as 
the source of information about  the bond  for potential customers thinking  about investing 
in the schemes  and SISL was aware  of that. So I consider that SISL had an obligation to 
ensure that this communication  was clear, fair and not misleading.
what is the impact of this?
Having concluded  that the KFD was not clear  or fair, and was misleading, I need  to 
reconsider how much  reliance Mr B placed on this document before he decided to make the 
investment.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision I think it is reasonable to conclude  that 
Mr B looked  at the KFD, and relied on it when  he decided to proceed  with the scheme.
SISL says that members  of the IPIN network were frequently high net worth / sophisticated 
investors who were familiar with property club  type investments. It says that they were 
aware of the risks they were taking and had sufficient advice to make  informed decision. 
SISL has also said that investors  typically received  advice from other parties including  
their lawyers, IPIN and potentially other  independent  financial advisers,  and that is 
something the investigator failed to take into account. 
As previously mentioned,  in the marketing literature IPIN clearly directed the potential 
investors towards SISL for information  about the bond and not to other professionals. 
As I understand it, IPIN was concerned  that it or other related companies should not 
provide information  or advice in relation to the insurance as they were  not authorised by 
the FCA in that regard.  This was why SISL  was brought  in to handle that part of the 
scheme. 
Also, as noted  earlier, the KFD recommended that consumers seek  independent advice 
on the investment  proposals and contract. However for information  about the bond they 
were directed to seek information from SISL.  
Given all this, it seems  to me that the clear  intention was that SISL was responsible for 
providing information about the bond, and that it was understood that investors would 
rely on this information.  I have seen no evidence to show Mr B relied  on anything other 
Ref: DRN33793887than the KFD when considering the bond, as part of his overall  consideration of the 
investment. And, although Mr B could  reasonably  have been described as an investor 
of some knowledge and experience, I do not think that means he was not entitled to rely 
on the KFD  in particular the recommendation that he accept the policy from the 
specialist insurance  broker,  SISL.  
I think it also needs to be made clear  that I am considering a complaint against SISL, 
not any other party. And I need to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of that complaint. If I decide  SISL has done something wrong and, but 
for that, the investment would not have  gone  ahead, it may be fair to ask SISL  to 
compensate Mr B for the investment loss even  if other parties were involved.  And I am 
satisfied it is fair to do that in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
SISL has also argued that Mr B would still have invested even  if the KFD had not been 
provided, simply in the knowledge that a deposit  bond was in place. I think it unlikely 
that Mr B would have  proceeded  without  knowing any details of the bond  it was those 
details, provided  by SISL, which  I think gave him the assurance he needed to proceed.  
As I mentioned in my provisional findings,  I am satisfied  Mr B was looking for a low risk 
investment. And I think it unlikely he would have concluded the investment was low risk 
without the details provided in the KFD  it was those details rather than the existence  
of the bond per se which gave Mr B the assurances he would have been looking for. 
SISL has also pointed  us to the bond schedule that was signed  by the investors.  It says 
that the schedule provided the name and address of the insurance company and so 
Mr B ought  to have  known  that the insurer was an overseas insurer.  I accept Mr B may 
have been aware  NWIC was based overseas. But I do not think that means that he was 
not entitled to reply  on the assurances given in the KFD by SISL,  particularly given the 
KFD formed part of the pre-sale literature, whereas the schedule was not given to Mr B 
until after he had invested.  
For completeness, I should again confirm that although I am referring to the insurance in the 
context of the overall investment in Scheme A, it is the role played  by the bond and the 
information provided in relation to the bond  which was the key consideration here. My 
consideration was focused on the information provided by SISL  in the form of the KFD, as that 
is the basis of Mr Bs complaint. 
summary
In summary,  for the reasons given here and in my provisional decision,  I find that:
When Mr B decided  to invest in the property scheme he was looking for a low risk 
investment. 
The underlying  investments  in properties offered potential for growth  but they carried  
higher risk of capital  loss. That would most likely  have not suited Mr Bs risk appetite. 
However security of capital was provided through the bond. 
I am satisfied that Mr B would have wanted  to consider the information provided in 
relation to the bond before deciding to invest in the scheme. He was directed to look at 
SISLs KFD for information about  the bond,  and says he did this. So I consider it 
reasonable to conclude  that he relied  on that information along  with SISLs 
recommendation that he accept the policy  in deciding  to invest in the scheme.  
Ref: DRN33793888SISL knew or ought to have known that it was the KFD potential investors were directed 
to for information about the bond. So it had an obligation to ensure that the KFD was 
clear, fair and not misleading. For the reasons already explained, the KFD did not 
provide clear, fair and not misleading  information about the bond.
The scheme failed  and NWIC has been  liquidated. Mr B has suffered a loss as a result. I 
consider it more likely  than not that had SISL  provided clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the risks involved with the bond,  he would not have invested in the 
schemes. So it is fair that SISL compensate him for the loss.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr B 
in the position he would  have been in but for SISL's failure.
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  it is my conclusion that, if it were not for the failings 
of SISL, Mr B would  likely not have invested in Scheme A.  So Mr B should be put in the 
position he likely would  be, had he not made  the investment. 
I am satisfied Mr B was looking  to invest his money, so I think he would have  invested  
elsewhere, but with capital protection. It is not possible to say precisely what  he would have 
done differently.  But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair, given his objective  
for growth  with little risk.
To compensate Mr B fairly,  SISL  should calculate the position Mr B would now be in if his 
investments had produced a return matching the average  rate for fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 
17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England.
I have chosen  this method of compensation because in my view the average  rate would be a 
fair measure, given Mr Bs circumstances  and objective. It does not mean that Mr B would 
have invested  only in a fixed rate bond.  It is the sort of investment return  a consumer could 
have obtained  with little risk to their capital.
To calculate compensation, SISL should  work out what the amount Mr B invested  in Scheme 
A would be worth at the date of this decision, had it received a return  matching the average 
rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity as published by the Bank of England. 
Any amount  received by Mr B from the scheme  should be deducted from the fair value at the 
point it was actually  paid so it ceases to accrue  any return  in the calculation  from that point on.
I understand Mr B has received three payments from the administrators of Scheme A. He 
should confirm  this, and the exact  amounts received, to allow  SISL to carry out the 
calculation.  
I do not believe Mr Bs investment in Scheme A has any realisable value currently. So no 
allowance should  be made for value of the investment when making the calculation. SISL 
can however, in return for the compensation, ask Mr B to undertake  to pay to it any future 
returns he receives in relation to the investment. Mr B should agree  to give this undertaking, 
if he is asked to. 
Ref: DRN33793889my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is that this complaint should be upheld. Strathearn  
Insurance Services Limited  should calculate and pay compensation as described above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN337938810Copy of my provisional findings
As mentioned,  SISL has previously  objected  to us considering this complaint.  In short, it has said Mr 
B wasnt its customer, and that the bond  wasnt a regulated product. 
SISLs objections were  considered at length by us in another similar case. I understand SISL accepts  
the jurisdiction  issues that are relevant to this case have been considered  in the jurisdiction  decision 
in that case, and that we do have jurisdiction to consider complaints such as Mr Bs. So I will not 
consider jurisdiction in detail here. However, for completion, I confirm I am satisfied that Mr Bs 
complaint is within our jurisdiction. In summary, I am satisfied that that Mr B is an eligible complainant, 
the bond  is a contract of insurance and that SISL  carried out the regulated activity of arranging 
(bringing about) deals in investments and/or making  arrangements with a view to transactions in 
investments.
I have therefore considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
I am required to determine  this complaint on the basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  When  considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into 
account relevant law and regulations; regulator's rules, guidance and standards, and codes of 
practice; and, where  appropriate,  what  I consider to have  been good industry  practice at the time.
The KFD was clearly intended as the source of information about the bond for potential  customers  
thinking about  investing  in Scheme  A.  And Im satisfied that SISL knew this. 
The FCA handbook sets out the Principles  which are a general statement  of the fundamental 
obligations of the firms it regulates, such as SISL.
Principle 7 says:
"A firm must  pay due regard to the information needs  of its clients,  and communicate information to 
them in a way which is clear  fair and not misleading"
Client is defined as a customer and it includes potential client (and so potential  customer). So 
SISL had an obligation to ensure that it communicated  information in a way that was clear, fair 
and not misleading.
I consider that Principle  6 is also relevant here. That says: "A firm must pay due regard  to the 
interests of its customers  and treat them fairly. As SISL  knew that potential  customers  were  being  
referred to the KFD for information about the bond it had to consider the interests of those potential 
customers.
was the information  SISL provided clear, fair, and not misleading and did it pay regard to Mr 
Bs interests?
Mr B says:
The KFD reassured him as it said the policy was recommended by an FCA regulated business 
(SISL).
This led him to believe  that the policy would have the same level of protection as that provided  by 
insurers which had underwritten  previous IPIN schemes  he invested in.
But for the recommendation and the statements in the KFD, he would not have invested in 
Scheme A. 
Ref: DRN337938811Having considered  everything, I am minded to agree that the information  provided in the key facts  
document was not clear  or fair, and was misleading.  
There is no mention in the key facts  that the insurer  was NWIC. The document does  not say that 
NWIC was not regulated by the FCA. And there was no warning that should  NWIC fail to meet its 
obligations, consumers  would be unable to claim their losses under the FSCS. 
Also, considering that this was the document that the potential customers were referred  to in the 
marketing literature for an explanation of the bond, it would be reasonable to expect  that it explained  
the key terms and conditions of the policy. But that wasnt the case.
So I do not think the KFD was clear  it omitted key information. And I think  it was unfair  to omit that 
information, and misleading. Acting fairly  and reasonably, SISL  should  have ensured the KFD was 
clear, fair, and not misleading by including this key information. 
SISL has also provided us with a copy of what is described as an Amended  particulars of Claim.  This 
appears to relate  to a claim made before the high court against a law firm, about some of the IPIN 
schemes. This suggests that at around the time when  SISL produced the KFD of Scheme A there was 
publicly available information that raised serious  concerns about  the appropriateness of NWIC as the 
bond provider and whether  NWIC would be willing and able to honour its obligations under  the bond. It 
mentions that a simple  Google  search at the time would have  revealed that it had been reported that 
NWIC had failed to pay claims. 
The KFD said:  "Strathearn Insurance recommends  that you accept this policy, as it is designed to work  
specifically with the investment proposal  developed for IPIN SES investors".
I do not think  it was fair, or in the best interests of Mr B, to make such  a recommendation  without carrying  
out some checks on NWIC,  and highlighting the potential risks.  Acting fairly and reasonably,  SISL should 
have balanced its recommendation  to potential customers to accept the policy with explanation of the 
potential risks. If it was known at the time that NWIC  might  be in difficulty, it would have been fair to include 
a warning about this potential risk in the KFD. 
what is the impact of this?
Mr B says he relied on the key facts document before making his decision  to invest. When  Mr B 
discovered IPIN, he says he had been considering investing in the UK buy-to-let property market.  But 
he was nervous about  how this had been  affected  by the recession and the risk of making a loss. Mr 
B says the mechanics of IPINs  SES schemes offered him the potential for a fixed return,  with 
guaranteed capital security,  and none of the expensive  start-up costs normally associated  with 
property investment.  So I think Mr B was looking  for a low-risk investment at the time he invested in 
Scheme A.  
The schemes  were marketed as low risk exposure  and it is clear from the promotional  literature that 
the protection offered through the bond was a key selling point  to convince potential customers that 
the schemes were low risk. 
Mr B also invested in a previous IPIN scheme  which was underwritten by a UK insurance provider. I 
have seen the literature provided  by IPIN for that scheme. It did not include  a key facts document, 
such as the KFD. However it did provide  some information about  the insurance, which Mr B says he 
was reassured by. 
As it happens, the developer  in that scheme did go into liquidation. And the insurance, provided by a 
large FCA regulated insurer, covered by the FSCS, did cover Mr Bs losses. 
So Mr B was clearly  seeking  a low risk investment.  And I think the protection  offered by the bond  in 
relation to Scheme A would have been very important to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN337938812I also think  it likely that Mr B based his decision to invest in reliance  on the KFD, as he says. Hed 
previously invested in an IPIN investment,  which had worked as anticipated, and says he based his 
decision to invest on that occasion on the material provided by IPIN. I think it likely  he acted similarly 
when making the investment in Scheme A. As the previous investment decision had been based on 
the IPIN literature, and had been sound, there was no reason why Mr B would not again base his 
decision on the literature  provided by IPIN. 
However for Scheme A the insurer was very different. And IPIN directed  Mr B, and other consumers 
like him, to SISLs KFD for information about the insurer and the insurance. 
The literature clearly  portrays  SISL as the entity that potential investors  needed  to look to for 
information about the bond. SISL also portrayed itself in the KFD as a specialised advisory  services 
company dedicated to residential  and commercial  real estate markets. SISL  also said The 
companys solutions are supported by leading international speciality  insurance groups . So it is clear 
SISL was portrayed to potential customers as an expert. 
In the KFD SISL  also told the potential  customers that they should  accept the policy as it was designed 
to work  specifically  with the investment proposal  developed for IPIN SES investors ".
SISL also referred separately to the insurance  and the overall investment proposition in the KFD. In 
doing this I consider it was drawing a distinction  between the insurance part of the scheme and the 
rest if the investment,  to highlight that it was tasked  with providing information  about  the insurance.
Mr B would have had a good general  level of knowledge of the financial service regulatory regime, by 
virtue of his occupation (he was a mortgage broker). He also says in his submissions to us that he 
considers things very carefully. And that he has been engaged in a professional capacity  to write  and 
proof read literature for other property investments. 
But I do not think this means that it was not reasonable for Mr B to rely on the KFD.  As mentioned, hed 
relied on the literature provided  by IPIN before. So he would have taken  comfort from that. And I think in 
the light of the assurance of the recommendation of the policy from the FCA regulated expert,  SISL, Mr 
B had no cause to make  any further enquiries about the insurer. I think  he was content to make the 
investment, in the knowledge there was insurance to protect him if things went wrong,  as there had 
been when he invested  previously. And, to be clear, although I am referring to the insurance in the 
context of the overall investment in Scheme A, it is the role played  by the bond and the information  
provided in relation to the bond which is the key consideration here. My consideration is focused on the 
information provided  by SISL in the form of the KFD, as that is the basis of Mr Bs complaint.  
So I think SISLs failure to make the KFD clear, fair and not misleading, and failure  to consider the 
interests of potential  customers  such as Mr B, has had a significant impact. I am satisfied that, but for 
this, Mr B would not have  made the investment. Had the KFD been  clear, fair and not misleading, and 
had consideration been given to interests of potential customers  such as Mr B, I think Mr B would  
have been aware of a number  of risks. Crucially, Mr B would have had cause to question whether  the 
investment was as safe as the one he had previously made, and met his low risk objective. I think that 
his awareness  of those risks would have led him to conclude there were  significant  material 
differences between this investment and the one he had made previously  and that those differences  
meant the risk was higher.  Given his desire not to risk capital loss, I think that would  have led Mr B to 
conclude he should not make the investment. 
So, if it were not for the failings of SISL,  I dont think that Mr B would have invested in Scheme A.  It is 
therefore fair for SISL to compensate Mr B for the loss he suffered through  making the investment. 
Ref: DRN3379388