K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited didnt cancel  his motor insurance 
policy from the date his motorcycle was damaged in an accident. 
background
In June 2016, Mr P was involved  in a motorcycle accident. He says he tried to avoid a car 
coming from the opposite  direction.
Mr P notified  MCE of the accident and it passed  his details on to a firm of solicitors. Mr P 
was unable to claim for damage to the bike on his insurance policy as this only provided 
cover for third party,  fire and theft. The solicitors helped him pursue a claim elsewhere, but 
this was unsuccessful. 
In December 2016 Mr P contacted MCE and cancelled the policy.  He complained that MCE 
had continued  to collect his premiums from June  to December. He said his motorcycle had 
been written off in the accident  and MCE was aware  of this.
MCE said it had no record of Mr P requesting his policy be cancelled before December 
2016. It would only cancel a policy if it was in its terms, it was requested  or if it imposed a 
cancellation itself.  It said Mr P was still liable for his monthly instalments until December 
2016.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 December 2019,  where  I explained why I didnt intend  to 
uphold Mr Ps complaint.  In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   From what  Ive seen so far, I dont intend 
to uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
MCE had an obligation to act honestly, fairly  and in Mr Ps best interests. Mr P doesnt think 
MCE has treated him fairly because it continued to charge him insurance premiums when he 
could no longer use his motorcycle.
MCE says Mr P contacted  it by telephone  a few days after his accident  but it isnt able to 
provide a recording of the call. Mr P has sent us a copy  of an email he received from MCE 
on the same  date which says it had passed  his details on to a firm of solicitors who would 
contact him about  making a claim.
Mr Ps policy  schedule  shows  his motorcycle was only covered for third party,  fire and theft. 
This means  he wasnt able to claim for damage  to his motorcycle on the policy.  From  what  
Ive been told there  wasnt a third party claim against Mr P for the accident. So I dont think  
MCE is likely  to have had any involvement in Mr Ps claim, other than referring him to the 
solicitors.
Without a call recording, I dont know exactly what was discussed  when  Mr P phoned MCE 
to inform it of his accident. But Mr P hasnt said that he explicitly asked MCE to cancel his 
policy at that time. 
Ref: DRN31326312The policy terms say if your motorcycle is considered to be a write off, this insurance policy 
will end when you accept our offer. But Mr P didnt claim on his policy, so MCE didnt have 
the opportunity  to declare  the motorcycle a write off. 
So I dont  think MCE would have  had reason to cancel the policy  before December 2016, 
when Mr P contacted  it again.
Our investigator thought it would be fair for MCE to backdate the cancellation  to the date of 
the accident because MCE wasnt on risk from that point. But I dont think this was the case.
Mr P has told us his motorcycle was taken to a garage following the accident, but it was later 
returned to him. Hes sent us a quotation from the garage to show what  it would  cost to 
repair the bike. I can see that the cost of repairing the motorcycle was more than the value 
showing on Mr Ps insurance schedule. So I can understand why he might have thought it 
wasnt economical to pay for the repairs. Hes also said it was declared off the road. But     
Mr Ps insurance policy covered him for third party, fire and theft. So Mr P could still have 
potentially made  a valid claim if, for example, the bike had been  stolen after the accident. So 
I dont agree that MCE wasnt on risk. 
I appreciate this has been a very distressing situation for Mr P, who sustained  injuries  in 
addition to losing the use of his motorcycle. But I could  only uphold  Mr Ps complaint against  
MCE if I thought it had done something wrong.  And from what  Ive seen so far, I dont think  it 
has.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond  with any further information they wanted me to 
consider before I issued my final decision.  But neither party as replied with any comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or comments, I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3132631