K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (Inter Partner)  didnt  fulfil its responsibility 
to repair  his water tank through the home emergency element of his home insurance policy. 
He said it was left leaking  for six weeks. Hes also unhappy that it didnt  pay out for the 
replacement tank.
background
Mr Ms water tank leaked in July 2018. He immediately carried  out a form of repair himself to 
minimise the leak. He also contacted Inter Partner which attended  that same  day to carry out 
a temporary fix. But it said that a specialist engineer would  need to attend  as it was a 
commercial water tank.
The claim was closed  after this point. But, after Mr M complained, Inter Partner determined 
that the work  carried out by the first attendee  wasnt sufficient but was intended to avoid 
further damage before a specialist company could look at the tank. So it agreed that the 
specialist company would attend. But this company provided Inter Partner with a report 
which said it couldnt provide a quote for the works. It said it couldnt carry out the repair due 
to the age and condition  of the tank and would recommend replacing the tank instead. 
Inter Partner said the replacement of the water tank wasnt covered under the policy.
Inter Partner acknowledged that things  couldve gone better during the claims process. So it 
has paid Mr M a total of £350 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience caused by this 
and the time it took to resolve.
Mr M purchased a new tank which, with the cost of installation, cost him around £800. He 
thinks Inter Partner should cover the cost of this. And he noted  the limit for his home  
emergency policy was £1,000, which is more  than the cost of the replacement water  tank.
Our investigator considered this complaint. He didnt  think  that Inter Partner  had acted 
unreasonably in declining the claim.  And he felt that £350 was sufficient for what  had gone  
wrong during  the claims process. But Mr M disagrees. So the complaint has been  passed to 
me for decision.
provisional decision 
I issued my provisional decision in September 2019. I said:
Ive turned first to the terms and conditions of the home insurance policy.  Its important to 
note that Inter Partner  only provides the home emergency section of his cover.  The 
remainder of the home insurance policy is underwritten by a different insurer  so 
Inter Partner isnt responsible for anything beyond  the home emergency element.
Mr M discovered the leak in the early hours of the morning and this was treated as a home  
emergency in line with the definition, The result  of a sudden and unforeseen incident at 
your home which immediately Creates a risk of loss of or damage to your home  and/or 
any of your contents  . The cover  includes plumbing problems relating to leaking pipes. 
The policy states  that Inter Partner would  carry out an emergency repair or, if at a similar 
expense, a permanent repair.
Ref: DRN35236162In this case, Inter Partner attempted a form of temporary fix. The alternative here wouldve 
been to isolate the water but Mr M said this wouldve required him to move  to alternative 
accommodation. But, because the water tank was a commercial water tank, it was deemed 
that a specialist engineer was required for anything beyond an initial  repair (which involved 
the use of silicone).  I think its likely that this specialist engineer wouldve been to ensure that 
the emergency situation was addressed appropriately, given that the tank wasnt what  
Inter Partner would usually expect to see in a domestic dwelling. And I also think  it likely that 
the engineer would be needed to determine whether  a permanent repair would  be similar in 
cost to the emergency repair,  in line with its requirements under the terms and conditions.
The specialist engineer attended and provided a report which  said:
Due to the age and condition of the tank there would be no way for us to carry out a repair 
on this therefore  we cannot quote these works. The only way to stop this tank leaking would 
be to strip the tank down, reseal and rebuild but due to the age we could not guarantee 
these works  and would  not be confident  rebuilding  a tank of this age. Our recommendation 
would be to replace  this tank with a smaller  tank
At this point, I think it became clear that a permanent repair  wouldnt be of a similar  expense  
to the emergency repair,  if indeed it was possible at all. So I dont think  its unreasonable  that 
Inter Partner only completed a very temporary fix to minimise the damage  caused. It would 
then be for the provider  of the home insurance to determine whether the matter was covered  
by this aspect of the policy. I say this because a replacement of the tank wasnt covered  by 
the home emergency cover. The following is stated under the exclusions:
Any leaking or dripping tap that requires  rewashing  or replacing, external overflows or 
replacement of cylinders, tanks, radiations  and sanitary ware. So, given that the item that 
needed replacing was a water tank, I think its clear  that this is excluded under the policy.
I havent seen  any persuasive evidence to suggest the tank didnt need  to be replaced.  I also 
note that Mr M did ultimately  purchase  a new one. So it seems likely that a repair either 
wasnt possible or, at the very least, wasnt viable  as part of home emergency cover.
Mr M noted that the policy limit for the home emergency portion of his cover  is £1,000  and 
the total cost of replacing his water  tank was £800.  But it doesnt follow that because the limit 
of the policy  is more than the cost of the replacement tank, it should be replaced. It isnt the 
case that any eventuality  is covered up to the cost of £1,000.  And, as Ive said above, the 
replacement tank is specifically excluded.
I note theres a term which states If we (our authorised contractors) are unable  to repair 
your boiler/hot water  system, we will pay you £500  towards a replacement. So theres a 
question here around whether the water tank forms part of the hot water system.
Inter Partners view here is that water  tanks arent exclusively  connected  to the hot water 
system. Im minded to agree here. And I think this is supported  by the exclusion  relating to 
replacement tanks.  So I dont think Inter Partner  is required  to pay towards the replacement.
So for these reasons, Im minded to say that I dont think  its unreasonable  Inter Partner 
didnt replace the tank (or pay towards  the replacement of the tank),  or repair  it beyond  the 
initial temporary fix. Insurance  policies usually respond to the loss or damage  caused by an 
insured peril;  they dont usually cover the cost of repairing or replacing the underlying cause  
itself, such as a worn or defective tank.
Ref: DRN35236163I acknowledge that the claims process couldve gone better. There were delays and it 
appears that Mr M had to chase Inter Partner a number of times  throughout the process. But 
I can see that Inter Partner paid him £350  for what went wrong  here. I think  this is a fair 
reflection of the trouble  and upset this matter caused and I havent seen anything to lead me 
to think this should be increased.
responses
In my provisional decision,  I gave both parties an opportunity to reply before I reached a final 
decision. Mr M replied with further  information, questions and comments. The key parts  have 
been summarised below:
He asked us to prove that the temporary repair was sufficient;
He said the specialist engineer didnt attend  for weeks which led to the need to 
cancel a family occasion;
He said he couldve replaced  the tank sooner and resolved the problem more quickly  
if there hadnt been unnecessary delays;
He said the compensation  he was given was for incompetence and lies;
He said the specialist engineer that was sent out was a salesman  who wouldve 
wanted to replace  the tank to achieve a sale;
He questioned why there wasnt a second opinion given around whether the tank 
couldve been repaired, rather than replaced;
He feels that the policy terms should be put aside and it should be taken into 
consideration that Inter Partner didnt provide the service  he paid for over the years.  
He said the situation  couldve been dealt with more efficiently and fixed at a cost of 
£800 to bypass the problem. 
Inter Partner didnt  provide  any further  information for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I know it will come as a disappointment  to Mr M, I dont uphold  his complaint.
My role isnt to prove  whether the precise way in which  the temporary repair  was carried out 
was correct; its for the parties to prove  their case  or disprove their opponents case. My role 
is to consider the evidence put before me and make findings on the balance  of probabilities 
in order to decide the case. And the evidence Ive seen  the report from the second  
engineer  would suggest to me that a repair wasnt viable. But Inter Partner had already 
made attempts to temporarily  repair the water tank, or at least to remove  the emergency 
element of the issue. While Mr M doesnt  think this repair was sufficient, even on a 
temporary basis, Ive not seen persuasive  evidence to support this. So, on balance, I am 
satisfied Inter Partner did enough here given it attempted repair, and arranged for another  
engineer to attend.  
Ref: DRN35236164Ive thought about what Mr M has said in relation to the specialist engineer  being  a salesman 
who wouldve benefited from recommending a replacement tank rather than a repair of it. 
But theres no evidence  to support this assertion. I havent seen sufficient proof to suggest 
the person who attended didnt have specialist knowledge of commercial water  tanks.  But I 
also note that Mr M referred  to speaking to his own plumber, who reportedly suggested 
directing the existing pipework into a new tank.  This is hearsay evidence  i.e. second-hand 
reported statements  that are presented as fact  and, therefore, not very weighty from an 
evidential point of view. But even if accepted, it would suggest that Mr Ms plumber didnt 
think replacing the tank was inappropriate advice. So Im not persuaded there  was an issue 
with the second person who attended on behalf  of Inter Partner. 
Its also worth pointing  out here that the policy terms dont require  Inter Partner to obtain a 
second opinion.  Home emergency  cover  simply requires the insurer to remove  the 
emergency element  of the peril. It could be argued that a second  opinion was sought  by 
virtue of sending out a commercial tank specialist.  But as there wasnt  a requirement for a 
second opinion,  I dont think it necessary to continue further down this avenue. Ultimately, I 
havent been given any evidence to contradict  the commercial engineers  expert opinion  that 
a repair  wasnt viable.  And it was for Mr M to disprove  this once the insurer  had adduced 
such evidence. 
Mr M explained that there were delays throughout the claim. Inter Partner acknowledged this 
and offered £350 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by the delays and the claims 
process in general.  I considered this in my provisional decision and I havent been provided 
with any new evidence  or arguments  which would  lead me to think an additional payment is 
warranted here. 
Mr M feels strongly that hes paid for a policy over the years that hasnt paid out when  he 
needed it to. But thats simply not how the law on insurance works. Its neither  a savings plan 
nor a contract of maintenance.  Insurance is all about  mutual  risk: the insurer runs the risk of 
covering potentially large losses  in return for a relatively small premium; whereas the 
policyholder runs the risk of paying premiums for cover that may never be needed or may 
not respond to certain events. A policyholder has no right to an indemnity for uninsured 
losses just because hes paid premiums and/or not claimed for many years. Thats  simply 
the risk he runs by choosing to take out a policy rather  than self-insure (e.g. by privately 
putting aside money  each  year in case of a rainy day). Im afraid theres  no reason to ignore 
fair terms  and conditions of an insurance  contract  to which a policyholder  freely agreed, as 
Mr M now suggests. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Inter Partner  
Assistance SA. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3523616