K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a hire purchase  agreement  with BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
under which a car was supplied to him was mis-sold to him and that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr S under  a hire purchase agreement  with BMW Financial  
Services that he signed in August 2017.  The car was nearly five years old, had been driven 
for 40,501  miles and had a price of £13,394.66. Mr S agreed to make 47 monthly payments 
of £249.99 and an optional final repayment  of £4,838.20. The interest  rate was 8.9% and the 
annual mileage limit was 15,000 miles.  He also entered  into a fixed sum loan agreement  with 
BMW Financial Services under which it lent £1,500  to him at an interest rate of 8.7%  
repayable by 48 monthly repayments of £36.88. The invoice for the car shows that that was 
a settlement loan. 
He had issues with the car  including with its steering rack,  fan resistors  and radio.  The 
dealer offered Mr S a replacement car under a new hire purchase agreement  with BMW 
Financial Services. He accepted that offer and signed a hire purchase agreement in 
April 2018. That car was five years  old, had been driven for 60,026  and had a price of 
£14,397. Mr S agreed to make 49 monthly  payments of £250.05 and an optional  final 
repayment of £5,566.20.  The interest rate was 7.9% and the annual  mileage limit was 
8,000 miles. He also entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with BMW Financial Services  
under which it lent £2,232.08  to him at an interest  rate of 9.9% repayable by 48 monthly 
payments of £56.05. The hire purchase agreement and loan agreement  replaced the 
agreements that hed signed  in August  2017.
He complained to BMW Financial Services about  some issues with the second car in 
September 2018 and said that he wanted  to reject it. The dealer repaired those issues  but 
he also complained  about the mileage limit in the second agreement.  BMW Financial 
Services sent him a final response letter in March 2019 in which  it said that the agreement 
wouldve been based on the given  mileage (including the monthly  payments and the optional 
final repayment) and monthly rentals. It said that this was a separate agreement to the hire 
purchase agreement  with the 15,000  annual mileage limit and he signed it as acceptance  of 
the agreements  contents, including the 8,000 annual mileage limit. Mr S wasnt satisfied 
with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint about  the annual  mileage limit should  
be upheld. He didnt  think that BMW Financial Services  had done  anything wrong: Mr S had 
signed the agreement which was binding on him  and he could see no evidence  that Mr S 
had been misled by the dealer about the mileage limit. 
But he believed that Mr S shouldve been  given the opportunity to reject  the first car because  
it was of unsatisfactory quality at the point of supply and that Mr S shouldnt have been put 
into the new agreements. He recommended that the additional funds that Mr S had paid for 
the second settlement loan should be returned to him (with interest).
Mr S accepted the investigators recommendation but BMW Financial Services says that it 
doesn't understand why the history of the first agreement is relevant to Mr Ss complaint.  It 
says that it was never involved with the issues with that car and the dealer was trying  to help 
Ref: DRN31477362Mr S by putting him in the second car. It says that the complaint that it dealt with was to do 
with alleged mis-selling of mileage allowance, not a quality complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In its final response letter  to Mr S, BMW Financial Services has only addressed  his 
complaint about  the annual mileage limit. But in considering this complaint I consider it to be 
reasonable for this service to also consider  the circumstances  that led to Mr S entering into 
the second hire purchase agreement and loan agreement.  So I consider that its appropriate 
to consider the issues that Mr S had with the first car and the dealers response to those 
issues.
BMW Financial Services, as the supplier of the first car, was responsible for ensuring that it 
was of satisfactory quality. Whether or not it was will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The first car that 
was supplied to Mr S was nearly five years old, had been driven for 40,501 miles and had a 
price of £13,394.66. Satisfactory quality also covers durability which  means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number of factors. 
Its clear that there were issues with the first car and the dealer offered Mr S a replacement 
car under a new hire purchase  agreement.  BMW Financial Services was not involved  with 
the issues about that car and the dealer hasnt provided any information about those issues.
I consider it to be more  likely than not that the dealer would only have offered to replace the 
first car if it was satisfied  that it wasnt of satisfactory  quality  because  of the issues with it. 
And if the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality I consider that the dealer shouldve explained to 
Mr S that he had the option to reject  that car if he didnt want to enter into the hire purchase 
agreement for the second car. Ive seen no evidence to show  that the option  of rejecting the 
first car was discussed  with Mr S. 
Mr S entered into the second hire purchase  agreement and loan agreement with BMW 
Financial Services. The price of the second  car was £1,002.34 more  than the price  of the 
first car but the monthly payment  was broadly the same. Mr S was to make 49 monthly 
payments for the second car  two more than for the first car - and the optional final 
repayment for the second car was £728  more  than for the first car. Mr S also signed a loan 
agreement for £2,232.08   which was £732.08 more  than the settlement loan for the first 
agreement. The annual mileage allowance under the second agreement was 8,000 miles  
and it had been 15,000  miles  under the first agreement.
Mr S signed  the second set of agreements  and I consider it to be reasonable to expect that 
he wouldve read and understood them before  he signed them.  But I consider that he was in 
a worse position under the second agreements than he wouldve been in if hed rejected  the 
car. He owed an additional £732.08  under the second loan agreement than hed owed under 
the first loan agreement and his total payments for the second car were  £1,230.92 more than 
they were for the first car  but the annual  mileage limit had gone down from 15,000 to 8,000 
miles.  
Ref: DRN31477363I dont consider that its now appropriate to try to put Mr S in the position in which  he 
wouldve been in if hed rejected the first car and ended the first agreement. And theres  no 
clear remedy  that I consider is suitable in these  circumstances to compensate Mr S for the 
losses that hes incurred  as a result  of entering  into the second agreements without rejecting 
the first car. But I consider  that it would be fair and reasonable  in these circumstances for 
BMW Financial Services to pay to Mr S the difference between  the amounts of the loan 
agreements (which is £732.08) with interest  from the date of the second loan agreement.
There were clearly some faults  with the second  car but I understand that those faults have 
been repaired by the dealer and that Mr S is now satisfied with the second  car.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. And I order  BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited to:
1.Pay £732.08 to Mr S.
2.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of the 
second fixed sum loan agreement to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires BMW  Financial  Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 2 above. BMW Financial Services must give Mr S a certificate 
showing how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3147736