K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that First Central Insurance Management Limited  provided  poor service  in 
administering his motor  insurance policy. 
background
In November 2028 Mr M no longer needed  the policy hed taken  out through  First Central, as 
he had been accepted  onto a government-financed mobility scheme.  He says he called First 
Central and also emailed it, but First Central says it didnt get a call or an email  from him. It 
says it wasnt able to collect  the next premium payment, as Mr M had cancelled  his direct 
debit instruction with the bank. It says it sent him a default notice saying the policy would be 
cancelled on 3 December  2018 if he didnt contact it before then. 
Mr M says he didnt  get the default notice, and the policy was duly cancelled. First Central 
then told Mr M he owed  £99.47 in charges.  Mr M said hed never been made aware of the 
charges previously, so he shouldnt have to pay them. He also told us that First Central had 
cancelled his policy in error in October 2018 but had reinstated it when challenged. So he 
was very unhappy with its overall  service.   
One of our investigators  considered Mr Ms complaint. She thought First Central  had acted 
reasonably. She said there was no evidence that Mr M had told it he no longer needed the 
policy. She said the charges were set out in the policy documents.  Mr M insisted he wasnt 
made aware  of the charges and that hed cancelled the policy correctly. He said First Central  
had been difficult  to work with and cited the policy  cancellation in October 2018. 
As Mr M asked for a review of his complaint, it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think First Central acted unreasonably  when the policy was cancelled  in 
October 2018. Having  listened to the relevant  calls,  it seems Mr M entered  a new address 
into the system, as he intended to move home shortly. He told First Centrals  advisor after 
the cancellation that he only wanted  to get a quote  so he could compare it to other quotes. 
First Centrals  system generated a new quote  as it appeared that Mr M had already changed 
his address. First Central can show that it emailed Mr M to tell him he had to take up the 
quote within seven  days or the policy would be cancelled. Although Mr M says he didnt get 
the email, as First Central can show it was sent I dont think  he can show it acted unfairly.  
And I think it acted more than reasonably in reinstating his policy  when he complained.
Mr M hasnt  been able to confirm exactly when he called or emailed First Central  to say he 
didnt need the policy any longer. He says it was around 4 November 2018. First Central has 
checked its records and cant find a call or an email from Mr M. He hasnt provided any 
evidence of the call or the email. But First Central can show  that it sent Mr M an email  and a 
letter on 19 November 2018 to warn him about the cancellation on 3 December 2018. So 
even if Mr M didnt  receive the correspondence, I cant say First Central acted unreasonably. 
Ref: DRN36153222First Central has shown  that before being able to buy the policy, Mr M would have had to tick 
several boxes online.  He had to agree that he had seen  the information  about charges and 
fees, that hed seen  the policy wording and that hed checked the Statement of Fact.  
First Central has shown  that the charges  it made are all set out in the policy  documents.  
They appear under the heading  Important customer information -  which  is highlighted in 
red and is in bold print. The section is referred to on the single contents page and appears 
just after the key facts,  definitions  and summary of cover. So I dont think its fair to say that 
the details of the charges  and fees are hidden  away. I think its reasonable to expect  
consumers to read information thats flagged up as important, even if they dont read the full 
policy details. 
In my opinion, First Central applied the charges that were set out online and in the policy 
documents fairly. If Mr M hadnt  noted  them, I can see why he would have been shocked to 
find he owed First Central anything at all. But given that First Central can show  it made the 
charges clear, I dont  think that was its fault.   
As I dont think Mr M has shown that First Central  acted unreasonably, I cant  uphold his 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3615322