K823xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained to us that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold them  a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in August 1989 to go with a loan.
background
Lloyds says it isnt responsible for the sale of the PPI. It says the policy was sold by
Business A. Business  A is a subsidiary of Lloyds but Lloyds says its an entirely  separate  
company.
Mr and Mrs R dont agree that they bought  the PPI from Business  A. Its their opinion that
the sale of the PPI was carried out by a representative from Lloyds.
In my provisional decision dated  1 March 2019,  I explained  why I considered  Lloyds Bank 
PLC wasnt  responsible for the sale of the PPI. I set out an extract below:
Ive looked at all the evidence and information provided and at what  Mr and Mrs R have told
us about the sale of the PPI. They  sent us some  correspondence relating to the loan which
came from Business A in 1997. This showed that Business  A was a subsidiary of Lloyds.
Lloyds told Mr and Mrs R that it could trace them as its customers, but unfortunately couldnt
trace either the PPI or their loan account.  Given that the sale of the PPI took place so 
long ago, I wouldnt  necessarily have expected Lloyds to find any of the sale paperwork. 
But Lloyds has also carried out searches  of its computerised  customer records, using
Mr and Mrs Rs details and the loan account number  they gave us. Its sent us the 
results which  Ive reviewed. None  of these show  that Mr and Mrs R took out PPI with 
Lloyds.
Mr and Mrs R say they bought the PPI from a broker.  But the evidence Ive seen strongly  
suggests that the broker was a representative  of Business A and not Lloyds. Ive also 
taken into account  that from the paperwork  that Mr and Mrs R have given us  which  
bears Business As branding - that it looks as if the PPI was sold by Business A.
It follows that from the evidence and information  Ive seen, I currently dont consider 
Ive seen enough for me to conclude  that Lloyds was responsible  for the sale of the 
PPI.
developments
Ive seen that copies of my provisional  decision were sent to Mr and Mrs R. They  havent  
come back  to me with any additional evidence or information. 
A copy was also sent to Lloyds which also didnt have anything  to add regarding my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN33903952Given that neither  party  has let me have any further comments  or evidence they think  I 
should see, Im satisfied  that Lloyds Bank PLC isnt responsible for the sale of PPI to 
Mr and Mrs R. It follows  that I wont be making a finding that it mis-sold  them  the policy.  
my final decision
My decision  is that Lloyds Bank PLC isnt responsible for the sale of PPI to Mr and Mrs R. 
So we wont  be looking further into a mis-sale  complaint against it. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3390395