K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs R complains about  the way Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with their late 
mothers account.
background
The estate  of Mrs R is represented in this complaint by Mrs B. Mrs B feels Barclays  mis-sold 
a loan and unnecessary travel insurance  to her mother. While going through the estate 
Mrs B said she found lots of letters from Barclays offering loans. And shed  also been sold 
three breakdown cover  policies by the bank. 
Mrs B said there was a funeral policy which didnt quite cover the costs. And Barclays had 
said the savings  would  pay the balance.  Instead the bank  closed  her mothers ISA and loan 
account and paid the debt from her savings. Mrs B said Barclays agreed her mother 
shouldnt have had the travel or breakdown policies. But she was told the loans had been  
sold correctly as her mother had visited the branch  to discuss  them and sign the agreement. 
Mrs B doesnt agree.  So she wants Barclays to pay for the balance of the funeral costs. And 
she wants the bank  to waive the interest it charged on the loan.
Barclays said it was sorry Mrs B had reason to complain at such  a difficult time. The bank 
explained it has a contractual obligation to set off any funds  available against outstanding 
balances. And that shouldve  been  explained  by its bereavement team when Mrs B asked 
about paying the funeral  bill.
Barclays looked at the circumstances surrounding  Mrs Rs loan application. But it felt the 
loan was affordable  and the correct procedures had been followed.  However  Barclays  
agreed the travel pack (which came with breakdown cover)  shouldnt have been added  to 
the account in the circumstances. And it agreed to refund  all of the premiums paid as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
Mrs B wasnt  satisfied  with Barclays response. So she contacted  our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. He offered his condolences and appreciated what a 
difficult time Mrs B was going through. But he felt Barclays  had dealt with the complaint  
fairly. He could see Barclays had agreed  the travel  pack wasnt  suitable for Mrs R. And itd 
refunded the full amount  of £611.  
Our investigator appreciated that Mrs B felt her mother didnt need the loan. But it seemed  a 
large proportion  of the money had been spent. So Mrs R had the benefit of the money from 
the loan. And although shed received a number of generic offers  he didnt think shed been 
pressured into taking  out a loan.  
Our investigator did feel Barclays shouldve explained earlier that the savings account would 
be used to settle the loan before  any funeral  payments could be made. But he couldnt say 
the bank had acted incorrectly in exercising  its right of set off. 
Mrs B didnt agree. She still felt Barclays was a little sharp in its practices.  So shes asked 
for an ombudsmans  final decision.
Ref: DRN31931772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  to hear of the trouble and upset  Mrs B has experienced while dealing with her 
mothers estate. I can appreciate it has made an already difficult time even harder.
Mrs B feels  Barclays took advantage of her mothers situation. So Ive looked carefully to see 
if Barclays has done anything wrong.  And if so what it needs to do to put things right. There  
are two main  issues so Ill deal with each in turn.
the loan
Mrs B feels  Barclays may have pressured her mother into taking  out a loan she didnt need. 
Ive looked at the information provided about  the loan. And Ive not seen anything to suggest 
it was unaffordable.  Or that Mrs R had been pressured into to taking it out. I understand 
shed received a number  of generic loan advertisements. But Ive not seen any evidence  she 
was under any pressure  to visit the branch and complete the application. 
From what  Ive seen Barclays carried out the appropriate checks  before authorising the loan. 
And it wouldnt be right for Barclays to deny customers access to borrowing based on their 
age. 
I can see Barclays has a bereavement guide  to help customers and relatives deal with this 
upsetting time. And the guide explains how the various types  of account are dealt with. 
Under the section  relating to funeral bills the guide explains it can only release payment for 
the funeral if there are sufficient funds. The section relating to outstanding  loans and 
overdrafts explains executors would not be liable for any monies  owed to Barclays. But if 
there is an existing balance outstanding the bank will use any available credit balances to 
pay that balance  first.
So I cant say Barclays acted incorrectly when  it used the savings to pay for the outstanding 
balance on the loan account. Although I agree this mightve been communicated  more  
clearly when Mrs B was discussing matters with the banks bereavement team.
the travel  insurance
Barclays has agreed the travel pack (and attached breakdown cover) wasnt  appropriate  for 
Mrs R. And I can see its arranged a refund totalling  £611 which  has been paid to help with 
the funeral costs. I understand Mrs B is happy with this.
I do understand Mrs Bs concerns about  whether Barclays mightve taken advantage of her 
mothers age and circumstances. And that she had a bank account  with additional benefits 
she wasnt able to use. 
But Ive not seen anything to suggest  the loan shouldnt  have been  made  to her mother. And 
I cant say Barclays made  a mistake setting  off the savings against the loan account. 
Unfortunately the loan still needed repaying. Barclays  has accepted the additional  benefits  
on the current account were unnecessary. And its refunded £611  to the estate.  The bank 
has also acknowledged that the need to set off any outstanding balances wasnt made  clear  
when Mrs B was discussing the funeral costs. But overall I think  Barclays  has dealt with the 
complaint correctly. And I wont  be asking it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN31931773While this isnt the result Mrs B wanted I hope  this shows Ive fully investigated the complaint  
and the reasons behind  my decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs R 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 January  2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3193177