K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc mis-sold him a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in connection with a credit card.
Background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in April 1994. The policy cost no 
more than 78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and covered Mr S in the event  he 
wasnt working due to accident, sickness  or unemployment. Following a successful claim,  it 
would repay  10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim for up to 12 months. The 
policy would also pay the outstanding balance up to £25,000 in the event  of Mr S becoming 
critically ill or his death. 
Bank of Scotland says the credit card and the PPI closed in August 2006.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ss case.
Mr S says he took out the credit  card and PPI in a branch and that Bank of Scotland  
recommended the PPI and advised him to take it. Bank of Scotland  says it was a postal sale 
and that it didnt recommend or advise  Mr S to take the PPI.
As I dont think it will affect the outcome of the case,  Im going to assume that Bank  of 
Scotland did recommend the policy to Mr S. This is to Mr Ss advantage as it means Bank of 
Scotland not only had to provide Mr S with enough information about  the policy so he could 
make an informed decision about it. It also had to ensure the policy  was right or suitable for 
him based on his needs and circumstances at the time. 
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Mr S he had a choice about PPI?
If there was a meeting in a branch,  I have  no way of telling what was said. So the best 
indication I have of what took place is the documentation from the time of the sale.  Bank of 
Scotland has provided a copy of Mr Ss credit card application form which  shows a tick by 
the PPI on the form indicating  he has chosen to take it out, and he has signed the 
application form. So I think it is more  likely  than not Bank of Scotland  presented the policy  to 
Mr S as optional and he chose to take it out. 
Ref: DRN34409542did things  happen  as they should have done  was Mr S properly advised and 
informed?
if not  has Mr S lost out?
I dont have enough evidence to know whether Bank of Scotland advised  Mr S with 
reasonable care and skill. But, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I 
think that the PPI policy was suitable  for him. 
He was eligible  for the policy and he has told us that in 1994 he was in good health, in 
employment, and he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr S says he had some  occupational sick pay that would have helped  him if things went  
wrong.  But he had no savings or other  means,  and the policy would have paid out in 
addition to his sick pay and for up to 12 months. It would similarly  pay out if he lost his job. 
So I think Mr S had a need  for his cover and it would have been useful to him if he found 
himself unable to work. It would have helped him financially at what  would be a difficult time.
I have seen nothing  to suggest that the policy  was unaffordable  for Mr S. The 
PPI transactions  and costs wouldve appeared on his monthly credit card statements, and in 
the event that the costs werent acceptable to Mr S, or became unaffordable,  he couldve 
cancelled the policy at any point without penalty.  But he didnt for many years.
I dont have enough evidence to know whether Bank of Scotland provided  Mr S with 
sufficient information  to make an informed decision  about his PPI. But as Ive decided above 
the policy was suitable for him, I think on the balance of probabilities  its unlikely that more 
information about the PPI wouldve caused him to decide not to take the PPI out. 
So overall, while I think there mayve been  some failings in the sale of the PPI, I think its 
more likely than not, that Mr S had a choice and chose  to take out the PPI policy, that it was 
suitable for him and I dont think he would have  come  to a different decision and turned 
down the PPI if Bank of Scotland had given him more information. So I dont think  Mr S lost 
out as a result of anything Bank  of Scotland did wrong when it sold him PPI.
Ive taken into account all of Mr Ss other comments, but these  points dont change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr S has not lost out as a result  of taking out 
PPI with his credit card, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3440954