K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Penny Post Credit Union Limited lent him money it should have known he 
couldnt afford to pay back.  
background
In November 2015 Mr W took out a loan with Penny Post for £2,000  which he said was for 
Christmas and other living expenses. This was to be repaid over a period of three  years  at 
around £78 a month. 
Our investigator thought Penny Post had carried out reasonable checks  before lending  to 
Mr W. It used the addresses he supplied to carry out a credit  check and asked for supporting 
information before deciding  to lend. And although  it appeared  Mr W did have other loans he 
hadnt told Penny Post about  these. She didnt think any of the information  it did have 
indicated it shouldnt lend to Mr W. 
Mr W didnt agree. He said if Penny Post had asked for bank statements it would have  seen 
he had taken out other loans and was regularly applying for top up loans. The statements 
would also have shown  he was often exceeding his overdraft and had taken out pay day 
loans. So I need  to reach a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Penny Post had a responsibility to check Mr W could afford to repay his loan in a sustainable 
way. Theres no set list of checks it had to carry out but they needed to be proportionate to 
his circumstances   taking into account  things  like the monthly repayments, the term of the 
loan and what Mr W told it.
In his application Mr W said his income  was £410 a week (which included  £150 from casual 
work). He said his expenses were £245  a month.  He provided a pay slip which supported  the 
information hed provided about  his basic salary. And he said he didnt have repayments to 
other loans  or credit cards. Based on the information  he provided that suggested hed have 
been able to manage the repayments for this loan relatively comfortably. Even  if the casual 
work Mr W included on his application  (which he didnt provide further evidence  of) hadnt 
been taken into account I think hed still have  been  able to afford  the loan. 
I also note Penny Post carried out a credit check using the address information Mr W 
provided as part of his application.  That didnt show any adverse credit  history.  Mr W has 
provided a credit report which contains different  information. However,  the adverse details 
are registered against different addresses to those he provided to Penny  Post and didnt 
show on the credit check it carried out. 
I appreciate one of the addresses is nevertheless similar to one he did provide  to Penny 
Post. Its possible theres been some confusion here. But looking at the information 
registered against that address at the time of application and, given the other details Mr W 
provided to Penny Post, Im not sure it would have affected its decision to lend even if had 
been aware of this. In any case Penny Post carried out its check  based  on the address 
information Mr W provided.  
Ref: DRN35313982In addition Mr W told it he wasnt making  any other loan or credit repayments. I appreciate 
his pay slip did show deductions to other  credit unions.  But I dont think it would have been 
clear to Penny Post these  were for loans as they could  have  been  for savings plans. And 
looking at the level of the payments compared with the information  Mr W provided about his 
income and expenses I dont think theyd have  meant this loan was unaffordable for him in 
any case. 
Mr W says if Penny Post had asked for his bank statements  it would have seen that he did 
have additional  borrowing  and was using his overdraft. But, as Ive said,  theres no set list of 
checks a lender must make.  Penny  Post didnt  have to ask for bank statements if it was 
satisfied with the other information Mr W had provided.  
I dont think the checks  it did carry out gave it grounds for concern about  his ability  to 
manage his finances.  It took into account  the information Mr W provided about his income 
and expenditure  and I think  it was entitled to rely in good faith on what he said when making  
its lending decision.  And it verified his basic income  by asking for a pay slip and carried  out a 
credit check.  Overall I think Penny Post took reasonable steps to check  Mr W could afford 
his monthly repayments.  
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject  my decision before 23 October  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3531398