K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001 during a meeting.  Mrs A says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) trading as Halifax mis-sold 
her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mrs A aware that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding 
it to her card. BoS has provided  a copy of Mrs As credit card application form. The form has 
a separate section for PPI where the option to take the policy  has been selected before the 
application was printed  and signed  by Mrs A. Mrs As representative has said that BoS 
selected the policy without Mrs As consent  then told her where to sign the form by placing 
an x by the signature field.
Ive looked at the application form myself. I can see that the form includes other information 
about Mrs As circumstances at the time as well as the PPI section. Having thought about 
this, along with what we know about  how BoS sold PPI at the time I think its likely the form 
was completed during  a discussion between Mrs A and a BoS representative before it was 
printed and signed by Mrs A. And I dont think it would be unusual for a business to highlight  
sections on a document where it needed  the consumer to take some  kind of action, such  as 
the signature field. I dont  think this shows  the consumer didnt have a choice.
Mrs A was also agreeing  to an important financial commitment so I would have expected  her 
to read over the form and raise any concerns she may have had at the time before signing in 
agreement with the information on it. So overall  I think BoS made it clear  that Mrs A didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she 
cant remember this.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mrs A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover. Mrs A has also told us she would have been entitled to 
generous sick pay from her employer at the time. But the PPI would have paid out in addition 
to this and for longer than she would  have received full pay. So I still think  she would have 
found the policy useful and I still think it was right for her.
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And 
it seems like it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said, but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN31975702This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs A paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mrs A back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If BoS hasnt already  it will make arrangements to pay Mrs A now Ive issued my final 
decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3197570