K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complained that when she took out a motor insurance policy  with CIS General 
Insurance Limited (CIS) it promised, but then refused, to restore her No Claims Discount 
when liability  for an accident was resolved. She wants a refund  of the extra  costs  shes paid.
background
Mrs T said that in March 2017  her car was damaged when it was parked  outside her friends 
house and a neighbour backed into it. She said her insurer  at the time paid for the repairs, 
but took a long time to decide on liability for the claim. Mrs T said she changed her car 
insurance to CIS at renewal in June 2017,  before liability for the claim was resolved.
Mrs T said that when she and her son called  CIS to arrange  the policy,  they discussed her 
No Claims Discount (NCD). She said CIS reduced  her 9 years  NCD to 5 years, but promised  
to restore this to 9 years once liability for the accident was decided,  and refund her extra 
costs. She said CIS requested a lot of information  about the accident which  she provided, 
but it didnt refund some of her premium. 
Mrs T said she called  CIS in January 2018  about  her refund and said CIS confirmed that the 
accident was recorded as non-fault. But she said CIS didnt restore  her NCD saying it gave 
no more than 5 years to new customers. She said CIS had lied to her about this when the 
policy started. Mrs T said she had always paid to protect her NCD and has since  had to pay 
more to insure her car. She provided us with the insurance documents from her previous 
insurer, which show she had 9 years  protected NCD applied  to her policy.
CIS said when Mrs T took out the policy  and told it about the claim it hadnt said it would 
restore her NCD  to 9 years as the maximum it offered new customers was 5 years.  It said 
the policy documents it sent Mrs T on 6 June 2017 stated that her NCD would start at 
5 years and increase each claim-free year. It said her NCD increased  to 6 years  by the time 
she insured elsewhere.  CIS said that when  Mrs T called in January 2018 it checked and 
confirmed to her the accident had been  recorded as non-fault. It said it then refunded the 
amount of premium it had added for having  an unresolved claim at the start of the policy.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He said hed listened to the calls 
between Mrs T, her son and CIS and although  CIS could have been  clearer about the most 
NCD it gives new customers, it wasnt dishonest  and hadnt said it would give her 9 years. 
He said CIS hadnt  requested information about  her claim, but asked her to let it know when 
the claim was closed as non-fault so it could assess a refund, which  it later gave her. The 
adjudicator enclosed a copy of a letter CIS said it had sent Mrs T explaining her NCD.
Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicator and said the calls must have been doctored  and we 
had condoned fraud. Mrs Ts son said that CIS should have told them  that it wouldnt restore 
her 9 years NCD when they called about the policy. He said had CIS explained its approach  
his mother wouldnt have  gone ahead with the policy as she would be giving away  part of her 
NCD and no one would want  to do this. Mrs T said she hadnt  previously received the letter 
from CIS explaining about her NCD. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31211212Its important that I make  clear that were not the industry regulator.  So, its not my role to 
say how much an insurer should charge, or what factors it should assess  when deciding on 
a premium or a NCD. This means insurers may decide for themselves what length of NCD 
they wish to offer new customers and how the discount will be affected by a claim. 
We generally take the view that, providing they treat people  fairly, insurers  are entitled to 
assess these factors as they feel they need  to in order to cover  a risk. In considering 
whether an insurer  has acted in a fair and reasonable way, I look to see if it has treated its 
customer the same as it would other customers in similar circumstances.
I have seen the policy documents that CIS sent Mrs T when  she took out her new policy. 
The policy document states:
Please note that the maximum NCD available at new business is 5 years.
CISs policy summary also shows that the maximum it offers new customers is 5 years  NCD 
and so I think it treated  Mrs T as it would any new customer who held over 5 years NCD.
Mrs Ts concern is that CIS didnt explain its approach to her NCD and had it done  so she 
wouldnt have taken  a policy  as it would mean giving away some of her NCD. She said CIS 
said it would  restore her 9 years NCD once her claim was resolved but had lied to her. 
Ive listened to the calls between Mrs T, her son and CIS on 5 June 2017  when the policy 
was arranged. Amongst  other issues, CISs agent  said the NCD would  be set at 5 years, 
equivalent to 70% NCD  at new business. Mrs Ts son said his mother  held the full 9 years 
NCD and understood she could have  5 years NCD straightaway. He said he understood the 
claim will be listed as fault until his mothers previous  insurer receives its outlay. Later  that 
day CISs agent said Mrs T can start with 5 years  NCD, but didnt give any further details. 
During the calls CISs agent said that Mrs T should send proof of the outcome of the claim 
when received from her previous insurer and CIS would re-rate the premium as a non-fault  
claim. Mrs Ts son said his mother would send the outcome as soon  as it was received. 
Mrs T and her son appear to have taken CISs agents reference to the re-rating of her 
premium as meaning her NCD  would  be restored to 9 years  when liability for her claim was 
resolved. In fact, CIS was offering to remove the loading it added  to her premium at the start 
due to her unresolved claim. It was not offering to restore her NCD as it had already given 
her the maximum it allowed for new customers.  Its unfortunate  there was confusion here 
and that the issues around Mrs Ts NCD werent  resolved.  But, from what Ive heard, they 
did say that 5 years NCD was what was available for new customers.  So, I dont think  Mrs T 
and her son should have taken from these  conversations that her NCD would be restored to 
9 years once liability  for her claim was resolved.
Mrs T said CIS requested  a lot of information about  her accident, which  she said she had 
provided. From the calls with Mrs T and her son, CIS only wanted  her to provide the decision 
about liability for the accident. I think it was Mrs Ts previous  insurer that wanted information 
about her accident.  Mrs Ts previous insurer wrote  to her on 8 June 2017, the day her new 
policy with CIS started, and said that her No Claims Discount  has been allowed. Theres 
nothing to show that CIS received this information from Mrs T. In fact, there is no record  of 
any contact from Mrs T to CIS between 5 June 2107  and January 2018. 
Ref: DRN31211213I dont think Mrs T passed on the claims information  to CIS at the time and I dont think  she 
spotted the limitation on her NCD set out with the policy  information  CIS says it sent her on 
6 June 2017. This is unfortunate  as the confusion  about the NCD might  have been  resolved 
and Mrs T could  have cancelled the policy within the 14-day cooling off period without a 
cancellation charge. But because CIS made it clear to Mrs T and her son that she was to 
provide the outcome of the claim to CIS, I dont think CIS has done anything wrong here. 
Mrs T called CIS in January 2018 asking what had happened to her refund. Ive listened to 
this call and CISs agent made a check on the claim and confirmed  it was set as non-fault 
and said CIS would now refund her premium. Although Mrs T said she thought  her NCD 
would then be adjusted, there was no conversation about this. I havent heard that CISs 
agents lied to Mrs T or her son about her NCD in this or the previous calls between  them.
Mrs T said the call recordings had been doctored.  I have no reason to believe that the call 
recordings have been interfered with and I dont think its likely this has happened.  
After Mrs T complained, CIS wrote and said that she had 9 years NCD from her previous  
insurer, but confirmed  that on its NCD scale, she could only have 5 years as a new 
customer. The letter states that as she hadnt  made any claims during the policy year, she 
now had 6 years NCD  with CIS. Unfortunately,  Mrs T didnt receive  this letter  when it was 
sent. But now that she has a copy she can provide it to any prospective  insurer to prove  her 
full NCD entitlement.  This means  there  shouldnt be any disadvantage with her NCD in 
future so long as she gets cover with an insurer that accepts her full NCD.
In conclusion, I dont  think that CIS told Mrs T or her son that it would restore  her NCD  to 
9 years once liability  for her accident was resolved. I think CIS made them  reasonably aware 
that the NCD on her policy would not be set above  5 years as this was the maximum it 
offered new customers.  I realise it will be disappointing to Mrs T, but I think  CIS has acted in 
line with the policy and treated her fairly and reasonably in its handling  of her NCD. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3121121