K820x#14complaint
Ms G says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy to cover her store  card repayments.
background
Ms G took out a store card in 2002. At the same time she took out a PPI policy to cover her 
card repayments. The policy  cost £1 per £100 of the balance  on Ms Gs store card.  A 
successful claim  on the policy wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding  balance on the store 
card if Ms G was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost her job. The benefit 
would continue to be paid until Ms G returned  to work or the balance  was cleared.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Ms Gs complaint should  be upheld because  she thought Ms G 
wouldve understood she had a choice  in taking the cover and thought it provided a useful 
benefit to Ms G.
Ms G disagrees. She says she didnt knowingly purchase the policy  and didnt need it.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Gs complaint.
The PPI was applied  for in store when  Ms G applied for a store card. FICL have given us a 
copy of the original store card application form. I can see that the sections on the application 
form that deal with card protection and additional  card holders have been left blank. 
But I can see that Ms G has signed for PPI under the words  (Only sign this box if you 
require Account Cover)  Yes, I would like to protect my Account with Account Cover 
If Ms G didnt  want to take out PPI she couldve left this section blank  like the others and not 
signed to take the cover.  Because she signed within the PPI section  rather  than leaving it 
clear, I think  its likely Ms G knew she had a choice about taking out PPI. And I think she 
signed within the box because she wanted the cover.
I dont think Ms G was advised to take the cover. What  this means is that FICL  didnt  
recommend PPI to Ms G, they just gave her information about PPI. This information needed 
to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so she could make an informed 
choice about buying PPI.
FICL say that sufficient  information wouldve been provided at the point of sale to allow Ms G 
to make an informed choice on whether to add PPI to her account. But I cant  say whether 
this information  was good enough. That being said even if FICL did give all the information  
Ms G needed to make an informed choice on taking out the policy, I think she wouldve still 
taken the policy because at the time of sale:
Ref: DRN39621462She was eligible for the PPI.
It doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
At the time of the sale Ms G says she was entitled to a generous  level of sick pay 
and had savings  she could use to make her repayments if she was unable to work or 
lost her job. But the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and savings 
and for potentially longer. So I dont think knowing this information wouldve changed 
her mind about taking  the policy and I think the policy wouldve provided a useful 
benefit for her in her circumstances.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Ms G and if she no longer 
wanted the policy she was able to cancel it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Ms G on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it suited her needs and was of 
value to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I do not uphold Ms Gs complaint  against Financial Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3962146