K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that a hire purchase agreement  under which a car was supplied to him was 
mis-sold to him by Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Audi Finance.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr W under a hire purchase agreement  with Audi Finance that he 
signed in June 2015. The price of the car was £45,719 and Mr W part exchanged his old car 
for £11,700, there was a deposit  allowance of £250  and the dealer contributed £2,445.72 so 
the amount of credit provided  by Audi Finance was £31,323.28. 
He voluntarily terminated his agreement in February  2018  and complained  to Audi Finance 
that the agreement had been mis-sold to him because he wasnt  warned that he wouldnt 
have any equity in the car two years later or that the deposit that he paid for the car was 
abnormally large. He wasnt  satisfied with Audi Finances response so complained to this 
service. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She didnt think that 
the dealer had provided poor advice and she said that it was Mr Ws choice to part-exchange 
his car for the value given  to him by the dealer. 
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says that if hed 
been given the option of selling his old car or advised to put less in as a deposit the car 
wouldve been too expensive per month so he wouldve  been  able to make an informed 
decision - which wouldve been  not to proceed with the agreement. He says that he feels as 
though he was shoe horned into the agreement as he didnt have all the scenarios 
presented to him and that hes been  financially disadvantaged as a result.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W agreed with the dealer a price for the car and a part-exchange value for his old car. 
The dealer  also agreed to contribute £2,445.72.  Those details were set out in the order  from 
and the hire purchase agreement  both of which were signed by Mr W. He also signed a 
pre-contract explanation checklist to confirm that hed received, amongst other things, pre-
contract credit information and an explanation  of the agreement and that hed been given an 
opportunity to ask questions about it.
The part-exchange value that was agreed by the dealer and Mr W was a commercial 
decision. If Mr W wasnt happy  with the part-exchange value  that he was offered then he 
shouldnt have accepted it. This service doesnt  normally interfere with a business 
commercial decisions.  And I see no reason in these  circumstances to interfere with the part-
exchange value  that the dealer  agreed  with Mr W.
Mr W has provided an e-mail from another dealer which says that it would never  advise 
putting such a large  deposit into an agreement like this as its always very unlikely that a 
customer would get all of that deposit  back.  That may be the other dealers view but Im not 
persuaded that its enough to show that Mr W was advised incorrectly about the amount of 
the deposit that he should contribute. 
Ref: DRN38478772I consider it to be more  likely than not that Mr W wanted the car to be supplied  to him and 
that he discussed with the dealer options under which the car could  be supplied to him. The 
deposit that he paid meant that the monthly  payments  under the agreement  were lower than 
they wouldve  been if hed paid a smaller  deposit.  And it was Mr Ws decision to enter into an 
agreement on that basis. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  that Mr W 
was given any incorrect information by the dealer  or that the agreement  was mis-sold to him.
It was also Mr Ws decision to terminate the agreement  in February 2018. Mr W has referred  
to an emissions issue which he says has affected  values of cars from this manufacturer. But 
Im not persuaded that hes provided any evidence to show  that the value of his car was less 
than it otherwise wouldve been  as a result of the emissions issue.
I consider that Audi Finance has acted correctly in its response to Mr Ws complaint. And I 
find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to refund 
to Mr W any of his payments under the agreement,  to pay him any compensation or to take 
any other action in response  to his complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3847877