K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander  UK Plc didnt  properly  advise them when they 
phoned to discuss  fixing their interest rate and taking  out additional borrowing. Mr and Mrs M 
want Santander to allow them  to borrow the additional £100,000.00 at the same rate as their 
current mortgage product  with no set up fees and both products to run at the same time.
background
Mr and Mrs M have  a mortgage with Santander  and had a mortgage product with the interest 
fixed for a period  that ended  on 2 April 2017.  After that the interest rate reverted to 
Santanders Standard Variable Rate (SVR). Mr M called Santander to discuss a more 
preferential interest rate and increasing the amount they borrowed.  The Santander adviser 
told Mr M that their mortgage  was alrady  on the SVR which was a surprise as Mr and Mrs M 
hadnt got any warning from Santander. 
The Santander adviser and Mr M then had a discussion about what Mr and Mrs M wanted.  
The adviser told Mr M that he could apply  now for the extra  borrowing but this would mean 
that the mortgage would remain at the SVR for a short period while  the application was 
considered. Alternatively,  Mr and Mrs M could  take out a new fixed rate product and then 
apply for the extra borrowing at a later date. So, Mr and Mrs M took out a further  fixed  rate 
interest product  on their existing borrowing and postponed the request for additional  
borrowing until later.
When Mr M then phoned about borrowing more money in February 2018, he found out that 
the extra borrowing  wouldnt  be at the same rate as his existing mortgage, there  would be a 
set-up fee and the mortgage  products would have  different end dates.
Santander says that the advisor  in the phone call followed its guidelines and made  
Mr and Mrs M aware of the implications  and benefits of completing one option  rather than 
another. It says that if it provided  further  lending, this would create a second part to the 
mortgage. It felt that as a responsible lender  it was reasonable to provide  the options  
available. 
It says that it informed Mr M that if he applied for extra borrowing at a later date that the 
interest on that may be at a different rate depending on what was available at that time. 
Santander say that if Mr and Mrs M booked  a new deal now, they could ask for the same  
mortgage end date as their existing loan so they could  end together and could review the 
new loan at the same time as their existing loan.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld as she 
felt that Santander  had done nothing wrong. Mr and Mrs M disagree saying in summary that 
Mr M was misled  during  his phone call with Santander in April 2017.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with a fixed interest  rate product that ended on 2 April 2017 
when it everted to SVR.  When Mr and Mrs M took out the mortgage  they got a document 
Ref: DRN37838132dated 23 February 2015 that told them that they would pay £1.010.51  per month and this 
figure would go up after the 2 April 2017.  
So, Mr and Mrs M should have known that the interest rate would go up on that date. They 
believe that Santander should have  reminded  them but it is under no regulatory requirement 
to do so. The regulations allow them to issue a reminder or not and in this case they didnt. 
But as Mr and Mrs M should have known in any case that the payments were going up. I 
cant fairly uphold  this part of the complaint.
The other part of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint relates to the advice Mr M was given in a phone  
call with two mortgage  advisers on 6 April 2017. At this stage Mr and Mrs Ms fixed rate 
product had ended and they were paying  the SVR.  Mr M wanted to fix the rate of interest 
and borrow more money.
Following this advice  Mr M fixed the interest  rate. Mr M didnt apply to borrow money until 
several months later. If Mr and Mrs M hadnt fixed the interest rate until they applied to 
borrow more money  they would  have been  paying  substantially more in mortgage payments 
through paying the SVR.
By applying  later for the additional borrowing Mr and Mrs M may have to pay a different 
interest rate than that was available when they fixed their interest rate in April 2017. The 
adviser mentioned  this which  Mr M accepts although  he says that it was squeezed in. 
However, I see nothing to suggest that the adviser  misled Mr and Mrs M to believe that the 
interest rate available in April 2017  would be held for them until they decided to borrow more 
money.
I see also that the adviser mentioned  that any additional borrowing on the mortgage would 
mean that there  would  be a separate account  for the additional  borrowing. Mr and Mrs M 
make the point that the adviser didnt mention that there might be another product fee if they 
wanted to fix a rate for this additional borrowing. 
That does appear  to be the case but as Mr and Mrs M havent applied  for the extra loan I 
dont know whether any product fee would  apply. It would be difficult  for the adviser to 
comment on a product fee in advance of Mr and Mrs M choosing  a product.
Even if Mr and Mrs M now have to pay a product fee, it is likely that they have gained more 
financially by the advice to fix the mortgage  and not pay the SVR compared to any 
expenditure on the product fee.  
I do see that there is an issue if both accounts  have different end dates which would affect  
Mr and Mrs Ms ability to obtain a mortgage  elsewhere. But I note that Santander offered to 
deal with this issue so that Mr and Mrs M could ask for the same  end date as their existing 
product. So, I dont believe that the advice given to Mr M in the phone call by the Santander 
adviser was misleading  or inappropriate and for the above reasons I cant fairly uphold  this 
complaint,
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN37838133Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3783813