K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Tesco Bank  wont refund three payments made  using his Tesco  Bank
credit card on 13 and 14 July 2017.
background
Three credit  card payments  were made  using  Mr Ms credit card at a club in Portugal, as 
follows:
date time amount
13 July 2017 23:42 €90
14 July 2017 00:42 €500
14 July 2017 01:19 €750
After currency conversion and fees,  the total charged to Mr Ms credit  card account was just
over £1,200. Other cards belonging to Mr M were used in the same club in the early hours of
14 July, and there were  also some  attempts to use the Tesco Bank  card that were  declined.
There were also attempts  to use the card at a supermarket between 9 and 11am  on 14 July;
by that time, the cards  credit limit had been  exceeded.
Mr M contacted Tesco Bank  and said he didnt recognise and had not made the payments.
He said hed been out earlier in the evening, but returned to his hotel  room  at about
midnight. He thought he must  have  lost his wallet.
Mr M said too that a record  of his PIN  which was the same  for all the cards  was kept with
them, although he later said that wasnt the case.
It appears that two other credit card providers agreed to refund Mr M, but one debit card
provider didnt, on the basis that he hadnt kept proper care of his card and PIN. Tesco Bank
didnt agree to a refund either, and so Mr M complained to this service. One of our
adjudicators considered the case,  but wasnt able to resolve it. It was therefore  passed to me 
for further  consideration. 
I reached broadly  the same conclusions as the adjudicator had, but for slightly different 
reasons. I therefore issued a provisional decision, so that both sides could  have an 
opportunity to make further submissions if they wanted to do so. I said in my provisional 
decision that it didnt  appear to me that there  was any opportunity  for someone else to have 
taken Mr Ms credit  card and to have found  out the PIN. It was, therefore,  more likely than 
not that he made the transactions himself.  
In response to my provisional decision Mr M said he had, after all, made the first payment of 
€90, but not the others. He also said that he hadnt  tried to obtain  security footage from the 
supermarket where attempts were later made to use his card, as he didnt think  the police 
would be very helpful. Tesco Bank had nothing to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent, however, changed my overall  
view about Mr Ms complaint. 
Ref: DRN36796842Because the disputed payments were made using Mr Ms credit card (rather than a debit
card), Tesco  Bank  can only hold him liable for the full amount of those payments if he either
made them or authorised someone  else to make them. Initially,  Tesco  Bank suggested that it
could do so if Mr M hadnt taken proper  care of his card and PIN  and said that, since  Mr M
had kept his card and PIN together, it wouldnt refund the payments. But the question I have
to answer is a more  straightforward one. I have to decide whether  or not Mr M made or
authorised the payments he disputes.
First, the banks evidence  indicates that Mr Ms genuine card and correct PIN were used to
make the payments, and I accept thats  correct. Thats not inconsistent  with what Mr M says
happened either.
For a long time, Mr M said hed gone  back to his hotel room at about  midnight, after a meal. 
He hadnt suggested that he was ever in the club where the disputed  transactions took 
place, or that he was only disputing two of the payments  even  though the adjudicator  set 
out (as I have) on two separate occasions a list of the payments in dispute. It was only in 
response to my provisional  decision that Mr M said that he had, after all, gone  to the club 
and used his Tesco Bank card to make the first payment. 
Mr Ms evidence  about whether or not he kept a record of his PIN has also been 
inconsistent. Whether  or not he kept proper care of his PIN might be relevant  in the case  of a 
debit card, but is of only limited relevance  here  where a credit card was used. In my view, 
however, what hes said about his PIN is relevant to what I decide  about the facts. Mr M has 
said that he used  the same  PIN for all his cards. That isnt uncommon, and I accept that he 
did. But it is, I think, reasonable to assume that the reason  Mr M had the same  PIN was so 
that he could remember it and did not need to write it down. So, I think  it unlikely  that Mr M 
had a record of his PIN with his cards.
I therefore need to consider how, if there was no record of the PIN, someone who had taken 
Mr Ms his wallet  and cards could have known  the PIN. Its not kept in unencrypted form on 
the card itself, and its unlikely anyone could have guessed it. Until Mr M suggested he had, 
after all, used his card in the club, there  was no way anyone  could  have seen him entering  
his PIN to make other transactions. 
I accept that its not always possible to remember details of what might have happened at a 
particular time, especially  after some time has passed. But, as well as being  unclear in his 
evidence about  whether  he kept a record of his PIN, Mr M has now changed his account  of 
events in three further respects. Specifically:
He previously  said he was disputing three payments, but now says he did in fact make 
one of them.  
Hed not previously said he was in the club where the disputed payments  took place; he 
now says he was. 
He previously  said he didnt use his Tesco Bank card in the club; he now says he did. 
These are not minor details; they are at the very heart of Mr Ms complaint, and I would 
expect his evidence  about them to be both clear and consistent.  I am afraid though  that what  
Mr M has now said leads me to think that little of what hes said about the events of 13 and 
14 July 2017 is reliable. And, overall,  I remain of the view that its more likely than not that he 
made the disputed  payments himself. It wouldnt  therefore be fair to require  Tesco Bank to 
refund them.  
Ref: DRN36796843my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Tesco Personal Finance plc to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Ms complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision  before 13 December 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3679684