K820x#14complaint
Ms S complains  about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs (RSA) settlement of her pet 
insurance claim and about  how it dealt with the claim. My references to RSA include its 
agents.
background
Ms S had pet insurance for her cat which had a policy limit of £4,000 for vet fees for each 
condition. RSA was the insurer.
Ms S cat had been treated for auto immune anaemia since  June 2017. In October 2018 her 
cat collapsed and he was referred  to a specialist vet practice where he was treated for auto 
immune anaemia and a liver condition. Sadly, in late October 2018 he passed  away.
The specialist vet practice submitted a claim of £3,401.72  for all the treatment it had given. 
On the claim form it gave the diagnosed  condition as auto immune  anaemia. As RSA had 
previously paid claims of £2,740.80 for that condition  RSA paid £1,259.45.15 of the claim 
which brought the total fees paid to £4,000. It declined to pay the balance which was over 
the policy limit.
Ms S said her cat had been  treated for two separate conditions  so two policy  limits should 
apply. She was unhappy the specialist vet hadnt listed each  condition  separately on the 
claim form so she contacted the vet practice  who submitted another  claim form with the 
same information but with a note saying IMHA  need split Lymphoma and Liver problem. 
RSAs vet considered  the claim.  As the specialist vet had given no explanation about why 
the conditions  werent  connected RSA contacted the practice. The specialist vet responded:
it is our belief that the most likely cause of (Ms S cats) increase in liver enzymes  
was hypoxic damage as a result of severe  anaemia. 
RSA said on the specialist vets evidence the conditions were related and it had fairly applied  
one policy  limit. It acknowledged there had been  some delay in providing Ms S with a 
response, mostly caused by its need  to contact the specialist vet. It offered Ms S £100 
compensation for her inconvenience due to the delay given that her cat had passed away.
Ms S complained to us. She said there was no clear evidence  that her cats liver condition  
was related to anaemia. She considered  the vet evidence showed her cats liver problem 
was a result  of a spleen/cancerous  cells developing. She also said RSA was disrespectful 
to offer £100 compensation when it had left her with large debt that the policy should cover.
Our investigator said RSA had fairly  settled the claim and £100 compensation was a 
reasonable offer.
Ms S disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. She sent her analysis  of why she 
thought the specialist vets letters showed  her cat had been treated for two separate  
conditions. She also said a call note in the specialist vet's records showed her cat had been  
diagnosed with lymphoma, a separate condition.
Ref: DRN31670482my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have to decide whether RSA fairly and reasonably settled  the claim, and I think it did. I also 
think its £100 compensation offer for Ms S distress and inconvenience due to its delay was 
fair. Ill explain  why.
The policy says:
We pay vet fees from the first date your pet has treatment for each separate or 
connected illness, injury  or change  you or your vet notice  in its health or behaviour. 
Payments carry on until the vet fee limit shown on your policy schedule is used up. 
There is no time limit for how long payments will be made with this cover. Once the 
vet fee limit is used  up you no longer have cover  for that injury or illness. The vet fees 
limit can be used for treatment your pet needs for new health issues.
The policy also gives  information  about  repeating  or connected health issues:
If your pet suffers from a number of illnesses or injuries, or changes  in its health or 
behaviour the treating vet will be asked if these health issues are connected. If the 
vet confirms that they are, theyll be considered as one and the amount we pay you 
will be up to the vet fee limit for all the connected  health issues.
Ive read Ms S detailed information about why she thinks her cat was treated  for two 
separate conditions.  But the specialist vet practice that treated her cat told RSA that they 
believed the most likely cause of the increase in liver enzymes was hypoxic damage as a 
result of her cats severe  anaemia.  
I also note in the specialist vet's phone call notes theres a call of 3 December 2018,  which  
I understand was between the specialist vets at the practice. The note says it is our opinion 
that the liver changes  most likely reflect hypoxic damage from the IMHA/splenic  lymphoma 
and if insurance queries  we will discuss our belief with them.
The specialist treating vet practice  is the vet expert  in this case. Its clear opinion  is that Ms S 
cats liver condition and auto immune anaemia  were  most likely related. The specialist  vet 
couldnt say the conditions were  definitely  related. But I make my decision on whats more  
likely than not to have been  the cause. Given the specialist vets opinion  RSA can 
reasonably understand the two conditions were probably related. So RSA can apply one 
policy limit to the fees. RSA fairly and reasonably settled the claim.
I think any delay in RSA responding  to Ms S complaint was largely due to it seeking  further  
evidence from the specialist vet. In the circumstances it was reasonable for RSA to request 
the information. Its offered Ms S £100  compensation  for her distress and inconvenience due 
to its delays and thats a fair offer.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN31670483Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3167048