K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Santander UK Plc (trading  at the time as Alliance & Leicester) mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
Background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out with a mortgage in late 1997.  It was paid for 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr P in case  he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Santander disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion,  so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.  
I think Mr and Mrs Ps PPI policy was mis-sold here,  for much the same  reasons  as our 
adjudicator.
Both sides have said Santander  recommended the PPI to cover  Mr P, which  means it had to 
check it was right for him. It also had to give Mr and Mrs P information about  the policy that 
was clear, fair, and not misleading. But I dont  think the policy was right for Mr P, and it 
doesnt look like Mr and Mrs P were given clear enough information about it.
Mr P told us he had two jobs at the time of the sale: one self-employed line of work and one 
as an employee, and that both jobs were more than 16 hours a week.  But the policy only 
wouldve paid out if Mr P was out of any work that was more than 16 hours  a week,  
registered as unemployed,  and actively looking for work.
This means  Mr P could only claim on the PPI if he lost both lines of work  at the exact  same  
time  which  was not a realistic possibility; or if he significantly scaled  down or quit one line 
of work entirely just to claim  which wouldve been very onerous.  So Mr P was not covered 
under the policy  for what hed reasonably expect to be covered for.
Mr P gave us his certificate of registration for his business from 1978, along with his earliest 
available tax return showing  he was still self-employed in 2000. And he was able to find his 
P60 from 1998 showing he was in employment  at the time of the sale.
Ref: DRN37523672Santander wants to see Mr Ps tax return covering 1997. While I understand why it would 
like to see that, Mr P already explained  that hed destroyed  the ones that were older than the 
return he gave us, which is fairly normal for old documents. And I need  to be fair to both 
sides about what I can reasonably expect them to provide, given that the sale was over two 
decades ago. For example, Santander has been unable to provide documents  to show that 
Mr and Mrs P even  agreed to PPI, and we gave it the benefit of the doubt  there  because  of 
all the time thats  passed. But if I were to require  both sides  to give me substantial evidence 
from the time  as Santander is now requesting  then the complaint would still be upheld as 
Santander would be unable to show it gave Mr and Mrs P a fair choice about buying  the PPI, 
or that they consented to buy it.
I think Mr P has given  us as much evidence  of his two jobs as I can reasonably  expect from 
the time.  Mr Ps documents strongly suggest he had two jobs at the time of the sale.  His P60 
shows his employment  at the sale. His oldest  available tax return was from a relatively  short 
time afterwards, and is consistent with his explanation that his self-employed work made up 
the majority of his income. Indeed, it seems less likely that Mr and Mrs P wouldve been 
given a mortgage if Mr P only had his employed  salary. Finally, Mr and Mrs Ps testimony 
has been consistent and credible, and I dont have  any significant reason  to doubt them.
So I think its most likely that Santander recommended a policy  to Mr and Mrs P which 
wasnt suitable for them. And based  on what Ive seen of the sale, I cant  be satisfied that it 
gave them clear  enough information about the policys unemployment terms.
If Santander had given Mr and Mrs P suitable advice or clear  enough  information,  then 
I think its most likely  they would not have bought the policy.  So it follows that I think its most 
likely that this policy was mis-sold to them.
Putting things  right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs P in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs P back  the amount they paid each month  for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Santander  to take off tax from this interest. Santander must give 
Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs P can 
claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN37523673My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3752367