K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Mortgage Express didnt  treat them fairly when it allowed them  
to switch their mortgage to interest  only payments or when they asked to switch back to 
capital repayment.  They want an affordable  mortgage and interest rate and compensation 
for their stress and trouble.
background 
Mr and Mrs B took out a repayment mortgage  with another  provider  in 2007, which was later 
transferred to Mortgage Express.  The term was due to end in 2022.  Following a 
bereavement, Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  fell into arrears.  In 2009 Mortgage Express agreed 
to switch Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage  to interest  only to reduce their monthly  payments and 
assist them  while they were in financial difficulties. The intention  was that this would be for 
two years and the mortgage would then be switched back  to capital repayment. 
Mrs B says shes  tried numerous  times to switch  the mortgage back to capital repayment. 
She says Mortgage  Express didnt  help her with this. She says it didnt offer them products 
with a better interest  rate or offer a term extension  to make monthly payments affordable.  
Mrs B says theyve lost out because they havent  repaid any capital over about  nine years.
I sent a provisional  decision  to the parties. In that decision, I said I didnt think  Mortgage  
Express had acted  unfairly in allowing Mr and Mrs B to switch to interest only payments, or 
by not offering them a new interest  rate product or repayment mortgage.  Nonetheless,  Mr 
and Mrs B have, through no fault of their own and due to a series of events entirely  out of 
their control, ended up with a closed book lender that doesnt  offer new rates.  And changes 
in the lending environment made it harder for them  to meet  criteria for a mortgage with 
another provider.  I said if Mr and Mrs B wanted  to meet  with a mortgage adviser to explore  
their options,  Mortgage Express  should  make arrangements for this without cost to them.
Mortgage Express agreed. Mrs B replied, saying Mortgage Express hadnt provided 
recordings of calls that showed shed begged them  for help. She said she always  had to ask 
Mortgage Express for help, it wasnt pro-active,  and they didnt feel supported. Mrs B says 
the amount of interest  theyve  paid is heart  breaking  when these payments could have been 
put towards repaying the capital balance.   
I understand the difficult situation Mr and Mrs B are in and Ive considered  what  Mrs B has 
said. However, having done so, Im not persuaded to change my findings from those set out 
in my provisional decision  and which  are substantially as set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
the switch to interest only payments in 2009
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage fell into arrears due to them experiencing financial difficulties. 
Mrs B asked Mortgage Express for information about the monthly payments if the term was 
Ref: DRN30141512extended. She then asked  about  switching to interest  only payments. After receiving 
information about monthly payments,  Mr and Mrs B asked  to switch to interest  only 
payments. 
Mortgage Express allowed Mr and Mrs B to switch their mortgage to interest only payments 
in 2009 as a forbearance  measure. I dont think it was unfair for Mortgage Express to offer 
this. The mortgage  was in arrears and Mr and Mrs B were  in financial difficulties. It was 
intended that the switch  would be a temporary measure to help Mr and Mrs B while  they 
were in financial difficulties. Mortgage Expresss notes say they were  told by Mr and Mrs B 
that theyd spoken with an independent  financial adviser and were aware of the implications 
of switching to interest only. I think it was reasonable  for Mortgage Express  to believe 
Mr and Mrs B understood the risks of switching and what other options  if any  might have 
been available.
contact about  switching back to capital repayment since  2009
Mortgage Express provided quotes  to switch all or part of Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage to capital 
repayment, including in January 2012,  April 2013, November 2013, January 2014 and April 
2015. It provided a quote in November 2013  for a switch  to capital repayment with a term 
extension of five years. 
Mortgage Express says before  changing the mortgage it needs to assess whether the 
repayments are affordable. It says it asked Mr and Mrs B to complete an income  and 
expenditure form in November  2013.  Mr and Mrs B said they were self-employed and unable 
to provide accurate figures for their income.
Mortgage Express told Mr and Mrs B in January 2014 that it didnt offer term extensions. 
This was incorrect. However, I dont  think this error changed  the outcome here. Mr and 
Mrs B had a quote for a switch to capital repayment with a term extension  in November 
2013. They  also looked at doing this in April 2017.  On both occasions they hadnt gone 
ahead, either because  they couldnt provide income  information or because the switch  
wasnt affordable.
Mr and Mrs B made an appointment to discuss the mortgage with Mortgage Express in 
August 2017.  Mortgage Expresss notes say a conversion/term extension was declined for 
affordability reasons  and Mrs B said shed make  overpayments. 
Mr and Mrs B discussed their situation with Mortgage Express in October  2018.  Mortgage 
Expresss notes say it told Mrs B it would be happy to refer a request for a term extension  
and switch to capital repayment to its underwriters. The notes say that Mrs B was happy this 
was a potential  option and would  discuss with Mr B. They  were  also considering re-
mortgaging in 2019, when their credit  position would be better. The next step was for Mr and 
Mrs B to book an appointment with Mortgage Expresss mortgage advice team.  Its not clear 
that Mr and Mrs B pursued  this. 
Mrs B says she always had to contact Mortgage  Express and it only sent information  about 
switching to a repayment mortgage as a result  of her calls. She says call recordings would  
support this. I have  no reason to doubt  what Mrs B says. But I dont think  it changes  the 
outcome. Theres nothing to suggest  that Mr and Mrs B would have  changed to a repayment 
mortgage if Mortgage Express had sent information to them without her first contacting  it.  
Ref: DRN30141513I dont think its reasonable to say that Mortgage Express  made  errors  which meant Mr and 
Mrs B were  unable to switch to capital repayment. I think its more  likely this didnt happen 
because Mr and Mrs B didnt meet affordability  requirements for a repayment mortgage   or 
didnt go ahead with an application because they thought they wouldnt meet affordability 
requirements. And I havent seen anything to suggest that Mortgage Express  otherwise 
prevented Mr and Mrs B from repaying capital, for instance with lump sum or regular  
overpayments.
Nonetheless, Mr and Mrs B have an interest only mortgage and they need to discuss  with 
Mortgage Express how this will be repaid. Ive set out what I think  Mortgage Express should  
do to help them below,  under what happens  now.
new interest rate products
Mrs B asks that their mortgage has an affordable interest rate. Mortgage  Express says it 
doesnt have other  interest rate products available. 
Mortgage Express is prevented from offering new interest rate products by the terms of its 
government bailout  because of legal restrictions on government bodies competing against  
the market. I therefore think its reasonable that Mortgage Express  didnt make  new interest 
rate products available to Mr and Mrs B (or any other borrower) following  its mortgage loans 
being nationalised. Quite simply, it wasnt able to.
Mortgage Express is a closed book lender in that its not taking on new business, but its still 
regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  and has to follow its rules. But theres 
nothing in the FCAs rules  that says a lender has to offer new interest rates to its customers 
once their old ones  expire.  The rules  say that a lender has to treat its customers fairly taking 
account of their best interests; it has to communicate  with them  in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way; it has to notify them  of changes to their monthly payments; and it mustnt 
take advantage of customers who cant move  their mortgages elsewhere by treating them 
differently to other  customers  with similar characteristics.
Mortgage Express notified Mr and Mrs B of changes to their payments from time to time.  It 
isnt treating them differently to its other customers  all customers  must stay on the SVR 
once their products  expire, just like Mr and Mrs B. So I dont think Mortgage Express has 
been in breach of any of the regulators rules in not offering a new rate.
And I dont  think Mortgage  Express acted  in breach of the terms of the mortgage  agreement.  
Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage offer from 2007  said theyd pay a fixed rate for 18 months, and 
thereafter the SVR.  The end of the fixed rate, and move to the SVR,  was confirmed in the 
letter confirming the switch to interest  only in 2009. Since  then, Mortgage  Express  has sent 
letters to Mr and Mrs B when the interest  has changed, confirming the interest rate and their 
monthly payments.  
Its common for borrowers to take out a fixed or tracker rate product and then, at or shortly 
before its expiry, take another  rate rather than revert to the SVR. Sometimes thats with their 
existing lender; sometimes its with another lender. But theres nothing in Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage agreement  that says theyre  entitled  to a new rate  and thats also true of most 
other lenders mortgage agreements too. 
So, theres nothing  in the regulators rules,  and nothing in the mortgage contract, that 
required Mortgage Express to offer new interest rates.  Nor is it under any other legal 
Ref: DRN30141514obligation to do so. So, in that sense, Mortgage Express  hasnt done anything  wrong in not 
offering a new interest rate to Mr and Mrs B.
However, thats not the end of the matter. My role is to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  I do that by taking into account the law, regulators rules  and 
guidance, and good industry  practice   but Im not constrained by them if I think  fairness 
requires me to do something else. 
Through no fault of their own and due to a series of events entirely out of their control, 
Mr and Mrs B ended up with a closed book lender that doesnt offer new rates.  And changes  
in the lending environment have made it harder for them to meet  criteria for a mortgage with 
another provider.
A number  of lenders with closed books,  or who have withdrawn from sections of the market, 
have made  arrangements  for their borrowers  to consult mortgage advisers to see whether 
they can move elsewhere to a lender that would offer new interest rates. I think  that 
represents good industry practice, which is one of the factors  I have to take into account  in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  I think  Mortgage 
Express should do this here  and Ive said more about this below  under  what  happens 
now.
what happens now?
Mr and Mrs B have  two problems here. They have an interest only mortgage  and need  to 
find a way to repay it when the term expires.  And they want  a better interest  rate.
Mr and Mrs B might  be able to access lower rates if they moved  their mortgage elsewhere. 
They havent  said theyre worried about being in negative equity  in fact their conversations 
with Mortgage  Express suggest theyre considering re-mortgaging with another provider. So 
this might be a possibility for them. 
The lending environment in which Mr and Mrs B took out their mortgage  was very different to 
the present day. Its much harder now to get an interest only mortgage and lending  criteria 
are much stricter.  So if Mr and Mrs B were to move their mortgage elsewhere its likely  
theyd have to take a repayment mortgage, and the payments  would be higher. I appreciate 
Mr and Mrs B might  have concerns about meeting affordability criteria for a repayment 
mortgage. I think though this is an option  they can look into. 
I think its fair that Mortgage  Express should  arrange  for Mr and Mrs B to meet  with a 
regulated mortgage  adviser who is able to offer regulated mortgage  advice about specific  
mortgages Mr and Mrs B might be able to apply for, and to help them  with an application. 
If Mr and Mrs B arent able to move their mortgage at present, that advisor may be able to 
help identify what steps they could  take to help them to work towards  moving their mortgage 
elsewhere, and on a more competitive rate of interest, in the future.
Ultimately its for Mr and Mrs B to decide  whether they wish to explore their options with a 
mortgage adviser. But, should Mr and Mrs B wish to do so, Mortgage  Express should  make 
arrangements for them to have such advice without cost to them.
If Mr and Mrs B choose not to move their mortgage   or arent able to do so  they will need 
to consider how their mortgage will be repaid when its term expires. Id urge them  to remain  
in contact with Mortgage  Express with the aim of agreeing how their mortgage will be repaid. 
Ref: DRN30141515Id expect Mortgage Express to treat Mr and Mrs B fairly. But this doesnt  mean  it must agree  
to changes to the mortgage without assessing  whether  the change  is in Mr and Mrs Bs best 
interests, which is likely to include  assessing whether its affordable. And in order to do this, 
its entitled to ask Mr and Mrs B for up to date information  about their income and 
expenditure. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Mortgage Express  to make arrangements  
for Mr and Mrs B to meet  with a regulated  mortgage adviser without cost to them (if they 
choose to do so), who is able to offer regulated mortgage  advice about  specific mortgages 
Mr and Mrs B might  be able to apply for, or other  ways in which they can improve their 
position. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3014151