K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly declined her 
claim under her home  insurance  policy for possessions stolen from her car.
background
Ms L said her car was broken into on a driveway at a house where  she was staying away  
from her home and many valuable items  were  stolen. She said her car keys were  inside her 
handbag inside the house at the time.  She reported  the break-in to the police and received a 
crime reference number,  but they wouldnt come and investigate the crime. Ms L made a 
claim to RSA under the cover in her home  insurance  policy for possessions  out and about. 
Ms L thought her car had been broken into using signal interference via a fob. RSA didnt 
consider this method of entry as both forcible  and violent and declined  her claim saying her 
loss wasnt covered under a term of the policy. Theft from unattended motor vehicles - 
unless at the time of loss or damage  force and violence were used to get into the motor  
vehicle, and the items stolen were out of sight in a boot or closed compartment. 
Ms L said her policy included cover for her possessions when shes away  from home and 
regardless of how her car was broken into this is what  it should cover.  She said RSA told her 
there had to be signs of a physical break  in, and it only covers cars which  use the traditional  
key entry  to open the lock. She said this is out of date and she wasnt  asked which type of 
car key she possessed when she took out the policy. She said the insurer should highlight  
this discrepancy to potential policy holders.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said it's clear from the 
policy that for Ms Ls claim to succeed there  needed  to be evidence of 'force and violence' 
when the theft occurred.  She said as there wasn't any, RSA was correct to decline the claim. 
Ms L disagreed, saying  RSAs policy terms penalises the end user and they should take up 
their concerns about key fobs with the car manufacturers.  Ms L requested  an ombudsman 
review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have spoken to Ms L and she has 
described the circumstances of her loss and the reaction of RSA and the police. However, 
she hasnt provided  us with a copy  of the police report which  the police said they would only 
release to her.
Ms Ls home  insurance covers her possessions  away  from home,  but the policy  carries  an 
exclusion for loss from unattended cars where force and violence  hasnt been  used. Ive 
looked carefully at Ms Ls policy and the circumstances of her loss to see whether its fair for 
RSA to decline her claim because her car hadnt  been broken into with force and violence. 
Ms L thinks her car was broken into using a remote device and so there are no signs of 
physical entry. She said this type of crime is rising as more cars are now keyless  entry  and 
RSA should move with the times  and include this scenario within  its policy.  RSA has said its 
term (above) applies to all motor vehicles  regardless  of the types of locks and Ms L was 
Ref: DRN39276292incorrect to say that it only covered cars which use the traditional key entry to open the lock, 
and it hadnt told her this. 
RSAs insurance covers cars with traditional  key and keyless  entry.  The term requiring 
forcible and violent entry is standard within insurance policies and is sufficiently highlighted 
within the policy documents sent to Ms L. There are increasing reports  of the type of crime to 
which Ms L has referred and I have  considered  whether  the theft was facilitated by some 
electronic means,  as she believes, to see if its fair for RSA to rely on its requirement for 
forcible and violent entry. 
Unfortunately, the police decided not to attend or investigate  the crime and we do not have a 
copy of their report or any evidence of how entry  to Ms Ls car might have been gained.  The 
thief may have used  an electronic device  to gain entry to Ms Ls locked  car. Or Ms L may 
have left it unsecured.  If the thief used  an electronic  device, its likely the intention was to 
steal the car. Since the car wasnt stolen, I dont think it is likely that an electronic device was 
used and so I dont conclude that the thief used force and violence to gain access  to Ms Ls 
car.
The purpose of requiring  force and violence to have been used is to prevent insurers  being 
liable for loss where policy  holders  havent taken reasonable care.  Its possible  for a driver to 
forget to lock their car or a window, in which case they wouldnt generally be covered where 
a thief gained access that way. Ive no reason to doubt that Ms L intended  to secure  her car, 
but nothing to show that she actually  did so. 
Ms Ls policy also states that the stolen items must be kept out of sight. Again, this is 
intended to prevent the insurer being liable  when a consumer hasnt taken reasonable care.  
Ms Ls car was parked  on a driveway  at the house where she was staying. It doesnt  appear 
that the thief tried to steal the car and so I cant be sure that she had all of the many  items 
that were stolen out of view.
Ms L was upset at the lack of empathy from RSAs  staff when they declined her claim,  and I 
think its communications could have  better  here. But I think that the policy  term relates to 
Ms Ls loss and has been correctly applied by RSA.
I was sorry to learn of Ms Ls loss, particularly the items of sentimental importance. But for 
the reasons I have  given I think it was fair for RSA to require  some  evidence of forcible  entry 
and to decline her claim by relying  on the policy term.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3927629