K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
credit card in 2001. Mr B says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  As some of the evidence  is either  
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Mr B said given his sick pay entitlement and other means he had no need for PPI. He said if 
the costs and benefits and optional nature of the policy had been made clear, he wouldnt 
have taken PPI.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  the reasons for my decision.
Neither Mr B, nor NatWest can remember the sales process used to take out the credit 
card and PPI. NatWest no longer has a copy of Mr Bs credit card application. Thats  
perhaps not surprising as banks often only keep records for six years and Mr B took out 
his credit card with the PPI around  18 years ago. 
NatWest had to make  it clear to Mr B that PPI was optional and he didnt have  to have it 
to get the credit card. Based on the limited information now available,  I havent enough 
to persuade me that more  likely  than not this wasnt made clear to Mr B at the time. I 
think it more likely NatWest made this clear and Mr B opted  to take the insurance. So, I 
cant fairly uphold  his complaint on this ground. 
I havent seen  anything to make  me think that NatWest recommended this policy to Mr B. If 
it didnt recommend the policy  to Mr B, it didnt have  to take steps to check that the PPI 
was right for him. But, it did have  to give him enough information so that he could decide 
for himself if the policy was right for him and he wanted  to buy it. To avoid  any doubt, even 
if NatWest had recommend this policy to Mr B, (and therefore it had to consider whether it 
was suitable), from what Ive seen,  it seems the policy wouldve been suitable for him, in 
his circumstances.
Its possible the information NatWest gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  So, I have to go on and consider whether he has lost out because of this. 
I cant see that he has. I think PPI couldve been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. He was eligible to take out the policy  and I cant see that 
he was affected  by any of the main limits or exclusions on the policy. He said he wouldve 
got some  sick pay through work, if he was off sick, and had some  savings.  But, the policy  
wouldve paid out on top of Mr Bs work  benefits  and if he was made involuntarily 
unemployed. Also, it wouldve allowed him to use his work benefits  and his savings to 
meet his other  living  expenses, at what might be a difficult  time for him financially if he 
wasnt working. So, I dont think having better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN32235512Ive thought about everything Mr Bs said - but these  points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
This means  NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because:
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mr B about that. Because 
NatWest didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair.
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But National Westminster  Bank Plc does have to pay back  to Mr B any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3223551