K822xcomplaint
Mrs D complains about the way CIS General Insurance Limited  handled her home insurance 
claim for water damage to her house.  
background 
Following a cold spell in March 2018,  a pipe burst in Mrs Ds loft. She called an emergency 
plumber to stop the leak and then made a claim to CIS for the damage caused. Due to poor 
health, Mrs D moved  out of her home into a static caravan at a nearby caravan park.  
CIS appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim who in turn appointed contractors to dry 
the property, strip it out and scope for the repairs. At the start of May 2018  Mrs D 
complained to CIS about the progression of the claim  and misinformation  shed been  given  
that the property  was dry when it wasnt the case. CIS looked into Mrs Ds complaint and 
issued a final response in late June 2018 upholding her complaint. CIS apologised to Mrs D 
and issued a compensation payment to her of £100.
The works on site continued  into July and Mrs D reported she was happy with them  and 
would shortly forward her material choices to the contractor. A couple of weeks later the 
contractors said they had completed  all works except for replacing the kitchen and bathroom  
tiles which  Mrs D had said she wished to upgrade.  She also wanted them  to undertake  some  
private works for her. Shortly after, the contractors reported a breakdown in their working 
relationship with Mrs D to CIS and said they were  withdrawing from the job. 
The contractors sent CIS the details of what was outstanding and CIS offered  to cash settle 
for the works  remaining  (an amount of £691.36  for the kitchen and bathroom  tiles). Mrs D 
said she also wanted her kitchen cupboard doors  painted because shed put tape on them 
and when she peeled  it off paint had come  away. Mrs D didnt accept what  CIS had offered 
her so CIS asked her if shed prefer to get quotes from her own contractors for the 
outstanding works which  it would be prepared  to consider if she sent them in.
Mrs C then made a second complaint to CIS. She said shed been advised to put the tape on 
the cupboards;  that the contractors had refused to finish the job; the settlement  shed  been  
offered was too low and that shed experienced poor communication  and delays. 
CIS looked into Mrs Ds complaint and issued its final response in August 2018. It said the 
painting of the doors didnt form part of the insured works and there was no evidence that its 
contractors had asked  her to put tape on them. CIS said its contractors were no longer  
prepared to carry out any more works and that the cash settlement  offer was still available 
as was the option to submit her own quotes  which it would review. It also said itd addressed  
Mrs Ds complaint about delays in its previous  final response letter in June. Finally it said it 
accepted its contractors had shown up at the site on the wrong  date. For this it paid her 
further compensation of £100.  
Unhappy with CISs findings  Mrs C complained to this service  in January 2019 that:
The works still werent finished;
That shed had to stay away from her home for longer than necessary due to the delays 
in progressing the claim;
That she had been falsely  accused by the contractors of being  abusive; 
CIS still owed her for some costs shed  paid out in relation to the claim;  
She should be compensated for the un-necessary difficulties caused by CIS.
Ref: DRN34427342Our investigator looked into Mrs Ds complaint and recommended  that it was upheld  in part. 
He recommended that CIS pay Mrs D an additional  £200 compensation for the upset and 
inconvenience she was caused by its handling  of her claim.  He also said it should ask Mrs D 
to provide it with the invoices for costs she said shed incurred and consider them  against  
the policy terms. 
CIS replied to say it accepted our investigators recommendations and that it would  review  
any invoices Mrs D provided  which related to insurance related  works carried  out at her 
property and which shed  paid for herself. Mrs D replied to say that she wanted  the cash  
settlement shed been offered by CIS (£691.36)  to be included.  Our investigator said that 
some of the items Mrs D was claiming  for may not be covered (such as the cost of engaging 
the emergency plumber to stop the leak in the first place) but that CIS had said it would 
review them  all and confirm which ones  formed part of the claim. He also said that CIS had 
confirmed the cash settlement  was still available as was the alternative,  namely for Mrs D to 
submit estimates from her own contractors which  it would consider.
Mrs D replied to say that she was willing to accept CISs cash  offer of £691.36 in respect of 
the outstanding works.  She also listed the other costs  she said shed incurred  including 
plumbing and electrical  costs, new kitchen cupboard doors, postage and a new microwave.  
And she told our investigator  she thought she was due more  compensation. The complaint 
was then passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service doesnt handle claims.  So Im not going to go through  the list of costs  Mrs D 
says are outstanding  and which she wants CIS to reimburse her for. CIS has said that if 
Mrs D sends her invoices  and proof  of her expenditure to it then it will review what she has 
paid against the policy terms. I think thats  fair in the circumstances. CIS must first be 
permitted to consider  the expenses Mrs D is claiming against its liability  under the policy.  
Mrs D should be aware that CISs liability only extends to costs related to the insured 
damage.  
CIS has said its offer to cash settle  for the outstanding  works  (the bathroom and kitchen 
tiling) for £691.36 remains available and Mrs D has now said she would like to accept that 
offer. That being  the case, I dont  intend to comment any further on this issue. 
CIS accepted our investigators recommendation that it pay Mrs D additional compensation 
of £200 in respect of any inconvenience and upset  caused by shortcomings  in its handling of 
her claim. Mrs D says she thinks she should  receive more compensation than that proposed 
by our investigator. Im unable to agree.  When deciding what compensation should  be 
awarded I have to have  regard  to this services approach to such  awards generally. Having 
thought about the circumstances of Mrs Ds complaint Im satisfied that payment of a further 
£200 (which will bring  the total compensation CIS has paid to Mrs D as a consequence of 
her claim to £400) is fair and reasonable and in line with awards we have made in similar 
circumstances. I cant  fairly award  any more.  
I know that Mrs D thinks  that CIS took too long to deal with her claim and that she mentioned  
this in response to our investigators findings. Her complaint  in respect of any delays 
Ref: DRN34427343incurred however, was dealt  with under her first complaint to CIS and didnt form part of her 
second complaint.  I can only look here at her second complaint (because Mrs D didnt bring 
her first complaint to this service meaning  she is now out of time for doing so) so Im not 
going to consider the issue of delay  here.   
Ive thought about Mrs Ds complaint that shed been falsely accused  by the contractors of 
being abusive. Complaints of this nature are always difficult  to resolve because its difficult to 
make a definitive finding where its one partys  word against anothers. And that is the case  
here. I cant  say with any certainty what happened between Mrs D and contractors so it 
wouldnt be fair for me, in the absence of being  able to do so, to make a finding  about what 
may or may not have  occurred. 
Finally, I appreciate that the contractors withdrew from the job and that Mrs D initially  didnt 
want to accept a cash  settlement  for the outstanding  works. But I can see that there appears 
to have been a breakdown in relations between Mrs D and the contractors  so I dont think  
their decision  to withdraw, and for CIS to then offer to cash settle for the remaining 
outstanding works, was unfair in all the circumstances.  And I can see that CIS did also offer, 
as an alternative,  to consider any estimates to complete  the work that Mrs D obtained  but 
that she has now decided  she wishes to accept CISs offer.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require CIS General Insurance Limited  to:
Pay Mrs D compensation of £200 in respect of the upset and inconvenience caused to 
her by the way in which her complaint was handled.  This amount  is in addition to the two 
separate payments of £100 that have already been paid to Mrs D;
Review any invoices provided to it by Mrs D, in respect of the claim, against the policy  
terms and conditions  and provide  settlement as may be necessary. 
Pay Mrs D the cash settlement amount of £691.36.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3442734