K820x#14complaint
Mrs C has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a 
store card PPI (payment  protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mrs C took out the PPI at the same  time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mrs C has said she didnt know she had PPI, so it was added without her knowledge  or 
consent. However Ive seen the application form that Mrs C completed.  The form has a 
separate section  for PPI and Mrs C has signed in that section to accept  the policy.  She could 
have left it blank  if she didnt want it.
Mrs C has said she just signed where  she was told  and theres a cross on the form telling 
her where to sign. Ive thought carefully  about what Mrs C has said.  But its not unusual  for 
an adviser to add a cross to show someone where to sign following a discussion about 
whether or not someone wants  the product. Below  the section for PPI, there is another  
section for another type of insurance, and this has been struck through to show  that Mrs C 
doesnt require  it. If, as Mrs C says, nothing was discussed, I might have expected  her to 
end up buying  all of the available insurance  options.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mrs Cs recollection of 
events has faded.  Based on the available evidence, I think that FICL made Mrs C aware  that 
she had a choice about buying the PPI  and the way that the application form is laid out 
reinforces that. It seems to me that Mrs C probably decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt 
have to, even  if she no longer  remembers  doing so.
FICL didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs C, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide  her with enough  information for her to make  an informed decision 
about whether  or not the policy was right for her.
Ref: DRN37178212Mrs C would have received some sick pay from her job. But the policy would have paid out 
in addition to this and potentially for longer than Mrs C would have received full pay for. And 
Mrs C didnt have any other means,  such as savings, to fall back on. Shes said that family 
and friends would have helped. But other people cant always be relied upon as their 
circumstances can change. So I think Mrs C had a need for the policy and could  have 
benefitted from it if shed  been unable to work  due to illness or if shed lost her job. And she 
seems to have found the policy affordable.
Its possible that FICL could have  provided more information about the policy,  particularly 
about the things that it didnt cover. But Mrs C wasnt affected by any of those things. As I 
think that Mrs C had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that better 
information would have caused  her to change her mind. So Mrs C isnt any worse off as a 
result of anything FICL may have done  wrong.  So there is nothing that FICL needs to do to 
put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3717821