K820x#14complaint
Miss R has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt  appropriately  warn  her that money  
refunded to her account could be re-debited. This led to her going overdrawn and Miss R 
has been concerned at Barclays  attempts  to have the debt settled.
background
Miss R raised a number  of different complaints  against Barclays.  The main one was that 
they didnt warn her that theyd re-debit £1,548 from her account for a disputed payment 
once any investigation  was completed. Miss R chose to transfer these funds out of her 
current account so this meant when the re-debit  took place in April 2019, she went 
overdrawn. Shes found Barclays to be very unhelpful and they continue  to ask her to settle 
her debt.
Miss R has also been upset at Barclays customer service:
Shed not received phone calls back when she expected them;
Her phone banking  service was blocked and she had to visit a branch to sort things 
out; and
She was given  incorrect  advice about a withdrawal from her savings account.
Overall Barclays  paid Miss R a total of £455  in compensation  and costs. Miss R remained 
unhappy and brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence, including numerous calls between  Miss R and 
Barclays. Overall  she felt it wouldnt  be fair to ask Barclays to do anything further.
Miss R didnt agree with this outcome. Shes  asked  an ombudsman to consider  her 
complaint and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar  
reasons. Ill explain  why.
re-debit of chargeback
£1,548 is a large amount  of money so I appreciate  Miss Rs concern when on 4 April 2019 
Barclays debited this amount after an unsuccessful chargeback  claim.
But I dont think Barclays did anything wrong. I say this for two main  reasons:  
When Barclays wrote to her about  the chargeback, they said shed been credited 
£1,548, pending the outcome of our investigation . This certainly  implies  to me that 
the money was not definitely hers and could yet be re-debited if the investigation 
proved unsuccessful,  as it did.
Ref: DRN32876552I also know Miss R had transferred  the money out of her current  account. I dont think  
theres any reason  why she couldnt  have just as easily transferred it back.  This 
would have limited  the chance of her going overdrawn.
I agree  with Miss R on one aspect. Barclays wasnt explicit on the phone  with her that the 
money could be re-debited but I dont think Id necessarily have expected  them to be so. 
Theres a clear implication in the letter  they sent her. I also can see from Miss Rs history 
with Barclays that shed raised merchant disputes  before  so I wouldnt be surprised if she 
knew what could happen.
I know Miss R has been angry  about Barclays referring her debt to a debt recovery company 
and their requests  to have the money repaid. But during the time this complaint has been 
with us, Barclays has frequently put any collection attempts on hold. I dont think  their 
actions have been unreasonable.
Ive also looked  at the other issues Miss R has raised. Barclays admitted they gave her 
incorrect advice about the withdrawal from her savings  account.  But they paid her £200  for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  and I wouldnt ask them  to pay any more.
Ive also looked  at what happened  when  her telephone banking was blocked. It was certainly 
unfortunate that the only way to resolve  the situation  was for Miss R to visit her branch.  But 
Barclays were  applying  security standards and protecting Miss Rs accounts so it would 
seem unfair to criticise  them for doing  this.
I know how unhappy Miss R has been  with the service shes  received. And Ive looked at all 
the issues shes raised. But Barclays has given her £425 in compensation, along with £30 in 
costs over this period.  I think this more than covers  the inconvenience  they have caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Rs complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3287655