K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC debited his account with a series of three 
card payments totalling £994.67 which he says he didnt make  or otherwise authorise.
background
On 1 July 2018 Mr G was on holiday in Poland  with friends and went to a gentlemens  club 
where he said he spent  a couple of hours.  He says he couldnt recall  whether he bought a 
round of drinks,  but if he did, he thought it would cost around £40. Mr G and his friends were 
offered free drinks and members of staff spent time with them in the club. Between 2.52am 
and 3.38am three payments  were made  on Mr Gs credit card to the gentlemens  club which  
he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise himself. There  was no payment around £40 
so Mr G thinks this transaction  may have been  put through for more money than he was 
informed. 
Mr G had his credit  card with him after the transactions took place  and said he hadnt  
recorded his PIN code  anywhere or shared it with anyone. He said he wasnt sure how the 
transactions took place, but suggested  that it was possible  staff from the gentlemens  club 
used cameras to obtain his PIN, and then took his wallet and replaced it without him 
noticing. He also pointed to online reviews of the gentlemens club in question which 
suggested this club put drugs in peoples drinks  to commit  fraud  on their accounts. 
Tesco declined to refund  these transactions  as they felt it was most likely that Mr G 
authorised them. This is because he was in the club at the time the transactions took place; 
they were PIN verified and Mr G hadnt  shared  or recorded his PIN; and he still had his card 
on him after the transactions took place. They also pointed  to the fact the transactions took 
place half an hour apart and that it was unlikely  Mr G wouldnt have noticed his card was 
missing for that period  of time. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this answer, so he came to our service. Our investigator looked  into 
what happened and recommended  that this complaint be rejected as he felt it was most 
likely Mr G authorised the transactions. This was because  there  were  only three transactions  
which were spaced  out, he had the card when  he left the club,  and there were no further 
attempted transactions when Mr G reached  his credit limit which wouldnt be known by a 
third party. As Mr G didnt agree, this complaint has come to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons.
Generally, Tesco can hold Mr G liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence suggests  
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself. Having reviewed the 
digital evidence Im satisfied that Mr Gs genuine card and PIN were entered to authenticate 
these payments. But according  to the relevant regulations, this alone is insufficient to enable 
Barclays to hold him liable. So I need  to consider whether I think  the evidence  shows  it is 
more likely than not that he consented to the payments  being  made.  
Having reviewed the evidence, I think its reasonable for Tesco  to conclude  that Mr G 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
Ref: DRN30819182The transactions were  all completed  using Mr Gs genuine card and PIN, and there 
were no incorrect PIN attempts. Mr G has told us he didnt record his PIN anywhere 
nor did he share  it with anyone. As such, I think it is reasonable to conclude that the 
first transaction must have been  completed by Mr G as it is highly improbable that a 
third party  would  be able to guess Mr Gs PIN correctly  and no one could have 
observed him entering it.
When considering  the other two transactions, if these were  completed by a third party  
they would  have needed to observe  Mr G entering  his PIN
These payments  were made  using  Mr Gs genuine card, but he had the card in his 
possession when  he left the club. Whilst it is possible, I dont think  its likely that an 
unknown third party would risk taking Mr Gs wallet at some  point after 2:52am in 
order to complete two transactions, approximately  half an hour apart, and then return  
the wallet to Mr G. I know Mr G has suggested  he may have been drugged but Ive 
not seen any evidence to support this. If Mr G was unconscious or otherwise 
occupied due to drugs or another reason, returning the card to him would possibly 
alert him to the fact it had been taken which would be an unnecessary risk for an 
unknown third party in possession  of his card to take. 
I also think it would be unusual for a third party,  having managed  to take Mr Gs card 
and PIN without him noticing would only make  two transactions  which were nearly 
half an hour apart. In these kind of circumstances, Id expect an unknown  third party  
to maximise use of the card by accessing any available funds as quickly as possible 
as they couldnt know when Mr G would notice  his card was missing  and he could 
block the account. Mr G suggested the transactions stopped as he reached his credit  
limit, but I cant see how an unknown third party would know how much credit was 
available and there were  no further  attempted transactions  in the club. 
I do think its possible Mr G authorised  the payments, but didnt mean  to authorise 
payments of these  amounts. However, it would be Mr Gs responsibility to check the 
amount on the terminal prior to entering  his PIN. With regard to the relevant 
regulations, it is enough  that he knew he was consenting to a payment even if he 
didnt know the amount  of that payment. 
my final decision 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and Im not asking Tesco to do anything 
further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Katherine Jones
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3081918