K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that SureStone Insurance dac (SureStone) handled her travel insurance  
claim inefficiently, and refused to reimburse  some  of her costs.  
My references to SureStone will include its agents.
background
Ms C went  on holiday. Towards the end of her trip, she became unwell. A Doctor diagnosed 
Ms C with bronchitis and declared her unfit to fly for two weeks. Ms C said she was still 
unwell and unfit to fly after the two weeks had passed. She remained abroad for several 
more weeks. 
After returning  home, Ms C made  a claim on her travel insurance.  She claimed for the costs 
of medication, accommodation,  food and drink and other expenses. 
SureStone agreed  to pay Ms Cs medication  costs, and for the first two weeks  of 
accommodation costs  up to the policy limit. After deducting an excess it paid €958.57. It 
declined to meet the rest of Ms Cs claim for further  accommodation and other expenses.  
Ms C complained. She said she didnt read the full policy  documentation  originally, as she 
didnt expect to fall ill. However, once she became aware of the level of cover, she said she 
felt the policy wasnt  fit for purpose. She said the cover for room  only accommodation is 
insufficient for someone who is unwell, and should  at least include allowances  for food and 
drink. 
Ms C also said she felt her claim was handled poorly from the outset.  There  was a long 
delay of 23 months in paying Ms Cs claim. SureStone accepted  it should  have  paid Ms Cs 
settlement in December  2015, but it said due to a system error, no payment was made.  
Ms C contacted SureStone in March 2017 to chase the payment, which alerted SureStone  to 
its error.  SureStone said it processed  the payment  at that time,  but something  went wrong 
and the payment didnt reach  Ms Cs account.  Ms C contacted SureStone  again  in 
September 2017, and received the payment in December 2017. SureStone apologised to 
Ms C for the delay and offered €100 in compensation. 
Ms C was unhappy with SureStones response and brought her complaint to us. An 
investigator looked into the complaint  and said SureStone hadnt done enough. They 
thought SureStone should increase the compensation to €250, and pay interest on the 
settlement amount.
SureStone accepted the investigators view, but Ms C was dissatisfied  and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision. 
After receiving the investigators view on her complaint, Ms C asked why SureStone hadnt 
paid the cost of her new return  flight home.  SureStone said it hadnt originally received 
enough evidence  of the cost of the flight.  However, it said it would add a further €41.43  to 
the settlement,  to go towards Ms Cs return flight.  And it said it wouldnt put Ms C to more 
trouble by asking  her to provide further evidence.
Ref: DRN30644742my provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said: 
Was the policy fit for purpose?
The policy sets out that it covers  reasonable additional travel and room-only accommodation 
expenses, in the event  the insured is unable to complete their original journey home  due to 
medical advice not to travel. 
Ms C said she thought it was unfair the policy didnt  provide any cover  for food and drink and 
said the policy wasnt fit for purpose. Its up to each  individual insurer to decide what cover 
will be provided. In my opinion the term isnt unfair,  so Im satisfied SureStone can rely on it. 
The policy is clear on what will be covered  in these circumstances, so I think it was fit for 
purpose. 
Has SureStone paid the correct amount for accommodation costs?
SureStone agreed  to pay the accommodation costs for the two weeks  Ms C had been 
declared medically unfit to fly, up to the policy limit. Im aware Ms C claimed for the cost of 
accommodation for a longer period. However, she didnt  provide any medical evidence to 
confirm she remained unfit to fly after the original  two weeks, so I think  SureStone assessed 
this element of her claim  fairly.  
The cost of Ms Cs accommodation for the two weeks  was €1,049. SureStone  said it would 
pay up to the policy  limit for this, so it calculated it would pay €1,000. Im satisfied that this 
was calculated correctly.
Has SureStone paid the correct amount for reasonable travel  expenses?
Ms C queried why she wasnt paid the cost of her new return  flight home.  And SureStone 
said it would  add a further €41.43 to the total settlement, to go towards Ms Cs return flight. 
However, I dont think SureStone has calculated this correctly. Ill explain why.
Within Section B: medical expenses  the policy states the following is covered.
C. Travel and accommodation expenses 
reasonable additional travel and room-only  accommodation  expenses incurred by 
you and one person travelling with you, as a result of you receiving medical 
advice from the insurers medical advisors  that your originally planned  return 
journey home to your country of residence is impossible due to medical reasons. 
The most that the insurer will pay for accommodation costs is 1,000€ per person. 
This section  of the policy specifies that the most the insurer will pay for additional 
accommodation costs  in the circumstances  is €1,000. A specific  amount  which  will be paid 
Ref: DRN30644743for reasonable travel expenses is not stated, although the overall cover provided for medical 
expenses is €150,000, so this type of expense would fall within that limit. 
Because of this, I believe Ms C was covered for up to €1,000  for accommodation costs, but 
was still able to claim  for reasonable travel  expenses  beyond this. As such, SureStone 
should also have  paid the total cost of Ms Cs new return  flight,  which Ms C said was £110. 
Im assuming that this isnt a mistake and the amount paid was £110 and not €110. 
I would usually expect  to see evidence of the cost of the flight,  and that no refund was 
received for the original cancelled  flight. However, in this case  as the flight  was booked with 
a low cost airline, and would have been  cancelled at very short  notice, I think its highly 
unlikely that Ms C would  have received  any refund. Also,  SureStone previously said it 
wouldnt ask Ms C for evidence of the cost of her new return flight  home.  So Im satisfied  that 
further evidence  isnt needed  here. 
Also, Ms C may be entitled  to claim for additional  travel expenses, such  as taxi fares  during 
the first two weeks when  she was unfit to fly. 
When Ms C made her claim, she said shed spent €200 on taxis. If she can confirm  the costs 
of reasonable  taxi journeys she needed to make during the first two weeks after she was 
declared unfit to fly (such  as for journeys  to and from her appointment with the doctor) I think  
SureStone should  also consider these as part of her claim.
Ms C also provided evidence of a train ticket for a journey to the airport on the date of her 
replacement flight home. However,  I dont  think this should be covered. I expect Ms C would 
have incurred around the same cost to get to the airport had she caught her original flight, so 
this is not an additional  expense shes had to pay. 
SureStone also appears to have made  an error when calculating the excess. The policy 
states the excess chargeable under the medical expenses section  of the policy  is €50. 
However, SureStone  deducted an excess of €75 from Ms Cs settlement. 
Did SureStone settle the claim within a reasonable amount of time?
Ms Cs claim  wasnt settled when it should  have  been  due to a mistake made by SureStone.  
Once Ms C alerted  SureStone that she hadnt  received her settlement, it took action. But 
Ms C should  have received her settlement much sooner, so I think  its fair that SureStone  
pay interest to her on the settlement  amount.
I dont think the delays in paying  the settlement caused a severe amount of inconvenience  to 
Ms C, as more than a year went by before she contacted SureStone about this. And 
following the payment  error, she waited around  six months more  before getting in contact 
again. However, the claim should have been handled better, and the correct  settlement 
amount should  have  been paid out. For these reasons, I think the €250  compensation 
suggested by the investigator adequately  recognises the inconvenience.  
Ref: DRN30644744response to my provisional  decision 
Ms C responded. She reiterated  some of her main  complaint points and said that she was 
unhappy with the level of compensation. She also confirmed that she was unable  to provide 
receipts for any of the relevant taxi journeys. SureStone had no further comments to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id said that I thought  Ms C may be entitled to claim for travel  expenses in addition to her 
flight home, such as taxi fares during the first two weeks  when  she was unfit to fly. However, 
as Ms C has been unable to provide  any receipts, I dont think its appropriate for SureStone 
to pay anything for taxi fares. So, it just needs  to pay the extra Ms C paid for a new return 
flight (£110). As SureStone has also deducted the wrong excess, it will need to pay a further 
€25 to reflect this. 
There isnt anything more  for me to consider as neither party  has provided any new 
information. So my final decision remains as outlined  in my provisional decision, for the 
same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold Ms Cs complaint and require SureStone Insurance dac 
to do the following:  
pay Ms C a further £110  for her new flight;  
pay a further €25 to correct the error it made  with the excess;
pay interest at 8% simple  on the total settlement  amount  due including  the additional 
£110 and €25 for the excess from the date Ms Cs claim was agreed to the date she 
receives the full settlement; and
pay Ms C a total of €250 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
If SureStone considers  it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my 
award it may do so, but it should give Ms C the necessary certificate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019. 
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3064474