K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the advice he received to transfer  the benefits from his final 
salary related occupational pension scheme  to a Section 32 buy-out plan. Sesame Limited is 
responsible for this complaint.  
background
Mr H was advised to transfer into a Section  32 buy-out plan with Scottish Equitable  (now
Aegon) in 1999. He has recently reached  retirement  age. This has prompted him to complain 
to Aegon  about the plans restrictions on accessing retirement benefits. It has also prompted 
Mr H to complain  to Sesame about  the transfer itself. He says his pension  is now lower  than 
it would  have been if he had remained in his occupational scheme. He therefore  thinks he 
shouldnt have been advised to transfer. 
This decision deals  with just the transfer,  not the administration of Mr Hs Section 32 plan.
Sesame didnt think it was responsible  for Mr Hs pension  transfer.  An ombudsman has 
issued a decision saying  Sesame was responsible. An adjudicator  then looked at the merits 
of the complaint and thought Mr H hadnt  been given suitable advice. He said the critical 
yield  the rate at which  Mr Hs personal pension  would have to grow  to match the benefits  
being given up by leaving his occupational scheme   was too high to have made the transfer 
viable. In short, he didnt  think  Mr H had a realistic prospect of bettering  his existing pension  
arrangements. 
Sesame disagreed. It said it had completed a retrospective Financial Viability  Test (FVT) 
which showed the transfer was viable. It also pointed out that the risks of the transfer  were  
pointed out to Mr H at the time. 
 
The matter  has therefore been referred  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A Retirement Planning Report was prepared for Mr H on 31 January 1999. He was a 
deferred member of the Local Government Pension Scheme. He had built up just over 10 
years of service. The report outlined the key features of the scheme  and said Mr Hs accrued 
benefits had a cash equivalent transfer  value of £47,430. The report went on to say:
You wish to consider a transfer since there  is a possibility that the benefits available from 
the Local Government Pension Scheme may be improved  upon within  a personal pension
The critical  yield was put at 7.3%. Some features of personal pensions  (including some of 
their risks) were  then provided along  with several pages of tables estimating potential  
pension sizes based on different growth  rates, investment funds and investment managers. 
Mr H signed the Aegon  Section 32 plan application  form on 10 March  1999.
On 25 March 1999, Mr Hs adviser sent him a reasons why letter which  confirmed what 
actions had been taken and the rationale behind  them, including the reasons for transferring 
Ref: DRN30656982to a Section  32 plan rather  than a personal pension plan and the reasons for choosing  
Aegon as a provider. It also recorded the transfer  value as being slightly  higher than 
previously.
At the time of the transfer, Mr H was 46 and was working for an employer in the private 
sector which, according to the reasons why letter, he was considering leaving. Mr H has 
also told us that he had little other retirement  provision.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the transfer  was suitable  because  the critical yield of 7.3% was 
too high to make it viable.  He referred  to the regulators  published discount  rates that were 
used in the industry-wide pension review process.  These give an indication  of what  growth  
rates would have  been considered reasonably  achievable at the time. The rates quoted by 
the adjudicator  were  6.8% and 7.0% (based on a retirement age of 60 and 65 respectively). 
As both values were  below the critical yield, the adjudicator didnt think there was a good 
prospect of Mr H being able to match the benefits he was giving up. And he said there would 
have to have been a reasonable prospect of exceeding the critical yield, otherwise there 
would have been little point in transferring.  
Sesame says its retrospective FVT showed  the required growth rate was 5.54% and the 
discount rate set by the regulator was 6.60%. In other words, the transfer was suitable  
because projected  growth  rates were  above  the (revised)  critical yield.
Ive given the FVT careful consideration. However, even with the retrospective FVT, the 
difference between  the critical yield and what would be considered an achievable growth 
rate is only just above 1%. This suggests  Mr H could, reasonably, have expected  a larger  
pension than he would otherwise have  had. But the potential size of that pension when 
compared with the potential downsides  Mr H would have  been facing means  the rationale for 
the transfer remains balanced. 
Ive therefore  gone  on to consider the wider circumstances of the transfer because,  
notwithstanding the prospective  returns a personal  pension could make,  Id still normally 
expect a transfer to carry with it some further logic for the individual involved. And in this 
case, Ive not seen  persuasive evidence that Mr H did have any wider reasons for 
transferring:  
As a government backed pension scheme,  there would have been little risk to Mr Hs 
preserved benefits in the way that can sometimes apply to private occupational 
schemes.
Mr H was essentially putting  his main pension at risk. His retirement  provision beyond  
his local government  scheme was limited.  And the prospect of Mr H building  up 
substantial retirement  benefits  in the future wasnt assured  either  given he was 
considering leaving  his then-employer. 
Other than the potential for greater returns,  there is very little consideration of what  
benefits Mr H would  have  derived from transferring or why Mr H had a particular need 
for those benefits. The reasons why letter has consideration of the merits of a 
Section 32 plan compared with a personal  pension plan  but little consideration of 
the benefits of the Section 32 plan compared with what  he was giving up.
If Mr H had a relatively high appetite for risk, then this might  suggest he was willing  to accept 
some of the risks outlined  above for the sake of a potentially larger pension. And it would 
Ref: DRN30656983mean he would have been  willing to invest in the types of fund that would  have made the 
required returns more likely to be achieved. 
However, Mr Hs attitude to risk hasnt  been well documented. The Retirement  Planning 
Report doesnt mention Mr Hs attitude to risk at all. And whilst the reasons why  letter  does 
say Mr Hs fund choices  are in line with his attitude to investment risk  and suggest he was 
comfortable in taking on risk  theres little further evidence to go on. Theres  nothing to 
show how his attitude to risk was assessed.  His risk appetite hasnt been recorded 
anywhere. Mr Hs wider  circumstances havent  been  recorded in detail, so theres  nothing  to 
indicate he had a track record  in investing  that would have suggested an understanding and 
willingness to take on risk. And the reasons why letter was sent after Mr H had already 
signed his Aegon application form. So theres nothing  to show Mr H had agreed to, or even 
seen, any particular risk rating  ahead  of agreeing to transfer. I also note that Mr H has told 
Sesame (as part of its complaint investigation) that he was risk averse at the time. 
In the circumstances, and taking into consideration what he has said as well, I dont think 
theres sufficiently strong evidence to show Mr H did have the appetite to take on the risks 
inherent in transferring his occupational pension scheme benefits.    
Part of the problem  here is that Im essentially relying on the Retirement Planning  Report 
and the reasons why letter to form a view of the advice process. The former  doesnt 
provide much detail  on why it was suitable for Mr H to transfer. And the latter jumps straight 
to ruling out a transfer to Mr Hs new occupational scheme, the advantages of a Section 32 
Plan relative  to a person  pension plan, the merits of Aegon as a provider and an overview of 
Mr Hs fund choices. But nowhere in the reasons  why letter, or anywhere else, is there a 
thorough analysis of why it was suitable for Mr H to transfer his occupational scheme 
benefits in the first place. Its possible this is because some documents from the transfer are 
now missing. This wouldnt be surprising given the time that has elapsed since  the advice 
was given. But it means there is very little evidence  to support why transferring was suitable  
for Mr H given  his particular circumstances, needs and preferences. 
With this in mind, I dont think I can reasonably say the transfer  was suitable. As Sesame is 
responsible for the transfer,  and the advice that led to it, I will be directing Sesame to pay 
Mr H compensation as set out below. 
Finally, Ive considered  Sesames point that the risks of transferring were explained to Mr H. 
The Retirement Planning Report and reasons why letter had some  warnings   in relation to 
investment returns for instance. But theres  very little on some  of the other  risks Mr H was 
potentially going  to face  for example, in relation to annuity  rates. So I dont  think Mr H was 
necessarily given comprehensive information on the risks he was taking on. But theres a 
broader point  here which  is that providing  risk warnings doesnt negate the need to provide 
suitable advice  in the first place. And, for the reasons given above, I dont think that the 
advice was suitable on this occasion.  
Ref: DRN30656984fair compensation
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr H, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Sesame must therefore undertake a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision.
Sesame must contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Hs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his income tax rate in 
retirement  presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the 
loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr H within 90 days of the date 
Sesame receives notification of his acceptance  of my final decision. Further  interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes 
Sesame to pay Mr H.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
I recognise that Mr H has requested compensation to be either  paid into his Section 32 plan 
up to the point where it becomes fully funded  with the remainder paid to him direct,  or paid 
entirely to him as a lump  sum. However, our approach to compensation  has been designed 
to put the consumer, as far as possible, in the position they would have been in had they not 
been given unsuitable advice. As Mr H would have remained  in his occupational scheme, 
the approach  outlined  above  paying  compensation back  into a pension where possible  
does this. I see no reason  to depart  from that approach here.  
Ref: DRN30656985As Mr Hs retirement planning  has been disrupted, Sesame should  also pay him £250 for the 
trouble and upset  it has caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint.  Sesame Limited should pay 
Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3065698