K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plcs  (RSA)  handling of a claim he 
made under a motor insurance policy and about  a subsequent increase in his premiums.
background
Mr D held a motor insurance policy with RSA. Mr D was involved in an accident in 
September 2017, in which his car was damaged. Mr D made  a claim on his insurance policy  
and the car was inspected at the end of September. Mr D wanted to use his car to go on 
holiday in early October and so it was returned  to him. Whilst Mr D was on holiday,  a letter 
was sent advising  that the car was beyond economical repair  and noting  that Mr D was 
going to retain the salvage.  Mr D was told that his insurance would be suspended pending 
repair of the vehicle. Mr D was warned that the policy would be cancelled at the end of 
November, if no MOT certificate  was provided  after the repairs.
Mr D only wanted to keep  the car for his holiday,  he says he hadnt wanted to retain  it for 
longer and no-one spoke to him about this or the valuation.  Having received  the letters, Mr D 
was worried that he might have been  driving  when his policy  was suspended. Mr D was 
upset when a settlement  cheque was sent less salvage. RSA organised  for the engineer to 
speak to Mr D and they confirmed that Mr D had been insured whilst on holiday. During this 
time, Mr D had purchased  a replacement car. The car wasnt  as old as the one damaged in 
the accident and when  Mr D insured it, the premiums  were more expensive.  Mr D thought 
this was unfair. 
Mr D also says RSA took too long to deal with liability.  RSA say they did chase the third 
party insurers, who agreed to deal with the claim in November 2017.
Mr D says he should be compensated  for the poor service hes been provided with. Hes 
asked for £500  in compensation  for distress  and inconvenience and says RSA should refund 
the difference in his premiums.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought RSA had dealt with the claim within 
an acceptable timeframe. Our investigator  agreed  there had been some  confusion around 
the salvage and valuation.  She thought RSAs offer of £100 for salvage  and £100 for the 
trouble and distress  for the confusion caused was fair and reasonable. Our investigator  
explained that Mr Ds premium had increased  because he insured a new vehicle  and not as 
a result of making the claim. 
Mr D disagrees  with the view, so the matter has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delays in dealing  with liability 
Mr D complains about the time RSA took to deal with liability and points to it taking over a 
month to address  the insurance position  with the third party  driver.  Looking at the timeline, I 
cant see that RSA caused  any unreasonable delay here. They were in contact with the third 
Ref: DRN30288172party insurers whilst enquiries were made about the driver. And Ive taken into account  that 
the settlement  was paid in less than two months, which  isnt an unreasonable  time scale.
Mr D says he was forced  to incur the expense of buying a new car. But he also had the 
option of repairing the original vehicle  which he remained in possession of; instead  he chose 
to buy this particular  replacement vehicle. I cant fairly say that was down to RSA.
customer service
Ive looked at the notes from the time. I understand that Mr D found it frustrating having to 
speak to several people when dealing  with his claim, but it wasnt  unreasonable for RSA to 
ask questions. I can see Mr D explained  that he wanted his car back because he was going  
on holiday. And Mr D did get the car back in time.  I havent seen  anything  to show that Mr D 
said he wanted to retain  the vehicle permanently. So RSA did make an assumption here and 
I can see this caused some confusion.
RSA wrote to Mr D whilst  he was away and I can see that Mr D was upset when he returned 
from his trip and read the letters. But, RSA did then take reasonable steps to rectify things. 
The engineer called  Mr D to discuss the valuation  and RSA offered to remove  the car and 
pay £100 in salvage. They also offered Mr R a further £100  for the distress  caused. I think  
these were reasonable offers.  Further,  RSA explained that Mr D had been insured whilst he 
was on holiday.  I think it was reasonable to give that reassurance.
Mr D didnt accept the offers  at the time and I understand that he has subsequently disposed 
of the car, but didnt receive  any payment for it.
RSA have confirmed  that £200 is still on offer to Mr R.
cost of premiums
Mr D thinks it is unfair  that his premium increased  when he insured a new car. We generally 
take the view it is up to an insurer to decide how much to charge for its policies. Provided 
they exercise this judgement fairly and consistently, in line with their internal guidelines, it is 
a matter with which  we wouldnt normally interfere. RSA have explained that the increase 
wasnt because of the accident  (that wont be taken into account  until calculating the 
premium at the policys next renewal) but because of the mid-term change in vehicle. They  
have provided  evidence in support of this. I cant share this evidence  with Mr D because it is 
commercially sensitive  but Ive checked  it and am satisfied  RSA calculated his additional 
premium fairly and accurately. I do understand that Mr D was disappointed when his 
premium increased. But I havent  seen anything that shows  RSA treated Mr D differently to 
any other customer. So I dont think they treated Mr D unfairly.
Mr D also says his premiums  increased  at renewal, but Mr D didnt accept the quotation, so I 
cant see that hes suffered any loss here.
conclusion
In my view, RSA made  a fair and reasonable offer and theyve confirmed that they are still 
willing to pay Mr D £200, so Im not going  to ask them to do anything more. Its a matter for 
Mr D whether or not to accept the £200 offered to him.
Ref: DRN30288173my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. It is now a matter for Mr D to 
decide whether  or not to accept the £200  offered by Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3028817