K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) failed  to repair  damage  caused to his 
motorbike by the recovery agent they used.
background
Mr M called IPA after his motorbike had broken down. They arranged for a recovery agent  to 
attend Mr M at the roadside. The recovery agent  said the motorbike  couldnt  be repaired at 
the roadside so Mr M asked the agent  to recover the vehicle to a garage of his choice.
The garage signed for the motorbike later that day. As the garage had closed, they stored Mr 
Ms motorbike safely ready to assess the next working day. When  the garage assessed the 
motorbike, they found  additional  damage to the rear indicator  and petrol tank. They  called Mr 
M to make him aware of the damage.
Mr M called IPA to make  them aware  of the additional  damage.  He felt the damage  
happened when  the motorbike was with the recovery agent. He supplied  IPA with an 
independent engineers report as well as witness statement which he felt backed up his 
view. So, he wanted  IPA to cover  the costs of the repairs needed to fix the additional 
damage.
IPA responded  denying  the damage  was caused  by the recovery  agent. They said the 
garage had signed for the motorbike  confirming there was no damage.  They also provided 
an engineer with photos of the damage who had said it would have been caused when the 
garage removed  a spark plug. So, they didnt uphold the complaint and refused to cover  the 
costs of the repair. Mr M was unhappy  with this so referred his complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint. Initially, he didnt think he had enough evidence to 
make a decision on when  the damage occurred. So, he found that IPA should  agree to a 
new independent engineers report and then he would  review the complaint again. After 
receiving the new independent engineers report, he thought  that the damage more than 
likely happened when  the motorbike was with the recovery agent. So, he thought IPA should  
cover the repair  costs and also pay Mr M £250  for the trouble  and upset he experienced in 
getting the repairs paid for.
IPA disagreed with this view as they didnt think there was enough evidence  to hold them  
liable. Because  of this, the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
As this complaint  is effectively Mr Ms word against  IPAs, Ive used the evidence to decide 
when I think the damage  is most likely to have happened.
Ive seen IPAs network manager reviewed images of the damage and said he believed  it 
was caused by the removal  of the spark  plug at the garage. Its important to note he didnt 
inspect the motorbike in person to form this view.
Ref: DRN30500972IPA have also referred to Mr M and the garage signing to say the motorbike was undamaged 
when it was collected and received. But, the garage themselves admit they wouldve been 
unable to see the damage without lifting the motorbike due to where  the damage was 
located and they didnt  do this due to the time of day it was delivered. So, I dont think Mr M 
wouldve been able to see the damage either.  Because of this, I think its unreasonable to 
rely on these signatures.
Ive seen Mr M arranged for a third party garage to look at the damage.  Its important to note 
they inspected  the motorbike in person. They  provided a letter saying they didnt  think  a 
spark plug could  cause the damage and suggested  it may have been a hook or strap used in 
the recovery process. Ive seen  IPA suggest this wasnt an independent view as this third 
party would be looking to complete the repair work  needed. I dont think this is the case. The 
third party recommended a full replacement of the fuel tank which theyd  have been  unable 
to complete themselves.
Ive also seen the independent engineers  report arranged by IPA following  the 
recommendation of the investigator. He says he thinks the damage was most likely caused 
by the ratchet  part of the strap used to secure the motorbike  in the recovery  van.
So both the third party garage  and the independent  engineer thought the damage was 
caused when  the motorbike was transported  by the recovery agent.  As they both had the 
opportunity to inspect  the motorbike in person, I think  its reasonable for me place more 
weight on their opinion  than the opinion  provided  by IPA. 
Ive also considered the images sent by IPA which show  how they would usually secure  a 
motorbike. But, these  images only show what they should do, not what happened on this 
occasion. 
For these reasons, Im satisfied that the motorbike wasnt  adequately secured and that the 
damage reported by Mr M occurred  in transit. So, IPA should cover  the costs  of the repair  
work needed to fix the damage.
I also think IPAs initial reaction after being told about the damage  was unreasonable. I 
wouldve expected  IPA to arrange  an inspection of the damage rather  than rely purely  on the 
testimony of the recovery agent and their network  manager. They  didnt do this.
So, Mr M has had to go through  the trouble of arranging a report  from a third party  garage  as 
well as arranging a number of witness statements. I dont think IPA have reviewed these 
documents and its position effectively, which has led to Mr M being left with a damaged 
motorbike for an extended period of time.
Mr M has said he is proud of his motorbike  so it being damaged has caused  him a lot of 
distress and left him not wanting to ride it. Both the witness  statements and the garage the 
motorbike was taken  to discuss the importance of the motorbike to Mr M. So, I think  Mr M 
has been caused a lot of upset by the recovery agent damaging his motorbike and IPA not 
handling the review of this reasonably. Because of this, I think  IPA should  pay Mr M £250  to 
recognise the upset  Mr M has experienced being left with a damaged motorbike for a 
significant length of time through no fault of his own.
Ref: DRN30500973my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint about Inter Partner  Assistance 
SA. They  must cover  the costs of repairs to fix the damage caused in transit to Mr Ms 
motorbike, in line with the list of works provided  by Sycamores Garage. They  must  also pay 
Mr M £250 to recognise the trouble and upset hes experienced.
They should  pay this within  28 days  of us telling them  Mr M has accepted my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3050097