K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs T bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a credit card. She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  by completing a pack that she picked up from a branch. 
At the time,  Mrs T was employed as a cashier.  She has told us she was entitled to full pay 
for at least three months if she was off work  sick. Shed also receive death in service benefit. 
But she didnt have  any other means of repaying  her credit card should  she be unable to 
work. Mrs T has said she was in good health.  
The policy provided  cover  for death, disablement and unemployment   subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mrs Ts credit  card balance in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 60p per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Nationwide has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account  closed in 2004.
Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ts representative  says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ts 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nationwide  should 
have told Mrs T about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs T and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim; and
The information Mrs T received  was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue. 
Ref: DRN36992052Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. As the complaint  couldnt  be resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ts. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ts complaint.
This sale took place  in 2002 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Nationwide, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN36992053The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
Mrs Ts case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mrs Ts complaint.  
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mrs T with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs T, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs T suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs T and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mrs T know she had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Nationwide has sent us a copy of the application Mrs T completed.  It says this was part of a 
pack that Mrs T took away and completed by herself. Mrs T agrees she completed the 
application and returned it by post. So Im satisfied she bought  the policy without the 
involvement of an advisor at Nationwide.
Ref: DRN36992054In order to by the PPI, Mrs T needed to complete a section  of the application  form headed 
Additional account  features. There was a box labelled Yes, I would like to take out 
Payment Protection  Insurance  (60p per £100 outstanding balance). This is ticked. There 
was a separate box labelled No, I do not wish to take out Payment  Protection  Insurance 
which was not ticked.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs T knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mrs T hasnt said whether  advice  
was given. But looking at what  happened when Nationwide sold Mrs T the PPI, Im satisfied 
it didnt provide advice  Mrs T completed the application herself without the involvement of 
anyone at Nationwide.  
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs T. Instead,  it had 
to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs T to make an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Nationwide has provided us with Mrs Ts application form  showing that PPI had been 
selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve received, 
including the policy terms and conditions and an application pack   which I accept  on a 
balance of probabilities  applied to policies like Mrs Ts. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs T at the time, I dont think Nationwide  gave Mrs T 
the information she fairly and reasonably needed to make an informed decision about 
whether or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I see the application  form described  the PPI as protecting Mrs 
Ts card repayments against  being unable to work.  It also explained that the policy  cost 60p 
per £100.  There was also some information  about the PPI in the pack that accompanied the 
application form.
The information provided would have given Mrs T a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was Nationwides  responsibility to draw to Mrs Ts attention the important information   
i.e. the key information about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide did enough  to do this. For example,  I dont  think the true cost 
of the policy  was made clear to Mrs T, including the need to maintain premiums during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  I cant  see that Nationwide 
adequately drew to her attention the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  
and exclusions.  
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mrs T sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  including 
Ref: DRN36992055drawing her attention  to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ts representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ts. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ts representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs T about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ts representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs T has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either.
what effect did Nationwides shortcomings have on Mrs T? To what extent did Mrs T 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold this policy  to Mrs T. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs T 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs T 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nationwide done things properly. 
Mrs T says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs T had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs T chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs T thought she was getting  
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs T has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Ref: DRN36992056In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs T ought  reasonably to have known she would  have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  a portion of her outstanding balance   
this was set out on the application form. But, I accept that Nationwide  didnt make  clear the 
on-going cost information. So while Mrs T didnt know some things, the ultimate position in 
the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to what she would reasonably  have 
thought from the information she based  her decision  to take out the policy on and found  
acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs T thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability and life claims arising directly  from any existing defect 
or chronic recurring  disease or other  condition  which  she was aware  of at the start of 
the policy or which shed suffered from in the 12 months immediately before then;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs T 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs T be unable to 
do her own job or any other  paid work  which her knowledge or training suited her to 
do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs T from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs T didnt have  any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs T would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs T had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and other  jobs which  in the insurers  view her knowledge or skills suited her for, it might have 
played into her thinking  about  what she would have done. And I accept it may have given 
her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have been overly  concerned  
given that if Mrs T was unable (through disability) to carry on her own occupation  the 
chances that she would be able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability,  
be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs T would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close  to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
Ref: DRN36992057difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs T would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs T 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs T believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs T in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Nationwide should  pay Mrs T compensation, as that would put 
her in a better position than she would have  been  in if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
Im also aware that Mrs T thinks  Nationwide misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Nationwides statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Nationwide failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Nationwide  gave Mrs T, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2002 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ref: DRN36992058Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ts representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs T and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Nationwide had been in breach  of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs T in a better position than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Rebecca Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3699205