K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the customer service she received from American Express  Services  
Europe Limited when she was charged twice for a transaction.
background
On 9 August  2018 Mrs S was charged  twice for a travel ticket transaction.  She contacted 
Amex to dispute the duplicate charge on 13 August  2018.
Mrs S says that when  she spoke  to Amex on 13 August 2018 the advisor suggested that she 
may have  purchased two tickets on purpose and then claimed to have only purchased one. 
Mrs S felt that the advisor had suggested that she had committed fraud  and terminated the 
call.
Mrs S called Amex again on 13 August 2018  and spoke to a different advisor. She made  a 
complaint about  the previous call and the advisor  told Mrs S the complaint had been logged. 
However, Mrs S has never received  a response  to this complaint.
Amex contacted Mrs S at work on 22 August 2018.  Mrs S says shes never provided her 
work number. She made a second complaint to Amex about the use of this number. Amex 
responded to this complaint in October 2018.
Mrs S is unhappy that her first complaint about the suggestion she had committed fraud 
hasnt been dealt with. She says shes called Amex several times but hasnt received a 
satisfactory response.
Mrs S feels  that Amex hasnt dealt  with her complaint fairly. She wants  an apology for the 
embarrassment caused to her by the suggestion that she had committed fraud.  She also 
wants Amex to be fined  for not providing her or this service with a recording of her calls 
dated 13 August  2018.
During the investigation, Amex acknowledged that it hadnt handled Mrs Ss complaint about 
the call dated  13 August  2018 properly. It offered to pay compensation of £50.
Our investigator considered both complaints. In relation  to the first complaint she felt that 
Amex could have  provided better customer service but felt that the compensation offered  
was fair. In relation to the second  complaint the investigator said that Amex hadnt done  
anything wrong.
Mrs S didnt agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Complaint about  suggestion of fraud
Ref: DRN31488532Amex hasnt been able to provide a call recording or any contact notes relating to the two 
calls which took place  on 13 August 2018.  Ive read Mrs Ss comments  about these calls and 
Ive no reason to believe  that they didnt  take place as she describes.
I understand Miss Ss frustration that the call recordings arent available.  In the 
circumstances, I have  to base my findings on the available information. Mrs S is very clear 
that the advisor suggested she had behaved dishonestly.  Amex says that its advisors are 
trained to a high standard and that it wouldnt expect  a member of staff to make  such an 
accusation. I cant  be certain of exactly what was said but I think  its unlikely that the advisor 
deliberately accused Mrs S of fraud. I think its more likely that the advisor was trying  to 
explain the circumstances in which the duplicate  payment might not be refunded.  Whatever 
was said, I appreciate that it was Mrs Ss perception that she had been accused  of fraud, 
and I understand  why this has caused  her distress.
Its not clear why Mrs Ss complaint about  the call wasnt acknowledged or addressed by 
Amex. Amex says it should  have done  more and has offered to pay compensation for poor 
customer service.
Im not in a position to make any findings about  exactly what was said during the call. But Im 
satisfied that Miss S raised  a complaint  about the call and that Amex failed to deal with her 
complaint properly. If Amex hadnt  offered to pay compensation  for this error already then I 
would be requiring it to do so. I think the amount of compensation  offered - £50  is fair and 
reasonable, so I wont be asking  Amex  to increase it.
Contact at work
The second  aspect of Mrs Ss complaint relates  to being contacted on her work number. Mrs 
S says shes  never provided her work number to Amex and that when she tried to complain 
about this, the advisor tried to dissuade  her from complaining.
I reviewed the call notes relating to this particular call and I can see that although Amex 
called Mrs S at work, the call didnt actually progress because Mrs S didnt answer the 
security questions. I can see from the information provided by Amex that Mrs Ss work  
number was provided by her when she applied for the card. Because of this, I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for Amex to use this number to contact Mrs S.
Amex has confirmed that, in response to Mrs Ss request,  it wont  use her work number to 
contact her in the future.
Taking all the circumstances of the complaint into consideration, Im satisfied that Amex 
dealt with the duplicate transaction and the complaint about the using  Mrs Ss work number 
fairly. The complaint  about the content of the first call dated 13 August 2018 wasnt  handled 
well but Im satisfied that the offer of compensation for poor customer service  is fair and 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Ref: DRN31488533Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3148853