K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Hastings Insurance Services Ltd (Hastings) auto-renewed  his car 
insurance policy, after he had told them  not to do this, and that they continued to try and 
collect payment from his bank account for the renewal premium.
background
Mr G took out a car insurance policy with Hastings  in April 2018, via an online comparison 
website. Hastings told Mr G it would renew  automatically the following  year.
In 2019, Hastings contacted Mr G to remind him the policy was due to auto-renew. Mr G 
sent an email to Hastings  to say he didnt want to renew two weeks before  the renewal date. 
Hastings tried to phone Mr G, but couldnt  get hold of him or leave a voicemail message. So 
they emailed him asking  him to call them to complete  his request. There  was no further 
contact between Mr G and Hastings.  So Hastings auto-renewed his policy.  They took his full 
renewal premium from his bank account.
When Mr G realised this had happened,  he contacted his bank and asked it to arrange  for 
the premium to be refunded  which the bank did. However, Hastings continued trying to 
collect the payment.  It wrote to Mr G to say it would  cancel the policy  if Mr G didnt make 
payment. Hastings then cancelled  the policy and charged Mr G a cancellation  fee. Mr G 
contacted Hastings, and it was eventually  agreed  the policy would be cancelled  from the 
date of renewal,  and Mr G didnt  owe anything to Hastings.
Mr G complained Hastings ignored  his request  not to auto-renew and had no right to take 
payment from him. And, they had no right to continue trying  to take payment from his bank 
account. Hastings  responded, agreeing Mr G had emailed and told them he didnt  want  to 
renew. But, because  they hadnt  been able to speak to him to confirm this was his intention, 
they felt theyd acted  reasonably by processing the renewal, and attempting  to claim 
payment.
Mr G was unhappy with Hastings response  and brought his complaint to us. An investigator  
reviewed the case and agreed with what Hastings had said. Mr G remained unhappy. As far 
as he is concerned Mr G thinks he should  be paid compensation for the stress he 
experienced dealing with Hastings. He asked an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my provisional decision   
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to begin  by looking at the autorenewal letter Hastings sent to Mr G, in April 2019.  This 
says as follows:
Unless you tell us otherwise, well automatically renew your policy
Mr G responded a few days later, emailing Hastings  as follows:
Ref: DRN34336872Do not renew  my policy. I have already instructed you not to do this automatically  
but you have still sent me an email saying it will be renewed by the same  method as 
last time. I would never take out insurance with Hastings Direct again  so do not 
renew this policy
Hastings called Mr G, in response, shortly after this but couldnt get through or leave a 
message. So they sent the following email  to Mr G:
We have attempted to call to discuss this with you but unfortunately  have been  
unsuccessful. To complete this request please  contact our call centre on xxx9601 
and one of our representatives  will be happy to discuss  this with you.
There appear to be no further email  exchanges, or phone  calls between Mr G and Hastings, 
and his policy auto-renewed at the beginning of May 2019.
Mr G thinks his above email to Hastings is clear  enough about  his intentions. And that 
Hastings should  have acted on it. He also says that Hastings initial communication  simply 
says he must contact them  which he did do using the contact  details they hold on file for 
him. Hastings, on the other hand,  say their response email  is clear they needed  to speak to 
Mr G to complete his request. I can see merit in both opinions.
I agree  Hastings' renewal letter doesnt say how Mr G had to communicate with Hastings  it 
doesnt say Mr G needs to speak to Hastings. Mr G says that, by emailing his instructions, 
he was telling Hastings.  I can understand why he thinks this.
I also think Hastings response email could have been clearer   again  it doesnt say Mr G 
must call Hastings to ensure his auto-renewal is cancelled. Or explain why its important 
Hastings speak to Mr G. Hastings has told us its their policy to speak to a policyholder  who 
wants to cancel (or not renew) their insurance,  because it allows them  to confirm  the 
policyholders identity. I can understand why Hastings want  to do this  it provides 
reassurance its actually  the policy-holder making the request. And it allows  the 
consequences  the policy wont provide any cover from that point on  to be explained. But, 
as Ive said above, neither communication from Hastings to Mr G clearly sets this out.
On the other hand, Hastings response email is clear they wanted to speak to Mr G about his 
email request. And its clear Hastings tried to contact Mr G, and made it clear they wanted to 
speak to him to complete the request, which does imply it wont be completed unless he 
calls them. And, when  this email was sent, there  was still two weeks  before renewal  
enough time for Mr G to contact Hastings. And had Mr G phoned Hastings or emailed them  
again, the events that followed would likely not have occurred.
However, I also think Hastings could have tried to contact Mr G a further time after their 
earlier attempts were  unsuccessful. The wording of Mr Gs cancellation  email  is quite robust  
 it must have been clear to Hastings of the strength of Mr Gs wishes on this matter. In 
these circumstances,  I dont think its unreasonable to have expected Hastings  to make one 
further attempt  to contact Mr G to clarify his wishes.
So, in summary,  I accept Mr G contacted Hastings in an acceptable way to begin with. And I 
think Hastings made  it sufficiently clear they had to speak to Mr G to progress  his request. 
And I also think Hastings could reasonably have done more  to contact Mr G after their initial 
failed attempts. Put simply, both Mr G and Hastings could have done more to help prevent  
his car insurance auto-renewing  when it did. But, because it did auto-renew, money was 
Ref: DRN34336873taken and repeatedly re-requested from Mr Gs bank account.  This caused Mr G distress 
and inconvenience  which could have been avoided.  I think, for the above reasons, Hastings 
must take some responsibility for the way they dealt with the auto-renewal  process, and the 
stress this ended up causing  Mr G. And I think this justifies  Hastings paying  Mr G some  
compensation in recognition of this.
Ive also looked  at the email and letter exchanges between Mr G and Hastings after the 
policy had renewed.  And I can see it wasnt until nearly nine weeks  after Mr Gs first email  
that Hastings  confirmed the policy was cancelled with no further money due. I can see Mr G 
sent a number of emails  to Hastings complaining about the renewal. And Hastings sent 
letters to Mr G confirming their intention  to cancel the policy if Mr G didnt make  payment. 
They also sent what appear to be conflicting  cancellation letters.  And Mr G says they 
regularly texted him advising they were  trying to obtain payment. Mr G has also told us he 
tried to contact Hastings numerous times by phone without success after the policy 
renewed to try and resolve this issue  including not being put through  to people  and being 
on hold for 20 minutes before being cut off. Whilst I should add I havent seen evidence  of 
these calls, Im persuaded by what Mr G says here. He is consistent on this point, both in 
what hes told us, and in emails sent to Hastings that Ive seen.  Im satisfied Mr G was trying 
to contact Hastings  to deal with this situation.
It seems  clear  Mr G was having to spend  a lot of time and effort  dealing  with Hastings after 
the policy renewed. And Mr G has told us he suffered a lot of stress as a result of this. He 
says the stress caused by the situation impacted on a disability he has, helping to cause 
time off work. Having  read Mr Gs comments,  I accept  the effect the situation had on him. 
And I think most of this was avoidable  had Hastings been clearer in how they communicated 
with Mr G about the renewal of his policy.
So, for the reasons set out above, I think a fair and reasonable outcome here would  be for 
Hastings to pay Mr G £100  in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he suffered - 
both for the distress  of having money  taken from his bank  account when he wasnt  expecting 
it and for the trouble he had trying  to put things right with Hastings. And I think  this amount 
provides a fair reflection  of the distress  Mr G experienced.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr G has responded and accepted my above  findings. No response  has been received from 
Hastings.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And, on the basis  Mr G accepts my 
findings, and Hastings have not provided any further information for me to consider, I have 
nothing further  to add to the findings set out in my earlier decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint and require Hastings Insurance  
Services Limited to pay Mr G £100 as compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2019.
Ref: DRN34336874Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3433687