K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Welcome Financial Services Limited (Welcome) mis-sold him a single 
premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr D took out a loan with Welcome in 2004  during  a meeting. He was sold the PPI at the 
same time in connection with this loan.
The policy wouldve covered  Mr D for the remaining term of the loan if he was off work sick 
and for up to 12 months if he lost his job. The policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint.
Based on the information I have, Im satisfied  Mr D was eligible for the policy.
Welcome had to make  it clear  to Mr D that the PPI was optional  and needed his consent 
before it could be applied to the account.
Of course I cant  know for sure what happened during the sale,  so Ive thought about what  
Mr D and welcome have  told us and looked to the documents form the time of the sale to 
help me decide  what is more likely  to have  happened.
In particular Ive been given a copy of the credit  agreement. I note that this describes the PPI 
as optional. The customer declaration part of the agreement  shows that Mr D was told that 
the PPI wasnt a condition of the loan. Ive also seen  a copy  of the demands and needs  form.  
This shows Mr D was presented with various  choices and also an option not to take cover. It 
appears he chose  to take PPI and also signed this document.
So based  on what Ive seen, I think its more likely that Mr D was given a choice about the 
policy and that it was applied to his account because he chose to take it out.
Welcome accept they advised Mr D to take the policy out. This means they had to take 
adequate steps to ensure  the policy was suitable for Mr D. I cant say that Welcome took all 
the steps as they shouldve, but I do think the policy was suitable  for Mr D. I say this 
because:
Ref: DRN33077862-Although Mr D says he wouldve received some sick pay from his employer, the policy 
wouldve paid out in addition to this and for the remaining term of the loan if he was off 
work sick. It would also have paid out if he lost his job.
-Although Mr D has referred to a medical issue he had, I havent seen sufficient evidence 
to conclude that Mr D was suffering from a pre-existing medical condition at the time of 
the sale such that he wouldnt have been able to make  a successful claim under the 
policy. And I havent seen  any other evidence which  makes me think Mr D would have 
been affected by any of the other exclusions/restrictive  terms in the policy  either which  
wouldve made it more difficult for Mr D to make  a successful claim.  
-Although the policy wouldnt have provided a pro-rata refund if Mr D cancelled the policy  
early, I cant  see that Mr D intended  to settle  the loan/cancel the policy  early.  I say this 
because I havent seen that Mr D had a history of refinancing  and the loan itself was for 
a relatively short  period of time.  So I dont  think this made  the policy unsuitable  for Mr D 
at the time of the sale.
-I can see from the sample statement of price  provided that the costs of the policy 
wouldve been set out. I appreciate that the policy was expensive,  but I havent  seen 
anything to suggest that Mr D found  the policy unaffordable at the time of the sale.  
Welcome carried  out an affordability  assessment which  shows the policy would have 
been affordable  for Mr D.
Welcome also had to give Mr D information  in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that 
he could make a proper choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
I dont think Welcome did give Mr D all of the information as they shouldve. But this in itself 
doesnt mean the policy was mis-sold  as I have to go on and consider whether better 
information about the policy would  have put him off taking it out. And I dont think  it would  
have. I say this for the same reasons that I think the policy  was suitable for Mr D.
So having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think Welcome mis-sold Mr D this PPI 
policy.
As the adjudicator explained,  Im not able to consider whether Welcome  Finance treated    
Mr D unfairly in relation  to the commission he paid because the loan started before I have 
the power to look into complaints about the credit agreement. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint against  Welcome  Financial Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3307786