K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mrs T says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs Ts credit card application had a section for additional products. There  was a box that 
could be marked if she wanted  PPI, or which  could  be left blank  if she didnt want it. The 
box to buy PPI was marked and Mrs T signed the application to confirm her choices. So 
I think that Halifax made it clear Mrs T didnt have to take out PPI and that she chose to 
take it  though I can understand why she might not remember this after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs T, so it had to check that the policy  was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example, she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. Mrs T said 
she had good  sick pay through work,  but the PPI wouldve paid out on top of that, and it 
gave her more comprehensive  cover   especially when her sick pay reduced to just half 
pay. And it doesnt look like Mrs T had any other  protection in case she lost her job, which  
was always a risk even in a secure  job. So it looks like the PPI wouldve been  useful  for 
Mrs T in case she fell on difficult  times.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But it looks  like she chose to take out the policy, which implies she 
wanted this type of cover.  As I said above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI, and it would  have been  useful for Mrs T in case 
something went wrong. Then if her circumstances changed or she changed her mind, 
Mrs T could cancel  the policy at any time without a penalty. So overall,  I dont think  better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  Halifax doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about  that. Because Halifax didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN31641882what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mrs T any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mrs T any extra interest  she paid 
because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mrs T the difference between  
what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Mrs T 8%* simple interest if 
she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs T can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs T any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, then I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.  
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3164188