K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC trading as Barclaycard mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Rs Barclaycard account when he applied for the card over the internet.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R disagreed with our adjudicator.
Mr Rs main complaint is that he was unaware he was taking out PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint. Heres why I say this.
Based on what we know about  the way Barclays sold PPI this way, I think  Mr R wouldve 
seen that he had to say if he wanted  to take out the PPI. It wouldnt have been  put on his 
account if he hadnt selected  the option  to add it on. So I think that Barclays made  Mr R 
aware that the PPI was available as an option  with his card and it was added on to his credit  
card account  when he chose to take it.  
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. But Ive looked carefully at whether it gave him enough clear  information so he could 
decide for himself  if he wanted to have PPI.
Mr R was eligible for the policy. There were some  things  the policy didnt cover but it doesnt 
look as if those applied  in Mr Rs case when he took out his credit card. So, I dont think 
having more information about things the policy didnt cover  wouldve put him off taking it 
out. 
Mr Rs employer wouldve paid him full sick pay for 6 months then half pay for the next 
6 months if he was off work as a result of accident or sickness.  But the policy wouldve paid 
more than his minimum  credit card repayments  for up to 12 months per claim in the event of 
accident or sickness  on top of any work benefits. Bearing in mind that Mr R mightve also 
had some additional costs if he was too unwell to go back  to work or disabled, I think  this 
couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And as well as this, the policy  wouldve  also protected Mr Rs credit card repayments if he 
lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
So, looked  at overall, I think  the policy offered him valuable cover. 
Ref: DRN37340262I dont know if Barclays properly explained  what the policy  would cost,  or what  it might  pay 
out if Mr R made a claim.  But even if he hadnt fully appreciated how much PPI would 
actually cost on a month  to month  basis, Mr R chose to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems  to have wanted  it. The policy appears  to have been affordable for him 
when he took it out  and he couldve cancelled it at any time if his circumstances  changed 
or he didnt  want to keep  paying for it. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr R wouldve made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  hed still have 
taken out the policy.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr R, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr R any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so 
I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3734026