K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr S complain  that they were each misled  by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited into 
cancelling their single life cover policies with Critical Illness Cover (CIC) and leaving them 
without any CIC.
background
In or around 2008 Mrs and Mr S each  took out a policy that provided  life cover and CIC of 
£50,000. In addition they had a joint life cover policy without any CIC with £100,000 of cover.  
In 2014 Mrs S telephoned Aviva and shortly afterwards the two single policies were 
cancelled and Mrs and Mr S were left with just the joint life cover policy.
In 2019 Mrs S telephoned Aviva for some information and was told the joint policy  did not 
include CIC. As a result  of this she complained  to Aviva on the basis  she wouldnt have 
cancelled the CIC as this was important  to her and Mr S.
In its final response to the complaint  Aviva  said that it didnt have a record  of the call in 2014 
so couldnt be sure Mrs S was told the right thing. It offered various options to reinstate  the 
single policies on the basis missed premium payments  were  paid. Mrs and Mr S didnt agree 
with having to repay missed premiums and referred the matter to us.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. She 
thought the options  Aviva  had given  to Mrs and Mr S were  reasonable where  there was no 
record of the telephone  call. She noted that one of the options was reinstatement of both 
single policies with life cover and CIC with cancellation of the current  joint life policy.  She 
thought this was fair given that in 2014 the reason for Mrs S contacting  Aviva  was to reduce 
what she and Mr S were paying.
Mrs S responded and said she didnt think the outcome was fair as it would leave Mr S 
without any life cover or CIC. She said that if in 2014 she had been  given  the option to 
cancel the joint life policy both she and Mr S would now each  have a life and CIC policy.
The investigator responded and pointed out that Aviva was willing to reinstate both Mrs Ss 
and Mr Ss single  policies. She acknowledged  that the backdated payments were a lot, but 
as these could  be paid off in instalments she thought this was reasonable.
Mrs S still thought Aviva had got things wrong and should put things right.  She said it should 
be able to retrieve the call she made  and that she isnt lying.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are made on a balance of 
probabilities  what I think more likely, than not, to have happened   based on the evidence 
provided by the parties. So I am not saying what definitely did or didnt happen.
Ref: DRN35176922Mrs S initially told Aviva  that she hadnt  cancelled the two single policies. But in a telephone 
call on 29 January 2019 she made clear that she had cancelled  the policies  rather than 
them having  lapsed through non-payment  as Avivas records  showed  on the basis that she 
was under the (mistaken) impression that the joint life policy  included  CIC.
Mrs S has made it clear  she wanted and needed CIC and I think  it is reasonably clear from 
listening to the calls she had with Aviva in January 2019 that she honestly  believed that she 
still had CIC and was surprised and dismayed when she was made aware  that she didnt 
have such cover.
But there is nothing  in the documents she wouldve  been provided at the time she took out 
the joint life policy that wouldve led her to believe that the policy  included  CIC  the policy  
schedule makes it clear only life cover is included.  And given she and Mr S also had single 
policies that did have CIC with half the amount  of cover of the joint life policy but at a 
significantly higher  premium to the joint life policy I think it is unlikely that Mrs and Mr S were  
misled by Aviva into thinking the joint policy had CIC at the time they took it out.
I have considered if Mrs S was misled about  CIC being  included in the joint policy  in the 
telephone discussion  she had with Aviva in 2014. She has said she telephoned at the time 
because she needed to reduce payments. This led her and Mr S cancelling their single 
policies and the CIC they each had. 
I note Avivas records refer to the policies having  lapsed which  might  suggest  that payments  
simply stopped rather than the policies were cancelled by Mrs and Mr S. But I dont  think  it 
really matters why the policies stopped,  as I think the important point is that Mrs S has 
acknowledged she and Mr S stopped the policies in 2014.
There isnt a recording of the call available. I note Mrs S has said Aviva should be able to 
retrieve the call, but it has made clear it isnt able to do so and given the time since the call 
was made  I dont find that particularly surprising. So I am not able to say what  she was 
actually told in that telephone call. 
For her to have been misled the person she spoke to wouldve had to have told her the 
policy included CIC when  it didnt,  which  I think  is unlikely. But it is possible that because 
there were three policies,  two of which did include CIC, that there was some  confusion.  
But I cant say it is more  likely than not that any confusion that did arise  about the joint policy 
including CIC was as a result of the adviser  being unclear about this on the phone, given  the 
complete lack of any evidence  to support this.
In the circumstances there isnt sufficient evidence for me to find that Mrs and Mr S are 
currently without any CIC because of something Aviva did wrong.
Aviva hasnt accepted  it did anything wrong  but has made what it has called a business 
decision to offer reinstatement  of the single policies on the basis that the missed premium 
payments for those  policies are repaid. It is willing to offset the premiums paid into the joint 
policy if they choose one of the options where  that policy is cancelled. Given  I have not 
found that Aviva has done anything wrong this is something that I would  not be able to 
award.
I acknowledge that if Mrs and Mr S want to reinstate either one, or both, of their single 
policies they will need to find the money to pay back the missed premiums.  But Aviva  is 
Ref: DRN35176923entitled to be paid for the cover it is providing.  So asking Mrs and Mr S to make good the 
missed payments is reasonable - and Aviva is willing to accept payments in instalments to 
assist Mrs and Mr S.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3517692