K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold 
her a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs B bought a regular  premium MPPI policy  in August 2004. She purchased the policy 
during a meeting with an advisor from Halifax in one of its branches.
Mrs B says she didnt know she had MPPI and didnt agree  to have it. She thinks  Halifax 
mis-sold her the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Bs complaint. As she doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
Halifax offered Mrs B a payment as a gesture of goodwill after it considered  the amount of 
commission and profit share that it received. I understand  that it has already paid this 
amount so I dont need to consider this and will look instead at whether Mrs B was mis-sold  
the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mrs Bs complaint because of the following reasons:
Halifax has been unable to provide much of the sales documentation that was used  
at the time of sale. They have  provided a declaration and mortgage offer form but 
both documents  do not provide that much  information about the MPPI policy. There 
is little information  available and so I cant be sure how the policy  was presented  by 
an advisor from Halifax to Mrs B during the meeting in 2004 and Ive not been  able to 
see most of the relevant sales documentation  (such as the agreement  or application 
form). So its been difficult for me to consider whether Mrs B was given a choice or 
not as to whether she should  have  the MPPI policy  (or whether it was added  without  
her knowledge).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Halifax sold these policies  
around this time. And Mrs Bs recollections  are not detailed  about what  happened 
although this is understandable considering the sale took place many years ago. So, 
with these points  in mind, I cannot fairly  conclude  on this occasion that the policy was 
put across by Halifax as something  Mrs B had to have.  I just havent seen enough to 
make that conclusion. 
Moving on, Halifax has said it recommended the MPPI to Mrs B during the meeting  
and so, as this puts additional responsibilities on the business,  I will proceed  that this 
Ref: DRN33008492was the case.  So as it did recommend the policy to Mrs B, it had to ensure during the 
sale that the policy was suitable for Mrs Bs needs.  
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy  was 
unsuitable for Mrs B based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs B 
says she had 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay along with 4-5 months of 
savings but the MPPI policy would have paid in addition  to any provisions she would 
have had and for longer (for any claim for disability). So the benefit would have been 
of use to Mrs B during  a difficult time as she could have used her provisions to pay 
for other  expenses. I think, on balance, Mrs B had a need for this cover based  on her 
circumstances at the date of sale,  for any extended period of unemployment  or 
sickness. 
I also couldnt find any other reason such as a significant or limiting  term that would 
make the policy unsuitable  for her either. Mrs B did have a medical condition at the 
time of sale but she has told our service that she was diagnosed for this and had time 
off work after the date of sale. So I dont think Mrs Bs condition  would have made  the 
policy unsuitable for her when  she was sold the MPPI policy.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  policy  
that Mrs B took out but even  though  it has provided information detailing  the cover  
and how much it cost, I cannot  be sure that these costs were disclosed  to Mrs B in a 
clear and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were disclosed clearly I 
dont think Mrs B would have done  anything  different  and decided against having  the 
policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mrs B wouldve been affected  by any of these for the same  reasons why the 
policy would have  been suitable for her.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 22 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3300849