K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of repairs  done  by British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI)  
under his home emergency policy.
background
Mr C told us that he asked BGI to repair a leaking pipe underneath the floor in his toilet, in 
December 2017.  But he said that when BGI replaced the floor after fixing the leak,  it didnt 
do a good job. 
Mr C said that the flooring  that BGI replaced wasnt the same height,  and so he and his 
household kept catching their feet on rough  edges of the floor. He also said that the flooring 
was cut too short, so there was a join in the flooring and a large gap around  the sewerage  
pipe going through the floor. And the flooring that BGI had fitted wasnt  marine ply, so it 
wasnt suitable for a damp environment. It was already starting to come apart. Finally, Mr C 
said that when  BGI did the repairs, it pulled out the screws holding the toilet to the floor.  He 
wanted BGI to replace those,  and secure  the toilet to the floor again. 
BGI said that it felt the workmanship was fine. It wouldnt do any further  repairs.  It paid £30 
for a delay in responding to Mr Cs complaint. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that Mr Cs home emergency policy  doesnt  
exclude repair works following the trace and access of a leak. BGI is supposed to make  
good following  a repair. 
Our investigator said that the photos  Mr C had sent us supported the complaint points hed 
raised. So she thought BGI should return to Mr Cs home and lay an alternative floor which 
was appropriate  for use in a toilet and better fit the area. She also thought that BGI should 
re-secure the toilet too. 
Our investigator sent this view to BGI in the middle of November. BGI finally responded 
around two months  later. 
BGI said then that the policy states  that it wont restore the original surface  or coverings as 
part of making  good.  It said that the difference in the height  of the flooring would allow  Mr C 
to replace the floor tiles, which would then level the floor. It said that it would make good  the 
gaps around the pipe,  and restore it to a levelled surface, ready  for Mr C to replace  his floor 
covering. But it said that the problems that Mr C had noted with the new flooring not being  
waterproof and having started to come apart were as a result of a pre-existing leak which 
BGI was called out to repair. So it said that would be classed as consequential damage.
Our investigator said that she wasnt suggesting  that BGI should  replace the entire floor. BGI 
had laid a temporary piece of flooring  to cover the area that was removed to gain access  to 
the leak. Our investigator said she thought  that this piece of flooring was inadequate,  and 
placed Mr C in a worse position  than he was in before  the leak.  So she thought  that BGI 
should replace  the flooring with one thats more suitable. It should replace it with something 
thats waterproof, and of the same height  so that the household  didnt  keep catching  their 
feet on the edges. 
Our investigator said she didnt think that the deterioration in the flooring laid by BGI could 
be consequential loss. And she noted  that BGI hadnt agreed to secure the unsecured  toilet. 
Ref: DRN38999602BGI again took two months to reply to our investigator. In the meantime, Mr C asked if there  
was any progress. He said he was waiting for the repairs to be done by BGI, so he could 
redecorate the room. 
BGI then responded that it was difficult to tell from the photos that Mr C sent what was 
replaced and what  was original. So BGI said it was thinking about sending an engineer to 
Mr Cs home  to assess the work carried out. BGI told us that around a month  before  I wrote 
my provisional decision. It didnt  get in touch  again  with any further details, or confirmation of 
whether it would attend Mr Cs home, in that month.
This case was then passed to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr C has a home emergency policy with BGI. That covers repairs  to plumbing  and 
drains. It also includes up to £1,000  of cover to trace and access a leak,  then make good 
after the repairs. As BGI said, making  good  doesnt include replacement floor coverings. 
-BGI hasnt argued that Mr C wasnt covered for the repairs  that it did, or that it shouldnt 
have made good after the repairs were done.  At first, it just said that it didnt think  that 
there was anything wrong with the work it carried out. At the time I wrote my provisional 
decision, it seemed  to be offering  to do very limited repairs,  which werent  enough to put 
right all the things that Mr C is complaining about. 
-Id reached a different decision on the appropriate award in this case.  I agreed  with our 
investigator that BGI needs  to make further repairs to bring  the work it did in December 
2017 to Mr Cs toilet up to an acceptable standard. But given how long Mr C had been 
forced to live with the poor workmanship shown in his photos, and how long he had 
delayed renovations to the affected  room,  I also thought that BGI should pay Mr C £100 
in compensation.  I said Id explain  why I thought  that.
-BGI said it couldnt tell, from Mr Cs photos, where the affected area was. The single 
photo suppled  by BGI didnt cover all of the affected area, so I wouldnt have been able 
to decide from that, if I should  uphold all the parts of this complaint. But BGIs single 
photo did show a large hole surrounding what looks like the sewerage pipe. 
-I didnt think that Mr C shouldve been  left with a large hole in his floor.  I didnt think  that 
showed an acceptable level of workmanship. So I thought that BGI didnt  provide  an 
acceptable level of workmanship,  when it made  good after repairing a leak in Mr Cs 
toilet. And I thought that BGI shouldve realised  this from its own photo. 
-BGI seemed to have had trouble, when looking at Mr Cs photos,  telling which  parts of 
the floor have been repaired. I said I might be looking at a better  quality version, but I 
didnt have the same difficulty. I agreed with our investigator that Mr Cs photos 
supported what hes said about  the problems with the repaired flooring. 
-I thought there was a large hole surrounding  the sewerage pipe. The flooring appeared 
to me to be disintegrating, which I agreed should  not be happening, and particularly not 
Ref: DRN38999603so soon after the repair. That suggested,  as Mr C said, that the material used by BGI 
wasnt suitable for the damp environment of a toilet.  
-I also thought  that the flooring did look uneven.  Its not clear why BGI would say that this 
was to allow tiles to be laid flush, when  the pre-existing  flooring  seemed to have been 
linoleum. And it also looked  to me as if the toilet wasnt properly secured to the floor. 
-I thought BGI should return to Mr Cs house, and fix these problems.
-I thought that having the toilet in the state  in which BGI left it, for what  was already quite 
some time, caused inconvenience and distress to Mr C. For that reason, I thought BGI 
should also pay him £100 in compensation. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr C said he had nothing more to add, he just wanted the problem to be resolved. BGI sent 
further representations and photos. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind. I still propose 
to make the same award.
BGI said that it had asked  its plumbers to comment on the work done.  They  said that there 
wasnt any boxing around the main  pipe when they first attended the property, so they 
werent sure what they shouldve done differently. 
BGIs plumbers said that its notes  showed  that the flooring was MDF when they first 
attended, and they had only replaced  like with like. And the plumbers sent us two pictures, 
one of the toilet (presumably before the work  was done) and one of a signed  job sheet, 
headed validated.
BGI hasnt said what value it attaches to the signed  job sheet. I can see that a member of 
Mr Cs household has signed to say that the work has been  explained. I dont  think  that this 
signed job sheet  indicates that Mr C is happy  with the work done. 
BGI seems to be suggesting that it has made a like for like repair.  But the problem remains  
that the floor previously  appears to have been  level, and now its not. So BGI does have to 
replace the small  area of flooring that it replaced after it did the work on Mr Cs home. 
And BGI hasnt suggested that the toilet wasnt securely fixed  to the floor before it did this 
work. I dont  think its securely  fixed now. So BGI does also have to make sure that the toilet  
is securely fixed to the floor once again. 
BGI said that it replaced the flooring with a material like that already in use. But that doesnt 
seem to explain why there are so many frayed edges visible  in Mr Cs pictures on the piece 
of replacement flooring,  and not on the original flooring. So I still think that when BGI 
replaces the flooring, it will need to satisfy  itself that the flooring it is using  is suitable  for use 
in a damp environment.  
I do think that BGI has now shown that piece of flooring which  was previously in place, 
wasnt a close fit to the sewer piping before BGI replaced it. In fact, the work that BGI did 
Ref: DRN38999604seems to have closed the gap somewhat around  the rear of the pipe. But it does appear,  
from the pictures Ive seen, as if the gap may be a little larger in front of the pipe, which  is a 
more significant  concern  for those using  the room. 
I dont think that BGI has to box in this pipework when it makes its repairs. But I would  
expect, as part of replacing this area of flooring (which Ive explained  I think  BGI has to do) 
that BGIs  workman will wish to ensure  that the flooring  piece fits as closely as practicable to 
the existing pipework. I note that BGI has actually already offered to make  good the gaps 
around the pipe.
I accept that this may constitute a very modest  form of betterment, in that Mr C may end up 
with a slightly better fitting piece of flooring than he had before. But I think that this would  still 
be appropriate redress, given the length  of time Mr C has been  left with a clearly uneven  
bathroom floor. 
my final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited must return to Mr Cs home  and make  
good its previous  repairs. It should do that by removing  the existing repair,  and laying an 
alternative flooring  piece,  which  is appropriate  for use in a toilet  and a better  fit to the area. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must also re-secure  the toilet  to the floor.  And British Gas 
Insurance Limited must  pay Mr C £100  in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3899960