K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains hes lost out financially due to delays caused by Phoenix Wealth  Services  
Limited. 
background
In March 2018 when he was 71, Mr T was told his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  
with another provider was being  absorbed into the Phoenix group.  Hed been taking the 
maximum annual income  as capped drawdown each May, reviewed every three years in line 
with HMRC rules. The next mandatory review was due in May 2018  and Mr T was warned 
the income would  be lower than the previous year. Mr T was told the integration  of the two 
businesses would mean a short period of downtime for online services. 
In mid-April 2018 Mr T discussed his future pension arrangements  with his financial advisor 
and decided the time was right to purchase  an annuity as his fund value was falling which 
would reduce his annual  income under the capped  drawdown arrangement. So he instructed 
his broker (T) to disinvest his assets  and pay the proceeds to his cash account with 
Phoenix in readiness  for exercising the open market option to purchase  an annuity. His 
advisor contacted  Phoenix ahead of the review and told them  not to make  the usual  annual  
income payment  to Mr T in May 2018.  
Phoenix said access to online services continued to be temporarily unavailable which  
meant Mr T couldnt monitor his SIPP or find out exactly how much  was available to 
purchase an annuity. The system integration  also delayed Phoenix correctly  allocating the 
proceeds of Mr Ts disinvested assets from T to his cash fund. 
In view of the system  issues  Phoenix  made the annual income payment in May 2018 at the 
pre-review level of just over £9,100, using its own funds as the usual disinvestment hadnt  
happened. Mr T received just under £6,790 (net of tax). Not only was this contrary to his 
advisors instructions,  it exceeded the maximum allowable income  under  the capped  
drawdown rules, and also hadnt been  taxed correctly. Phoenix gave Mr T three options to 
resolve the matter.  He could return the payment in full, return  just the overpaid element and 
keep the rest, or convert his pension plan to flexi-access drawdown which would enable 
him to take unlimited  income to suit his needs. The annual review  was carried out manually 
in July 2018 and confirmed the maximum income allowable had decreased.  Phoenix also 
explained the error in the tax calculation which arose from incorrectly applying  Mr Ts 
personal allowance.  
After consulting his advisor Mr T decided  to return the payment in full so the whole 
transaction could  be reversed  and his overpaid  tax adjusted. So in early  August he sent the 
funds back to Phoenix in two amounts  reflecting the protected rights and non-protected 
rights elements of his SIPP,  having been told it would  take ten working days  for his policy  to 
be adjusted. But although Phoenix  confirmed they received  the payment a week  later it 
wasnt allocated and adjusted for tax until early  September. In the meantime Mr T was 
receiving no income from his pension and still didnt  have  an accurate valuation  on which to 
base his annuity.
Phoenix apologised for the ongoing unavailability of its online access  as the system  
integration was taking  longer than expected. It credited Mr Ts cash account  with lost interest 
of £8.87 for the delay in crediting the proceeds from T. And it offered £650  to reflect the 
Ref: DRN31039852impact of its errors. It also said it would ensure Mr T wasnt financially disadvantaged as a 
result of its failings.
Once the transaction was fully reversed Mr T decided to take the recalculated maximum 
annual income  payment  after all and use the balance to purchase an annuity. Phoenix made 
the income payment of around £8,415 gross (£7,254 net of tax) at the end of October 2018. 
After a further slight delay the remaining funds were transferred to his selected annuity 
provider (J) in November 2018.  As Mr T had effectively received no income  from his 
pension for six months he felt Phoenix  should  reimburse him almost £6,000 to cover 
payments hed made from his savings during that period, uplifted to include  the tax he 
assumed hed have  to pay. 
Phoenix said J confirmed  the annuity  of just over £5,200 Mr T purchased  in November 2018 
was broadly the same as it would have  been in May. But it offered an additional  £750  for the 
inconvenience plus interest at 8% simple £175.54  net of tax (pre-tax £219.43), based on the 
post-review gross payment of £8,415,  to reflect the period of June to October  2018  he was 
without the income  payment (so total compensation of £1,575.54). But it refused to cover Mr 
Ts outgoings as they didnt arise from the delay but were expenses hed always have 
incurred. And having received the payment  Mr T could now reimburse  his savings if he 
wished. But Phoenix said if Mr T provided evidence it would consider a further  claim for 
financial loss arising from things like lost interest or bonus on his savings  or additional  work  
undertaken by Mr Ts advisor. Mr T didnt accept  this, so he complained to this service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and could understand why Mr T was 
dissatisfied with the errors  and delays caused  by the systems integration. But she didnt  
think it was reasonable  to expect Phoenix  to pay for Mr Ts living  expenses  as this would 
make him better off than he otherwise would have been. She thought  the compensation it 
had already offered was fair, and that Mr T should provide evidence of any additional 
financial losses hed incurred for consideration. 
Mr T maintains hes out of pocket as his annual  income payment has had to stretch  over a 
much longer  period than it otherwise would have done. The anniversary date of his annuity 
is also six months later than it would have  been.  And hell never  be in a position to fully 
reinstate his savings.  So its been passed  to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. Let me explain why. 
Its clear the system  integration was more complex  than Phoenix had anticipated and caused 
unexpected problems such as the failure  to carry  out the review  and recalculate  the 
maximum income under Mr Ts capped drawdown arrangement.  There were also problems 
allocating funds received from T to his cash fund and in arranging the transfer  to the annuity 
provider. And the lack of online access meant  Mr T and his advisor didnt have a precise 
figure to base any annuity quotes on. I think its fair that Mr T isnt disadvantaged by any of 
this. 
This service aims as far as possible to put someone back  into the position they would have 
been in, had the business not made an error. And in addition well award some 
compensation to reflect  the impact that error  had. But we dont punish businesses for the 
Ref: DRN31039853mistakes they make, nor should consumers be better off than they would otherwise have 
been. So I agree  with the investigator that it wouldnt be fair to expect Phoenix to reimburse 
Mr T for payments hed always have made. 
In his complaint  to this service Mr T said it was always  his intention  to take one last income 
payment from his SIPP and then purchase an annuity with the balance. But the email 
exchanges between  Mr T and his financial advisor  at the time show he wasnt sure whether 
to take an income  drawdown as it wasnt clear the fund would generate sufficient income  for 
the future.  So his advisor had instructed  Phoenix  not to make the May 2018 payment. 
If there were no Phoenix system issues and Mr Ts advisors  hadnt  told Phoenix not to make 
the payment in May 2018,  Phoenix would have  carried out the mandatory review in May 
2018 and Mr T would have taken a final income drawdown shortly thereafter  receiving the 
correct (reduced) amount. And then hed have purchased  an annuity with the balance  with 
the first payment being  made around May 2019.  The income payment would  have 
comfortably covered the expenditure  Mr T listed totalling £4,757 for the period  May to 
October 2018 without  him needing to utilise his savings. But this would have left him with 
less than £2,500 to last the remaining six or so months until his first annuity  payment, so he 
may well have had to dip into his savings in early 2019 anyway. Particularly  as the annuity  of 
£5,200 was significantly less than the annual income drawdown he was used to. 
And if Mr T had decided against  depleting  his fund with a final income drawdown in 2018  he 
may have  been  able to purchase a slightly better  annuity. But I think  its unlikely to have 
been sufficient  to cover all the expenditure in the spreadsheet Mr T provided, which includes 
discretionary spending such  as holidays. And even if the annuity  had been  slightly higher, it 
still wouldnt  have been paid until 2019 as Mr T chose  to have it paid annually in arrears 
which I think would still have meant dipping in to his savings. And overall  his income  
(whether from drawdown or annuity) would be lower  than previously, as his fund was 
reducing. To ease  his cash flow, Mr T could have asked for his annuity to be paid in advance 
rather than arrears, or as a monthly  rather than annual payment. I can see Mr T discussed 
his options with his advisors, but I cant hold Phoenix responsible for the choice he made. 
Phoenix has offered  to pay Mr T a total of £1,400 in compensation plus interest at 8% for the 
period he was without  his annual payment had it been made in May 2018 (which  after all his 
advisor said he didnt  want).  Mr T told our investigator his savings earn roughly 3% so I think  
their offer is fair. 
Mr Ts advisor  confirmed that his annuity  secured an annual income of around  £5,287  
compared to around  £5,290 if purchased earlier. But it would have cost £57.76 more to 
provide an additional £3.39  a year. Im not going  to ask Phoenix to compensate  Mr T for this 
specifically, as I think the overall compensation its offered is sufficient. And Phoenix has 
offered to consider any further financial losses or costs arising from Mr T needing to access 
his savings if he provides  the evidence, which I think is reasonable. 
my final decision
Im aware Phoenix Wealth Services Limited  has already made an offer of £1,400 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused plus interest of £175.54 (net of tax) on his delayed  
income. My final decision is I consider this to be a fair and reasonable settlement in the 
circumstances of this case.  
Ref: DRN31039854So Phoenix should pay Mr T compensation of £1,400 plus interest of £175.54  within 28 days  
of his acceptance if it hasnt already done  so. 
And in accordance with its offer, it should consider any reasonable request  for 
reimbursement of financial loss or costs arising from Mr T accessing his savings, on 
production of suitable evidence. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3103985