K821x#15complaint
Mr D has said Allianz Insurance Plc  trading as Marks and Spencer Financial Services - 
(M&S) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  alongside  a credit card in 1999. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. M&S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ds case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ds complaint  because  the information  M&S gave him about the 
policy wasnt as clear  as it should  have been.  M&S didnt  recommend the policy to Mr D, but 
it needed to give Mr D good enough  information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so 
that he could make an informed choice about the insurance.
To be able to make a successful claim on the policy,  Mr D needed to be in employment. 
When he applied for the card, he told M&S he was employed  and I can see this from the 
credit application  thats  been provided.  But Mr D has told us he was working part time and  
knew at the point of sale,  he was going  to be leaving his job shortly  to become a full time 
student  specifically, he was going  to become a student three  months after taking out the 
policy. As such, he wouldnt have been able to make  use of the policy soon after taking it out 
as he would not have been  in employment.  
I dont think the criteria  to make a claim using  the PPI policy was clear  in the application  form 
or the policy summary that accompanied the application. I think if it had been  made  clear  
that Mr D had to be employed  to make a claim, Mr D would not have taken the PPI policy  out 
as it would not have been any use to him. 
I have noted M&S comments that Mr Ds addressed  remained as the one he put on his 
application form and didnt change to his university  address. But I dont think  this proves 
anything. Its fairly common  for students to keep their parents address for correspondence  
especially when they often change accommodation on yearly  basis  whilst at university.  
So I think Mr D has lost out as a result of M&S  failings, because I dont think  he would have 
taken out the policy  if hed been properly informed.
putting things right
M&S should put Mr D in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.M&S  should find out how much Mr D would owe on his credit  card if the policy  hadnt  
been added  to it.
Ref: DRN37572662So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
M&S should then refund  the difference between what  Mr D owes  and what  he would  
have owed.
If Mr D made a successful claim under the PPI policy, M&S can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when M&S works  out what Mr D would have owed each month without PPI  Mr D 
paid more than enough to clear  his balance, M&S should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr D paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr D wouldve 
owed M&S something on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
C.M&S  should tell Mr D what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires M&S to take off tax from this interest.  M&S  must give Mr D a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If M&S has paid Mr D the commission offer already, then this can be deducted from the 
above calculation.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Allianz Insurance Plc should pay Mr D the fair compensation that Ive described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3757266