K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the service they received from Union Reiseversicherung AG 
when they made a claim on their travel insurance policy. 
background
Mrs M was on holiday  with her husband in Greece when she collapsed.  She was taken to 
the Emergency  Room  on 19 June 2018  and an emergency CT scan  of her brain showed a 
lesion. Tests  carried out a few days later showed evidence  of extensive fluid and swelling  on 
the brain as well as loss of magnetic signals on one side. Mrs M was in intensive care where  
she was sedated and received mechanical  ventilation support. She was diagnosed as 
having suffered  a severe stroke of the middle cerebral artery. 
Mrs M wasnt repatriated  to the UK until the 1 August  2018.  She was repatriated via air 
ambulance and Mr M says this shouldve happened  much sooner. Mr M is also unhappy with 
how URV handled the claim, particularly the poor customer service  he and Mrs M 
experienced. 
In their final response letter URV explained they hadnt refused to repatriate  Mrs M for 
financial reasons.  They  said all the decisions made  during the management  of 
Mr and Mrs Ms case were done with the best medical outcome as a top priority.  
But in their final response URV acknowledged  there were  delays  in bringing Mr M back to 
the UK but it was done with his best medical  interests in mind. This appears to be an error 
as it was Mrs M who was repatriated, not Mr M. 
URV also said the treating doctors  in Greece didnt  have  formal training to issue  fit to fly 
instructions or recommendations  around  air ambulances. And they said treating doctors 
abroad were often keen  to remove UK patients  from their care. So they didnt uphold the 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M made a complaint to our service.  
Our investigator looked into what happened. She explained the Greek hospital confirmed 
Mrs M had been extubated  (removed from mechanical ventilation)  in an email  dated 12 July 
and that her treatment  continued to be the same.  On 18 July URVs doctor noted the 
repatriation could be planned. Our investigator also said there hadnt been a change in 
Mrs Ms condition  between  the 13 July and her repatriation  home.  
Ref: DRN39930162Our investigator concluded URV  hadnt  provided sufficient evidence to support their 
assertion that the treating doctors  had no training  in issuing fit to fly recommendations or 
theyd contacted the treating doctors to discuss their differing opinions.  The investigator  said 
since the 13 July Mrs M had been  stable and there was no evidence  URV were making 
repatriation arrangements at that time.  And she wasnt satisfied URV had done enough to 
keep the treating hospital or Mr M up to date. She thought URV should pay Mr and Mrs M 
£3000 compensation to reflect the significant  distress and suffering caused by the lack of 
communication and unnecessary delays. 
Mr and Mrs M accepted our investigators findings.  URV didnt  agree  with the investigators 
recommendation. In summary they said:
 
Our service was making  a judgement about the clinical decisions made and were 
suggesting they should accept  a fitness to fly certificate from a treating doctor with no 
experience of aviation medicine
Our service is suggesting  they should  speak  to a treating doctor to discuss  the 
repatriation and their advice/recommendations  on it 
There was contradictory information  because the treating doctor  said Mrs M was 
stable but also that she had a fever
The medical teams role is to advise  the insurer when is the best time (least possible 
risk) to move  a patient back to the UK. URV  and its agents acted on the advice from 
the medical team which includes experienced repatriation nurses and doctors  with 
relevant experience 
Mrs M was in a severe  condition   URV referred to the claim and clinical  summaries  
in support of the actions they took
If the Ombudsman is going  to make an assessment on the clinical reasoning behind 
decisions then they wanted the Ombudsman to be an appropriately qualified  medical  
practitioner. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our role is to consider what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case  taking 
into account any relevant  law and guidance - and to decide  whether URV acted fairly and 
reasonably. We are also an informal dispute resolution service.
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that URV has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  Im not satisfied they did in the circumstances  of this case. I say that 
because: 
The treating  hospital  confirmed Mrs M was extubated on the morning of 12 July 2018 
in an email sent to URV on the evening  of 13 July 2018.  URVs notes indicate the 
medical team wanted to see that Mrs M was stable for 72 hours.  Mrs M remained 
stable from the 12 July until her repatriation in August.
Ref: DRN39930163URV spoke to Mr M on the morning of the 14 July. By then URV had a copy  of the 
email from the hospital confirming  Mrs M had been extubated on the 12 July, not the 
17 July as URVs claim summary  suggests.  However, URVs notes indicate they 
didnt take any steps to proactively  contact  the hospital on the date the 72 hour 
window expired. The treating hospital contacted URV on the 18 July with a further  
update and this prompted URV  to agree  repatriation could now be planned.
URVs claim summary says the doctor  advised that an air ambulance  could be 
considered from the 20 July but wanted a period of another week to ensure stability. 
However, the notes  from the doctor, dated the 18 July, say that repatriation could be 
planned, subject  to a more detailed  medical report confirming  Mrs M was fit to fly. 
The note on the 20 July says the URV  doctor considered Mrs M was fit to fly by air 
ambulance with a medical escort to the UK. Theres no contemporary reference in 
URVs notes indicating theyd identified a need for a further  weeks delay to ensure 
stability and no reference to the previous relapse. 
When URV agreed Mrs M was fit to fly they then asked the treating hospital  for 
further information about Mrs Ms condition, including various  test results.  I think its 
reasonable to conclude  URV knew this information would be needed  at an earlier 
point in time. So I think they couldve  been  more proactive about asking the hospital 
to provide this information as soon as Mrs M had been stable for 72 hours post-
extubation.  
URV said that there was contradictory information about Mrs Ms stability as she was 
noted to have a fever.  However, I think this most likely refers  to a medical report sent 
on the 7 July when Mrs M had been  extubated the first time. She was re-intubated 
until the 12 July and Ive not seen evidence to say she relapsed after that date. So 
this doesnt change my thoughts about  the outcome  of this complaint. 
A different doctor from URV started reviewing  the case on the 23 July, after the 
decision had been made that Mrs M was fit to fly.  URV hasnt adequately explained 
why a further review  was necessary  in the circumstances  of Mrs Ms case. On the 
27 July the doctor said he was still evaluating  the case. Theres  a note to say hed 
fully reviewed Mrs Ms case on the 28 July. But theres no explanation for the time 
taken to complete  the review, particularly given  that the medical  evidence  our service 
has been provided with isnt extensive.  
I can also see URV didnt request quotes from air ambulances until the 28 July. So, 
whilst URV  say there was a lot of activity going  on in the background between  the 20 
and 30 July, Im not satisfied the evidence theyve provided supports  this. 
I appreciate URV may have had concerns  about the treating doctor being more 
focused on freeing  up beds  and they may not always  need  to speak to the treating 
doctor. However, the evidence suggests they didnt really engage with the treating 
hospital and I think they couldve been  more proactive about contacting them directly 
to ensure they had a good understanding of Mrs Ms condition and the treating 
doctors experience.  I note they sometimes relied on Mr M to chase up information, 
such as medical reports, which  I dont  think  was fair in the circumstances of this 
case.
Ref: DRN39930164URV accepts they didnt call Mr M back on a number  of occasions throughout the 
time Mrs M was in hospital. I can understand how upsetting  and stressful this must 
have been, particularly once Mr M had returned  to the UK. And, if URV  had decided 
to wait a further  week before repatriating Mrs M, they should have explained that to 
Mr M. But, Mr M wasnt kept up to date  URVs  communication with him was poor 
particularly in relation to timescales  and their plan for repatriation. So, in the 
circumstances of this case,  I think the distress and inconvenience caused was 
severe.
URV say the deciding  Ombudsman should  be a medically qualified person if they are 
questioning the clinical decisions their medical  team has made.  However, as Ive 
outlined above  Im deciding whether the claim has been handled promptly and fairly. 
And, on the basis on the information Ive been  provided with, Im not satisfied it has 
been for the reasons  Ive already explained.  
my final decision
Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint  and direct Union Reiseversicherung AG to put 
things right by paying Mr and Mrs M £3000  compensation for not handling the claim promptly 
and fairly.  This compensation is to reflect the severe  trouble and upset  caused  by poor 
claims handling and customer service.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3993016