K821x#15complaint
Miss G says FCL Consumer  Finance Ltd, trading as Smart-Pig.com (Smart-Pig) 
irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 10 loans Smart-Pig provided  to Miss G between December 2014 and 
December 2017.  Miss Gs borrowing history based  on Smart-Pig has provided is as follows:
Loan Amount 
takenDate  taken Amount  
repayableLength of 
agreement
1 £250 14 Dec 2014 £301 19 days
2 £350 6 Feb 2015 £515 59 days
3 £350 26 May 2015 £525 132 days
4 £350 8 Oct 2015 £525 74 days
5 £350 17 Jan 2016 £525 78 days
6 £250 5 Apr 2016 £375 160 days
7 £250 7 Dec 2016 £296 23 days
8 £250 26 Jan 217 £375 88 days
9 £250 13 May 2017 £375 135 days
10 £350 29 Dec 2017 £503 10 days
Miss G has said Smart-Pig did not lend to her responsibly. She has said she borrowed  
consistently on a monthly  basis  of increasing amounts without any checks  of affordability.  
Smart-Pig has said it completed enough  checks before providing the loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Gs complaint in part and thought loans  4 to 10 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Smart-Pig disagreed and the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Smart-Pig needed to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Smart-Pig  should fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN33118902the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Smart-Pig was required to establish 
whether Miss G could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Gs complaint.
Miss G hasnt  disagreed  with our adjudicators opinion on loans  1 to 3 so I wont  be looking 
at these any further as there is no ongoing disagreement about them.  But I will bear them in 
mind when Im looking at Miss Gs other lending. 
Smart-Pig was required to lend responsibly. It needed to check  that Miss G could afford to 
repay her loans sustainably when  the repayment fell due. There was no set list of checks  it 
needed to do, but the checks should have been  proportionate  to the circumstances  of each 
loan which  might include considerations about the amount borrowed, Miss Gs borrowing 
history and so on.
Smart-Pig did carry out some checks before lending. As it lends only to students, Smart-Pig 
asked Miss G for proof of her student  finance payments. Smart-Pig says it also carried out 
eight credit checks  although its only provided  the results for the first and last loan it 
provided Miss G. We dont have enough  information about Miss Gs income and expenditure  
at the time  but I believe  as Miss G was a student,  its likely this would fluctuate.  
By the time loan 4 was taken, Miss G had been  borrowing from Smart-Pig for 10 months  and 
was taking out new lending shortly after settling  earlier loans. It was also the third 
consecutive loan for the same amount. Loan 4 was also taken after Miss G received her 
maintenance loan and bursary.  So by this point I think it was reasonable to expect Smart-Pig 
to try and carry out a comprehensive check of Miss Gs finances to make  sure that she 
hadnt become  reliant on short term lending and could afford to repay each loan sustainably.
Ref: DRN33118903A proportionate  check would  most likely have shown that Miss G was having some trouble 
managing her money and that Miss G wasnt using these high-cost loans to deal with a 
short-term cashflow problem. So, in these circumstances, Smart-Pig ought to have realised it 
was unlikely Miss G would have been able to sustainably repay loan 4  and any 
subsequent loans.
When Miss G applied  for a fourth loan, it would likely have understood that her situation 
wasnt improving and that her overall debt was increasing. Armed with this understanding,  I 
dont think Smart-Pig would have approved loan 4  and any subsequent loans  for Miss G 
and so I think it was irresponsible to lend to her. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 4 to 10 and Smart-Pig  should put things right.
putting things right  what Smart-Pig needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss G paid on loans 4 to 10;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 4 to 10 from Miss Gs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Smart-Pig to take off tax from this interest.  Smart-Pig  
must give Miss G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Gs complaint. FCL Consumer  
Finance Ltd should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 April 2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3311890