K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that NewDay Ltd refused her claim brought under Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  She says the package holiday she partly  paid for using her credit 
card was not as advertised.  She wants compensation.
background
Ms M tells us she arranged  a package holiday for her family through  a company Ill call B. 
And this was partly paid for using  her credit card which was supplied by NewDay. She says 
the holiday didnt  meet her expectations  in several  ways and that not all the services which 
had been offered were provided. In particular she refers to problems with flights and 
transfers; noise  and building work at two of the hotels were disruptive and not all the 
advertised facilities were available. And she says extra car parking fees were charged when 
these had been included in the overall  cost of the holiday.
NewDay told us the only breaches of contract it thought had occurred were  in relation to 
building work  being  carried out at one hotel and car park charges being added incorrectly. It 
accepted that some  of the advertised facilities had not been available.  NewDay  said that Ms 
Ms partner had made a separate claim against  B and had been  refunded  £400. It thought 
this level of compensation was fair. It said it wouldnt be upholding Ms Ms complaint.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said he accepted 
that Ms M and her family had suffered some inconvenience. But he thought the refund of 
£400 made by B was fair and reasonable. So he wouldnt be asking  NewDay to do anything 
different.
Ms M didnt agree that the level of compensation offered was sufficient. As its not been 
possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsman has been  asked to make a final decision.
.my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to explain  that Im considering Ms Ms complaint in the light of the fact that her partner 
has already been  refunded a proportion  of the cost of what  was a family  holiday, by a 
different business,  B. As Ms Ms complaint is based  on essentially the same facts,  I think  its 
fair and reasonable to take this earlier payment into account in deciding  if NewDay  has dealt 
with her claim fairly.
Im sorry  that the holiday didnt prove  to be as enjoyable as she and her family had hoped. 
And I can understand her sense of disappointment.
This claim  has been brought under section 75 and whilst I dont apply the law - directly  - I do 
take it into account. But its important to note that - as this complaint  is brought  against 
NewDay - Im looking at whether it handled  Ms Ms claim fairly rather than deciding the 
merits of any underlying claim she may have against  B,  the package  holiday supplier. But I 
do take this into consideration in deciding if NewDay has dealt with her claim properly.
Ref: DRN31468862Section 75 potentially provides a customer - who has used certain  types of credit  to pay for 
goods and/or services  - with a like claim against  the supplier of that credit as they would 
have against the supplier  of the goods or services.  It requires various  pre-conditions to be 
met before a claim can be validated. This includes  the requirement for there to have been  a 
breach of contract and/or misrepresentation by the supplier.  Its also relevant to note that the 
consumer only has to pay for part of the relevant goods or services by credit card in order to 
obtain the protection offered by section 75. But as NewDay is not disputing that the required 
pre-conditions are met I neednt go into further  detail. This means  that my decision is 
directed primarily towards the level of compensation, if any, which Ms M should  receive  on 
behalf of herself  and her family.
As Ms M complained about  several  different aspects of the holiday Ill deal with them  
separately.
A breach of contract  usually involves the unjustified failure to fulfil the agreed  conditions of 
the contract.
I dont think seat allocation difficulties on certain  flights or problems with storage capacity for 
luggage are breaches  of contract. Whilst a certain  degree of inconvenience  was experienced 
the fundamental contract involved an agreement to transport  Ms Ms party to and from their 
chosen destinations. That obligation  was fulfilled.  Similarly,  whilst lack of in flight 
entertainment might be unfortunate, I dont think it amounts to a breach of contract.
I cant see any evidence that a specific type of vehicle  was advertised for the transfer from 
airport to hotel. Nor am I in a position to judge the manner in which  the vehicle was driven or 
the level of discomfort  this might have  caused. So I cant say theres been a breach of 
contract in this regard.
Apparently there was building work and resultant noise from works being carried out near to 
the first hotel the family  stayed at. I understand the work  was not being done on behalf of the 
hotel. I cant say that works being undertaken by a third party and outside  the control of the 
hotel owners amounts  to a breach of contract  by them.
It seems  its agreed by NewDay that there  was a breach of contract at the second hotel. This 
arose out of building work resulting in the unavailability of some facilities as well as noise.
In addition there was a charge made for car parking which should have been included  as 
part of the overall holiday  cost.
I accept that the unavailability of some  advertised facilities  including a pool, bar and putting  
green, reduced  the enjoyment  and together with the issue of the noise from the building  
works this amounted  to breach of contract. 
And whilst the arrival of a large group  attending a convention was unexpected by Ms M and 
her family, the reality is that its largely a matter of chance as to with whom  one may end up 
sharing a public  facility  such  as a hotel. So I dont think there was any breach of contract in 
this regard.
I noticed that the extra parking costs  had been invoiced to Ms Ms partner. I cant  award 
compensation directly  to a third party - and Ive also no information that the means  of 
payment used was supplied  by NewDay. 
Ref: DRN31468863Similarly, I see that before their return flight, Ms M and her group engaged alternative 
transport when it appeared to them that their agreed transfer arrangements  were  not going  
to be fulfilled. This invoice  is also in the name of Ms Ms partner and looking at the account 
number, it seems to have been  paid for using  a different credit card to that used by Ms M 
when arranging the holiday.  Ive not seen anything  to show NewDay  issued this other credit 
card. I understand that Ms M accepts  I cant look at this aspect of her complaint.
Its always difficult to quantify  the loss of enjoyment  of facilities  as opposed  to a direct 
financial loss. And whilst Im not dealing  directly with the offer of compensation made  by B to 
Ms Ms partner, its relevant to the question of whether or not NewDay  has dealt fairly  with 
her claim.
I think that NewDay considered Ms Ms complaint properly and took into account the issues  
she complained  about. It recognised - correctly  in my view - that Ms Ms claim was made 
essentially on the same  facts in respect of which B had already made a payment of 
compensation to her partner. And in considering her claim it was entitled to take note that in 
practical terms the claims were indistinguishable.
In deciding that the offer from B was sufficient  to cover the entirety  of the circumstances 
which affected Ms M and her family,  it reached what I think was a fair and reasonable view 
based on the available information. 
Whilst I know my decision will come as a disappointment to Ms M, Im not going to be asking 
NewDay to do anything  else.  And Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3146886