K822xcomplaint
Mrs B complains as executor of the estate of her mother, the late Mrs G. She is unhappy 
with the premiums charged  by St Andrews Insurance  Plc for her parents home insurance 
over a number of years.
background 
Mrs G and her husband (who passed away in 2015) had had a policy with St Andrews for a 
number of years, since the 1970s.  When her daughter came to check  through  her paperwork 
she found that St Andrews had been  charging what she felt to be excessive premiums. 
St Andrews  only has records going back to 2003, but in that time and until 2015  the 
premium rose from £305 to £719.44, an increase of 130%. Although it did go down by 11% 
in 2009, Mrs B obtained a policy for a much cheaper premium.  But St Andrews said the 
price was correct and didnt offer to reduce the premium for the current  or any previous 
years. Mrs B also pointed  out that Mrs G was greatly  upset by a letter received from 
St Andrews  shortly after her husband died, saying the insurance may be cancelled for 
failure to pay the premium  (although  they had a joint account).
After referral to this service St Andrews made an offer to refund premiums of £331.01 plus 
interest of £65.48,  a total of £396.48. Our adjudicator thought  that St Andrews should have 
taken account  of the fact that Mr and Mrs G were unlikely to take action to negotiate the 
price or shop around.  So there was a risk of unfair treatment  at least from 2011.  
On a subsequent view of this matter  by another adjudicator, he thought it would be fair to 
consider the premiums from 2011,  when an alternative policy had been  available  for a while  
and old claims and premium reductions had worked  through the system. He felt the renewal 
letters didnt  adequately address the possibility of another policy being available. No contact 
was made  with St Andrews between 2009 and 2015  so Mr and Mrs G should have been 
regarded as inert. St Andrews would have been aware of their age and vulnerability.  He 
thought St Andrews  should refund the difference  between  what  Mr and Mrs B paid for the 
policy in 2010  and the premiums they had paid in subsequent years  up to and including the 
2014 renewal.  It should also add interest  at 8% simple from the dates the premiums were  
paid until repayment.
Our adjudicator further said that in light of the way that Mrs B had been treated after her 
husband died,  St Andrews  should pay £250 compensation.
Mrs B was prepared to accept the adjudicators proposal..
St Andrews  pointed out that it hadnt accepted  any liability. It had made  its original offer to 
Mrs G on a goodwill basis. It said the adjudicators findings amounted to a retrospective 
application of the rule introduced in 2017  by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  requiring 
insurers, after the fourth renewal, to advise customers that they may get insurance cover for 
a better  price if they shop around. It also said the renewal letters from 2011 made it clear 
that customers should check to see if the policy was suitable for their needs.  It further  said 
there had been  telephone contact with Mr G about the premiums in previous years.
It wasnt prepared to increase the refund of premiums but would pay the £250 compensation 
proposed.
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration.
Ref: DRN39814142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
St Andrews  only has information  relating to Mr and Mrs G going back  to 2003. Regrettably  
there is no information prior to that and St Andrews  isnt required under regulations to retain 
any such material, although  I think that its often prudent for insurers to do so. So I can only 
consider the information from 2003.
From that year, as Ive said,  up until 2015  the price  rose by 130%. There  were big price 
rises, of over 20% in a couple of years and a price reduction of 11% in one year. But equally 
Mr and Mrs G had made claims. Taking  into account  Mr and Mrs Gs premium history and 
their personal circumstances, I dont think the price rose dramatically.
Mrs B has made the fair point that her parents didnt use or have  access to computers. So 
they were less likely  to be able to check  on prices  for home insurance or to know  whether 
they were being  charged a fair price. St Andrew's has pointed  out that they could have gone 
to their local branch  or telephoned. And I see that up until 2009, Mr G did telephone  on three 
occasions. Although  the details of those  calls arent available, it appears that at least  in 2009 
an alternative policy was available. I think it likely that, despite  their concern over premiums  
and the very much  lower cost of an alternative policy, that policy wasnt offered o them  over 
the phone  in 2009. Mr and Mrs G didnt contact  St Andrews again until 2015, and this was I 
think because of Mr Gs illness.
I think that Mr and Mrs G were in a less advantageous  position.  They  didnt have access  to 
computers, something common for people  their age. I do think  that a considerable amount of 
information about insurance is now online and this does disadvantage  particularly older  
policyholders.
I also think St Andrews should  have been  aware that Mr and Mrs G werent engaging in the 
renewal process, and its likely here that it would have had less expensive  policies  available.  
Whilst the renewal letter  Ive seen does mention the availability of other  policies, the overall 
impression, I think, is that, unless  circumstances have changed no action needed to be 
taken. The wording of subsequent renewal  letters is, St Andrews informs  us, to the effect of 
We are constantly reviewing and improving our range  of value for money policies in order  to 
continue to give you peace of mind.  Whilst that could prompt the customer  to call, the 
wording also appears  to me to reassure that the current  policy does give peace  of mind, 
provides value for money,  and so doesnt  need  changing.
I note St Andrews'  reference to the FCA rule. But the requirements on insurers  have always 
been to give clear information that isnt misleading and I don't think  its a retrospective 
application of the rules  to say that the information  given  to customers  must  be set out in a 
way to ensure  that those who dont engage  in the renewal  process  (an inert customer) are 
encouraged to do so. And if they dont  say that, it becomes all the more incumbent on an 
insurer, when looking to treat a customer  fairly,  to ensure they are able to effectively engage 
and that theyre  not taken advantage of through any differential in knowledge between the 
parties.
Given that an alternative policy was available from 2008, but that the premium did go down 
in 2009 and that before 2011 there  were  claims, I think a fair starting point  is the 2010 
Ref: DRN39814143renewal. The premium then was £443.51. For the years 2011-2014 inclusive St Andrews 
should refund the difference between the 2010 premium and the actual premiums paid in 
those years. It should also add simple interest at 8% from the date those premiums  were 
paid until repayment.  This produces the following calculation:
Year Difference
2011 £  84.74
2012 £117.78
2013 £191.52
2014 £275.93
Total £669.97
I think the £250 compensation proposed in respect of the way Mrs G was treated after her 
husband died,  and for the trouble and upset caused  by the facts of this complaint, is fair.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require St Andrews Insurance  Plc:
to pay to Mrs B as executor of the estate of the late Mrs G the difference  between the 
2010 premium (£443.51) and the premiums paid for the home insurance  for the years 
2011 to 2014 inclusive, a total of £669.97, and to add simple  interest*  to the premium  
repayments from the dates the premiums were paid until repayment.
to pay Mrs B as executor of the estate of the late Mrs G £250  compensation.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires that St Andrews takes off tax from any interest paid. 
Should Mrs B request it, St Andrews should  provide her with a certificate  showing how much 
tax has been taken off so she can reclaim it on behalf of the estate if appropriate.
.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B on behalf  of 
Mrs Gs estate to accept  or reject  my decision before 26 July 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3981414