K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy with a mortgage.
background
Mr K took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland in 2001. Around  the same  time, PPI was 
added to cover his mortgage  repayments in the event of accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Mr K disagreed. He said he 
didnt recall agreeing  to take out PPI during a phone call with the bank and didnt need it 
because he had other ways of meeting  his repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ks case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ks complaint for the reasons given below.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Mr K took out the PPI. Where the evidence is 
either incomplete or contradictory,  I have to make a decision  based  on what I think is most 
likely to have happened  based  on whats available. 
I can see that Mr Ks mortgage application  form didnt  cover   PPI. So, a separate  PPI 
application wouldve  been  needed to apply  for PPI. Ive seen the PPI application that Bank  of 
Scotland says was completed following a phone conversation with Mr K. Ive also seen the 
buildings and contents insurance paperwork that was completed around that time. I think it 
likely that PPI was discussed with Mr K on the phone, given the level of information  noted 
down in the form. I think he probably wouldve  understood  that he didnt need  to take PPI to 
get the mortgage as there was a separate process  for applying for the insurance.
I dont have enough to conclude that Mr K wasnt given a fair choice about taking PPI. I think  
it likely  that it was added because he said he wanted cover.
 
I think it likely that Bank  of Scotland recommended Mr K take PPI. So, it had to make sure 
the policy was suitable for him, as well as giving him information  that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so he could make an informed choice  about whether the policy  was right for him. 
It doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable  for Mr K based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances 
when the policy was sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr K was eligible  for the cover;
Ref: DRN30236912He said he wouldve  got 1 months  worth of sick pay from work. The policy wouldve 
paid out on top of Mr Ks work benefits  and for up to 24 months per successful claim, 
considerably longer than his work benefits  wouldve covered him for. Given that the 
policy was protecting Mr Ks home,  I cant see that his other means  made the policy  
unsuitable. 
Mr K said he had a life insurance policy, his parents couldve helped out and he had 
a car he could  sell. I cant see that the insurance policy provided duplicate cover. And 
whilst his parents  may have  wanted to help,  help of this kind cant always be 
guaranteed when the time comes. Also,  it may not have been easy or practical for 
him to sell his car. So, I cant see that his other means made the policy  unsuitable for 
him. 
there wouldve  been some things  the policy didnt cover. But, I cant see that Mr K 
was affected by these.  So, I dont think having more  information  about the things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to take out the policy. 
The policy cost £19.61 per month. The amount of cover was £323.74, which  included  
an amount on top of his mortgage repayment. The policy didnt carry interest. Mr K 
couldve cancelled it at any time without losing out financially. I cant know  exactly 
what he was told about the cost of the policy. But, I think he was  given enough  
information to make an informed choice about  whether he wanted it or not. It was 
competitively priced and I cant  see that it was unaffordable. For the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont  think that having better  information about the policy wouldve 
changed his decision  to buy it. I think it likely that he was persuaded that it offered 
him valuable protection, in his circumstances.
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  shortcomings in the way this policy  was 
sold. But I still think Mr K wouldve decided to buy the policy even if he had been  better  
advised and informed as the policy gave him useful  protection. I cant see hes lost out 
because of anything  that Bank of Scotland may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3023691