K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as National & Provincial) mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1995. Mrs R paid for the PPI with a regular  
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mrs R, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill go 
through my reasons.
This sale was over two decades ago, and the account has long since  closed, so its 
understandable that neither side still have the documents from the time. Indeed, under data 
protection regulations, Santander were  required to dispose of Mrs Rs data rather  than hold 
onto it for too long.  Meanwhile, Mrs R doesnt remember buying  PPI, which  I think  is also 
understandable either way given just how long ago the sale was, and since  buying insurance 
is not often memorable. Ive thought carefully  about  whats most likely  to have happened 
based on the limited  information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Santander to have  added  the PPI without 
Mrs Rs permission, or to have misled her into thinking it was compulsory. But I have no 
evidence which shows thats what Santander  did here, nor have I seen any wider  problems 
with their sales process from the time.  And the sale was too long ago for Santander to 
reasonably be able to produce  evidence to defend themselves now.  So on that basis,  I cant  
fairly conclude that its most likely Santander  misled Mrs R here. I think its more likely that 
they followed a standard  process,  gave  Mrs R a choice about whether shed like PPI or not, 
and that she chose to take it at the time  even  if, understandably, she no longer remembers 
choosing PPI after all the time thats passed.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs R, so they had to check it was right for her. And 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mrs R 
wasnt affected by any of the policys  main  exclusions or limitations. While she had some 
benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those. And the policy  offered 
Mrs R more comprehensive cover: it couldve paid out for up to 24 months  in any one claim, 
which wouldve been a much longer period than her benefits wouldve lasted, and it was 
useful for when her benefits reduced to just half pay  a potentially  severe  drop in income.
Ref: DRN35266692Mrs R said she couldve relied on her credit  cards, but that wouldve just meant she was 
running up high-cost  credit card interest on top of her mortgage interest, and wouldve 
ultimately only increased her debt and outgoings   it wasnt  a reasonable alternative to 
insurance. Mrs R also explained she couldve sold her home,  but the PPI meant she 
wouldnt have to go to such  extremes.  And that takes some time  theres no guarantee she 
couldve completed a sale before getting  in serious  trouble with her mortgage.  Finally, 
I understand Mrs Rs partner and family may have been more than willing to help, but 
circumstances change, and so there was always the chance theyd be unable to help when 
needed. And this mortgage was Mrs Rs sole responsibility  I dont think  it wouldve been 
suitable if Santander had recommended she rely on other  people  to pay it. Its worth bearing 
in mind that if Mrs R fell behind on her mortgage, she risked  losing her home before she 
could sell it. Overall,  I think the PPI couldve really been useful  for Mrs R in protecting  her 
home and giving some peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Santander  gave Mrs R about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  But as I explained above,  Mrs R wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case  something  
went wrong. The policy was not bad value  given how much it would pay out in a claim, and it 
looks like it was a relatively low cost.  Then  if Mrs Rs circumstances changed or she 
changed her mind,  she could cancel the PPI at any time without a penalty. So overall, I dont 
think that better information was likely to have put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June  2019. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3526669