K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Scottish  Widows  Limited (the business) failed to collect  the 
annual premiums for their whole of life policies in April 2017.  As consequence,  if they 
reinstate their policies,  they will be non-qualifying  for tax purposes.  
Theyre being assisted  by Mr R. 
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.   In 
summary, he said:
Three attempts were  made over April and May 2016 to take two annual payments for 
the whole  of life policies.  But because  there  were insufficient funds  the premiums 
remained unpaid. 
In a letter to Mr and Mrs B dated May 2016  the business explained:
oWith  reference to the recent letter, we will not attempt to collect the arrears in 
respect of the above as stated. As the last three  debits issued to your bank 
have been returned  unpaid, we will not issue  any more debits unless you 
advise us to.  
In 2013, Mr and Mrs B had a similar issue where the premiums werent paid. In 2014  
a new direct debit mandate was completed by them. So they wouldve been  aware  of 
the process when  the direct debits had failed. 
Their PA paid the outstanding payment on 20 May 2016 but a new direct debit 
mandate wasnt set up. 
In response to a surrender quote  in May 2017,  the business also explained that the 
last premium had been paid in 2016.  Whilst this may not have put Mr and Mrs B on 
notice that they were  in arrears, they ought  to have noticed in any case that the funds 
in their designated  bank  account  for the specific purpose of paying  for the whole  of 
life policies - hadnt been  paid and this ought to have put them on notice. 
In October 2017, the business  informed  Mr and Mrs B of the lake of payment   
although they say they didnt get the letter  it was correctly addressed  and more  
likely than not received by them.   
Overall the business had notified  Mr and Mrs B about missed premiums  and wrote to 
them six months before  the policies became non-qualifying for tax purposes. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators view. In short, Mr B said:
Their PA contacted  the business  and arranged  to pay the premium  by BACS 
payment when the business was unable to take the payment in April 2016. 
She believed  the direct debit was still in place  and consequently made  sure there 
were enough funds in place. 
The business didnt  even attempt to take the premiums having cancelled the direct 
debit in 2016. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37549952On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr and Mrs B say, Im not 
persuaded the business has done anything  wrong in the circumstances. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr and Mrs Bs strength of feeling  about this matter.  
They and Mr R have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read 
and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont  take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by them and the business,  and reach what I think is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
It seems  that it all started  in April/May 2016, as a result of Mr and Mrs B having insufficient 
funds in their designated  bank account to pay for their whole of life policies, resulting in the 
business  through no fault of its own  being unable to collect  the relevant premiums. So, 
as a consequence the premiums for the whole of life policies remained unpaid.  
I note in light of similar  events in 2013,  Mr and Mrs B had to complete a new direct debit 
mandate after the premiums werent paid.  So I think they knew,  or ought reasonably to have 
known, a new direct debit mandate was likely to be necessary before premiums could be 
taken again in 2016.  
In the circumstances, I dont think it was necessary  for the business to write  to them   over 
and above what  it did  to spell out the risk of becoming non-qualifying for tax purposes.  
So, if after paying  the premiums by BACS payment, Mr and Mrs Bs PA didnt set up the 
direct debit mandate because she thought the payments would continue as before  and 
only ensured there were  sufficient funds in the account  I cant hold the business  
responsible for this. It might be a matter  Mr and Mrs B may wish to take up with their PA.  
That said,  I think theres some responsibility that must be borne by Mr and Mrs B which 
includes ensuring that there are sufficient funds to pay the annual  premiums and in the 
circumstances, where  backdated  payments had been made,  ensuring  that the direct debit 
mandate was up to date particularly when theyve had a similar  situation  some years earlier. 
I dont think its material whether or not the specific account was used very much.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B say they didnt receive  the letter dated October 2017. But despite 
what they say I cant safely say that they didnt. On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, 
I think its more likely than not the letter was sent and correctly addressed - so its likely they 
received it. But if Im wrong and they didnt  receive  this letter,  in the circumstances I still cant 
hold the business responsible, because Im satisfied it sent the letter and thats  all it was 
obliged to do. 
By sending  this letter, six months before  the policies became non-qualifying, in additional  to 
the other points, I dont  think  I can hold the business responsible for what  has materialised.   
Ref: DRN37549953I appreciate Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isnt what  they want to hear. Whilst I 
appreciate their frustration, Im not persuaded to require  the business  to do anything.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give the 
consumers what they want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3754995