K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained that J & M Insurance  Services (UK) Limited sold him a taxi insurance 
policy that was unsuitable, as the insurer of the policy went into liquidation a few months 
after the policy started.
Mr Ms wife, Mrs M has helped him bring this complaint to us. But for ease Ill refer to all 
actions and comments as being from Mr M.
background 
Mr M bought  a policy through J&M on 27 February 2018 to start on 4 March 2018. The policy 
cost £1,300. After  the insurer went into liquidation in May 2018 J&M told Mr M he needed  to 
get an alternative policy. It found Mr M another policy with a new insurer costing £1,353.91. 
However, Mr M didnt think this policy was suitable and contacted J&M on 12 May to say he 
was unhappy  as it didnt have protected no-claims  discount (NCD).  J&M said this was due 
to Mr M not having initially provided  proof  of his NCD, but accepted  it had made a mistake  in 
not adding it back  on. It said it would cost an additional £105.21 to add this on. It said if Mr M 
wanted to cancel the policy the new insurer would charge him over £900. Mr M felt he was 
forced into taking the new policy after the first insurer went  into liquidation  and was unhappy  
J&M wouldnt allow him to cancel the policy without  paying a lot of money.
J&M said the insurer was still solvent when it sold Mr M his policy. And even though the 
insurer stopped  writing new business  on 3 March 2018 it had been assured that existing 
policies wouldnt be affected  and any claims would still be paid.  J&M said it regularly 
reviewed the insurers  audited accounts and solvency  reports  as part of its due diligence.  
J&M also said it had been informed that the insurer had stopped writing new business  in an 
email at 11:17 on 3 March  and read the email at 9:00 on 4 March, at which  point Mr Ms 
policy had already started. It said at the end of the same day the insurer  had confirmed all 
policies would remain in force until their natural expiry  date.  And this was confirmed by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) the next day.
While we were  looking  into things J&M said Mr M received  a refund of £1,047.33, as 90% of 
the unused premium, from the Financial Services Compensation Scheme  (FSCS). J&M also 
confirmed it hadnt  paid for Mr Ms original policy until April 2018.
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Ms complaint on 15 October  2019.  In that decision I 
said:
The FCA expects brokers to conduct  due diligence on the insurers where  they place their 
customers business1. The FCA gives examples2 of sources of information and 
considerations brokers should take when doing  this. These include:
giving  the name  and address of the insurer in consumer literature;
checking the insurers Solvency and Financial Condition Report, of which  a key
indicator is the solvency  coverage percentage - which it said should be over 100%;
checking the FCA register to see if the insurer has passported in on services or
1 Broker due diligence on insurers: working to prevent harm. Compliance Rules   Quarter Three  2017.
2 Not a comprehensive  list
Ref: DRN39586682branch basis to show where the home state  regulator is;
checking whether  the insurer comes under our voluntary  jurisdiction or if theres a
dispute resolution service  in the home state;  and
seeing the insurers audited accounts. It also said the British Insurers  Brokers
Association (BIBA) published a Litmus test which  is a useful tool for brokers to help
with due diligence.
The policy documents show the name and address of the insurer  and that it was regulated 
by the Danish Financial Services  Authority. The insurer was able to provide insurance in the
UK via a service passport which allowed it to run its permitted activities  in another  country 
in the European Economic Area (EEA).
J&M said it regularly reviewed the insurers audited accounts and has provided a copy  of the 
insurers Solvency and Financial Condition report for 2016  which  showed  the insurers 
solvency rating at the end of 2016 was 217%. So Im satisfied J&M did appropriate due 
diligence on the insurer before selling  the policy to Mr M. However, Ive also thought  about  
what should fairly and reasonably have happened  once  J&M knew  the insurer was in 
financial difficulty.
J&Ms key facts document says it doesnt provide advice or recommend a policy.  However, 
theres a general  principle  that it needed  to provide information thats clear, fair and not 
misleading. It also had a duty to pay due regard to Mr Ms interests and treat him fairly as 
one of its customers.
Im aware that there were  articles in the media  about  the insurers  financial position on the 1 
and 2 of March. However, J&M said it didnt think it was appropriate to respond to press 
speculation.
Even with the press  speculation it doesnt seem unreasonable for J&M to have  sold this 
policy to Mr M as it had carried out reasonable checks on the insurer.  However, I dont think  I 
need to make a finding on whether J&M should  have done  more in response  to the press 
speculation, because  it did receive  an email letting  it know the insurer  had stopped  writing  
new business before the policy started.
J&M said it received an email at 11:17 on 3 March from the insurer to say it had stopped 
writing new business  but would  continue  to cover all policies already in force. J&M said it 
read this email the following  morning on 4 March by which time Mr Ms policy  was already in 
force. It said it was later reassured by an email  from the FCA that said the insurer  was 
continuing to operate  and existing policies remained in force.
I appreciate J&M didnt read the insurers email for almost 24 hours after it had received it 
and by the time it did Mr Ms policy was already in force. However, it had received notice 
from the insurer that it was no longer writing new business; it hadnt yet paid the insurer  for 
the policy; and the policy hadnt  yet started. So, I think in order to pay due regard to Mr Ms 
interests and treat him fairly J&M should have  let him know, so he could make his own 
decision about whether to cancel the policy and taken out a new one.
So, Ive thought about what  Mr M would have done if J&M had contacted  him. J&M has 
shown that had it contacted Mr M the next cheapest quote would have been around £500 
higher. It said as the policy  hadnt  yet started  it would have been  able to stop the policy 
coming into force and only deducted its £25 non-refundable policy  charge from the premium.
Ref: DRN39586683Our investigator asked  Mr M what he would have done if J&M had let him know the insurer  
was in difficulty on 3 March. Ive listened to this call and Mr M said he wouldnt have wanted  
to face the risk of his insurer being in financial difficulty. He was clear that he chose a policy  
based on getting the right level of cover and not just the cheapest quote. So Im persuaded 
that Mr M would have cancelled the policy if hed known the insurer had stopped  writing  new 
business.
Mr M wasnt able to give exact details of an alternative policy he would have bought as he 
didnt have any quotes, but has said he would  most  likely have called other brokers for a 
quote. Hes said he now holds a policy  through another broker  that is cheaper than either of 
the ones he bought from J&M, but its not clear if that was available  at the time. So I think  its 
likely he would have cancelled the policy, but its not clear if he experienced a financial loss 
by not doing so.
Mr M has received a refund of £1,047.33 from FSCS. This is 90% of the pro rata premium 
following the cancellation. I think its fair that he pays for the time he was on cover for the 
policy and also that he pays  for the new policy he took with J&M. I say this because he was 
covered by it and would always have  needed  the cover. So that means the only money Mr M 
hasnt been refunded is the remaining 10% of his original premium - about £105.
If Mr M had cancelled  his policy hed have needed to pay £25 to do so. While Im satisfied he 
would have done that, when deducting  £25 from the outstanding £105 means hes lost 
around £80. I havent seen that Mr M would have  been able to get a policy  on 3 March  for 
less than hed paid through J&M. And J&M has shown  any alternative policy it could offer 
would have been £500 more expensive. I understand Mr M is now paying less through a 
broker hed used previously, but I havent  seen anything to show  that would have been 
available at that time.
So while I do think Mr M wouldnt have gone  ahead with the policy through  J&M, I havent 
seen enough to persuade  me that hes suffered a financial loss by J&M not giving him that 
option. In fact, I think its more likely than not that Mr M would have had to pay more  than an 
additional £80 for a new policy to start the next day. This means the insurer going into 
liquidation has probably ended up costing him less than it would have done if hed decided 
not to go ahead with the policy  through J&M. So, I dont  think  its appropriate for me to make
J&M to refund the 10% Mr M didnt  receive from FSCS.
I do however accept that not being given the option to cancel his policy  on 3 March  caused 
Mr M distress and inconvenience. He was working  as a taxi driver and was informed by a 
text that he was no longer covered from that point in time. This meant Mr M was 
inconvenienced by having to rearrange a new policy at very short  notice. Hes also told us he 
had to find £1,300 to pay for the policy only a few months after buying his first policy. He 
then had to wait months to get a refund 90% of his initial premium.
I also accept it would  have been  distressing for him to not know  if this money would  be 
refunded. I appreciate the policy being  cancelled wasnt  J&Ms fault but I think  it not giving 
him the option  of cancelling his policy on 3 March  meant he was put in this position. So I 
think its fair and reasonable for J&M to compensate Mr M for the unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience he experienced as a result of its failure to give him the option not to go ahead 
with the policy.
I can understand that Mr M would have needed to make an immediate decision about  taking 
out a new policy once the insurer  went into liquidation. And he would have had very little 
Ref: DRN39586684time to sort things out which would likely have caused him some  distress.  However I havent 
seen anything to persuade me he was forced to take a new one through J&M.
As the broker J&M wasnt responsible for amount  Mr M would have been charged  to cancel 
his new policy, or that the policy didnt have a cooling-off period. This was down to the 
insurer of the new policy. So, this isnt something I can hold J&M responsible  for and if Mr M 
remains unhappy with this he can complain to the insurer  separately.
J&M did have a responsibility though to make any cancellation fees clear  when Mr M bought 
the policy. I can see its call script explains that once the policy is active  cancellation will be 
based on the insurers short-term rates. So I think it did enough  to let him know  that.
J&M has accepted  it mistakenly didnt  add protected NCD to the new policy  it arranged  for
Mr M when  the insurer went into liquidation.  It has said if thered  been  an accident  it would  
have ensured the insurer  treated Mr M as though  it had been protected.  Mr M didnt make a 
claim so I dont think theres been  any loss here.  However, I can understand why Mr M was 
frustrated to find it hadnt been  added  and also that he needed to pay more to add it on to 
his new policy.
In summary,  I do think J&M caused Mr M distress and inconvenience  by not letting him know  
the insurer had stopped  writing new business before his policy started and by not including 
protected NCD on his new policy. So, when taking  into account everything  thats  happened  I 
think the fair and reasonable  outcome to this particular complaint is for J&M to pay Mr M a 
total of £250 for the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience he experienced.
J&M accepted  my provisional  decision. Mr M thought my provisional findings were  generally 
fair but remained unhappy with J&M. He said:
Why did J&M say the next cheapest policy was £500 more  expensive at the time it 
sold him his first policy when it was able to provide one for around £50 more  when  
the insurer went into liquidation?
Why had it only checked  the solvency ratings from 2016? 
J&M should have  told him sooner that it would ensure the insurer  acted as though 
the NCD was in place.
Due to the short  timescale available when  the insurer went  into liquidation he didnt 
have any other  choice but to buy another policy through J&M.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before reaching my provisional decision,  I asked J&M why the new policy  it sold Mr M wasnt 
available at the time he bought the first policy. J&M said it wasnt  selling policies from the 
new insurer at the time and has provided me with a screenshot  to show the quotes available.  
Im satisfied the quotes J&M provided are genuine and can see that the next cheapest quote 
to the one Mr M bought was around  £500 more expensive. So, while I can understand why 
Mr M queried this, I think its most likely  the information J&M provided is accurate. 
I can also understand Mr Ms point about  J&M checking the insurers solvency rating from 
2016. However, this was the last one available as the insurer went into liquidation before the 
Ref: DRN395866852017 ratings were  published. So, I dont think J&M did anything wrong in relying on that 
rating as it was the most  up-to-date. 
I do accept that Mr M felt as though he had very little choice but to rearrange insurance as 
quickly as possible in order to keep working. J&M said the insurers  liquidator should have 
allowed a three  month period of insurance  cover rather  than insisting on immediate 
cancellation. However, thats not something I can hold J&M responsible  for. And Ive already  
taken account  of the distress and inconvenience J&M caused Mr M by not giving  him the 
option of cancelling his policy when deciding on a fair amount of compensation. 
Ive also seen the sales script from when J&M sold the new policy  and can see it would have 
told Mr M that once the policy was in place cancellation would be based on the insurers 
short term rates. So, I remain satisfied it was clear  about the cancellation terms.
It would have been helpful if J&M had confirmed to Mr M sooner that it would have  honoured 
the NCD protection. But again, Ive taken account  of the distress not knowing this caused to     
Mr M when  deciding a fair amount of compensation. 
Ive considered Mr Ms comments but they dont change my mind. So I remain satisfied that 
the fair and reasonable outcome to this particular complaint is for J&M to pay Mr M £250 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused him. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require J & M Insurance  Services 
(UK) Limited to pay Mr M £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it caused 
him. 
It should do this within 28 days  of us telling it Mr Ms accepted  my decision. If it pays  later 
than this it should add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of my decision 
to the date it makes  payment3. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
3 If J&M considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing this 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3958668