K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about six instalment loans that he took out with Provident Personal  Credit 
Limited, trading  as Satsuma Loans,  (SL),  which he said were unaffordable.
background
Mr P was given six instalment loans by SL from November 2016 to May 2018. A summary of 
the loans taken out by Mr P is shown below:
Loan number 
Date of 
loanRepayment date
Loan amount 
Number of 
monthly repayments Highest repayment amount
1. 29/11/16 28/2/17 £200 3 £98.40
2. 23/2/17 1/6/17 £800 3 £393.60
3. 26/5/17 1/4/18 £600 10 £120
4. 7/8/17 29/10/18 £1,000 12 £166
5. 28/1/18 28/11/18 £300 9 £66.60
6. 3/5/18 Unpaid? £700 12 £116.20
SL said that it had carried out a credit  check before each loan and asked Mr P for details of 
his income and expenditure. SL also applied extra safeguards and buffers to Mr Ps declared  
expenses to reflect the information  it obtained from its credit and internal checks. Taking 
these into account  SL said that the loans were affordable and left Mr P with a comfortable 
disposable income. 
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that Loan 6 should  be upheld. He said that by Loan  6, Mr Ps 
overall pattern  of borrowing  suggested that Mr P was persistently reliant on short term loans.
SL disagreed and said that it appeared from reviewing the adjudicators  view that the 
adjudicator had only considered the number of loans obtained  by Mr P. But it didnt feel that 
sustained or sequential borrowing was of itself irresponsible or conclusive that Mr P was 
persistently reliant  on borrowing.  SL said that it performed individual  checks  before every  
loan and it disagreed that the number of loans alone  was sufficient. SL considered the 
sustainability of the loans and believed  that the adjudicator hadnt considered Mr Ps 
individual circumstances.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to SL on 21 November 2019. I summarise my findings:
Id noted that when  SL lent to Mr P the regulator  was the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA)  
and relevant regulations and guidance  included  its Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
The CONC  contained guidance for lenders about  responsible lending.  
I said that SL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ref: DRN31729562the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that SL should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing might  signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that SL was required to establish whether Mr P could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ps complaint.
SL had made a number of checks before it lent to Mr P. It had asked him for details of his 
income and expenditure. Mr P declared  his monthly  income as £4,200  and his expenditure 
as £1,600 before all the loans. And SL had increased Mr Ps declared expenditure in its 
assessments of all the loans to reflect what it had seen in its credit checks  and internal 
models. 
I also noted that SL had checked Mr Ps credit file before agreeing  to the loans and it had 
provided this service with a summary of its checks. The checks showed no bankruptcy  or 
individual voluntary arrangements, no debt management plans and no county  court 
judgements before all the loans. 
Mr P had provided this service with a copy of his credit report and I referred to this in my 
decision.
Ref: DRN31729563I could see that Loan  1 was for £200  repayable by 3 monthly repayments, with a highest 
repayment of £98.40.  Id noted that Mr Ps disposable income after SL had applied its 
safeguards and buffers was £1,381.75. SLs credit checks showed that he had no accounts 
in arrears, although a new credit  account had just been opened. Nevertheless, I thought that 
the checks SL had carried out before agreeing Loan 1 were  proportionate. The repayments  
that Mr P needed to make on Loan 1 were very modest compared  to his disposable income 
as adjusted by SL. 
So given Mr Ps repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and that this was his first loan with the lender,  I didnt think  it wouldve been  
proportionate for SL to have asked him for the amount of information that would  have been  
needed to show  the lending was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr P provided or the information SL shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong  to give Loan  1 to Mr P.
There was one repayment remaining on Loan 1 when Mr P took out Loan  2. The loan 
amount had significantly increased to £800 repayable  by three monthly  payments with a 
highest repayment of £393.60.  SL said that Mr P had a disposable  income of £1,629 before 
Loan 2 after its safeguards and buffers  had been  applied to Mr Ps expenses. SLs credit 
checks showed that he had no accounts  in arrears, although a new credit account  had just 
been opened. Nevertheless,  I thought  that the checks SL had carried out before agreeing  
Loan 2 were proportionate. The total repayments  that Mr P needed to make  on Loans 1 and 
2 were still relatively modest compared  to his adjusted  disposable  income. And I didnt think 
the repayments were  so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr P financial 
difficulty.
So given Mr Ps repayment amounts, and what was apparent about his circumstances  at the 
time, I didnt  think it wouldve been proportionate for SL to have asked him for the amount of 
information that would have been needed to show the lending  was unsustainable.   
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr P provided or the information SL shouldve  
been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying  what  he was 
saying. So I didnt think SL was wrong  to give Loan  2 to Mr P.
There was one repayment remaining on Loan 2 when Mr P took out Loan  3. The loan 
amount had decreased to £600 repayable  by ten monthly payments with a highest  
repayment of £120.  SL said that Mr P had a disposable  income  of around £1,434  before  
Loan 3 after its safeguards and buffers  had been  applied to Mr Ps expenses. SLs credit 
checks showed that he had one payment in arrears in the previous six months.  
Nevertheless, I thought  that the checks SL carried out before agreeing  Loan  3 were 
proportionate. The total repayments  that Mr P needed to make  on Loans 2 and 3 were still 
relatively modest compared  to his adjusted disposable income.  And I didnt think the 
repayments were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Mr P financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN31729564Loan 3 was still outstanding when Mr P borrowed Loan 4. Loan 4 was Mr Ps fourth loan in 
around eight months without any break  in his borrowing.  And the loan amount had 
substantially increased  to £1,000. SLs credit checks again showed that he had one payment 
in arrears in the previous six months.  I thought all this might have caused SL some concerns 
about Mr Ps finances. Loan 4 was to be repaid  by 12 monthly repayments with a highest 
repayment of £166.  So he was also committing to making his repayments over a longer 
period than previously  as well as paying most of the repayments on Loan 3 around the same 
time. I could  also see that SL had again  added an additional amount of around £886.71 of 
safeguards and buffers to Mr Ps declared  expenses. Of this amount, financial commitments 
had accounted  for £763.71. So for the fourth  loan running, it was aware that Mr P wasnt 
declaring all his financial commitments.
I appreciated that SL had asked Mr P for his income and expenditure. And Id noted that it 
had calculated that Mr Ps disposable  income  was £1,713.29 after it had applied  its 
safeguards. But I thought  the pattern and increasing  amount of Mr Ps borrowing with 
repayments over a long period were such that it wasnt reasonable for SL to rely on that 
information. So I thought this should have prompted SL to do some additional checks such  
as asking Mr P for more information about his other short term borrowing commitments.
Id looked at Mr Ps credit  report  and bank statements  to see what proportionate checks  
might have shown. Id seen only one other short term loan repayable at the same time as 
Loans 3 and 4. So I couldnt  safely say that SL shouldnt have given Loan 4 to Mr P. 
Loan 5 was taken out whilst  Loans 3 and 4 were still outstanding. Loan 5 was for £300  with 
nine monthly repayments of £66.60  which would have needed to be made around the same  
time as the rest of the repayments on Loans  3 and 4. And Mr P was again committing to 
repaying Loan 5 over a long period. I could also see that SL had added an additional  amount 
of around £1,478.84 of safeguards and buffers  to Mr Ps declared  expenses.  This was the 
highest adjustment SL had made  to Mr Ps expenses for all his loans. I thought by the time 
of Loan 5 SL should have  been more than concerned that Mr P still wasnt declaring all his 
commitments. And I thought SL ought  to have asked why a person with an apparent  high 
level of disposable  income was coming  back to it for a £300 loan whilst two of his previous 
loans with SL were  still outstanding.
Loan 5 was Mr Ps fifth loan in 14 months  with no gaps between  loans. I thought  by the time 
of Loan 5 SL ought reasonably to have  suspected  that Mr P was likely having  trouble 
managing his money. So I thought  it would  have been proportionate for SL to have gathered 
a more comprehensive view of Mr Ps circumstances and sought some independent 
verification of this.
Had it done so, SL would  have discovered  that Mr P had two short term loans with other 
lenders which  together with Loans  3 and 4 would  be repayable  at the same  time as Loan  5. 
Id seen these  on Mr Ps credit report and bank statements. I thought it would have been 
clear to SL if it had made proportionate checks that Mr P was facing significant  problems  
managing his money and unlikely to be able to repay Loan  5 in a sustainable  manner. So I 
didnt think it was reasonable for SL to have  given Loan 5 to Mr P.
Id looked at the overall pattern of SLs lending with Mr P to see if there  was a point at which 
SL should  reasonably have seen  that further  lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise 
harmful. And so SL should have realised  that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 6. I said this because:
Ref: DRN31729565By Loan  6, Mr P had been borrowing from SL for around 17 months without a break.
Mr P still had two other  loans  outstanding  with SL when he took out Loan 6.
The loan amount had increased  to £700.  Mr P wasnt making  any real inroads to the 
amounts he owed SL and by approving this loan,  SL was extending Mr Ps 
indebtedness by a further year. This meant that he was still being allowed by SL to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
By the time of Loan 6, the number  of loans was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Ps ability to access mainstream  credit  and so had kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Id noted that SL had said that the adjudicators view hadnt considered  Mr Ps individual  
circumstances and had only considered  the number of loans Mr P had obtained. Id taken  
SLs response to the adjudicators view into account in reaching my decision. Id also 
reassured SL that Id taken Mr Ps circumstances into account. But I hadnt recreated 
affordability assessments of the loans in dispute. This was because  I thought the number of 
loans and the pattern of lending here were of concern. 
Id also thought that when  a consumer borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, 
it was most likely that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary 
cash flow problems. As SL knew, the FCA had made it clear  in a recent letter to CEOs of 
high cost lending  firms  that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of 
unsustainable lending  patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
So I intended to uphold Mr Ps complaint about  Loans  5 and 6. I said that my redress was 
drafted on the basis that Loan 6 hadnt  been  repaid.  The most  recent  loan information Id 
seen showed  that. I said it would be helpful if SL could  provide up to date information  on the 
balance for Loan  6 in its response to this decision.
Subject to any further representations by Mr P or SL my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  SL to:
with regard to Loan 5, refund all the interest and charges that Mr P has paid on this 
loan;
pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
with regard to Loan 6, refund all the interest and charges that Mr P has paid on this 
loan;
pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement;
write off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 6;
apply the refunds  referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 6 and 
pay any balance to Mr P; 
remove all adverse  entries about  Loan 5 from Mr Ps credit file;
Ref: DRN31729566remove all entries about  Loan 6 from Mr Ps credit file when it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr P a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Mr P responded to my provisional decision to say that he agreed with the decision and that 
Loan 6 had been repaid according to his records.
SL responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepted my proposals. It didnt 
comment on whether Loan  6 had been repaid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that both Mr P and SL have accepted  my provisional decision, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require SL to pay Mr P some compensation  and to take the steps set 
out below. As SL hasnt  confirmed that Loan 6 has been repaid, my award is the same as 
the redress set out in my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma  Loans,  to:
1.With regard to Loan 5, refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr P has paid on 
this loan;
2.Pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
3.With regard to Loan 6, refund all the interest  and charges  that Mr P has paid on 
this loan;
4.Pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
5.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 6;
6.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  6 
and pay any balance  to Mr P; 
7.Remove all adverse entries  about Loan 5 from Mr Ps credit  file; and
8.Remove all entries about Loan 6 from Mr Ps credit file when it has been  repaid.
Ref: DRN31729567*HM Revenue & Customs requires SL to take off tax from this interest.  SL must give Mr P a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If SL intends to apply the 
refunds to reduce any outstanding capital balances, it must  do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3172956