K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about home and contents  insurance arranged alongside a mortgage taken 
out in 1990 with a predecessor business of Santander UK Plc. Ms A believes the insurance 
was mis-sold because Santander  said it was compulsory.  Ill refer to the business throughout 
as Santander,  even when Im describing events that took place when the predecessor 
business was the lender.
background
By way of a provisional decision dated 1 May 2020,  which is attached below and forms part 
of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which  I was minded to determine 
this complaint, subject  to the further submissions of the parties. 
I gave the parties  until 28 May 2020 to reply. Both have done so. Santander  accepted my 
provisional decision whilst Ms A made some general  comments  about what she sees  as 
inequalities in society generally.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and with no material  new 
points from either party  on the merits of the specific complaint, Ive no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is I dont uphold  this 
complaint, and make no order  or award against  Santander UK Plc. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  
in any further  consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39168722CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  home  and contents insurance  arranged alongside  a mortgage taken out in 
1990 with a predecessor  business of Santander UK Plc. Ms A believes the insurance was mis-sold 
because Santander said it was compulsory. Ill refer to the business throughout as Santander, even 
when Im describing events that took place  when the predecessor business  was the lender.  
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, using  my 
own words.  No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal service we provide,  and 
if I dont  mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because  I didnt think it was 
material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which in my 
view will have  little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
The transaction at the heart of this complaint  took place in 1990 when Ms As mother,  who was retired 
at the time,  decided to buy her local-authority  home under right-to-buy. She applied for a mortgage 
with Santander, with Ms A standing as guarantor; Ms A says she dealt with Santander on her 
mothers behalf. 
Alongside the mortgage,  Santander also arranged  a home and contents  insurance policy, with cover 
provided by a company  Ill call R. For many  years, the premium for the insurance was included in the 
monthly mortgage payments, with Santander passing the money on to R. This changed  in 2005 when  
the premiums became payable directly  to the insurer by a separate  direct debit.
Sadly, by this time, Ms As mother  had passed away. Shed died intestate,  and the mortgaged  
property passed jointly to Ms A and her brother. He has since  died and Ms A is sole owner of the 
property and, as a result  of a transfer of equity, sole borrower under the mortgage on it. Recently, Ms 
A has made a number of complaints about the mortgage and ancillary arrangements. This complaint, 
specifically, is that the home and contents  policy was mis-sold. Ms A says Santander told them it was 
compulsory if they wanted  the mortgage.
Santander rejected the main  thrust  of the complaint; it said that it was a condition of the mortgage 
than the property  itself be insured, but that Ms As mother had chosen to add the contents cover as 
part of the package. It offered Ms A £50 compensation for taking longer than it should to reply  to the 
complaint.
When Ms A referred the complaint here, Santander initially  objected to us looking at the complaint,  
saying it had been brought outside  the time limits in our rules.  It later withdrew the objection and 
consented to our investigation. The investigator to whom the case was assigned wasnt persuaded  
Santander had done anything wrong, and didnt recommend the compliant be upheld.  Ms A has 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ill make some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. Were  not the 
regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont  police their internal processes or how they operate  
generally. Thats  the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
We deal with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our investigations 
and reach  our conclusions without interference from anyone else.  
Ref: DRN39168723Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive some disappointing news for Ms A, in that I 
dont intend to uphold her complaint either. However, I think a fuller explanation of the reasons why is 
needed here. So I do that by way of this provisional  decision, giving her and Santander the 
opportunity to comment further before I finalise my decision.
In a case such as this, any assessment of how a business behaved must  be made against the 
backdrop of what was considered standard  and/or  acceptable  practice  at the time. In this case, that 
means 1990; the sales environment for mortgages and insurances  was very different  in 1990 from 
how it is now.  But I cant  apply todays standards when deciding if the home and contents policy 
attached to Ms As mortgage was mis-sold.
As a starting point, the investigator  is absolutely right when she says that it was a condition of the 
mortgage that the property  acting a security for the mortgage be insured.  That was, and remains to 
this day, a basic and fundamental  requirement of all mortgage contracts. However, it wasnt a 
condition of the mortgage  that the house be insured using  a policy  arranged by Santander.  Ms As 
mother would have had the option of arranging the home insurance herself. This is also provided for 
in the mortgage contract; the relevant clause  in the mortgage conditions  says:
The Society [the predecessor  business] will arrange  Buildings Insurance through  the Society's  
agency for not less than the figure shown  in the Particulars of Advance  attached, unless other 
arrangements have been  agreed  or are required  under  the terms of any lease. In England,  Wales 
and Northern  Ireland cover  will be effected from the date of issue of the advance cheque. In Scotland, 
the Society will normally arrange Buildings  insurance cover at the time the Offer of Advance  is issued. 
Insurance cover can be arranged from an earlier  date if requested.
The emphasis in bold type is mine; this is the phrase that provides for a borrower to arrange their own 
home insurance rather than accept the cover on offer through the lender. So Im satisfied that it was a 
legitimate condition  of the mortgage that the property be insured. What Im less satisfied about  is 
whether Ms A and or her mother might reasonably  have known there was a choice about  which cover 
to take out; certainly the application form for the mortgage doesnt make it clear. 
But thats not enough for me to decide  the insurance  was mis-sold.  For me to reach that conclusion, 
Id need to be persuaded that if Santander  had made it clear to Ms A and her mother  that they could  
choose to arrange the home insurance themselves, theyd more than likely have  done just that. The 
same test applies  in respect of the contents  insurance  even though it, unlike  the house  cover, wasnt 
compulsory. 
Nothing Ive seen  in the evidence provided  up to now gives me any reason to think  that if Santander 
had expressly  told Ms A and her mother about  the option to arrange their own insurances, theyd have 
gone to the trouble of doing so rather than pick what was on offer through Santander. 
To uphold  a complaint  like this, its not enough  to find a possible shortcoming in how a financial  
product has been sold. I have to be persuaded there was a shortcoming  and that the shortcoming  is 
the reason the sale happened, and here,  Im not.
Ref: DRN39168724my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that I dont intend  to uphold 
this complaint or make any order or award  against Santander  UK Plc.
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 28 May 2020, or sooner if both parties confirm 
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Again, neither  
party need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3916872