K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling  of his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr Ks car was involved  in an accident  with a van on 25 October 2017. It suffered damage 
and Mr K claimed on his policy. The van driver was held at fault for the accident.
Mr K told AXA that he preferred it if his car was repaired by its manufacturers main dealer 
garage. AXAs call handler said that the only main  dealer garages  within  their approved 
repairer network are very far away, so it would probably be best to arrange for it to go into a 
local [main  dealer] garage to yourself.
Mr Ks car was repaired  at his local main dealer garage and AXA paid for the repairs. But 
Mr K wasnt  happy with the quality of repairs and said the engine management light showed  
there was a problem,  namely an oil leak. Mr K asked AXA to look into the problem  and 
contact the garage. But AXA refused to do that saying the garage  Mr K used to repair  the car 
wasnt one of AXAs approved repairers.  That meant  that AXA had no contractual 
relationship with, or control over, the repairer as they would have had with an approved  
repairer.
Mr K felt that AXA were  responsible for addressing the oil leak so he complained. AXA didnt 
uphold the complaint so Mr K brought it to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into it 
and said AXA hadnt dealt with Mr K fairly. She said AXA didnt explain to Mr K the difference 
between authorised and non-authorised repairers and the implications  of Mr K using  a non-
authorised repairer.  So she recommended that AXA should make enquiries with the 
repairing garage and instruct  an independent engineer to review the information to 
determine the cause of the engine warning light. As AXA didnt  agree with our adjudicator, 
the complaint  was passed to me to decide.
I should mention  that our adjudicator also dealt with other  aspects of Mr Ks complaint. But 
as Mr K was content that those matters are now resolved, I don't intend to refer to those 
here.
My provisional decision was issued on 29 September 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Under the policy AXA were responsible for ensuring the damage to Mr Ks car was 
repaired to a satisfactory standard. Mr K said that hasnt happened as the engine  
management light was lit after the repairs were done and that his car had an oil leak 
which wasnt present  before the accident or the repairing garages involvement.  
What AXA have told Mr K about  approved and non-approved repairers is correct and 
standard car insurance  industry practice.  Insurers have a number of approved 
repairers they use. Their relationship is such that the insurer is responsible  for the 
quality of repairs of their approved repairers. Policyholders often do, for a number of 
reasons, prefer to use specific repairers  who arent  approved by their insurer. Most 
insurers, like AXA, allow that but as there  is no contractual relationship between AXA 
Ref: DRN30848802and the non-approved repairer,  AXA doesn't take any responsibility for the quality of 
repairs. But our expectation is that the implications of using a non-approved repairer 
are explained  to the policyholder. In this case,  AXA didnt explain the implications  to 
Mr K. 
I have listened  to the relevant call between Mr K and AXA very carefully. The call 
handler said AXA didnt  have any local main dealer garages in their approved 
repairer network. He went onto say given  the incident circumstances anyway theres 
nothing wrong  with getting it into a [main dealer] garage He said the only [main  
dealer] garages  we have within our approved repairer network  are very far away,  so 
it would  probably  be best to arrange for it to go into a local [main  dealer] garage to 
yourself. Mr K told the call handler where  his local main dealer was to which  the call 
handler said I think it would definitely be best to get the car into [your local main 
dealer]. 
I think its fair to say AXA suggested  Mr K should take his car to his local,  non-
approved, main dealer to get it repaired.  But, as Ive said above, AXA didnt explain 
the implications of that to Mr K. And I dont believe there was any way Mr K would 
have known the difference between an approved and non-approved  repairer.  So I 
intend to uphold this complaint. To put things right AXA should arrange  for Mr Ks car 
to be examined by a suitable independent engineer, to establish whether the engine 
management light and oil leak issues are accident related or whether they were 
caused by the repairer. Mr K provided our service with an invoice for an assessment 
he had done on his car which said the rear chain cover had been removed before 
and fitted incorrectly  from a previous job, suggesting that was the cause  of the 
issues Mr K is unhappy about.  Our service provided a copy of that invoice to AXA, so 
they should consider that during any future assessment. 
Once AXA obtain the opinion of an independent  engineer, if they say that the engine  
management light and oil leak issues are related  to the accident or the workmanship 
of the repairing garage,  then AXA should  arrange  to have the issues repaired. AXA 
should also consider any reasonable expenses Mr K has incurred in relation to the 
relevant issues. For example, I understand that the invoice he provided  related to a 
number of issues with the car. But part of the costs  Mr K incurred as part of that 
invoice was for the assessment of the oil leak issue and if that is accident or repair  
related than AXA should consider reimbursing  that cost. 
The independent engineer to be appointed  should be agreed by both Mr K and AXA.  
I think AXAs decision to not look into the issues with the car Mr K complained  of has 
been a source  of distress and inconvenience for him. So I intend to require AXA to 
pay Mr K £100 compensation.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr K accepted  my provisional decision.  
AXA didnt provide any comments.
my final decision
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same.
Ref: DRN30848803my findings
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Mr K £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them  that Mr K has accepted  my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Arrange for Mr Ks car to be examined  by a suitable independent engineer, to be 
agreed by both parties, to establish whether the engine management light and oil 
leak issues are accident  related  or whether they were caused by the repairer. If the 
independent engineer  says that the engine management light and oil leak issues  are 
related to the accident or the workmanship of the repairing  garage,  then AXA should  
arrange to have the issues repaired.
In the event that the independent engineer says the engine management light and oil 
leak issues are accident  or repairing garage related, AXA should also consider any 
reasonable costs  Mr K has incurred in relation to the relevant issues.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3084880