K821x#15complaint
Mr E has complained The Co-operative Bank plc hasnt given him enough compensation 
after allowing  fraud on his account.  This happened just before Christmas  2018 at a very 
distressing personal  time.
background
In December 2018 someone called  the Co-op pretending to be Mr E. The bank allowed them 
to change security details on his account even though this persons behaviour was 
reasonably suspicious. This person then transferred money from Mr Es account elsewhere 
in five payments.
On 20 December Mr E tried to use his card but it was declined. When he checked his 
balance at a cash  machine,  he realised there  was no money  in his account. He contacted  
the Co-op immediately.  He had difficulty in getting through  to them   as he was no longer 
able to use the working security details for his account. He then spent  considerable time 
trying to explain what had happened.  Mr E was upset as he felt he was being treated as if he 
was a criminal.
By end of 21 December  the Co-op  had ensured  Mr E was able to use online banking  and 
had repaid the money that had been  taken  out of his account. Theyd also sent out a 
replacement card. They apologised to Mr E for what had happened  and offered him £200 for 
the distress caused.
Mr E didnt think this was enough.  He felt this would  never have happened  if the Co-op 
hadnt caused this problem. It had caused him real issues over the Christmas period. This 
coincided with a very difficult personal time.  He brought his complaint  to the ombudsman 
service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence, including the call recordings between the fraudster 
and the Co-op  and Mr E and the Co-op.  He thought  that the Co-ops security failing had 
caused this issue  which had come at a difficult time for Mr E. The potential for him being left 
without access to his money was additionally distressing. He asked the Co-op to pay an 
additional £300 as compensation.
Both the Co-op  and Mr E rejected this outcome. The Co-op pointed out that Mr E had been 
without money for only 24 hours.
This complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
Firstly its quite clear  Mr E was an innocent victim of fraud. The Co-op doesnt dispute  their 
procedures led to someone being able to change his security details and access his 
account. This resulted in Mr E having no money in his account.
Ref: DRN31037812I dont doubt Mr E had a difficult  time trying  to explain  what  had happened. Not helped, 
ironically, by the fact he no longer  knew his own security details to access  his account. Mr E 
felt that not everybody he was speaking to amongst  the Co-ops  staff was helpful or 
understood what was going on. Having reviewed  the calls,  I can see why.
This must have been very frustrating. The immediate upshot was Mr E thought he wasnt  
going to have any money over Christmas and was going to be liable for nearly  £2,600 which 
had gone from his account.
But the Co-op apologised and swiftly rectified  this situation. From what Ive seen Mr E first 
contacted his bank on 20 December.  £300, which was sent back  by one of the banks  that 
itd been sent to, was credited back that day. Co-op credited the other  £2,271 by 11:10  on 
21 December. I have  to say, based  on my experience of other  cases, that I wouldnt have 
expected Co-op  to have done this any quicker.
Its true that Mr E had access to his Co-op account and funds within  48 hours of the original 
fraudulent transactions. Co-op gave Mr E a one-time  password to allow him to get back  
online. They  also suggested he could transfer  some  funds to a family member  that perhaps  
he could then use whilst he didnt have a card himself. His card had been  correctly blocked 
as a fraudster had been able to access his account.  
I see Mr E transferred £1,000 later that day to his partner so its more than likely he made 
use of this facility.
Co-ops argument is that Mr E wasnt substantially without funds so they believe the £500 
compensation in total is too high.
I dont. Our investigator took note of Mr Es unique personal circumstances at the time. At 
the time Mr Es partner was seriously  ill. Mr E was keen to make this a special time for them 
both. He feels the whole faff with the Co-op  really disturbed what  little equilibrium he had. He 
ended up feeling  stressed and worried about  something which  I suspect he now believes 
should have mattered not a jot considering what he and his partner were  going through.
It would be wrong to suggest  £500 in any way compensates  Mr E for the distress he was 
feeling at the time and what has happened since. The Co-op is not the cause of all of this. 
Overall I do think  £500 is a fair amount for the impact on Mr E at this difficult time.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  The Co-operative Bank plc to pay 
Mr E an additional £300  (making it £500 in total) for the distress caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3103781