K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax gave him incorrect  advice when 
he went to switch his mortgage which resulted in his missing mortgage payments. Mr M 
would like the missed  payments  removed from his credit file.
background
Mr M says that he contacted Halifax in December 2018 when transferring the mortgage  on 
his buy to let property from Halifax to another lender. Mr M says that the Halifax adviser  told 
him to cancel his direct  debit. But the transfer to the new lender didnt go through and Mr M 
missed a number of payments which Halifax recorded with credit reference agencies.
Halifax says that that it had agreed  to the cancellation of the direct  debit in December 2018 
and that Mr M didnt make any payments after this. Halifax  paid Mr M £200 compensation. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt feel that 
Halifax had done  anything wrong. Mr M disagreed  and asked for a review
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M intended transferring his mortgage to another lender. His solicitors asked for a 
redemption statement for completion on 24 December 2018. In anticipation of this Mr M 
contacted Halifax.  The Halifax employee  asked Mr M if he wanted  to cancel the direct debit 
which was due on 28 December after the proposed completion date. Mr M agreed to cancel 
the direct  debit. Completion didnt take place  on 28 December  and Mr M didnt make his 
payment then or in the following months.
I understand why Halifax suggested the cancelation of the direct  debit  because  if completion 
had taken place  on the 24 December and the direct debit hadnt been  cancelled, Halifax 
would have continued to deduct money from Mr Ms account. But completion didnt happen 
and Mr M stayed with Halifax and he had a liability to make the monthly  payment.  
Mr M knew that the direct debit was cancelled and should have  made alternative 
arrangements to make the contractual monthly payments if he wanted to keep a clear credit 
record. Halifax has a duty to record missed payments with the credit reference  agencies 
which it did.
I note that when Mr M made this complaint his mortgage had not yet transferred to the new 
lender but it now seems  to have done so. Its good that that has been sorted out. But for the 
reasons I set out above I dont believe that Halifax has done anything  wrong and cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Ref: DRN33192932Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3319293