K820x#14Complaint
Miss S and Mr N complained that Southern Rock Insurance  Company (Southern  Rock) 
unfairly cancelled  Miss Ss motor insurance  policy  and refused to pay a claim after her son 
Mr N, who was a named driver on the policy, had an accident.
Background
Miss S took out car insurance with Southern Rock. The insurance policy was in her name  
and her son, Mr N, was a named driver.
Mr N took out a hire purchase (HP) agreement for a car. Mr N was registered as the keeper 
on the vehicle  logbook (V5).  Miss S explained  that Mr N got the car for her as a gift and they 
intended to change the V5 to her name when they had it back  from the DVLA.
Mr N had an accident in the vehicle within a month  of the insurance starting. Miss S and 
Mr N explained that this happened before they received the V5, so they hadnt changed the 
recorded keeper  to Miss S. Miss S made  a claim  against her policy.
Southern Rock looked into the circumstances and avoided Miss Ss policy  (treated it as if it 
never existed). And they refused her claim as a result of this. They said that when Miss S 
applied for the insurance policy, she said that she was the owner and the registered keeper 
of the vehicle. Southern  Rock said this was a misrepresentation. They  said that if shed 
explained her son was the registered keeper of the vehicle, they wouldnt have offered the 
policy. Southern  Rock refunded the premiums.
Miss S and Mr N were  unhappy and brought their complaint  to us. Our investigator  said that 
Southern Rock were  entitled to avoid the policy in the circumstances.
Miss S and Mr N werent happy with this view and still felt that Southern Rock should  have 
paid the claim for the accident damage.  The complaint was passed  to an ombudsman  for a 
decision.
My provisional findings
On reviewing this case I didnt uphold the complaint, but my reasoning  was different than our 
investigators. So I issued  a provisional  decision to let all parties know my thoughts and have 
a chance to respond if they had anything  relevant  to add. In my provisional decision I said:
The relevant  law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 
(CIDRA) 2012. This sets out the obligation on consumers taking out consumer insurance 
contracts (policies) and the remedies for insurers if consumers fail to fulfil this obligation. The 
Act says that a consumer must take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And if 
they fail to do this the insurer will be entitled to avoid their policy  if they can show they 
wouldnt have provided the policy without the misrepresentation. There are other remedies  
available depending on whether the misrepresentation was careless or reckless  or 
deliberate. But in this case Southern Rock have said they wouldnt have  provided  cover at all 
without the misrepresentation they have  argued  Miss S made when she took out the policy.  
In deciding whether  the consumer failed to take reasonable care the Act requires  amongst 
other things   consideration of how clear  and specific the questions  the consumer was 
asked were.
Ref: DRN30176222CIDRA is in line with our long-established  approach, so I have considered whether what 
Southern Rock did was in line with it to decide what the fair and reasonable outcome to 
Miss S and Mr Ns complaint is.
It isnt disputed that when applying for this insurance  policy  Miss S answered yes in 
response to the question  referring to the vehicle to be insured under the policy - Are you (or 
will you be) the registered  keeper and legal owner?. When  this question  was answered, and 
at the time of the claim,  Miss S was not the registered keeper. I note that the question that 
was asked included,  in brackets, or will be. Miss S and Mr N both said that Miss S would 
have been the recorded keeper  when they were  able send off the V5 with her name on it. 
Because the question that Miss S was asked allowed for circumstances where  she wasnt  
yet the registered keeper, I need  to consider whether this is most likely to be what  Miss S 
and Mr N actually intended. This is because if they did Miss S wouldnt have made a 
misrepresentation. I assume  the intention of the (or will be) is to allow for situations where 
people getting  a quote or taking out a policy havent  actually bought the car they want to 
insure. But this doesnt  take into account  other reasons like the situation Miss S and Mr N 
have suggested,  so it doesnt  strike me as a particularly clear  or specific  question  to ask 
someone taking out a car insurance  policy. But this in itself doesnt mean Miss S took 
reasonable care; it is just one consideration.
Neither Southern  Rock  nor our investigator  considered whether Miss Ss answer to the 
actual question she was asked was correct on the basis  Miss S and Mr N intended to 
transfer registered keeper to Miss S once they got the V5. So, I made  further enquiries to 
see if the evidence  and circumstances at the time supported Miss Ss and Mr Ns assertion. 
The HP agreement  for the car Miss S took out the policy to cover  included a section on the 
care and use of the vehicle. It stated while we own the vehicle,  you must keep it in your 
possession. Mr N was the hirer, so I dont think this contract really allowed  for him to 
effectively transfer possession to Miss S by changing her to be the registered  keeper. And if 
hed done so it seems  he may well have been breaching  the terms of his hire agreement.
I asked whether Miss S and Mr N had other cars. Miss S owned and insured a car before 
Mr N took out the HP agreement on the new car. Miss S kept it after Mr N got the new car. If 
the new car was a gift for her, this meant  that Miss S was paying  to insure and keep two 
cars. Mr N explained that the old car was not worth  a great  deal and wasnt worth selling. But 
this still meant ongoing expense  in insurance and running costs, which seems strange if 
Miss S had been  given a new car as a gift. 
I also understand Miss S was the guarantor on the finance  agreement  Mr N entered into, 
which seems slightly  strange if he was buying  it as a gift for Miss S. And bearing in mind  the 
fact Mr N said in an email  to us it was a surprise for Miss S.
I cant know for sure whether Mr N was or wasnt going to register the insured car to Miss S 
at some stage. But, I dont think the evidence and circumstances  around  the time Miss S 
bought the policy, suggest it is most  likely this is what  she and Mr N intended to do. I 
understand from what Miss S and Mr N have said the car was eventually registered to 
Miss S. This was after the claim and after Miss S and Mr N found out there  was an issue, so 
this doesnt alter my view.
And this means  I also think its most likely Miss S answered the above mentioned question 
incorrectly when she took out the policy. And  in doing so  failed to take reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation. 
Ref: DRN30176223Southern Rock have said that if Miss S had answered no to the question asking if she was 
the registered keeper, shed have been asked a further question  about who the registered 
keeper was. She would  then have had to select other as there  was no specific  option for 
son. Southern  Rock have shown us that if Miss S had done  this then it wouldnt have 
provided the policy. So, Im satisfied  that Miss S made what  CIDRA describes as a qualifying 
misrepresentation and that Southern Rock were entitled to avoid  her policy  and so refuse  
her claim as a result of this. 
The response  to my provisional  decision
Southern Rock accepted  my provisional  decision. Miss S and Mr N were  disappointed with 
the outcome but had no further  evidence for me to consider.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss S and Mr N will be disappointed with my decision.  I have been 
offered no additional evidence since my provisional  decision  so carefully considered the 
facts again. My decision remains unchanged. For the reasons explained above I think that 
Southern Rocks decision to avoid Miss Ss insurance policy was fair and reasonable. So I 
wont be upholding Miss S and Mr Ns complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given, I dont  uphold Miss S and Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S and Mr N 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3017622