K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  about the charges Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) 
have asked her to pay to refurbish a car at the end of its lease.
background
Ms P took receipt of a new car in January  2016.  She financed  the deal through a hire 
agreement with MBFS. 
When she returned the car at the end of the hire period the business  arranged to inspect the 
car. The inspector  noted some damage  and MBFS therefore asked Ms P to pay for 
refurbishment. They charged; £260  for a missing  key; £115 for a gouged left alloy;  £85 for a 
gouged right alloy and £210 for a scratch to the front bumper.
Ms P thought they were  being unfair as shed had a lot of trouble with her hire arrangements.  
The first car she hired was stolen and needed  to be replaced. But the replacement set on fire 
because of an electrical fault on a tracker that had been fitted and the extensive damage  had 
to be repaired.  She thought, taking all this into account, that MBFS should  waive  the 
refurbishment charges.
MBFS didnt agree. They reconsidered  the damage  evidenced in the inspection  photographs 
but still thought it was beyond reasonable wear and tear, They  did offer a reduction in the bill 
of 25%.  They said the new outstanding amount would  therefore be £502.50.
Ms P was dissatisfied  with their response  so she referred her complaint  to this service  and 
our investigator provided his view. He didnt think MBFS  had been unreasonable when 
refusing to take the previous issues Ms P had with their cars into account. He reviewed the 
damage and thought  MBFS  had been right to consider it beyond reasonable wear and tear 
so he didnt think it would be fair to ask them to take any further action.
But Ms P disagreed.  She said her insurance premium had been adversely affected  by the 
fire to the car and that MBFS hadnt  adequately compensated her for that. She therefore  
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Ms P so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the refurbishment charges
Ref: DRN37550362Ms P acquired her car under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
I can understand Ms Ps frustration and shes  clearly had a very difficult time with the 
previous cars shes been hiring through  MBFS. But refurbishment charges arent related to 
these issues and they were always due if the car wasnt returned in the condition stipulated 
by the contract.
The British  Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association  (BVRLA) provide the industry  guidelines 
on what is considered  fair wear and tear when a vehicle is returned at the end of a lease. So 
Ive considered the damage with this standard in mind. I think, in all cases, the damage 
illustrated in the inspectors photographs  is clearly beyond the standard  that the BVRLA 
would consider fair wear and tear. And theres  no dispute the spare key wasnt  present  when  
the car was handed over.  So Id agree that MBFS havent been unreasonable when asking 
Ms P to pay for refurbishment  especially as theyve been prepared to reduce the bill by 25% 
as a gesture of goodwill.  
Ms P complains  that her insurance premiums have risen as a result  of the fire on her 
previous car and that MBFS havent provided  sufficient redress.  MBFSs final response  on 
Ms Ps complaint, issued on 19 March, didnt consider  this and theyve  explained they were 
unaware of this concern until it was raised  with our investigator. It would therefore be unfair 
for me to consider  it before MBFS have had the chance to. So Ms P should refer this new 
complaint to MBFS. If she wants to do that our investigator has explained hell set this up 
with MBFS on her behalf.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3755036