K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC lost their Will. 
Background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs R made their Wills and appointed  Lloyds to act as executor  of their 
estates. Mr and Mrs Rs Wills were kept by Lloyds as part of its Safe Custody service. In 
2007 the Wills  were removed from Safe Custody by a member  of staff but not returned. 
Last year it came  to light that the Wills  had gone  missing and Mr and Mrs R complained. 
Lloyds responded on 30 January 2019 and apologised for what  had happened.  Lloyds 
offered Mr and Mrs R £300 and said it would cover  the cost involved in setting up a 
replacement Wills as well as phone costs.  
Mr and Mrs R referred  their complaint  to our service and it was passed to an investigator. 
The investigator thought Lloyds offer was fair so didnt ask it to do anything else.  
Mr and Mrs R asked to appeal so their complaint has been passed  to me to make a 
decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a service,  one of our key focuses  is to ensure consumers dont lose out financially as a 
result of a mistake by a business.  If we think  a business  actions led to a loss for its 
customers well say how it should put things right.
In this case, there is a financial loss as Mr and Mrs R have to replace their Wills. And its 
clear theyve made calls which also came with a cost.  Lloyds  has agreed to cover the costs 
Mr and Mrs R incur as a result of the Wills  being  lost. So, whilst  very frustrating, the 
settlement Lloyds has offered means there  isnt a loss to Mr and Mrs R financially. 
However, that doesnt resolve the complaint in full. Mr and Mrs R are obviously  very upset at 
Lloyds actions. They appointed Lloyds to a position  of trust and I can understand why they 
are so concerned  that it lost such important documents.  In addition to financial losses I can 
make an award that recognises the impact of a mistake on the customers and I agree thats 
appropriate in this case. 
The issue  in question  is whether the £300 Lloyds has paid Mr and Mrs R goes far enough. 
Whilst I note everything Mr and Mrs R have said, I think £300 is fair given  what Ive seen. Ill 
explain why. 
In response to the investigator, Mr and Mrs R asked  what  would have  happened  if one of 
them had died during the 12 year period when Lloyds lost their Wills.  I absolutely  understand 
this question and Mr and Mrs Rs concern. But as a service, we can only make a decision 
based on what did happen during a complaint, not what might  have happened. So whilst I 
understand why Mr and Mrs R want to know what could have happened,  thats  not 
something Id expect Lloyds to set out in detail. 
Ref: DRN38394982The facts  of this case are that Mr and Mrs R made Wills and appointed Lloyds as executor in 
2003. In 2007 Lloyds  lost the Wills. In late 2018  the loss of the Wills came  to light and in 
early 2019  Lloyds offered Mr and Mrs R £300, an apology and to cover their associated 
costs. Whilst the situation was upsetting,  it was resolved reasonably  quickly with Lloyds 
agreeing to cover the costs. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr and Mrs R as I can see how strongly 
they feel in this matter.  But I think the £300  Lloyds paid, in addition to its offer to cover  costs, 
fairly reflects the impact  of its error.  As I think Lloyds has dealt with Mr and Mrs Rs 
complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 January  2020..
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3839498