K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about St Andrews  Insurance Plc (St Andrews) incorrectly declining  
claims he made under his home  insurance  policy for subsidence and the date from which  St 
Andrews calculated his entitlement to loss of rent once it accepted  the property was 
suffering from subsidence.
background
Mr S made a claim for subsidence which St Andrews declined  because it said the damage  
hadnt been caused by subsidence. Mr S then carried out a very extensive  refurbishment of 
the property and arranged to let it out. There were  continuing problems with the property 
and, some four years after the original  claim,  St Andrews  accepted  that it had indeed been 
damaged by subsidence and accepted  the claim. 
Mr S has made a number  of complaints about the way his claim has been dealt with. This 
complaint is about  St Andrews incorrectly declining the claim originally and the date from 
which its agreed to pay him for loss of rent. 
St Andrews  has said it will offer Mr S £1,550  for incorrectly  declining  his original claim and 
that it will look at paying any of the costs  he incurred in refurbishing  the property  which would 
have been covered if the claim had been accepted. 
Our adjudicator felt that St Andrews had treated Mr S fairly in the way it dealt with this 
complaint. Mr S referred  his complaint to an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
St Andrews  has acknowledged that it should have accepted  Mr Ss original claim. Mr S has 
argued that he wouldnt have refurbished the property if he had known it was suffering from 
subsidence and wants to be reimbursed the whole cost of the refurbishment. I dont think  
that would  be fair because it seems likely that the refurbishment went  well beyond repairing 
the damage caused by the subsidence. If St Andrews were  to reimburse Mr S for the costs  
he incurred in repairing  damage which should have been covered under his claim, together  
with interest, Mr S would be in the same  position he would have been  if St Andrews had 
accepted the claim when  it should  have. Thats what St Andrews has said it is going to do 
and, once thats done, I cant  see that Mr S would  have suffered any economic loss directly 
as a result  of the incorrect decision to decline his claim. 
Im sure that Mr S experienced  a good  deal of frustration and inconvenience  by having his 
claim incorrectly declined and that is what St Andrews has offered him £1,550 
compensation for. I know that Mr S has felt frustrated by a number of other aspects  of the 
way St Andrews has dealt with his claim but these  are the subject of separate complaints. I 
think that the compensation St Andrews has offered for incorrectly  declining the claim 
originally is reasonable.  So I think it has treated him fairly so far in the way in which it is 
proposing to deal with this aspect of his complaint.  
This complaint is also about the date from which St Andrews has calculated loss of rent. 
The tenant moved out at the end of July 2017 but St Andrews has only paid loss of rent 
Ref: DRN36046852since October 2017 as it says this is the date repair works should have started and the 
property would have  become uninhabitable.  I can understand that that there may be all sorts 
of circumstances  where it can become difficult to impracticable  to find a tenant or keep a 
tenancy in place, but the policy only obliged St Andrews  to pay loss of rent if the property 
can no longer  be lived in. 
Mr S has said that the tenant left at the end of July because St Andrews contractor told Mr S 
the property needed to be empty from that point. If Mr S could show that was the case then it 
would be fair to say St Andrews had to pay loss of rent from that point. But, Mr S doesnt  
have any record of this conversation, the contractors deny that they said it and theres  
nothing on the records at the time from St Andrews files to indicate  that they did. On the 
basis of what Ive seen,  there isnt clear enough evidence to say that St Andrews treated 
Mr S unfairly by paying loss of rent from October 2017. 
my final decision
My final decision is not to uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject  my decision 
before 25 February  2019.
Jonathan Coppin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3604685