K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc added charges  to her account after she had 
made arrangements not to use it other than to repay an overdraft.  
background
Miss D has had an account with Barclays for many years. Shes explained  that, when her 
account was targeted  by fraudsters some  years ago, she opened a new account with a 
different provider. But she kept her Barclays account open so she could pay off her overdraft 
over time. The bank told her she could  pay in £20 a month by standing  order,  which she did 
for several  years. 
At that time Miss Ds account was a Graduate Additions account. There was a monthly fee of 
£7, but Miss Ds bank  statements  indicate  she wasnt charged any interest or other fees on 
the overdraft, so paying in £20 a month gradually reduced it. In 2014  Barclays replaced 
overdraft interest with a daily fee, but, again,  this wasnt applied  to Miss Ds account.     
Towards the end of 2016, however, Barclays announced that it was phasing out the 
Graduate Additions account and, from early  2017,  replacing it with a Barclays Bank Account 
with Tech  Pack. Some features of the new account would be unchanged, but the monthly 
fee would  increase to £9.50  and daily overdraft  charges would treble.  Barclays  wrote to 
customers affected by the changes, and its letter included information  about what  they could 
do if they werent prepared to accept them. 
Miss Ds statements show that, in the first few months following this change,  she was 
charged an account fee of £9.50  a month,  plus more than £40 a month in overdraft  charges. 
Her £20 monthly  payment  wasnt enough to cover the charges, and her overdrawn balance 
increased by around £1,000 in a little under two years. By October  2018  she had exceeded 
her agreed overdraft limit and complained  to Barclays,  having reduced her overdraft by the 
amount she calculates  it would  have  been but for the fees and charges. 
Barclays didnt feel it had done anything wrong, however. It had, it said, told Miss D about 
the changes to the account and the fees and charges. Miss D nevertheless  chose to 
continue to operate the account in the same  way she had before. 
Miss D wasnt  happy with the banks response, however. She felt the fees were too high and 
that Barclays had changed the account terms without her agreement  or acceptance.  She 
referred the matter  to this service, where  one of our investigators looked  at it. The 
investigator, however, agreed with the bank. It had, she said, given proper  notice of the 
changes and applied  the charges in line with its terms and conditions. Miss D didnt accept 
the investigators conclusions and asked  that they be reviewed by an ombudsman  as the 
final stage in our process.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. 
Ive no doubt that Miss D believed that, by setting up a standing order in the way she did, 
she would  gradually  reduce   and at some  point repay  her overdraft. I accept too that the 
Ref: DRN33427842bank agreed to that arrangement and even confirmed that it was a sensible one. Indeed,  that 
strategy worked for several  years, and the overdraft was reduced. 
However, it depended on there being  no or only minimal changes to the account.  Once  the 
monthly fee changed and overdraft charges were added to the account, paying £20 a month  
wasnt enough. That didnt happen  until the arrangement  had been  in place for some years, 
and I dont believe it can have been  anticipated  when Miss D set up the £20 monthly 
standing order. 
The banks records show that the address it has on file for Miss D hasnt changed, and that it 
continued to communicate with her at that address.  It may be that she didnt see all the 
notifications about  her account  (she has said she was away  from home for a while),  but that 
cannot be the fault of the bank. Generally,  its for the account holder  to keep an eye on their 
account and to ensure that it remains suitable for their needs. 
Miss D says she didnt agree to the changes  to the account. Im afraid I dont agree with her 
on that point. Barclays  told her about  the changes it was going  to make and explained what 
she needed to do if she wasnt prepared to accept them.  By continuing  to use the account 
after the changes, Miss D did accept them. 
Miss D has said too that the overdraft charges are too high. However, overdraft charges are 
really part of the price  (but not necessarily the cost to the bank)  of current accounts.  They 
cant therefore properly  be challenged solely on the grounds that they are high, and they 
dont have to reflect the cost to the bank of providing  the overdraft facility or other  account  
features. 
For these reasons, I agree with the investigators  overall conclusions.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK Plc to do anything  further  to 
resolve Miss Ds complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 9 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3342784