K820x#14complaint
Mr G is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc will no longer offer him home  insurance  on the 
terms he has enjoyed since 2014.
background
Since 2014 Mr G has had a policy with AXA which, amongst  other things, included a £500 
excess for subsidence claims and child-minding cover for his wifes business.
The policy was set up following an intervention by our service  in 2013. Mr G had made  a 
subsidence claim and, following  a complaint about  renewal, our adjudicator  told AXA that it 
should either re-instate  his existing policy or start a new policy  on the same terms.
In 2019 Mr G received  renewal documents telling him the policy would renew automatically. 
However, the premium  had almost doubled from the previous year,  so Mr G telephoned to 
query this. Being unhappy with AXAs response Mr G raised  a formal complaint.
During the course of the complaint AXA said that the renewal premium was wrong, as it had 
used an incorrect date for the subsidence  claim. It also turned out that the policy had not 
renewed automatically, and the policy had lapsed.
AXA said that the 2019 renewal documents had incorrectly  said the policy  would renew 
automatically, as it had been  set to renew manually.  It also said there were other mistakes in 
the document as the dates were wrong and Mr G had not been  told of his options to shop 
around.
AXA said it could not reinstate Mr Gs previous policy, which it referred  to as a legacy 
policy, because it had lapsed. But it offered him a new policy, at a premium acceptable to 
him. 
Mr G was unhappy about this because the new policy had a £1,000  excess  for subsidence 
and did not provide cover for child-minding.
In its final response AXA acknowledged that there  had been  shortcomings in its handling of 
the policy renewal.  In recognition of this it offered to honour the original terms (£500 excess 
for subsidence and business cover for child-minding) for a further year. But it said that at the 
next renewal Mr G would  be assessed on its usual terms and, as it no longer offered child-
minding cover on its home policies, this would not be included in future. It also paid Mr G 
£500 compensation for the inconvenience  and distress it had caused.
Mr G then complained to us. He said that if AXA had not mistakenly  allowed the policy to 
lapse he would have  continued with the legacy policy and continued to benefit from the child-
minding cover and the lower excess.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  that Mr G hadnt, ultimately, been 
disadvantaged. He thought AXAs offer of compensation was fair.
The matter  has now been passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN36354162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
On balance, I agree with our investigator. Ill explain why.
Firstly, looking  at what happened in 2012/2013. Mr G had home insurance with AXA,  taken 
out through an intermediary. When the intermediary withdrew from the home insurance 
market AXA said it wouldnt renew the policy due to an outstanding subsidence claim. 
As our adjudicator said at the time,  that was unfair because the industry guidance  says that 
in such cases the insurer handling the subsidence claim should normally continue to provide 
subsidence cover. This is because its usually difficult  for policyholders  to obtain cover 
elsewhere after a subsidence claim. 
AXA agreed with the adjudicator and has been providing cover  ever since, on the same 
terms as previously, under a legacy policy.
Turning now to what happened in 2019. The 2019 renewal letter  was contradictory. It said at 
the outset that the policy would renew automatically.  But, later in the letter it said what you 
need to do now and If you are happy with your price and cover and would like to renew  
please contact  us. 
Mr G wasnt happy with the price and telephoned to query it. This led to a complaint and, 
whilst this was being investigated, the legacy policy was allowed to lapse.  
AXA accepted responsibility for this and, to put things right,  offered a new policy at a lower 
premium, but different  terms. Specifically, the excess for subsidence  claims increased  to 
£1,000 and the policy no longer covered child-minding. Mr G complained,  and AXA offered 
to honour the original  terms for a further  year.
Mr G says that if AXA hadnt allowed the policy to lapse, he would  have continued with the 
legacy policy  on the original terms.
I understand Mr Gs point. I dont think AXA had decided to withdraw the legacy policy prior 
to the 2019 renewal and so its possible Mr G may have been able to negotiate a premium 
acceptable to him for the continuation of that policy.
But I dont think that means it would be fair for me to require AXA to reinstate  the legacy 
policy now. 
Insurers are usually free to choose what risks theyre prepared to cover and at what price. 
As long as they treat customers fairly,  we wouldnt usually interfere with that.
AXA has explained that it no longer provides  child-minding cover under any of its home 
policies and that all its buildings policies have a £1,000 excess  for subsidence  claims.
The ABI guidance  is intended to ensure that customers who suffer  a subsidence  claim can 
still obtain insurance. 
Ref: DRN36354163I dont think the ABI guidance,  or the conclusions we reached in 2013, mean that AXA has to 
continue to insure Mr G against  a risk it no longer covers on other policies, or on terms that it 
wouldnt offer other customers. I think AXA is entitled to take a commercial decision not to 
accept some risks and I dont think it would  be right for me to interfere with that.
AXAs handling of the 2019  renewal was certainly  poor. But I dont think, ultimately,  Mr G 
has been disadvantaged. His subsidence  claim was over ten years ago so its possible he 
may now be able to obtain  competitive  insurance on the open  market. And, in any event, 
AXA hasnt left Mr G without insurance  cover for subsidence. It has offered him cover at a 
premium he is happy  with.
The excess  for subsidence claims under the new policy is £1,000 instead  of £500. But thats 
not an unusual  amount  and AXA says it applies to all its building policies.  In other  words,  
AXA is not treating  Mr G less favourably  than other customers  because of his previous 
claim.
In allowing  the policy to lapse AXA left Mr G without insurance for a period. That will have  
been very upsetting. But AXA offered £500  compensation  for the trouble and inconvenience  
caused and I think that was fair. 
I accept that Mr G also lost the opportunity to renew  the legacy policy, but I think  AXAs  offer 
to provide the additional cover (at no extra cost) for another  year was reasonable. That will 
have given Mr G time to shop around for alternative  cover if he wanted  to. 
In conclusion whilst there were failings on AXAs part I think, ultimately, it took fair steps to 
make amends. I dont  require it to do more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3635416