K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Elderbridge  Limited have treated them unfairly  in relation to their 
secured loan.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a secured loan in 2007  for £96,500. Due to some  financial difficulties 
and Mr Cs ill health, they didnt make any payments to the loan between  July 2015 and 
December 2017.
Over the course of 2016 and 2017,  Elderbridge attempted  to contact Mr and Mrs C to 
discuss their situation, as arrears were  building on the loan account. However, no 
meaningful discussions  took place. So in August  2017, Elderbridge  instructed their solicitors 
to start legal proceedings to take possession of the house.
In September  2017, Mr and Mrs C wrote to Elderbridges solicitors to explain that earlier in 
the year Mr C had stopped working and undergone heart surgery,  and so hadnt  been in a 
position to make the loan payments. He made a proposal to Elderbridge  but before this was 
considered, Elderbridge asked Mr and Mrs C for details of their income and expenditure to 
find out more  about  their situation.
Mr and Mrs C didnt provide this information and complained. They raised several  concerns, 
but in summary,  they complained that:
Elderbridge started court action without exploring all options and legal fees have 
been charged without following procedure
Elderbridge have harassed  them  and are unwilling to use a third party for 
communication
Elderbridge have used unprofessional  conduct, showed a lack of sympathy and 
caused intentional harm to health.
Elderbridge didnt uphold any of these  complaints  and Mr and Mrs C brought  their complaint 
to our service. Our investigator looked  into things, and explained that in his view,  Elderbridge  
had acted fairly.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  so the complaints  been passed to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs C have provided  a lot of information  to explain why they dont feel theyve  been  
treated fairly by Elderbridge. Ive carefully  considered everything theyve said, and will 
address the key issues of the complaint below.
court action
Ref: DRN30928422After June 2015, Mr and Mrs Cs loan went unpaid for two and a half years.  During this time,  
Elderbridge had attempted to contact  Mr and Mrs C about their circumstances on several 
occasions without  success. It wasnt until theyd instructed solicitors that Mr C wrote to 
Elderbridges solicitors to explain  what had happened.  
Once Elderbridge  were  aware of Mr Cs health  and employment circumstances, they asked 
for more information in order  to agree a way forward.  Mr and Mrs C didnt  provide  any 
information about their income and expenditure and instead made  their own proposal. This 
included a request  to capitalise  the arrears, and a payment break.  Elderbridge adjourned the 
court hearing and continued to ask Mr and Mrs C for more  information about their situation, 
which I consider was reasonable.
I understand Mr and Mrs C have been through a difficult  time, and dealing with their secured 
loan may not have  been their priority.  But Elderbridge were not aware of their situation  and 
what had happened. When they did find out, they engaged with Mr and Mrs C to find out 
more before agreeing to any proposals, or taking  further action. Im satisfied this was a 
reasonable approach to take.  I would not expect  a lender to agree to an arrangement without  
first knowing  whether it was affordable for the consumers or in their best interests. As a 
result, Im not satisfied Elderbridge were acting unfairly by requesting more information 
before agreeing to a proposal.
Considering the amount of time that the loan went unpaid, and the lack of contact  from Mr 
and Mrs C, Im not persuaded Elderbridge were acting unfairly when  starting court action in 
2017. Court  action should be considered a last resort to recover secured debt, and given the 
circumstances here,  Im satisfied this was a last resort. Elderbridge had repeatedly  tried to 
engage with Mr and Mrs C with no success. Mr and Mrs C have said that Elderbridge have 
acted in contravention of various  laws and regulation, but Ive not seen anything to show  this 
was the case.
As I consider Elderbridge  were fair to start court action here, Im also satisfied that the costs 
incurred as a result have  been added to Mr and Mrs Cs loan fairly. The terms and conditions 
allow costs  the lender  incurs to be added to the loan, and those costs were  incurred fairly.
harassment and communication
Mr and Mrs C complain that Elderbridge  have  attempted  to contact them  excessively, and 
consider this harassment. Given what Mr Cs been  through, I can understand why it may 
have been stressful  for him to have received calls and voicemails from Elderbridge about his 
loan that was going unpaid. But Elderbridge  were  not aware of Mr Cs circumstances at the 
time, because he hadnt told them. 
As the loan payments hadnt been  made, I would have expected Elderbridge  to contact 
Mr and Mrs C about their situation to see what was going on, and whether a different 
arrangement needed  to be made, or they needed  support. Ive looked at the internal  contact  
notes and dont  consider  the volume of calls to be excessive, or to constitute harassment.  
Mr and Mrs C have also said they dont  want to correspond with Elderbridge directly about  
their loan, and only want  to engage  with Elderbridges solicitor.  I appreciate  Mr and Mrs C 
dont want to speak  to Elderbridge directly, as this is causing them stress. Elderbridge  have 
acknowledged this, and explained  that theyre happy to speak to a third party acting on their 
behalf if theyd  prefer. Mr and Mrs C have not asked their own third party  to represent them,  
Ref: DRN30928423but instead asked Elderbridges  solicitor to speak to them about all of their matters regarding  
the loan, and not just court proceedings, at a cost to Elderbridge. 
Im not satisfied Elderbridge have acted unfairly  by rejecting this proposal.  The solicitors are 
acting on behalf  of the lender in regards to the court  action to take possession of the 
property only, and its unreasonable to expect them to act as a go-between for both parties 
for general  issues about the loan. However,  if Mr and Mrs C want  to speak  to Elderbridge  via 
their own representatives,  Id expect Elderbridge to take that into account.
unprofessional conduct, lack of sympathy, and intentional harm  to health
Mr and Mrs C have raised several  reasons why they feel Elderbridge have been 
unprofessional and havent  taken  their situation into account. Considering  everything thats 
happened, Im not satisfied this is the case.
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with the lack of information available on Elderbridges website. 
The business have  provided reasons for this and given the information to Mr and Mrs C that 
they asked for. Im satisfied this is sufficient.  Theyve  also said they never signed any terms 
and conditions Elderbridge have provided them with. In Elderbridges welcome letter  that 
they sent in 2016, they explained the terms and conditions would remain the same as the 
ones agreed with the previous lender of the loan, when it was taken out. So there wasnt a 
need for them to agree  to any other terms.
Looking at the contact history  of the loan,  Im not persuaded Elderbridge have been 
unsympathetic to Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances. They werent  aware of the extent of the 
problems Mr C had with his health  until he told them in September  2017.  And once they 
were aware and some proposals had been  made,  they adjourned the court  action for these 
to be considered. Whilst I appreciate this had all unfortunately fallen around  Christmas time, 
Im not satisfied this is because of anything Elderbridge did wrong.
I empathise with Mr and Mrs Cs situation and what theyve been  through,  and appreciate  
the last few years would have been difficult for them. But considering  everything,  Im not 
satisfied Elderbridge have acted unfairly. Id encourage  Mr and Mrs C to speak to 
Elderbridge about their circumstances and plans, in order to agree a feasible way forward  to 
pay back the arrears on the loan.  Elderbridge  should then consider any reasonable 
proposals put forward before continuing  to take action to repossess the property.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3092842