K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs P. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2003.  Barclays sold Mrs P the 
policy at the same time that she applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs P and her representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Barclays made Mrs P aware that the PPI was optional  and that she chose to 
take it  although I can understand if she can no longer remember this. I can see that 
there are yes and no tick boxes  on the card application  form, to show whether or 
not you want PPI. There is a tick on Mrs Ps application form to say she wanted  PPI. 
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mrs P, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could 
have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mrs Ps employer sick 
pay and other resources lasted. And it would have  paid out at the same time as any 
sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mrs P more financially secure for longer. It 
would have meant Mrs P wouldnt  need  to fall back on other resources so soon, such  
as the family help shes mentioned. So, overall,  the PPI was potentially useful. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the 
recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Barclays gave  Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been. But I dont  think, in her circumstances, full information about costs and benefits 
would have affected whether she took the PPI. And it doesnt look like shed have 
been affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  Im not upholding this complaint. 
Ref: DRN30696722Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3069672