K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money (MCF) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr H was given a single loan by MCF in September 2015. He borrowed £1,700  and agreed 
to repay  the loan in 24 monthly  instalments. Mr H has faced problems repaying  the loan and 
an outstanding  balance has been transferred to a third-party debt collection company.
Mr Hs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought  the checks  
MCF had done before agreeing the loan had been proportionate. But he thought the results 
of those checks should have led to MCF declining Mr Hs loan application  he though they 
clearly showed that Mr H was facing  problems managing his money. So he asked MCF  to 
pay Mr H some compensation.
MCF didnt agree with that assessment.  It thought  that Mr Hs problems in managing his 
money had been  in the past  it said that its loans  were  designed  for consumers  who might 
be unable to obtain credit  from a high street bank. It thought that its checks had showed  that 
Mr H would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved  informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process. If Mr H accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Hs complaint. 
The rules  and regulations at the time MCF  gave  this loan to Mr H required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so MCF  had to think  about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this 
meant that MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr H undue  
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
Ref: DRN37882862the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  
higher repayments  from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr H.
MCF gathered some information from Mr H before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details  
of his income, and his normal expenditure. It verified his income using a third-party service. 
And it checked his credit  file to assess how much he was repaying to other creditors.
The credit check highlighted that Mr H had borrowed heavily in the past,  and still had a 
number of loans  outstanding. I accept  that Mr H had generally  repaid his credit on time. But 
the volume of his borrowing  might reasonably have led to a conclusion  that he was using 
new borrowing to repay existing loans. I think the pattern of Mr Hs borrowing history might 
have caused MCF  to have serious  concerns  that Mr H had been finding  it difficult  to manage  
his money for some time.
Our adjudicator concluded that the problems Mr H was having managing his money, that 
were shown by the credit  check, should  in themselves have been a reason to decline the 
loan application.  I dont think that is an unreasonable conclusion. But even if I were to give 
the benefit of the doubt to MCF, I think that information should have led the lender, at the 
very least,  to undertake some more detailed investigations.
Mr H was entering into a significant  commitment  with MCF. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. So, given what I have said above, I would expect that 
MCF would want to gather, and independently check, some detailed  information about 
Mr Hs financial  circumstances  before it agreed to lend to him. I dont therefore think  that the 
checks it did were  enough. I think it would have been proportionate for MCF to 
independently check the true state of Mr Hs finances before  agreeing  the loan. 
But although  I dont  think the checks MCF did before agreeing the loan were  sufficient, Id 
also want to be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have 
shown MCF that Mr H couldnt sustainably afford  the repayments. So Ive looked at Mr Hs 
bank statements, and what  hes told us about his financial  situation,  to see what better 
checks would have  shown  MCF.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check  that MCF 
should have carried  out. I do think MCF needed evidence to corroborate what Mr H said was 
happening with his finances.  And looking at his bank  statements is one way of achieving  that 
although there are of course many  other  ways that level of detail could be established. But 
I think that by looking  at Mr Hs bank statements I can get a good idea of what  better checks 
might have shown.
Ref: DRN37882863Mr Hs bank statements support a conclusion that he was having problems managing his 
money. There are no particular issues such as uncontrolled  gambling  showing on his bank  
statements, but the reality  was that he was simply spending more than his income. That 
income varied from month  to month, but in the months closest to the loan being agreed  it 
was significantly less than Mr H had declared.  I appreciate that MCF  says its checks  
validated what Mr H had said he was earning but, as MCF should have known, those checks  
can be influenced by other credits  being  received to a bank account such  as the large 
number of short-term  loans Mr H was taking.
Mr Hs account was generally at the maximum of his overdraft limit, and he often had 
payments returned  unpaid.  And of course  there were  a significant number of short-term  
loans outstanding. In the month following the loan from MCF  Mr H made  seven separate 
repayments to payday  loan companies. I havent  seen anything  that suggests  Mr Hs 
spending was a one-off or likely to reduce in the future. So I dont think it would be 
reasonable for a responsible lender, having  seen that information, to conclude that Mr H 
would be able to afford  his repayments in a sustainable  manner.
So in summary,  I dont think the checks  MCF  did before agreeing this loan were sufficient. 
And I think better checks would have  identified the problems Mr H was having  managing  his 
finances that would have  led a responsible  lender to decline his loan application. So I dont 
think MCF should have  given this loan to Mr H and needs to put things right.
putting things right
I dont think MCF should have lent to Mr H in September 2015.  As I said earlier MCF has 
now sold Mr Hs loan debt to a third party. If possible MCF should take that debt back  into its 
own books and;
remove any interest and charges (including any added by the third party)  still 
outstanding on the loan and treat all the payments Mr H made towards this loan 
(either to MCF or to the third party) as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Hs loan account  as Ive directed results in Mr H effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then MCF  should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Hs loan account  leaves an amount of capital  still to be paid then 
I remind MCF  that it should take a sympathetic  view when  seeking  to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr H
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MCF to take off tax from this interest.  MCF must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If MCF is unable, or unwilling, to take the debt back into its own books  it must  ensure that its 
interest and charges, and any other  interest  and charges  added  by the debt collection 
company, are refunded directly to Mr H so he can choose whether to use the compensation 
to settle his debt directly.  
Ref: DRN37882864my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Madison  CF UK Limited  to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 March  2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3788286