K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them  two payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policies.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought two PPI policies - one in 1996 when they took out a mortgage,  and 
another in 2008 when they took out a further  advance on that mortgage. They applied for the 
mortgage, further advance and PPI policies in branch. 
The policy document that applied to Mr and Mrs Ss PPI from 1996 is no longer  available. I 
dont think thats  surprising given how long ago it was sold.  But I have looked at the nearest 
available policy document, which I think is likely to be the same  as, or at least  similar to, the 
policy document that wouldve applied  to Mr and Mrs Ss PPI. The policy  document from 
2008 is available and Ive been provided  with a copy of it. 
The policies provided cover for Mr and Mrs S for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to the exclusions and limitations.
In 1996, it offered to repay £113.10  a month towards  Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost £6.61 a month. The benefit was split 
between them so the PPI would pay out 60% of the benefit amount for Mr S and 40% for 
Mrs S. 
In 2008, it offered to repay £196.58  a month towards  Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. This amount included covering the repayment on the further 
advance on their mortgage plus an additional  cash benefit offered by this policy.  At the time,  
it cost £6.00 a month. The benefit  was split between them  so the PPI would pay out 50% of 
the benefit amount for Mr S and 50% for Mrs S. 
In 1996, Mr S was employed as a chef.  He has told us he was entitled to sick pay, 
redundancy pay and death  in service benefit  through his employer. But he didnt have any 
other means  of repaying their mortgage  should he be unable to work. Mr S has said he had 
a medical condition at the time of the sale. 
In 1996, Mrs S says she was employed as a carer. She has told us she was entitled to sick 
pay and death  in service benefit through her employer. But she also didnt have any other 
means of repaying  their mortgage should she be unable  to work. Mrs S has said she was in 
good health at the time of the sale. 
In 2008, Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application form shows that, other than a change  to their 
respective salaries,  their employment  situation  remained largely  the same and they were still 
employed by the same  employer. They havent  provided us with updated details of their 
employee benefits or other means, so Ive assessed the case based  on the available  
information and decided what I think is more likely. By this time, however, both Mr and Mrs S 
had developed further medical conditions. 
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account started in 1996 and 
Mr and Mrs S took out a further advance in November  2004 at which time the mortgage 
became regulated. They then took out a further  advance in 2008  at which point they bought 
the second PPI policy.  
Ref: DRN30547272Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ss representative  says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives believe there  to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Lloyds should 
have told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs S and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
Ref: DRN30547273practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
1996 sale 
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
2008 sale 
This sale took place  in 2008 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
Ref: DRN30547274regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
For both 1996 and 2008 PPI
As mentioned above, Mr and Mrs S arranged a further advance on their mortgage in 
November 2004.  This was after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  this 
led to the whole mortgage becoming an FCA regulated mortgage. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN30547275Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policies were  appropriate  or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the PPI and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr and Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what extent 
Mr and Mrs S suffered loss or damage and what I consider  would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI was optional in both 1996 and 2008. 
1996 sale 
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application form which  had a separate section 
for PPI. Not all the text is legible  in the scanned  copy still retained by Lloyds. But based  on 
the format of the form and having  seen  other  copies of this form that are still legible, I can 
make out what their form likely says. 
I can see Mr and Mrs S are asked whether they want PPI, and there are two options  that 
they can select  based on what Ive seen  of these types of forms, these options were 
usually Yes/No options. As there was likely  a No option, I think  Mr and Mrs S wouldve 
known the PPI was optional.  
On their form, one option is clearly  ticked and from the way the form is set out, I think  they 
likely ticked  the Yes box requesting cover. If Mr and Mrs S had selected the No option, I 
dont think its likely  that they wouldve continued to complete the remaining parts of this PPI 
section. But on their form, theyve gone  on to answer the eligibility  questions  as well as set 
Ref: DRN30547276out the way they wanted their benefit  split between  them which  was, as explained above, 
60% payable  for Mr S and 40% payable for Mrs S. 
2008 sale 
Ive seen a copy  of a separate  PPI application  form Mr and Mrs S signed and completed, 
and they also signed a direct debit mandate so Lloyds could collect  the PPI premium.  Their 
mortgage offer document said they didnt have to take any insurance with Lloyds  and their 
key facts document also set out the PPI under an Optional Insurance  heading where it also 
set out the cost. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the PPI was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure in both 1996 and 2008. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Mr and Mrs S say that, in 1996, they applied  for the PPI in branch but advice wasnt  
provided. They havent said whether they believe advice was provided during the 2008 sale. 
Lloyds doesnt  know if it provided advice in 1996  but has agreed to treat the sale as advised.  
And Lloyds  says advice  was provided  during the 2008 sale.   
My understanding is that both these sales were  made in branch and from what Ive seen  of 
sales made in branch  by Lloyds, they were usually advised. Additionally, an advised  sale 
holds Lloyds to a higher standard. This means Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs S with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
their needs  and circumstances.
So, Ive assessed  both sales as advised. 
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meetings in 1996  and 2008,  the documentary  
evidence suggests  that Lloyds took some steps to establish whether the policies  were  a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S during  both sales.  The adviser  had information  
about some  of Mr and Mrs Ss financial circumstances  as part of the mortgage application. 
But although  documents were completed  to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs S had a 
need for the PPI  by asking questions about their wider  circumstances such  as any health 
issues and existing means  I dont think  it did enough to ensure  the PPI was suitable. I say 
this because I havent seen whether Lloyds sought to establish what  employment  benefits 
they mightve had that might have meant the PPI policies werent suitable for them in either 
1996 or 2008.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policies were  suitable for Mr and Mrs S given their circumstances. 
So, Im not persuaded Lloyds advised with reasonable care and skill on either occasion.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the PPI policies were 
ultimately suitable for them.  In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
1996 sale 
Ref: DRN30547277-Mr and Mrs S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ss ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
either Mr or Mrs S were  not working for an extended  period of time  even  allowing  
for the employee  benefits they say they would have been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs S. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ss employment or occupations which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  And Mrs S hasnt told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  her ability to claim. Mr S says he had a 
medical condition  that was diagnosed  many  years before the sale,  but he didnt 
require any time off work for this, so I dont think this condition made the policy  
unsuitable. 
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr and Mrs S be disabled for 30 days  or 
unemployed for 60 days before  they could make  a claim and would only pay benefits  
for a maximum of 12 months for each  claim,  it still provided  valuable cover given: 
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances, the fact the policy protected  the mortgage 
repayments relating  to their home, and the potential consequences should 
Mr and Mrs S be unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  their 
house.
2008 sale 
-Mr and Mrs S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ss ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
either Mr or Mrs S were  not working for an extended  period of time  even  allowing  
for their likely employee benefits. They also havent  told us they had any other means 
available to them at this time,  so I still think they had a need for the policy.  
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs S. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ss employment or occupations which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  By this time both Mr and Mrs S have detailed  
a number of medical conditions  they had. But Mr Ss medical  conditions  were 
managed with medication and he hadnt required any time off work for any of them. 
And Mrs S says her condition wasnt ongoing at the time of sale. So, I dont  think  
these made the policy unsuitable  for them. There were also no additional restrictions 
on cover  for mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr and Mrs S be disabled or 
unemployed for 60 days before  they could make  a claim and would only pay benefits  
for a maximum of 12 months for each  claim,  it still provided  valuable cover given: 
Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances, the fact the policy protected  the mortgage 
repayments relating  to their home, and the potential consequences should 
Ref: DRN30547278Mr and Mrs S be unable  to make the repayments on loans secured against  their 
house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policies to enable  them  to understand what 
Lloyds was recommending to them  and make an informed decision about  whether to follow 
that advice and take out the PPI in both 1996  and 2008.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of 
what the PPI was intended to cover (that is that the policies would protect their payments if 
Mr or Mrs S were unable  to work  through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs S 
would have taken  out the policies without any sense of what the PPI was for and of how 
much the premium might be. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take out the policies. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the PPI policies were  suitable  for Mr and Mrs S, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policies it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs S all of the information 
they needed about the PPI to make an informed decision about whether to follow  the 
recommendations and take the policies out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ss representative  has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Ss. Ive considered these  carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ss representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contracts to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
Ref: DRN30547279industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold these policies  to 
Mr and Mrs S. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs S suffered loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs S would  have still taken out the policies in 1996 and 2008, had 
Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policies it recommended were suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I have  found  that they were  
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policies in any event.
Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken  them  out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policies, the cost of doing so given the benefits  offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at 
the time of the sales that the policies were not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
But the information about aspects of the policies,  such as the cost,  benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
1996 sale 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs S applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs S would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Ref: DRN305472710Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs S would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ss 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any disability which happened during the 
twelve months before the effective date shown  in Mr and Mrs Ss completion  letter  
and for which  they have consulted or received treatment from a medical practitioner; 
The policy excluded claims relating to mental  health conditions and it contained 
limitations on claims relating to back conditions placing more onerous evidential  
requirements to support  a claim on those grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr and Mrs S werent permanent employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Mrs S didnt have any medical 
conditions prior to the sale of this policy. And although Mr S says he had a medical condition 
some time before the policy was taken out, I dont  think better information about this 
exclusion would have  put them off agreeing to it. I say this because  he was diagnosed  with 
this condition a significant number of years before the sale, and he hadnt needed any time 
off work for it. So, I dont  think he wouldve envisaged that this would be the main  reason 
hed need to make a claim. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  they wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So, I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems. In this case the 
policy excluded claims for mental health conditions and the steps required to make  a 
disability claim for back related conditions were more onerous than Mr and Mrs S might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
exclusion and limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs S from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs S, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
Ref: DRN305472711To make a disability claim, Mr or Mrs S needed  to be totally unable to do their jobs. I dont 
think this is likely to be too different to what they would have expected to make a claim. They 
bought a policy that covered their mortgage payments if they were unable to work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment. So, it seems  unlikely  they would have thought theyd 
be able to make a successful claim if they were still working. 
2008 sale 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs S applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs S would 
have been told the cost before the policy started. I can see the cost was set out in their key 
facts document  prior to the start of the policy. And they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs S would  get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ss 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet the further advance on their mortgage  payment) was significantly different to what the 
policy actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in 
the event of a claim than they would have  expected  as there  was an additional cash  
payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition  or related condition 
and/or associated symptoms, whether diagnosed or not which Mr and Mrs S knew  
about, or should reasonably have  known about  on the date that they signed their 
proposal form or if they had seen or arranged to see a doctor  about  during the 12 
months immediately before the date that they signed their proposal  form and which 
occurs again within  24 months  of the date they signed their proposal form; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if 
Mr and Mrs S werent permanent employees;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
Ref: DRN305472712them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr and Mrs S say they had a 
number of medical conditions diagnosed before this policy was taken out, I dont think better 
information about this exclusion would have  put them off agreeing to it. I say this because 
Mr S didnt need any time off work for his conditions  and Mrs S hasnt said she had any 
ongoing problems  with hers once she recovered from it a few years earlier.  So, I dont think 
they wouldve  envisaged that these  would be the main reason theyd need to make  a claim. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  they wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
This policy didnt exclude  back or mental  health  conditions or place any additional  
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs S would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr or Mrs S needed  to be totally unable to do their jobs. I dont 
think this is likely to be too different to what they would have expected to make a claim. They 
bought a policy to cover the payments on the further advance on their mortgage  if they were  
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. So, it seems  unlikely they would 
have thought theyd been able to make a successful claim  if they were  still working.  
1996 and 2008 sale 
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made would be limited to a 12-
month period  in either  1996 or 2008.  This may have differed from what  they expected and 
might have hoped for  but 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs S would have 
likely received full sick pay for and their statutory redundancy  entitlement was also 
significantly less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought policies that 
paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would help 
them manage the consequences should Mr or Mrs S be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policies  allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help 
reduce their outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain  time, ensure their home was not placed at 
risk and might potentially help preserve  any of Mr and Mrs Ss sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policies. The PPI policies were suitable 
for them, were sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and 
provided benefits that would help them manage the consequences if Mr or Mrs S were  made  
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs S would have taken  out the policies in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ss representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN305472713That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales processes. In those  circumstances,  DISP App 3 says it should  
be presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs S found themselves in as a result  of the sales was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
processes were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have 
failed to give proper  weight to the evidence  including their own comments  that they would 
not have taken out the policies. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the PPI, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that they would still have taken  
out the PPI in 1996 and 2008 had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policies they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in 
those circumstances,  to conclude Lloyds should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policies in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contracts,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds 
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1996 and 2008 when providing information  about  an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ss representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contracts to Mr and Mrs S and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN305472714my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 May 2021. 
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3054727