K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited  wont pay for his car to be repaired.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr N by Startline under a hire purchase agreement  that he 
signed in June 2017. Startline says that the car was about four years old and had a mileage 
of 30,200 miles. Mr N says that he used the car for about seven months  and used it to drive  
about 7,000 miles. He says that he then took it to a garage for a service and MOT test. But 
he says that, when he returned  to collect the car some weeks  later,  he was told that it hadnt 
been possible to test the car because it had a misfiring fault.  And when the car was 
inspected a hole in one of the pistons was identified.  The garage said that it wouldnt expect 
that to happen on a car of this age or mileage and it must be caused by a defect as this is 
very unusual  in modern cars. Mr N complained  to Startline  which  said that he should provide 
it with an independent report about  the fault. Mr N wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. The car was repaired in August 2018  and Mr N paid £2,488.04 to 
the garage for the repair.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She thought that the 
fault with the car was due to an unusual defect and she hadnt seen evidence to suggest it 
was the result of wear  and tear, driving  style or poor maintenance. So she concluded  that 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr N. And she recommended 
that Startline should  either  arrange the repair at no further cost to Mr N or that it should cover  
the cost of the repairs that Mr N had paid for (with interest). She also recommended that it 
should reimburse Mr N for the monthly payments  where he hasnt  had use of the car 
because of the fault.
Startline has asked  for this complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that the diagnostic evidence isnt strong enough to support the investigators 
recommendation and theres no definitive  evidence to show that there was a fault. So it has 
suggested that the car is inspected by an independent expert at no cost to Mr N.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car that was supplied  to Mr N was about four years old and had been driven for about 
30,000 miles. He was able to use the car to drive about 7,000 miles and theres no evidence 
to show that he was aware of a fault with the car at that time. But he says that he took the 
car to a garage  for a service and MOT test. And he says that he returned to the garage a few 
weeks later to collect the car but the MOT test hadnt been  completed because the garage 
had identified a misfire in the engine.  The engine  was then inspected  and a hole was found  
in one of the cars pistons. The garage says that a hole in a piston is a very unusual fault and 
wouldnt be expected  on a car of this age or mileage  and it says that it must be caused by 
a defect with the car. Mr N paid £60 to the garage  for the diagnostic  work.
Startline says that theres no definitive  evidence to show that there was a fault with the part 
and that the car should be inspected  by an independent expert. But I consider that Mr N has 
provided enough evidence to show that there was a hole in one of the cars pistons. And I 
consider it to be more  likely than not that the fault was there  when the car was supplied to 
Ref: DRN33878772Mr N. Im not persuaded that its likely that the fault has happened since the car was 
supplied to Mr N or that its been  caused by wear and tear, Mr Ns driving  style or poor 
maintenance. 
The car was repaired  in August 2018  and Mr N paid £2,488.04 to the garage for the repair.  
So its no longer possible for the fault with the car to be inspected. And I find that it would  be 
fair and reasonable in these circumstances  for Startline to pay £2,548.04 to Mr N to 
reimburse him for the payments of £60 and £2,488.04 that hes made to the garage (with  
interest). 
Mr N says that he wasnt able to use the car for about four months before the car was 
repaired in August 2018. So I find that it would also be fair and reasonable Startline  to refund 
to Mr N the monthly payments that he made  under the agreement  for that period (with 
interest).
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint. And I order  Startline Motor 
Finance Limited  to:
1.Pay £2,548.04  to Mr N to reimburse him for the money that he paid to the garage 
because of the fault with the car.
2.Refund to Mr N four monthly payments that hes made under the agreement  for the 
period that he wasnt able to use the car.
3.Pay interest on the amounts above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from the date of 
each payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Startline to deduct tax from the interest payment referred 
to at 3 above.  Startline  must give Mr N a certificate  showing  how much  tax its deducted if he 
asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3387877