K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs S. 
background
This complaint is about PPI taken out in 1997 to cover two credit  cards.  Barclays Bank  sold 
Mrs S the PPI at the same time that she applied for the cards.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mrs S and her representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Barclays Bank made Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional  and that she 
chose to take it  I can see that the form sets the PPI out as a choice, and there  is a 
tick to apply for PPI. Mrs S has signed  the form. 
Barclays Bank didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mrs Ss 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It was up to Mrs S to decide  whether it suited her circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Barclays Bank  explained the PPI. Its possible the 
information Barclays Bank gave Mrs S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But I dont think,  in her circumstances, full information  about costs and 
benefits would have affected  whether she took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like shed 
have been affected  by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy.  
This means  Barclays Bank doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S. But 
Barclays Bank has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs S because:  
Barclays Bank got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs S about that. Because Barclays  Bank 
didnt tell Mrs S, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Barclays  Bank  has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN30998112my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs S.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs S any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, and 
so Im not awarding  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3099811