K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading  as Sunny, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Sunny lent a series  of loans to Mr A between August 2015 and August 2016.  It was 11 loans  
in total. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and his view was that Sunny should put 
things right for Mr A for Loans 5 to 11. For Loan  4 he did not have enough information to 
come to a conclusion and Loans 1 to 3 he did not think Sunny had done anything  wrong.
The recommended  redress  was:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr A had paid on loans 5 to 11;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date
of settlement*;
remove any entries about loans 5-11 from Mr As credit  file;
Sunny wrote  back and agreed with this view and made some additional point about Loan 4. 
This was communicated to Mr A but this service did not hear from Mr A. So the complaint 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In view of Sunnys acceptance  of the adjudicators opinion then there  is little I can say as the 
complaint is largely  resolved. 
In relation to Loan 4, Mr A has not sent us anything further to add to the picture to assist  with 
Loan 4 and so I make  no findings on it. And as Mr A has not disagreed  with our adjudicators 
views in relation to Loans 1 to 4 then I take that as acceptance of those non-uphold views.  
I uphold Mr As complaint  in relation  to Loans  5 to 11.
putting things right
Sunny should  do as I have set out here which is the same as that outlined by our 
adjudicator:  
refund  any interest and charges  already  paid by Mr A for Loans 5 to 11;    
apply 8% simple interest  per year to any interest  and charges refunded from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.  This will mean recalculating the redress 
figures since March 2019;
remove any adverse payment information  about  the loans from Mr As credit file.
Ref: DRN32686952*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest and it must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint in part and direct  that 
Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, put things right in the way I have said 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3268695