K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained to Gain Capital UK Limited  (t/a Forex.com) about her online trading 
account.
She says it converted the currency of the funds  she deposited into the account  without  her 
permission, and that the account should never have been opened  as Forex.com is not 
appropriately regulated.
background
Ms M complained about the management of her account by Forex.com  and that was 
considered by an ombudsman at this Service previously.  A final decision was issued in 
2017 and so this case does not deal with any of those issues  previously  considered.
In 2015 Ms M made a deposit of 10,000 EUR,  but it was converted  to US dollars (USD) 
when credited to her account.  Those funds were then used to trade on the account and 
were lost.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but recommended  that it shouldnt be 
upheld.  She  concluded  that it was reasonable for Forex.com  to carry out the currency  
conversion under the account  terms, and said it wouldnt be fair to compensate  Ms M for 
funds that shes  already  had the use of.
Ms M was based in Greece, but the adjudicator explained the account had been opened on 
an execution only basis, and Forex.com was regulated  in the UK.
Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.  She made a number of comments in 
response, but in summary said:
She had made transfers through banks in Greece, but Forex.com  is not regulated to 
operate in Greece.
Shed  been  asked  to give consent  for currency conversions on other transactions  
shed deposited  to his account,  and so should have been for this transaction  also.
Her funds should have been  held in EUR in a suspense account until consent had 
been obtained.
She also made reference to issues relating to the third party  broker  that formed  part of her 
previous complaint.
The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change her view.  She explained that although Ms M 
had processed the transfers to her account  through a Greek bank, it was to another  bank 
which then credited her trading account which is UK regulated.   Its not necessary for 
Forex.com to be regulated in Greece.
She also said the account was set up for trades  to be in USD and not EUR, and that as 
Forex.com couldnt contact Ms M, it couldnt  hold the funds in a suspense account 
indefinitely.
As no agreement could be reached, Ive now been asked to review  everything afresh and 
make a decision.
Ref: DRN30518202my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly the same  reasons.
Ms M has provided  a large volume of information to be considered  in support of her 
complaint.  Its important for me to confirm that Ive considered everything but am only 
referring in this decision to the issues which I feel are central to the outcome.  I also note that 
Ms M has made reference to a number  of points relating to her previous complaint that was 
reviewed in 2017.  Im unable to re-visit those issues and so I wont  be directly referring to 
them here.
Ms M has expressed  concerns that Forex.com is not regulated in Greece, but it does not 
have to be.  It is registered and regulated in the UK, and provides an online  trading platform.   
Provided the eligibility requirements are met, its customers can be from outside the UK  
and that is allowed.   Ms M said she processed  the 10,000 EUR transfer through  her Greek  
bank which  Forex.com wasnt regulated for  but as the adjudicator explained, the payment 
was then processed through another third party  bank before being credited  to her trading 
account.
The Forex.com account was set up to enable trades in USD,  and Ms M has previously 
transferred funds into the account which had been converted  from EUR to USD with her 
consent.  Whilst I understand that express  authorisation  to convert the currency had not 
been given for this transaction, it was clearly her intention  to use the funds to trade.  So Im 
satisfied she would  have  consented and she ought  to have reasonably  expected a currency  
conversion would have taken place.  I also agree that it wouldnt have been reasonable to 
expect that the funds  could have been  held in a EUR suspense  account indefinitely.
If I were  to uphold the complaint I would also have  to consider how Ms M had been 
disadvantaged by the actions of Forex.com.  It was clearly Ms Ms intention to credit the 
trading account,  and whilst its disappointing  her money was lost through subsequent trade 
positions, I cant hold Forex.com accountable  for that.
From the large volume of correspondence Ms M has provided its evident that many of her 
concerns still relate to the first complaint  she referred to our Service,  and there are ongoing 
issues and possible criminal proceedings relating to that.  So  although I realise Ms M will be 
disappointed, in this case, I cant reconsider those  issues  or reasonably say Forex.com has 
done anything  wrong or treated her unfairly.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint against Gain Capital UK Limited 
(t/a Forex.com).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Ross Hammond
Ref: DRN30518203ombudsman
Ref: DRN3051820