K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC mismanaged  his investment portfolio.
Background
Mr and Mrs S have  an investment management  portfolio with Barclays - their funds are held 
within individual ISA wrappers. In August 2016 Mr and Mrs S were  advised to switch  the 
investment to a new fund.
In July 2018 Mr S complained to Barclays. He said hed been assured everything  would 
remain the same when he accepted the advice to switch funds in 2016,  but he was receiving 
less income from the investment and was paying  higher charges. He wanted Barclays  to 
switch the investment back  to the original  fund, managed by a business Ill call A. He made 
the same  complaint on behalf of Mrs S.
Barclays didnt agree that Mr S had been misled. It said A had decided to close  the fund, 
which is why Mr and Mrs S had been  invited to a review. It said theyd each accepted  the 
advice to invest in the Barclays High Income  fund and had been  made  aware this would 
result in a reduction  of income. It also said the fee structure didnt  change  and all of the fees 
had been clearly explained  in the recommendation report. Mr S remained unhappy and 
referred his complaint to our service.  He said they hadnt sought out the review.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied  A had closed the fund Mr S 
had previously been invested  in, so it was necessary  to carry out a review of Mr Ss portfolio.  
The adjudicator thought  the recommendation to switch to the Barclays  High Income fund 
was suitable as it matched his attitude  to risk and objectives. He also thought it had been  
highlighted to Mr S that his income would likely reduce and was satisfied the fees were 
clearly explained.
Mr S didnt accept the adjudicators opinion. He maintained that he was told nothing  would 
change but in fact everything changed. He thought  the review was pointless.  As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint was passed  to me to make  a final decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding it.
Mr S says he was happy with his investment performance so there  was no need  to change 
anything. But Ive seen evidence from A that the fund Mr S was invested in was closed  on 
16 August 2016.  So, Mr Ss investment  had to be switched following the announcement  of 
the fund closure.  This doesnt appear to have  been  mentioned in the recommendation report  
provided to Mr S at the time. So, I can see why hes sceptical about this explanation. I think  it 
wouldve been helpful for this detail to have been  mentioned in the report. But Im still 
satisfied that Barclays  needed to carry out a review  of Mr Ss investment portfolio in 
August 2016 due to the closure of As fund.
Mr S is unhappy because he says he was told there wouldnt be any change in respect of 
the income derived from the investment or the fees charged. However, he says hes 
received less income and he thinks hes been charged more.
Ref: DRN30505382Ive reviewed the recommendation report,  a copy of which  was provided to Mr S on 
9 August 2016.  This shows  Mr Ss investment  objective was to provide income and his 
attitude to risk was now medium-low, having previously been medium-high. The adviser 
noted he and Mrs S were  receiving around £417 per month from their investments,  which  
they werent dependent on. The report also noted  that they agreed it was a good time to 
reduce the risk associated with their investments.
The adviser recommended Mr and Mrs S switch to the Barclays  High Income  fund. Having 
considered Mr Ss objectives  and attitude to risk, I think the recommended fund was suitable 
for his needs. This is because the report shows he was still willing to take some risk to 
achieve a higher return and because his objective was to derive income  rather  than achieve 
capital growth. I also think Mr S was made aware that he was likely to receive a reduced  
income and what fees would  be charged.  I say this because the report notes:
I have reminded you that due to the switch of investment mandate the returns on your 
portfolio will potentially be lower  than previous due to the decreased risk in the new portfolio.
The adviser provided an estimate  of the income  Mr and Mrs S were likely to receive  (£407 
per month)  but reminded  them that the income  wasnt guaranteed as it was dependent  on 
the portfolio performance.  The charges associated were also set out in full.
Mr and Mrs S were  asked to review  the report to ensure it reflected the discussions and sign 
a form to confirm they were happy  to proceed.  Mr S signed this on 24 August 2016.
Ive taken into account what Mr S has said about  being led to believe nothing would change, 
but I think the report clearly states  the impact  of the switch. As Mr S signed this, I think he 
was most likely aware of this at the time of the advice. I appreciate Mr S is unhappy with the 
income hes now receiving from his investments, but Im not persuaded he was misled  by 
Barclays about the impact  of switching funds.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3050538