K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about interest charged on her account with Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limited (trading as Very).
background
In November 2017 Miss S placed an online order for items including  an iPhone totalling  
£460.98 on her Very account. The order was placed on 12 months Buy Now Pay Later 
(BNPL).
Miss S made payments  totalling £305.87 during the BNPL period. However, these payments 
werent sufficient to clear  the balance and deferred  interest was applied to her account when 
the BNPL period  ended on 14 December  2018.
Miss S says she knew  interest would be charged  because she hadnt settled the account 
within the BNPL period.  But shes unhappy  that shes been charged interest on the total 
amount of her order even  thought shed  paid off most of the balance.  She says she thought 
she would  only be charged  interest  on the remaining balance. 
Miss S says if shed  known that interest  would be charged on the total amount of her order 
she wouldve have paid the remaining balance on a credit card as this wouldve incurred less 
interest.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Ss complaint.  The investigator  said Miss S was advised  
at the time she placed her order that the full cash price of the items was required to be paid 
by 14 December 2018 and that if it wasnt, interest would accrue  from the purchase date. 
The investigator felt that the information provided to Miss S about  BNPL  at the time of 
making the purchase was adequate and that sufficient reminders  were  sent to Miss S 
reminding her of the interest free cash price payment option. 
Miss S didnt agree. She said she knew how BNPL worked and accepted  that interest would 
be charged if the item was not paid for by the end of the BNPL  period.  But she said she was 
not aware that the full amount of interest  would be charged on an item which was partly  paid 
for, and that she was only expecting to be charged  interest on the remaining balance. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It may be helpful if I explain how a BNPL agreement works. Generally, the interest  accrues 
from the purchase date.  This interest  can be avoided if the customer  pays the balance in full 
before the end of the BNPL  period. However, if the balance isnt cleared in full by the end of 
the BNPL period,  all of the BNPL interest is charged.
Miss S is unhappy because she thought  that shed only be charged interest on the 
outstanding balance, not the full cash price. 
Ive looked at what information was provided  to Miss S when she made the purchase on 
BNPL. The terms and conditions of the account were available for Miss S to look at online. 
These set out how BNPL works and in particular,  explain how a customer can avoid paying 
Ref: DRN32730532interest on a BNPL order by paying  the full cash price of the item(s) by the end of the BNPL 
period.
Although I understand that Miss S thought BNPL operated in a different way, Im unable to 
say that the terms  and conditions are unclear or misleading. I havent seen any information 
to suggest that Miss S was told or led to believe that interest on a BNPL order varied  
according to the outstanding balance at the end of the BNPL period.
Ive also considered the information which was sent to Miss S during  the BNPL period. Shop 
Direct sent statements to Miss S every  28 days which showed the cash price for her BNPL 
items together with the amount of interest which would be charged if the full cash  price 
wasnt paid before the end of the BNPL period.  I can see that on some of these statements, 
notably statement  number  176 and 177, there was an additional reminder that Miss Ss 
BNPL items were due for payment. The reminder  also expressly stated that estimated 
interest of £218.85 would be charged  on Miss Ss account if she didnt pay the full cash  price 
of her items before the end of the BNPL period.
Theres nothing on the statements  or the reminders which  I think could have led Miss S to 
believe that she would only be charged  interest on the outstanding  balance as at the end of 
the BNPL period.  On the contrary, the statements and reminders make it very clear that 
interest would  be charged on the full cash price of the items, calculated  from the purchase 
date.
Based on this, Im unable  to say that Miss S wasnt provided with clear information about  
how BNPL worked and Im unable to say that she wasnt given reasonable reminders of 
when the full cash price  should have been  paid by to avoid paying BNPL  interest.
Therefore, Im unable  to ask Shop Direct  to waive interest. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3273053