K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc asked him to provide information. Hes also unhappy 
that Santander blocked and closed his account following a review. He says this caused him 
inconvenience.
background
Mr H had a personal account  with Santander.  In November 2018, Santander asked Mr H for 
information to ensure  they understood enough about  the account and the use of it. 
Ive provided a timeline of events using the evidence from both Mr H and Santander.
While this may not include everything  both parties  have commented on, I believe its 
important to set out what Santander asked for, and when  and what  Mr H provided.
On 2 November  2018, Santander  wrote to Mr H asking him to complete  a Source of 
Wealth Source of Funds Declaration  as part of Santanders know  your customer  
process. The form explained that Santander  needed the information to understand 
the source of the money in Mr Hs account  to comply with Regulation  8 of the Money 
Laundering Regulations 2007. 
 
On 7 November  2018, Mr H contacted Santander regarding the request. He felt hed 
already provided  sufficient personal  information  when  he opened the account and 
didnt believe the bank was entitled to information regarding the source of funds in his 
account, his income and wealth. Mr H told Santander he thought  the forms were 
intrusive and lodged a complaint. 
On 9 November  2018, Santander  contacted  Mr H regarding his complaint. Santander 
explained the bank was legally  required  to ensure that it had up to date information 
for its customers at all times.  Mr H told Santander he didnt think Santander was 
entitled to the information.  Santander  told Mr H made that if the information it had 
requested wasnt provided  that Santander may block  and close his account.  
Santander explained he had up to 60 days to provide the information.
 
On16 November 2018 Santander blocked Mr Hs account.
On 30 November Santander closed Mr Hs account. The remaining funds were 
returned to Mr H via cheque.
Following this, Mr H contacted our service  and asked us to look into what  had happened. An 
investigator looked at Mr Hs complaint. She said Santander had acted in line with their 
know  your customer review  process  when it had asked Mr H for information. She thought  
Santander had explained what would happen  if they didnt receive the information they 
needed. And said it had complied with the terms and conditions when it closed Mr Hs 
account. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators findings. In particular, he said Santander hadnt  
followed the correct  timescales and hadnt made it clear why it was asking him for 
information. He also said hed used the account  for business purposes to avoid paying  
account fees and charges elsewhere. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has 
been passed to me to review. 
Ref: DRN31837622my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Mr Hs account. Anti-money laundering 
regulations and UK legislation place extensive  obligations on regulated  financial businesses  
to have suitable systems  in place for customer identification. Financial institutions  must 
establish the purpose and intended nature of a business as well as the origin  of funds, and 
there may be penalties  if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. 
Santander have  said that Mr Hs account was part of their know  your customer  work to 
meet these legal requirements.
I appreciate Mr H had been  a Santander  customer for some  time when it asked  him to 
provide the information. And I understand  he felt the questions  were intrusive. But Santander 
is legally  required to ask certain information  to ensure they understand what  their accounts 
are being  used for. So I cant  say they shouldnt  have asked Mr H the questions. because its 
important Santander  have a clear understanding of the purpose of the account.
Like the investigator, I recognise some of the questions were difficult  for Mr H to answer.  
And that it may have taken him some time to collate paperwork to respond to Santanders 
request. However,  having reviewed the questions,  and how Mr H was using his account, I 
can see why Santander believed the information  was necessary. I say that because  its 
important Santander  have a clear understanding of the purpose of the account. And from 
what Ive seen Mr H was using his personal  account  for business purposes. So I can 
understand Santanders concerns.  
Mr H says Santander werent entitled to ask him for information. And he has pointed out that 
he had already supplied some  information  when he opened his account. Whilst I understand 
Mr Hs strength of feeling, businesses  have a legal obligation to ensure that their customers 
are who they say they are, to protect  the security of their accounts and also to comply with 
various laws and regulations. Mr H agreed to this term as a customer,  and it is a reasonable 
term. So I agree that Santander was entitled to ask Mr H to provide  more information and to 
see his documents,  even  though it had seen some of the information before. This was not a 
breach of privacy  or data protection  laws.  So I cant say Santander has done  anything 
wrong.
Mr H says Santander didnt set out how long he had to provide the information. And didnt 
tell him why it needed the information.  Mr H also says Santander shouldnt have blocked  his 
account. He says this all caused him a great deal of inconvenience because he couldnt 
access his account  for everyday living expenses. And he only realised his account was 
blocked when  he tried to use his debit  card. 
Ive seen a copy  of the letter and declaration  of wealth  form Santander  sent to Mr H. And Ive 
listened to recordings  of phone calls Mr H had with Santander on 7 and 9 November 2018.  
Im satisfied the letter contained enough  information for Mr H to be aware of Santanders  
requirements. And it clearly set out what information Mr H needed to provide and importantly 
why it was asking  him for the information. But I agree that the letter doesnt set out how long 
Mr H had to provide the information. 
However, during  the phone calls, Santander told Mr H about the timescale for providing the 
information and the consequences if no response was received from him. Santander  told 
Ref: DRN31837623him that his account would be blocked if he didnt provide the information.  And he had up to 
60 days to provide the information. So overall,  Im satisfied Mr H knew how long he had to 
get the information back to Santander  and what would happen  if he didnt do so. 
Following this conversation Santander  reviewed Mr Hs account. On 16 November 2018, 
Santander blocked Mr Hs account. And it closed his account on 30 November 2018. This 
was much sooner  than 60 days. So I think its reasonable that Mr H says Santander  didnt 
comply with the timescales it gave him on 9 November 2018. But I can also see that Mr H 
was using his personal account for business  purposes. Given the account  activity Santander 
blocked and closed Mr Hs sooner  than it had previously indicated.  So I cant say Santander 
have done anything wrong.
In Santanders  letter dated 30 November 2018,  Santander explained theyd be closing 
Mr Hs account immediately in line with their terms and conditions.  Ive considered 
Santanders terms and conditions and I do find this to be in line. 
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr H feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt 
its been a difficult  and frustrating time. But overall,  based on the evidence I have, I cant  
fairly say Santander have  acted unreasonably. So I wont be asking them  to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3183762