K821x#15complaint
Mr P and Ms D complain  that TSB Bank plc mis-applied  the repayments on their account 
and prevented them from repaying  their mortgage without additional interest.
background
A detailed  background has been  set out below in the Provisional  Decision  so I wont repeat 
this again here.
In my provisional decision I upheld the complaint in part and said that TSB should pay 
Mr P and Ms D £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused to them.
TSB accepted my provisional decision and requested  payment details from Mr P and Ms D. 
Mr P and Ms D responded with comments on the mortgage statements not being clear 
enough to understand what was happening with their accounts and wanted the 
compensation amount to be reconsidered.  I have considered these in my decision here.
my findings
Mr P and Ms D have argued  that our service has jurisdiction to consider all their complaint, 
including the initial events around the accounts their mortgage payments went into. So Ive 
reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whether this complaint is 
one we can look into.
After receiving my provisional  decision Ms D responded saying their mortgage  statements 
didnt help them understand  what was happening with the accounts and neither they nor 
their adviser could understand them. I have looked  again at what information was available 
to Mr P and Ms D to see what they reasonably should have known. They  had received 
statements every  year since taking out the additional borrowing. The statements give details  
of payments made  to the two sub accounts  and the outstanding balances.  They  also 
received a mortgage offer which set out how much  they had to pay towards each loan. 
Whilst they say the statements didnt help them understand, in my view there  was enough  
information between  the mortgage  offer and the annual statements for them to have been  
aware when they received their annual  statements that the amounts they thought  werent 
being applied  to each loan and sub account.  So I think  they ought  reasonably  to have known 
from receiving  these  statements they had cause for complaint if they thought their payments 
should have been applied  differently. So as explained in my provisional decision I still 
consider this part of the complaint to be out of time based on the three year rule.
Ms D also said in her email that if TSB had contacted her in 2008 to tell there was an issue 
she could have resolved it at that time. As what happened in 2008 isnt something that I can 
look at I wont be able to comment  on that further.
Ive then gone on to consider all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms D says the compensation awarded doesnt  take into account the distress and cost to her 
and should be re-considered.  I appreciate Ms D feels quite strongly about the complaint and 
feels the compensation amount isnt enough  so I have re-considered the complaint in detail.  
When looking at compensation, as well as looking at whether someones  lost out financially 
as a result  of a mistake, we look at the emotional  and practical impact  its had. We dont look 
Ref: DRN30304542at each individual error that a business  has made in assessing compensation. Instead we 
look at everything that has happened  and assess what we think  would be fair compensation 
overall. The impact any mistake has had can vary from person to person so we look at 
individual circumstances  of each case to reach a fair amount. 
In my provisional decision I have said what happened in 2008 isnt something that I can look 
at so I havent considered anything to do with that part of the complaint when awarding 
compensation. The compensation amount is based only on the elements of the complaint 
that I have  been  able to consider. 
I think TSB should have  communicated better  with Mr P and Ms D particularly in relation to 
the transfer of funds  between the accounts in 2016. This was also the case when they came 
to close their mortgage account  in January 2017.  I have re-considered the distress that 
these failings have  had on Mr P and Ms D. The poor communication  from TSB meant that 
they didnt immediately understand whether their mortgages were  short  or overpaid. But the 
bank soon explained what had happened  in their letter in June 2017. I accept the whole 
situation would undoubtedly have been  distressing for them.  In light of the worry caused  and 
the inconvenience that went  into chasing TSB for information I think  £250 is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and here, I uphold the complaint in part 
and TSB Bank plc should pay Mr P and Ms D £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Ms D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN30304543PROVISIONAL  DECISION
background
Mr P and Ms D took out additional lending  with TSB on top of their existing mortgage in 
December 2008.  The details of both pieces of lending  were confirmed to them in writing in 
December 2008.  It listed the amount borrowed,  the term of the lending, the interest  rate 
applied and the monthly payment amount for each.
In May 2016, Mr P and Ms D contacted TSB to redeem their second borrowing and were 
informed that payments  hadnt been allocated to the accounts correctly. The initial  mortgage  
account (01) was underpaid while the second  additional borrowing (02) had been overpaid. 
They complained to TSB in June 2016. They  were  told not to repay  the account until the 
error had been  rectified.
TSB say the payments  were not allocated to the correct sub-account because 
Mr P and Ms D had failed  to amend the account  reference numbers when they took out 
additional lending  in 2008. They say they corrected the error when they were notified  in 2016 
by transferring funds  between the accounts  to where the funds  were  supposed to be. TSB 
say the consumers are responsible for ensuring  the reference numbers used to make  
payments are accurate. They dont think theyve done anything wrong.
Mr P and Ms D say they werent  told to amend  the payment reference. They also say they 
have paid more  in total than they would have  done as they were prevented from redeeming 
the account in May 2016 due to the errors on the account. Mr P and Ms D complained to our 
service in August  2016.
Our investigator didnt  think TSB had done anything wrong. Mr P and Ms D disagreed  with 
the investigator so this has come to me for a decision.
Our investigator didnt  look into whether this complaint could be considered by us so I will 
issue a provisional  decision in the first instance  to give both parties the opportunity  to 
respond.
my provisional findings
Ive considered the information Mr P and Ms D have given us to decide whether we can 
consider their complaint. Having done  so, Ive reached the conclusion  that I can only deal 
with part of this complaint.  I will explain further.
jurisdiction
What I can and cant look at is set out by the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 along  
with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)  Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules.  These  can be 
found on the FCAs website. The DISP rules  say I cant  consider a complaint if its referred 
later than:-
Six years from the event complained of; or
Three years from when they complainant knew  or ought reasonably to have known 
of the cause for complaint.
Ref: DRN30304544Ombudsmen are required  to work within the confines of these rules and must consider these 
before the merits of any case are looked at. A business is entitled to object to our 
considering a complaint if its made  too late. And thats what TSB has done here. 
This complaint is about a loan given  by TSB in 2008 and mis-applied payments which  
affected both the mortgage and loan account from 2008. Mr P and Ms D didnt complain to 
TSB until June 2016. Based on the six year rule they had until 2014 to complain  so this 
complaint is out of time on this rule.
We then look at the three year rule which says that we can consider a complaint three years 
from when they knew  or ought reasonably to have known there was cause for complaint.  
This part of the complaint relates  to their monthly payments being misallocated  between the 
accounts. While we havent seen all the statements Im satisfied that they were sent and 
received each year. Weve seen a statement from 2008 and some  from 2016, both of these 
give the details  of payments made  to the two sub accounts and the outstanding balances  
Between these  statements and the mortgage  offer  which set out how much  they had to 
pay towards each loan  I think they ought to have been aware when they received their 
annual statements that the agreed amounts werent being applied  to each loan and sub 
account. It stands to reason they ought  reasonably to have  known they had cause for 
complaint. So I consider  this part of the complaint  to be out of time based on the three year 
rule too.
Under the rules, our service can investigate complaints  made outside of the usual  time limits  
if were satisfied that the lateness was due to exceptional circumstances which prevented  a 
consumer from complaining in time. I have considered what Mr P and Ms D have  said to our 
investigator and have sympathy  given the length  of time this has being going  on. But Im not 
persuaded this has caused them to bring the complaint late.
In summary,  the complaint about  incorrectly allocated  payments which  originated from 2008 
is not something I can look at. I dont  find that Mr P and Ms D referred their complaint to our 
service in time. And I dont think they were prevented from doing so by any exceptional 
circumstances. It follows  that we dont have any power to consider this part of the complaint.
What I can look at is what happened  from May 2016 when Mr P and Ms D complained to 
TSB. This would include the transfer of funds between the accounts, the request for 
redemption statement to redeem sub account  01 and whether Mr P and
Ms D are out of pocket as a result  of the actions  taken in 2016.  This would also include any 
related customer service issues. These points have been addressed in the investigators 
view but I will consider  these again here.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have upheld the complaint in part and 
will explain  further.
transferring funds
The mortgage account 01 was a fixed repayment mortgage and there was a 7 month term 
left in May 2016.  Years of underpayment in sub account 01 had caused a large deficit in that 
account causing the outstanding balance to be high. The deficit along with the end of the 
fixed term in April 2016 had resulted  in a larger monthly payment of £2058.14 needing to be 
paid to clear the balance  by the end of the term.
Ref: DRN30304545By transferring £31,072 from sub account 02 to 01, TSB corrected  the errors on the account 
to create  a manageable payment for Mr P and Ms D. Im satisfied this was the amount  which  
had been mistakenly  paid into sub account 02 over the years  and so this simply had the 
effect of ensuring  sub account 01s balance now reflected those  payments  as it should have 
done. The monthly payment was brought down to £550.27 which was lower  than the 
£620.16 they were  paying  previously. This dealt with the concerns Mr P and Ms D had about 
the large increase in monthly  payment following  the end of the fixed rate. In order  to bring  
the account back to manageable monthly  payments  this transfer was necessary. So I 
understand why TSB transferred the funds.  This managed Mr P and Ms Ds expectations 
around the monthly amount  they wanted  to pay. While I cant  comment on whose  fault it was 
that the payments were not applied correctly, the fact remains  that the accounts  hadnt had 
the right amounts paid into each of them. By making the transfer TSB corrected this error 
and so I think that it was fair of them to do this.
I cant look at the misallocation  of the payments itself but to ease Mr P and Ms Ds concerns, 
I would note that Im satisfied these payments havent left them  worse  off and thats why 
simply transferring the amount over is fair. It is also important to note that they havent  
incurred any charges or fees as a result of underpaying on account  01. They were paying  
the right amount overall  for both mortgages but more was going to account  02 than 01. 
Although they have  paid more interest at 4.84 % on account 01, they have also paid less 
interest at 4.99%  on account 02 on the same amount. So overall  the misallocation has been 
to their benefit as theyve  paid less interest on their overall borrowing. I know Mr P and Ms D 
want to see full statements showing full calculations but TSB has said it cant do so  and I 
dont think thats  necessary  to demonstrate they are no worse off for the reasons Ive 
explained above.
TSB didnt  make any adjustments to the accounts  to factor in the interest  so there  are no 
calculations for the transfer done.  I accept  this because it was a simple transfer between the 
sub accounts without  any adjustments.  This transfer  would  also be visible from the account 
statements TSB has provided to them.
The additional money in sub account 02 was always intended  to go to sub account 01. So 
the transfer of £31,072 from sub account  02 to 01 would be a logical  step. I think this is a 
reasonable course of action, taking into account  the situation Mr P and Ms D would have 
been left in if the transfer hadnt  been done.  I think  it is clear that TSB were trying  to rectify 
the error  by putting the accounts back in the position  they should have been  if the payments 
had been allocated correctly from the start.  So I dont think TSB have done anything  wrong 
in transferring the funds.
I understand Mr P and Ms D were not happy that the money was transferred between  the 
accounts without  their permission. Whilst I dont think  TSB did anything  wrong in transferring 
the funds, I do think they should have discussed what course of action would be taken with 
Mr P and Ms D prior to transferring the funds.  It was important for them to know what was 
happening and in particular because there was already an on-going  complaint with TSB on 
this issue. This has added to the distress they have suffered in dealing  with this complaint.
redemption of account
Mr P and Ms D didnt complain to TSB until May 2016 when they contacted the bank to 
redeem their mortgage  sub account  01. But they told this service that the bank said not to 
repay their mortgage until the complaint was resolved. It wasnt resolved and they paid the 
monthly amount  until the end of the term. They say this resulted in incurring additional  
Ref: DRN30304546interest which they wouldnt have had to pay if the mortgage had been redeemed when they 
had requested in May 2016.
Looking at all the evidence available I can see that Mr P and Ms D had shown an interest in 
redeeming sub account 01 in May 2016.  The business notes received confirmed 
Mr P and Ms D had mentioned they wanted to redeem the account in the conversation in 
June 2016. But I can also see that they were advised to contact customer  services to 
request a redemption  statement. This doesnt  appear to have happened and Mr P and Ms D 
havent said they did this at any point.
Mr P and Ms D seem to think  the transfer from account 02 to account  01 made it harder for 
them to pay the mortgage 01 off early  in May. But its the opposite. Before the misallocation 
was picked up, account 01 had a much higher balance. So paying  that mortgage  off when 
the fixed term ended would have cost them about  £35,000. By transferring from the balance  
from 02 to 01 the bank put the accounts  where  they should have been  (the account balance  
of 01 would have  been slightly higher and the account balance  of 02 would have been 
slightly lower).  So this left the consumers able to pay their mortgage off early  as if no 
misallocation of funds had taken place.  This was explained  in the June 2016 letter   which  
went on to say they could redeem early  and how to do that. It is clear Mr P and Ms D didnt 
follow up on that letter and so I dont think its fair to hold TSB responsible for any interest 
they paid from that point  on.
Mr P and Ms D also say they were paying  too much as they didnt change the payment to 
TSB and want some  of that returned  with interest.  In the letter dated June 2016,
TSB told them about standing order and how this should be changed. They  also advised that 
account 01 had reverted to 2.5% so the overall  payment across  the mortgages would have 
been lower. Mr P and Ms D continued to pay higher amount despite being advised  to change 
the payment.  The evidence  suggests that any extra funds paid into the account have just 
been applied  to account 02. So ultimately  Mr P and Ms D ought to have known to (and how 
to) reduce and correctly apply payments by then.  But in any event theyve not lost out 
because that money  has just been used to pay loan 02 and reduce their overall outstanding 
balance.
closure of account
Mr P and Ms D also complained they were  never  informed when account 99 was paid off in 
2014 and their mortgage account 01 closed in January 2017. TSB say they wouldnt send 
out account closure letters until the whole account  was closed. As they still held live account 
02 with TSB they didnt  send any letters.
Mr P and Ms D were  receiving account statements which would  have shown the repaid 
accounts. Whilst I accept that they should have  been aware and responsible  for stopping  
payments as would  have  been visible from their statements   I dont think  this is enough.  
TSB could  see that payments had continued to be made to the redeemed account and didnt 
do anything about  it. It should have done  more than simply reallocate those £12 a month 
payments to the other  account. However I note that, as above, this hasnt caused  any 
financial loss to Mr P and Ms D. Those payments have continued to be applied to account  
02 and so have  reduced the balance and interest  theyve  had to pay on that borrowing.
I think it is a reasonable  expectation that when  one piece of borrowing has come to an end 
the bank should let the consumer know that no more payments would be needed.  TSB failed 
to do this with Mr P and Ms D and I think this has added to the confusion around  the general 
Ref: DRN30304547state of the accounts. Better communication  from TSB would have assisted Mr P and Ms D 
in understanding their accounts. This also added to the distress and frustration they have 
been through since the complaint was made to TSB. So I am persuaded that TSB should  
have done more to address this issue and communicate with Mr P and Ms D. I think its fair 
and reasonable for TSB to pay Mr P and Ms D some compensation for the trouble thats 
caused them.
my provisional decision
Mr P and Ms Ds complaint against TSB Bank plc about mis-applied payments from 2008  
isnt within  our jurisdiction and I am unable to consider this part of the complaint.
I dont uphold Mr P and Ms Ds complaint about the transfer of funds, redemption of the 
accounts or paying additional interest.
I uphold the complaint about the closure of accounts  and TSB should pay Mr P and Ms D 
£250 for distress  and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN3030454