K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains that Santander UK Plc told him the wrong balance  when it defaulted  his loan 
account, and ignored his letters.
background 
In 2008 Mr T borrowed £15,000 from Santander,  to be repaid over eight years.  With interest, 
the total to repay was about £22,710. In 2010  he fell into difficulty and was unable to 
continue making  his monthly payments.  He entered a debt management plan (DMP), 
administered by a third party (a debt advice charity), and made reduced payments, but in 
2011 Santander terminated  his loan agreement and registered a default. By then, Mr T had 
repaid over £5,840, leaving an outstanding  balance  of nearly  £16,870.
However, when Mr T fell into arrears in 2010, both Santander and the debt advice charity 
wrote to him to say that the total amount he owed was around £13,000. This figure was only 
the outstanding capital,  and did not include the interest, all of which  became  due when the 
loan agreement was terminated later on. So Mr T didnt realise that he actually owed more 
than that. He relied on that figure. Since  then,  Mr T has paid another £11,870. In 2016 he 
thought he had paid off all he owed, and so he was shocked to discover  that he still owed  
£4,996.56. He thought  Santander must have added this to his debt, and so he complained.
Our adjudicator explained everything Ive summarised above in more detail, and Mr T now 
says he understands  how and why he still owes nearly £5,000. It was part of the £22,710 
hed always owed all along.  But he maintains that he was misled  into thinking  he owed much 
less, and that just when  he thought hed cleared or was about to clear his debt, he still owed 
£5,000, which he does not have.  This was very stressful  for him, and it still is.
Mr T also complains  that when he wrote to Santander about  this outstanding balance,  it 
failed to reply to his letters, which only made it worse. Santander paid him £100 for that, but 
the adjudicator  thought that was not enough.  She pointed out that Mr T had written  six 
letters, and Santander  had only responded to one of them, and that reply  had only said that 
they would  look into the matter and reply as soon as possible, which  they then didnt do. She 
recommended that Santander pay Mr T another £100. Santander agreed, but Mr T said that 
£200 was not enough to reflect what hed been put through. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T no longer disputes that he owes £5,000, but for completeness I have still checked the 
above explanation of what happened, and I agree  that it is correct.
The issue  left for me to consider  is how much  compensation Santander should pay for not 
responding to Mr Ts letters.  His letters were  written on the following dates:
1 March 2016
7 November 2016
17 February 2017
21 August 2017
Ref: DRN3121735220 February 2018
1 September  2018
Santander replied  to that last letter, but Mr T did not receive that reply.  In December 2018, in 
a phone call, Santander apologised, paid him £100,  and said it would send another  copy of 
its reply.  I dont  think it is Santanders fault if it sent a letter but it was not delivered. But that 
still leaves five letters which were  ignored.
On one hand, I do understand why Mr T feels that £200 is not enough. The period of one-
sided correspondence  went  on for a long time,  and failing  to properly respond to five letters  
is certainly poor service.  The result  was that Mr T was left under the impression that he was 
being wrongly charged an additional  £5,000 on top of his original debt. That matter  could 
have been cleared up much sooner than it was.
On the other hand, Santander did not pursue Mr T for the debt for almost that whole period. 
It sent him a statement  every six months  (to comply with regulations),  but took no other  
action until December 2018, when it finally instructed a debt collection agency.  The agency 
wrote to Mr T, and this letter arrived a few days before the phone  call. It may be what  
prompted the phone call, but whether that is the case or not, Santander explained the 
outstanding balance in that call. So if Mr T had desperately wanted an answer, and didnt 
receive one in writing,  then he could have called Santander in 2016 or 2017. That does not 
relieve Santander of its responsibility to answer letters,  but I doubt  that this matter was 
weighing on his mind  every day for three  years. On balance, I think that £200 is in line with 
what our Service  would typically award,  and is fair.
Santander accepts  that Mr T might  not be able to afford to repay  the whole outstanding 
balance, and is prepared  to be pragmatic. It is willing to agree a repayment plan, and will 
consider accepting a partial settlement of the debt, if Mr T gets in touch with its collection 
agent and goes through his income  and expenditure. To be as clear  as possible, I will quote 
from Santanders email  to the adjudicator  on this subject:
Mr T will not be expected of paying more than he can reasonably afford  to pay. 
However, he needs to co-operate  with the debt collecting  agents acting on our 
behalf. If the amount outstanding cannot be cleared in full, the agents will be happy 
for the balance owed to be repaid incrementally over a long term, in line with Mr Ts 
affordability, which may need to be assessed.  Most  likely,  the appointed debt 
collecting agent will require details of the customers income and expenditure based 
on which they will be able to agree a long term arrangement with Mr T to clear this 
debt.
Our appointed  debt collecting agents may be also able to consider a short 
settlement for the loan, so a reduced amount that they would deem sufficient to 
absolve the customers  liability for this debt.  However, that again  would  require the 
customers co-operation  as they would need  to understand  his circumstances  in 
more details.  We would like to avoid a situation where such a payment would 
constitute some kind of financial constraint  to the customer. The agents  are not pro-
active in terms  of confirming how much the customer needs to propose,  but as 
advised they would consider any reasonable offers  of short settlement.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Santander UK Plc to pay Mr T 
£100, in addition to the £100 it has paid him already.
Ref: DRN31217353Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3121735