K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly advised him to invest  too much of his 
money in an unsuitably risky product in 2005,  and without time to consider the advice 
properly.
background
Mr K had £42,840 in savings at the time, mostly as a result of selling his property and 
moving in with his future wife. He was 57 and had no investment  experience.  The advisor  
recommended he invest  £25,000 in a distribution  fund.
An adjudicator at this service  felt his complaint should be upheld as the available evidence 
indicated he was only looking to take a small risk with his money while  the product posed a 
greater risk than this given it had 40% invested  in equities/property and another  40% in 
foreign bonds.  He also felt he should  only have been advised to put £10,000 into any risk-
based product.  
Having considered Mr Ks overall situation  and likely  attitude  to risk he felt compensation 
should be based on a low-risk  formula i.e. that he probably could have exposed this other  
£15,000 to risk via a more suitably cautious product.
After further consideration of the fund in question, he issued  a second view concluding that 
Mr K should  not have  been advised to put any money in this product, and that compensation 
should be based on Mr K keeping  all his money free from risk.
Barclays did not agree, and said:
Mr K would have received copies of the documents following the sales  so had he 
been unhappy or unsure  of the content  or with the decision to start this investment he 
could have raised any issues at the time with the adviser or not gone ahead with the 
investment
Mr K received returns over and above his invested sum and had considerable excess  
funds so could  have made up any losses
He was not left with insufficient funds and maintained the investment beyond the 
recommended minimum term - indicating he was happy with the advice received
Mrs K had previously invested in the same fund and was happy  with the returns; this 
is why Mr K wanted  to invest in this fund despite being offered  alternatives including  
splitting his money between several products
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, in response to Barclays recent  comments,  Mr K had no investment experience   
from what Ive read  and so while the documentation informed him about what hed agreed 
to this didnt mean he would  have known whether this was good  advice or of the potential 
drawbacks to putting all his investable money  in one product or this product in particular. If 
one accepts Barclays arguments that Mr K could have raised any concerns before going  
ahead then, by definition, every complainant ought  to have known if they  were given poor 
advice at the outset   and no complaint would ever be upheld.
Ref: DRN34492842Mr K was recommended  to invest nearly  60% of his money in a risk-based product even 
though he had never exposed his money to the risk of loss before. Given  his age, 
circumstances and likely objectives I am satisfied this was unsuitable advice. Crucially, Ive 
seen no persuasive  evidence that the advisor fully appraised Mr K of the potential  
consequences of exposing so much of his money to risk with neither the fact find nor 
recommendations letter fully exploring the meaning and significance of risk categories or that 
of the proposed fund. Overall, I think both documents, particularly the fact find, fell far short 
of what was needed to safely assess Mr Ks circumstances and objectives given he had no 
prior investment experience. 
I also share the adjudicators concern that he was recommended to invest all this money in 
one fund. I have  considered  Barclays  evidence  that its advisor suggested  investing  some 
money in other products  but, ultimately,  he recommended  £25,000 in this one fund  and I 
dont believe  this was sensible  or appropriate.  I note that Mrs K had already been 
recommended to invest a substantial  sum in this fund, and went ahead  with this. This 
doubles my concern  about this recommendation given it left Mr and Mrs K with all their 
invested money in one fund.
Mr K met the advisor along  with his future wife, Mrs K, and she was recommended  to invest  
a further £15,000 in the same fund during  this joint meeting. So as a result of his advice Mr 
and Mrs K invested £50,000  in this one fund.  I do not believe  this offered suitable 
diversification.
While Mr K may have expressed  a preference for the same fund as his future wife, I think the 
advisor had a particular responsibility to offer his expertise  and experience in pointing  out the 
significant disadvantage in going down this route. If he had done so, I think Mr K would, 
more likely than not, have not gone ahead.
I also share the adjudicators concerns about the advisors references  to Mr K wanting to 
avoid the charges associated with the proposed  ISA. Ive seen  no evidence that he 
explained this fund would also incur comparable  charges via another means so I think one 
can set limited store by some of the advisors  comments about why Mr K allegedly chose 
this fund.
Further, I share the adjudicators concerns about the suitability of the recommended fund 
given it included a near 50% exposure  to equities plus a further 22% plus in sub-investment 
grade corporate bonds and property. Given Mr K had no investment experience and would 
probably not have  fully understood the true risk posed by these types of assets, I think the 
advisor should have done  far more  to make this clear, and explained that other, more  
cautious products  were  available.
However, I dont believe  the fund was necessarily completely unsuitable  for a modest 
investment sum given  the overall  mix of assets  included a substantial  volume  of investment 
grade bonds.
I am satisfied that Mr K was in a position to invest some of his £42,840 and appeared to be 
prepared to do so. But I dont however think he should have been  recommended  to invest  
more than £10,000 in this specific  fund for the combination of reasons I outlined  above.
From what  Ive read, it is hard to say whether Mr K should have been advised to keep the 
second chunk  of money (£15,000) risk-free or invested it in a different, clearly low risk 
Ref: DRN34492843product. This is because  I dont think the advisor  sufficient explored  Mr Ks objective  at the 
time.
But, on balance, I feel it would have  been reasonable to recommend investing  the other 
£15,000 in a clearly  low risk fund,  with a mixture of assets providing a greater  security  and 
greater diversification.
I therefore instruct Barclays  to compare the return Mr K received on £15,000 of his 
investment with what this sum might have  grown  by using this services recommended low 
risk formula  known as 50/50. That is, an equal combination of the returns  shown by the Bank 
of England bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity and those of the FTSE Private Investors Total 
Income Return Index.  If this comparison shows a loss, it should pay this figure and add 8% 
simple interest per annum from the date Mr K surrendered  her investment to the date of 
settlement of the complaint.
Leaving aside the diversification  issue, I am satisfied this formula  contains a significantly 
higher percentage of risk-free  or very low-risk assets  than the distribution fund, and is 
therefore a fair and reasonable  basis for compensation.
If this comparison shows a loss, it should pay this figure and add 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date Mr K surrendered his investment to the date of settlement of this 
complaint.
It should also pay the £100  previously  offered, and for the reasons previously outlined.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay compensation as outlined  
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3449284