K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mr H a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
Background
Mr and Mr H took out a loan in 1994,  and at the same time a single premium  PPI policy was 
set up to protect the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and 
interest charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mr H disagreed and so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. I will explain why. 
Mr and Mrs H say they werent given a choice about  taking PPI and were  told it was simply a 
part of the loan. 
Because this happened  so long ago, the documents from the time are no longer available,  
so its hard to know how the PPI was presented. And I wouldnt expect someone to recall in 
detail everything  that happened about  25 years ago when the application was made.
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude that the bank acted wrongly, unless  there was 
reasonable supporting evidence of this. Where someone has said another person or 
organisation has done something wrong,  fairness  requires that the person making the 
allegation should present  evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to 
require someone  to prove they didnt do something, especially when it was such  a long time 
ago. Without stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added  without Mr and Mrs Hs 
genuine consent. 
It seems  that Bank of Scotland advised Mr and Mrs H to have PPI, but it doesnt  look as if it 
was unsuitable  based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time. The 
policy offered a benefit if Mr H (the person covered) was made  redundant. And, although 
Mr H would have received employer sick pay, the accident and sickness  benefit provided by 
the policy could  still have been  useful.  This is because it would pay out on top of any 
employer sick pay and potentially would continue to pay out after his employer  sick pay 
ended. It would also pay out on top of any redundancy payment. It would have enabled 
Mr and Mrs H to put off using any savings or other  means  of support. Mr H appeared to have 
been eligible for the policy; and it seems also wouldnt  have  been  affected by any significant 
exclusions within the policy.
Its likely  Mr and Mrs H would have received only a limited refund of the PPI premium if the 
policy had been  cancelled early. This can be an issue where  a customer might  pay the loan 
off early  for example  by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen nothing to suggest 
Ref: DRN37006572that this was likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it unsuitable 
for Mr and Mrs H. 
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI, including  
about the costs  and benefits, wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But it looks as though 
none of the significant  exclusions  or limitations  applied to Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances.  
And the policy was reasonably competitively priced and apparently  affordable. In 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, it was likely to have offered a potentially  useful benefit. So, 
taking all that into account, I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have made a different 
decision if better information had been provided.  On balance I think  Mr and Mrs H would still 
have taken out the policy.
On balance, I think Mr and Mrs H werent mis-sold  PPI by Bank of Scotland.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3700657