K821x#15complaint
Mr R and Miss C are unhappy with the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited dealt  with a 
claim under their home  insurance  policy for accidental damage  to services and the 
settlement it offered.
background
In September  2018 Mr R and Miss C made a claim to Admiral after discovering foul water  
under their kitchen floor boards. Their local water company did some tests and found it was 
coming from a sewage pipe under  their conservatory.
Admiral accepted the claim  and sent a contractor to repair  the leak. It also started cleaning 
the property. Meanwhile Mr R and Miss C, a newly married couple,  went to stay with their 
respective parents.
As Mr R noticed in October that water  was still getting into the property, Admiral sent its 
contractor back in early November to do a further repair.  The contractor came back  to repair 
it once more in mid-November since the pipe was still leaking.
At the end of November the property  was still very wet with water under the floor joists.  
Admiral decided it needed to carry out further  investigations. At the end of January 2019  
Admiral said the dampness wasnt connected to the leaking pipe. It decided  to draw up a 
scope of works for the reinstatement and offer a cash settlement. 
Its initial cash settlement offer was just over £9,600.  Mr R didnt think this covered all the 
work that needed  doing. After further discussion in February 2019 Admiral  increased its offer 
to over £15,100. Mr R then got three  quotes  from builders  ranging from £33,000 to £48,000. 
In April Admiral  settled  the claim for the building works on the basis  of the cheapest  quote.
Admiral agreed to pay a disturbance allowance to cover  the extra costs Mr R and Miss C 
would incur while staying  with their parents. There were various discussions about the 
amount of the allowance  and how long it would be paid for. In the end Admiral  agreed to pay 
a total of £40 a day until 21 June  2019  by which time Mr Rs builder said the kitchen works 
would be finished.  Mr R says he had to chase Admiral constantly regarding this aspect.
Mr R and Miss C made a number of complaints  to Admiral about  poor communication on 
their claim, delays, the quality of the works  and the accommodation arrangements.
 
Admiral paid total compensation of £600  to Mr R and Miss C. They brought  their complaint to 
this service. Our investigator upheld it. She recommended that Admiral should pay a further 
£250 compensation for delays and poor claim handling.
As the parties didnt agree, the matter  has been  referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN39889152I appreciate that Mr R and Miss C would have preferred Admirals contractor to carry out the 
reinstatement works.  But under the policy terms Admiral has a choice how to settle  the claim 
and its entitled  to settle in cash if it wants.
Mr R and Miss C say the cash settlement offer they accepted was less than the works 
actually cost them. Since the settlement  was based on the lowest  of three estimates  
provided by them, I dont think Admiral treated them unfairly in what it paid. If they wish 
Admiral to reconsider the settlement, they should  explain  to it why the amount they accepted 
turned out to be insufficient.
Its clear to me, however, that Admirals initial settlement offers  were  far less than the works 
would cost. I think it should have known that. Ill take this into account when looking at 
delays and the trouble and upset caused  by Admiral.
There were various problems with the works  carried out by Admiral  to repair the leak and 
sanitise the property. In particular  it shouldnt  have taken two months to repair the leak 
properly. The failure of Admirals contractor to remove  flooring also held up the sanitisation.  
As well as delaying  completion of the works this also inconvenienced  Mr R because he had 
to attend the property  more often than should  have been necessary to meet contractors and 
check the work had been carried out properly.
Admiral agreed that thered been  poor communication on its part. I agree. Over a prolonged 
period Mr R and Miss C often had to contact them multiple times to get a response  and 
promised call-backs  werent  made. Contractor sometimes failed to turn up on time after Mr R 
had waited specially  for them. This caused them unnecessary stress and inconvenience.
Mr R and Miss C were  entitled under their policy to be offered alternative accommodation if 
their home couldnt be lived in. Early on in the claim Admiral offered to put them up in a 
hotel. I think this was reasonable as it wouldnt have been  expected  at the outset that the 
claim would take so long to finalise. Mr R and Miss C chose to stay with their parents 
instead. I think the amount of £40 a day finally agreed and paid by Admiral for extra costs 
they would  incur was reasonable.  I also think the period for which it was paid would have 
likely been  adequate if Mr R and Miss C had used  the contractor whose quote was accepted  
by Admiral as the basis of settlement.  But I note there was much  discussion during the 
course of the claim about the daily rate and there  were delays in making the payments  so 
that Mr R had to spend time chasing  Admiral  for this. 
Mr R and Miss C spent  about nine months living apart. This must  have been especially 
difficult as they hadnt  been married very long. I think if it hadnt been  for the failings on the 
part of Admiral mentioned  above, this separation could have been much shorter. 
Awards of compensation  arent intended  to fine or punish a business  thats  the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble  and upset the insurer  has caused to its 
policy holder above  and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated  with a 
claim of this type.
Admiral acknowledged  its service should  have  been  much better  and it has offered a total of 
£600 to compensate Mr R and Miss C for the trouble and upset caused  by this. Having taken 
all the circumstances  into account I think it ought  to pay them a total of £850 (so a further 
£250 compensation). I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to them but Ive 
Ref: DRN39889153thought about this services approach to awards  made in similar circumstances and Im 
satisfied that awarding more than this would be unfair and unreasonable.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited  to pay Mr R and 
Miss C a further £250 for the trouble and upset it caused them by its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 January  2021.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3988915