K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains about issues  shes experienced with a car supplied with finance  from 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited.
background
In February 2019  Mrs R was supplied with a car and entered  into a hire purchase agreement  
with MBFS.
Mrs R experienced a problem with the bonnet not closing. The car was returned  to the 
dealer in February 2019 and a repair was carried out.
Mrs R continued to experience the same issue. She said when she was travelling over a 
certain speed the warning light came on to show that the bonnet was open.
Mrs R complained to MBFS. She asked  to reject the car. MBFS advised Mrs R to book the 
car back into the dealer for further investigation.
The dealership inspected the car and found  that one of the manually adjustable straps was 
extended which meant the bonnet  wouldnt sit closed. It said this mustve been  adjusted 
since the repairs were  carried out.
Based on this information, MBFS declined the request  to reject.  It said the manually  
adjustable straps could  be adjusted  by anyone and werent an inherent fault.
Mrs R wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said the third party  garage reports and the 
independent engineers report stated  that there were alignment  issues  with the bonnet 
despite a repair having been  carried out by the dealer. The investigator said he didnt think 
the issue shouldve  occurred so soon after the point of supply and felt that the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality. He recommended rejection.
MBFS didnt agree. It said that if the repairs hadnt  been satisfactory it wouldve expected  
Mrs R to have returned  the car to the dealer sooner  than she did. It also felt that the 
dealerships comments  about the manual adjustment to the rubber straps  had been 
overlooked. MBFS said the issue was caused by external  influences  and not as a result  of 
an inherent defect. It didnt accept the findings  of the independent report  and said the 
conclusions were based on customer feedback. It also said the initial repair  was carried out 
without any acceptance  that there was a fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because MBFS has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres an implied 
term that it has to be of satisfactory quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a 
standard that a reasonable person would expect, taking into account all of the relevant 
circumstances such as (amongst other  things) the age and mileage  of the car and the price  
paid. I would expect  a second  hand  car, such as that supplied  to Mrs R, to have a degree  of 
wear and tear. So inn order  to uphold this complaint I would  need  to be satisfied that the car 
Ref: DRN35871092wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply  due to an inherent  defect as opposed to 
general wear and tear.
Mrs R and MBFS disagree  about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In order 
to reach  a decision I need to look at all of the available  evidence and determine, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether I think the car was of satisfactory  quality at the point of 
supply.
Mrs R experienced problems with the bonnet  within a very short time of the point of supply  
she has said that it first happened  on the day the car was collected.  The car was repaired by 
the dealer. Mrs R has said that following  the repair she didnt drive the car for a while  but 
when she did she realised  that the issue hadnt  been fixed.
MBFS has said that the dealer found no fault with the car when it was returned but carried  
out adjustments to the panels for realignment.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault arises in the first 6 months,  theres a 
presumption that it was present or developing  at the point of supply, unless the business can 
show otherwise. The business is allowed one attempt at repair.  If the repair  isnt successful 
the consumer  can reject the car. After  6 months the burden of proof is reversed and its up to 
the consumer  to show that the fault was present at the point of supply.
Because the issue with the bonnet arose in the first 6 months, its up to MBFS to show  that 
there wasnt an inherent fault.
Ive taken into account the comments made by the dealership when the car was returned to 
them for further investigation.  These  comments suggest that the manually adjustable straps  
have been adjusted causing the bonnet not to close properly. The dealership said the straps 
mustve been adjusted since the repairs were  carried  out because  Mrs R wouldntve 
accepted the car back after the repair if the bonnet wasnt shutting in line.
Ive also taken into account the reports from the two third party garages.  The first (H) said 
there were unequal gaps  at the rear of the bonnet caused by alignment issues.  It 
recommended adjustments to make the bonnet shut on both sides  more easily. The second 
(G) said the lines across  the top of the bonnet didnt line up correctly. It believed  something 
was twisted or the bonnet had been  removed and misaligned when reinstating.
An independent engineers report can help in deciding  whether or not a fault was present at 
the point of supply. In this case an inspection was carried out by ACE. The engineer found 
that the bonnet was out of alignment to the offside. He also found that the bonnet catch 
loops were loose  ad that when  closing  the bonnet the nearside  catch  needed several 
attempts before the catch would lock into place because  the bonnet catches were out of 
alignment. The engineer concluded that a bonnet alignment had been carried out which  
required further investigation and adjustment.
All of the reports  the third party  garage reports and the ACE report  conclude  that the 
bonnet is misaligned. The only report which suggests why this might be the case is the G 
report, which suggests that either  something is twisted or the bonnet  been  removed  and 
misaligned when  reinstated.  It doesnt say when this might  have happened.
Ive considered all of the reports  carefully.  And Ive taken into account the comments  made 
by the dealership. Only the dealership has said that the bump stops  have been  adjusted and 
Ref: DRN35871093that this is the cause  of the issue. If it was the case that the bump stops had been extended, 
and that this was the cause, I wouldve expected at least  one other of the reports  to have 
mentioned this. But none of them have.
On the balance of evidence,  Im persuaded that the other three reports  outweigh  the 
dealerships comments.  
Ive considered the pre sale photos of the car. I cant see any evidence of misalignment. 
That said,  I cant be certain of when the photos were taken or of whether something 
happened to the car between the photos being  taken and the car being supplied  to Mrs R 
which mightve caused the bonnet  to become  misaligned. Its for this reasons that I cant  be 
certain that the bonnet  wasnt  misaligned  when the car was supplied.
Ive had regard  to the fact that the dealership has already attempted  a repair.  Ive noted the 
point made  by MBFS about no fault being  diagnosed but if this were the case  I dont  think  
the dealer wouldve realigned the panels  for no reason. Im persuaded by the weight of 
evidence that the bonnet is misaligned. Under  the relevant legislation,  and because the 
business has had one attempt at repair, Im of the view that Mrs R should be allowed to 
reject the car.
I appreciate that MBFS think the issue has been caused by an external factor. Ive already 
explained why I dont think the bump stops  are the cause of the problem. The weight of 
evidence is against  this conclusion. In addition,  I havent seen any conclusive evidence that 
the car has been  tampered with.
Taking all of the available information  into account,  I think its more likely than not that there  
was  a fault with the bonnet at the point  of supply. Im not satisfied that MBFS has rebutted 
the presumption  that the fault was present  at the point of supply. The dealer has attempted  a 
repair and this has been unsuccessful. MBFS should allow Mrs R to reject the car.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Mercedes Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited must:
Allow Mrs R to reject  the car
Arrange for the car to be collected  at no cost to Mrs R
Refund the deposit together  with 8% interest from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
Refund two monthly  instalments to reflect impaired use
Refund the ACE report fee
Remove any adverse  data in relation to the agreement on Mrs Rs credit  file
Pay £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3587109