K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about how Debt Advisory Line Limited (DAL) dealt with his Trust Deed 
application. He says there was a lack of transparency and he wasnt told that his first three 
payments under the Trust Deed were  paid to DAL and not his creditors.
background
Mr P signed  the Trust Deed in early 2013  due to the financial  difficulties he was in. He says 
there was a lack of transparency by DAL about  what he was doing and that he was 
misinformed by it. Mr P says he wasnt told that the first three payments which  amounted to 
about £529 were  paid to DAL and not his creditors. He also says that some of his creditors 
were not told that the Trust Deed had ended  and his creditors didnt receive any of the 
money. Mr P would like compensation and the first three payments refunded  less the fee of 
£70 he accepts had to be paid.
DAL says Mr P wished to apply for the Trust Deed and it told him that the first three 
payments were to be paid to it, for the cost of setting up the Deed. It also says it confirmed 
that in a call when Mr P raised the issue in 2013. It doesnt accept making a mistake and 
says that Mr P didnt  make the agreed later payments.  It also says it wasnt responsible  for 
the administration of payments as that was carried out by a separate company linked to it.
Mr P brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt think DAL had acted unfairly. She 
listened to the calls between the parties  and thought Mr P had been told about  the charges 
of £529 and was likely  to have received that information during the application stage as well.
Mr P doesnt  accept that view and says he was influenced by DALs advisors due the 
position he was in at the time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for similar reasons. I realise Mr P will be disappointed  
by my decision  and I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
Ive listened to the call between Mr P and DAL which took place  in 2013 when Mr P queried 
the position about the first three payments. I have not seen the documentation that led to Mr 
P calling DAL. But I think on balance he must  have  received some  sort of statement from 
DAL telling him about those payments. Im satisfied that during the call DAL explained that 
the first three payments  were for the set up costs of the Trust Deed and that he would have 
been told about it when he agreed  to proceed with the Trust Deed. Im also satisfied  that 
Mr P thanked the advisor for the information and told her that  he was more  than happy  to 
pay it and that he was told he could find the information in his paperwork or in an earlier 
call.
So I think on balance that Mr P would have received information  about the first three 
payments either in a previous call or in the original agreement. And Im satisfied the position 
was clarified in the call in 2013. I wouldve expected Mr P if he remained unhappy at that 
time to have  requested a copy of the call or to ask DAL to provide another  copy of the 
agreement. But I think its clear that at that time Mr P was content with the explanation. I also 
think it unlikely that DAL wouldve set up a Trust Deed without some form of payment.
Ref: DRN39898952As I dont think DAL has made a mistake about this issue I cant fairly  order DAL to refund 
that payment.  Ive not seen any evidence  that DAL misled Mr P into signing the Trust Deed 
and I am satisfied that it was Mr P that called DAL and told it to proceed with the Trust Deed.
I appreciate Mr P has raised  other  matters  about different businesses that administered  the 
Trust Deed after DAL had set it up. Those  are not matters I can consider as part of a 
complaint about  DAL.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3989895