K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc intentionally cancelled  his direct  debit  repayments  
of his personal loan,  and then defaulted  the loan, while he wished to keep making payments.
background
Mr N had a personal loan and a mortgage,  both with HSBC. His monthly repayments were 
about £181 on the loan,  and over £2,480 on the mortgage. To start with, this represented 
about one third of his income. But he was made redundant, and for a few months he made 
his repayments  from his savings while he looked for a new job. When his savings ran out, he 
contacted HSBCs mortgage department to come to an arrangement.
HSBC agreed to accept  underpayments on the mortgage  for a while. Later  on, HSBC and 
Mr N agreed that Mr N would sell his home.  In the meantime, HSBC  would continue to 
accept reduced monthly repayments. When his home was sold, the proceeds  of the sale 
would pay off both debts in full.
While this had been going on, Mr N had still been  making his contractual  repayments on the 
loan, by direct debit. But in early  2018, another department of HSBC  (unsecured lending) 
decided that Mr N could  no longer  afford the loan, on the ground that he couldnt  afford  to 
make his full mortgage payments. So HSBC cancelled his direct debit, and the loan account 
fell into arrears. Mr N complains about this decision,  since he had been making his loan 
repayments and still wanted to keep  making  them. He said he had come  to an agreement  
with the mortgage department  one which would  result in the loan being paid in full  and 
there was no reason  for another  department to interfere. Stopping his loan repayments 
would only extend  his financial problems to a second front, and damage  his credit rating.
HSBC told Mr N that he could still make manual payments towards the loan.  But he says the 
bank also told him that these would not be recorded on his credit file, because they would be 
treated as overpayments, not payments falling due. So he didnt make manual payments. 
After six months of arrears,  HSBC defaulted the loan.  Mr N complains about the default. He 
says this has caused more damage to his credit  rating than the arrangement to pay on the 
mortgage. He says estate agents have advised  him that this will make  it difficult or 
impossible for him to rent a new home, and so he and his family may become homeless. He 
says he should  have been allowed to keep making  the loan payments as before. He wants 
the default to be removed  and the loan to be reinstated  until the house is sold.
Unfortunately, as soon  as the house was put on the market, a boundary dispute arose, and it 
had to be taken  off the market until this could be resolved.  This dispute has led to litigation,  
delaying the sale.  HSBC clearly has confidence  in Mr Ns case,  because  its insurance 
department has underwritten his claim. But in the meantime, the arrears  on the mortgage 
continue to grow.
HSBC says it has done nothing wrong.  It says a customer should give priority to a secured 
debt over an unsecured  debt, and therefore  anyone who cant  afford  to make his mortgage 
payments clearly cant afford an unsecured loan. The money Mr N had been  paying towards 
his loan should have been used to reduce his mortgage arrears instead, since  his home was 
at risk.
Mr N accepted that all of that was true, in normal circumstances. But he said this was a 
special case. He pointed out that he was already trying to sell his home, so it hardly made 
Ref: DRN37888762sense to describe  it as at risk. He and HSBC  had agreed a way forward which  would result 
in both debts being settled in full, and so there was no benefit to either party in defaulting the 
loan. He brought this complaint to our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that HSBC  had followed normal  
banking practice. Mr N said that HSBC had had no right to refuse to accept his loan 
payments, and that by doing  so the bank had put him in an untenable position. He said one 
department of the bank should not interfere in what another department  had agreed  with its 
customer. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would normally agree completely with the proposition that a customer  should prioritise  his 
mortgage over an unsecured debt. The reasons for this are self-evident. So a lender  would  
not usually be at fault by encouraging  its customer  to focus  all his efforts  on repaying a 
mortgage, instead of diverting money  elsewhere.
But I agree  with Mr N that his case is potentially different. He had a plan to pay off both 
debts by selling his home, and HSBC had agreed  that this was an acceptable  solution.  In 
those circumstances,  telling him to stop making  loan repayments, and eventually defaulting 
the loan, would certainly not have been treating him fairly. The usual argument that the 
customers home was at risk of being  repossessed in the course of foreclosure would not 
apply. Instead,  the banks  actions would not be protecting his position, but making  it worse.
However, I think that the sequence of events  undermines Mr Ns argument. When  he first 
contacted HSBCs mortgage department about his predicament, he didnt immediately 
suggest selling his home and using the proceeds to clear his debts. Rather, he started by 
asking to make reduced payments. That was in March  2018.
Then in May 2018, he asked to re-mortgage.  He wanted his wife to be added to the 
mortgage, to enable the mortgage term to be extended (because the term could not 
otherwise be extended,  on account of his age). He would pay off the mortgage  arrears using 
the income from his new job. Unfortunately, HSBC did not think that his income  from the new 
job would  be enough to agree to this plan. It also said that he would need to have  a 
permanent job, and at the time his new job was only a six month  contract. Since Mr N 
expected to be offered a permanent contract in a couple of months time, it was agreed that 
he would  continue to make underpayments  until then.
HSBCs call notes  record that the bank asked Mr N what he would do if he didnt  get the 
permanent job. He said he wasnt sure, but he would  potentially sell the house, but he didnt 
want to. That is the first mention in the banks records  about selling the house,  and in May 
2018 it was not yet an agreed plan, but just an idea for a contingency plan.
In July the position was reviewed. Mr N was not ready to remortgage yet, but a further  
underpayment was authorised for August.
An internal  memo in August states that even if Mr N did get the permanent  role, he would 
still not be able to re-mortgage while his account was in arrears. It would therefore be 
necessary to focus on his arrears. Later that month,  Mr N said he still wanted to re-mortgage 
Ref: DRN37888763along the lines discussed earlier,  or alternatively to change  to an interest-only  mortgage. But 
this proved not to be possible after all.
The earliest mention  of a definite  plan to sell the house, once re-mortgaging  had been ruled 
out, was on 24 September  2018. However,  the decision to stop his direct debit loan 
repayments had been made in March 2018, and the default notice was served in August, 
before the August phone call I described  above.
Mr N disputes this chronology. He says he put his house on the market in 2017,  and that is 
also when the boundary  dispute began. But the first mention in the banks records  of him 
deciding to put the house on the market  is in September 2018, and the first mention about 
the boundary  dispute was on 8 October. That entry seems to describe the dispute  as having 
only just begun. But even if this really  did happen in 2017, that wouldnt help Mr Ns case, 
because he didnt tell the bank he was selling the house until nearly a year later.  The key 
point here is that when  HSBC decided to make  him prioritise the mortgage over the loan, 
there was as yet no agreement that he was going  to sell the house. Therefore HSBCs 
assessment that his house was at risk was rational. At that time,  it was necessary for Mr N to 
clear his mortgage arrears somehow, before it would be possible to refinance  his mortgage. 
And so paying  £181 a month towards  another debt would  have  been  counter-productive.
For these reasons, I am not persuaded that HSBC acted unfairly to Mr N or that it failed to 
have due regard  to his interests. Its response  was within the range of reasonable responses  
to his situation, and was a legitimate exercise  of the banks commercial  judgement.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3788876