K821x#15complaint
Mr R says More Choice  Financial Limited (MCFL) mis-sold him, and the late Mrs R,               
a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about an MPPI policy taken out in 2009 when Mr and Mrs R applied for a 
mortgage. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The policy  was sold to them  during a 
meeting. The mortgage  was in joint names but the MPPI policy  covered Mr R only. The 
policy was designed  to pay a monthly  benefit if Mr R could  not work due to an accident, 
sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  MCFL disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
MCFL has told us that its representative recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs R. So that 
means MCFL needed to take steps  to ensure  it was right for them.  I dont think it was and Ill 
explain why.
The policy sold to cover Mr R excluded sickness claims for pre-existing medical conditions.
Mr R told us he had been diagnosed with a medical condition in 2001, some years  before 
the MPPI  was sold to him. Ive also seen a copy of an application form for life and critical 
illness insurance which Mr R completed around  the same time he was sold the MPPI. From 
this application  I can see that Mr R disclosed that he had been diagnosed with a medical 
condition. And I note the same condition had caused  him to take time off work  within  the 
previous six months.
I think Mr R would probably  have  considered  that this medical condition was the most likely 
reason for him to have  time off work  in the future. But Mr R would not have been able to 
claim for any time off that was due to this medical  condition. So I think the policy  
recommended to Mr R was not right for him.
MCFL has said that that information on the exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions 
would have been given to Mr R. And that any medical conditions that were disclosed would 
have been discussed as part of a suitability check.
I have not seen any documentary evidence that the exclusion for pre-existing medical  
conditions was discussed with Mr R. But even if it had been,  in my view MCFL 
recommended an unsuitable policy. Mr and Mrs R were entitled to rely on its professional 
advice to take out the policy. And I dont think they would have done so if it had been pointed  
out that it wasnt right for them due to Mr Rs medical condition.
Ref: DRN33784822MCFL has said that Mr R still benefitted from the unemployment and accident cover 
provided by the policy. But I think its likely that if Mr and Mrs R had been told the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr R due the medical exclusion, then theyd have declined the policy 
altogether.
putting things right
MCFL UK plc should put Mr R in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out MPPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and 
MCFL UK plc should:
Pay Mr R the amount he paid each month for the MPPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year.
If Mr R made a successful claim under the MPPI policy, MCFL UK plc can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires MCFL to take off tax from this interest. MCFL must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct More  Choice  Financial Limited to 
pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3378482