K820x#14complaint
Mr M made a claim against  his motor insurance  policy with UK Insurance Limited (UKI) 
following a road traffic  accident. He complains they have undervalued  his vehicle after it was 
declared a total loss. 
background
Following a road traffic  accident  in September  2018,  Mr Ms car was declared  a total loss. 
UKI offered Mr M £16,000 as its final settlement. Mr M wasnt  happy  with this amount and 
didnt think the valuation reflected the cost of him replacing the car. He didnt think it factored 
in the new engine that he had recently fitted  or that the car had additional seating at the 
back. Mr M said his research showed similar cars selling for higher prices.  
UKI didnt  agree so he brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator here looked at the complaint and thought  that UKIs valuation  was fair and 
reasonable and was in line with our approach. He also said UKI had already included an 
uplift to factor in the new engine and additional seating. 
Mr M didnt  remained unhappy and because no agreement had been  reached, the complaint 
was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
I can see that Mr Ms policy  provides  for the cars  market value at the time of loss in the case 
of it being beyond economical  repair. Mr Ms policy  defines market value as The cost of 
replacing your car with another  of the same make and model and of a similar  age and 
condition at the time of the accident or loss.
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. Our 
services approach to assessing a fair market value takes into account what the motor  trade  
guides say the market  value is. The guides  we use give a good  reflection  of the true market  
value of a vehicle. We find these guides to be particularly persuasive, largely because their 
valuations are based on nationwide  research  and likely sales figures.  We also take all other 
available evidence into account, for example, engineers  reports.
UKIs engineer said hed obtained valuations for Mr Ms car from the motor trade guides. UKI 
valued Mr M car at £16,000 including the uplift for the new engine  and third row seats. In 
reaching this valuation it says it relied on the same  industry guides  our service typically looks  
at. It says its valuation is £14,250 and theyve  applied a 10% uplift  of £773 for the new 
engine and £977 for the third row seats.  He said his offer was in line with industry guides so 
UKI thought its offer was fair and reasonable. 
Our investigator checked the valuations of Mr Ms car in the motor trade guides we use. The 
average of these valuations was £14,268. Once the uplift was applied  the total settlement 
amount came to £16,018.33  so he thought  UKIs offer was fair. I can see that he checked  for 
Ref: DRN36183182the correct make, model,  mileage, condition and options as Mr Ms car. And I can see that 
the settlement  that UKI offered is in line with the valuations provided by the trade  guides  we 
use. 
I have considered Mr Ms points about the new engine being fitted recently  with a reduced 
mileage and also his comments about  the third row seats. An uplift  has already been applied  
 and I havent seen evidence that the cars new engine would increase its value  so I think 
Mr Ms specific circumstances have been factored into the offer made by UKI. 
Mr M has said that cars which were  similar to his were advertised at a higher price. And he 
provided the search results to UKI and us to consider. Ive thought  about this, but our service 
doesnt generally rely on adverts or find them persuasive when assessing  a fair market 
value. This is because they are what the seller  would like to achieve and are often the 
starting point of a negotiation, rather than ultimate  sale prices. Its for this reason that the 
trade guides are used  as they provide evidence of likely retail  selling prices.
Our investigator checked the valuations UKI carried out before he issued his assessment. I 
have also checked  these and the figures returned are in line with the valuation  UKI has 
quoted. Based on this Im satisfied that UKI has placed a fair value  on the car and settled the 
claim fairly and in line with the terms of the policy and according to our approach. It follows  
that I wont be asking  UKI to increase  the value it placed on Mr Ms car.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint against UK Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3618318