K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner Finance 
(BPF) unfairly repossessed his vehicle and terminated his agreement. He would like the 
outstanding balance to be written off and compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused.
background
Mr R took out a conditional  sale agreement  with BPF on 28 April 2015. The agreement 
required a monthly  payment of £165.68  for 48 months. On several occasions, Mr Rs 
account fell into arrears but Mr R says he paid double payments on more than one occasion 
to bring the account up to date. He says he didnt receive a default notice or any notification 
his agreement had been terminated, nor that BPF were going to repossess his vehicle. He 
maintains there are discrepancies on his account and he wasnt  as far in arrears as BPF 
maintains. As he didnt  receive any notification he feels  it was unfair  or BPF to terminate his 
agreement and repossess the vehicle.
BPF say Mr Rs account first fell into arrears and in June  2015. On 15 June 2018, the 
account was three  months in arrears  and so BPF issued a Notice of Default to the address 
they had on file. As the account  wasnt brought up to date BPF issued  a Termination notice 
on 18 July 2018.  As full payment wasnt received and Mr R had paid over a third of the 
outstanding balance BPF required a court order to repossess the vehicle. The court  granted 
the order and the vehicle  was repossessed  in November 2018. It was then sold at auction  in 
January 2019.  The outstanding balance was then passed to a debt collection agency. 
Mr R was very unhappy with this outcome  and asked  this service to look into matters for him. 
An investigator looked into things for Mr R. She reviewed all the information he provided  and 
asked BPF to provide their contact  notes and copies of the relevant  documentation. After 
careful consideration, she found  BPF had acted fairly and didnt ask them  to do anything  
further.
Mr R disagreed. He didnt feel the investigator had answered all of his questions adequately  
and so he asked  for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information provided 
by both parties afresh. Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN30328172Firstly, Ive looked at the terms  and conditions of Mr Rs agreement with BPF.  It says:
Repayments You agree to make the repayments  as shown in your agreement  with us.
and
Consequences of missing payments We may repossess the vehicle sold to you 
under this agreement. However, if you have  paid at least one-third of what  you owe 
under this agreement  we must get a court order to do so.
and
Repossession: your rights:  If you do not keep  your side of the agreement  but you 
have paid at least  one third of the total amount payable under this agreement, that is 
£4,109.21 the creditor may not takeback  the goods  against your wishes  unless he gets 
a court  order. If he does  take the goods without your consent or a court order,  you 
have the right to get back any money  that you have  paid under this agreement. 
The agreement is quite  clear if repayments  are not made as shown  in the agreement 
BPF have  the right to take further action including termination of the agreement and 
repossession of the vehicle.
Ive looked at Mr Rs account history  and I can see there a number of occasions  where  
payments have been missed, some have been paid and then others  havent.  There  
are more than ten direct  debit failures  on the account. There  are occasions where the 
account has been brought up to date and then others were the account has fallen  into 
arrears. So, I can appreciate why Mr R may have thought he was more up to date than 
he was.
On 15 June 2018, BPF issued a notice of default  to Mr R due to the arrears on this account. 
The correspondence confirmed that Mr R had until 18 July 2018 to clear the arrears or the 
account would  be terminated. Im satisfied there  were arrears on the account and that the 
notice of default  was issued correctly. I know Mr R has asked for specifics, in terms of the 
arrears and which  months were outstanding but its Mr Rs responsibility  to make  his 
repayments on time and in line with the schedule set out in the agreement. BPF have  the 
right to issue a notice of default if the account falls into arrears.
On 18 July 2018, BPF issued a termination  of the agreement due to Mr R failing to clear his 
arrears in line with the default  notice. It said the full balance must be paid within seven days 
to avoid  any further action.On 25 July 2018, BPF instructed a third party solicitor to obtain a 
return of goods  order to repossess the vehicle.  
The terms and conditions of Mr Rs agreement state if Mr R has paid a third of the 
agreement, which he had, a court order must be obtained to repossess the goods.  The court  
order was granted on 24 October  2018.  As our investigator has already said this service is 
unable to comment or look into the actions and/or decisions made by the Court. If Mr R 
wishes to address the decision, he must do so through the courts  and not this service.
I appreciate Mr R says he didnt receive  either  the notice of default or the termination of his 
agreement as he had moved  address. But it was Mr Rs responsibility to inform BPF of any 
change in address. As he failed to do so Im afraid, I cant  hold BPF responsible. Im satisfied 
Ref: DRN30328173they met their obligations and gave the appropriate notice to Mr R which they sent to the 
correspondence address they had on file.
Following the order from the court, the vehicle was repossessed on 30 November 2018 and 
sold at auction  on 18 January 2019.  I have looked carefully at the documentation and the 
sale receipt. The vehicle  achieved £3,600 at auction  and the remaining balance  was passed 
to a debt collection  agency for recovery. I understand this has now been returned to BPF 
who have put the account on hold pending  the outcome of this decision.
I appreciate Mr R has asked me to comment on numerous specific points he has raised in 
respect of this complaint. I have  considered all the submissions made by Mr R. I hope  he 
wont think me discourteous when  I say I dont think its necessary to comment  on all of them 
to in order to reach my decision.
Im satisfied  from what  Ive seen  that BPF have been fair and reasonable in their actions and 
whilst I understand this will be disappointing for Mr R, Im not going to ask them to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3032817