K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Mortgages Plc havent  provided her with her mortgage application 
form which has prevented  her taking a claim to the Financial Services Compensation 
Scheme (FSCS).  Miss A would  like Mortgages  Plc to increase the compensation offered.
background
Miss A asked for any documents held by Mortgages  Plc in relation to her mortgage. Miss A 
took out an interest-only mortgage with Mortgages Plc in 2004 on the advice of a broker.  
Mortgages Plc sent her relevant documents in June 2018 but not the mortgage application 
which she needs to process her application  with the FSCS. Mortgages Plc says that it does 
not hold a copy of the mortgage application  on its system but that it should have kept it and 
offered £100 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  saying that 
Mortgages Plc had made a fair offer. Miss A disagrees as she says that the lack of the 
document prevents her taking a claim to the FSCS.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
According to the information Miss A provided, on the FSCS website in order to progress her 
claim she has to send  in a mortgage  application form which the website says that she can 
get from her mortgage lender. But Mortgages Plc says that it didnt retain this document from 
2004 although it says that t should  have kept it with Miss As file. But Mortgages  Plc doesnt 
have it.
Miss A says she needs  the mortgage application to progress her claim  with the FSCS and is 
being prevented  by Mortgage Plc from doing so. There are several problems facing Miss A. 
Firstly, this mortgage was taken out in April 2004 and the FSCS isnt able to look into 
mortgage business conducted  before 31 October  2004. So, even if the application was 
available it is unlikely  to be able to assist her in this case. Secondly, Mortgages Plc didnt  
give any commitment  to Miss A to hold the application  on her behalf  for safe-keeping. 
There is a difference  between holding a document for its records  and holding a document  on 
behalf of Miss A. It seems to me that Mortgages  Plc was holding this documents for its 
records and gave no commitment to Miss A to hold the application on her behalf e.g. if she 
required it for litigation against some other party  in the future. So, if its unable to produce  
the application, I dont see that, other  than the inconvenience Miss A has suffered in trying  to 
get the document, that it should be liable to financially compensate  Miss A. Its unfortunate 
that this application has gone  missing. Mortgages  Plc suggested to Miss A that there may be 
other ways  to process her application  with FSCS  which  apparently wouldnt work. Clearly  
Mortgages Plc was trying  to be helpful  if apparently mistaken. But Mortgages Plc wasnt  
Miss As financial adviser and I cant fairly  find that it provided negligent advice.
Miss A also mentions issues with GDPR. But we are not a regulator and there is no evidence  
that Miss As personal information has been disclosed to a third party. For the reasons set 
Ref: DRN37154862out above I cant fairly uphold this complaint. I believe  that the £100 offered by 
Mortgages Plc is reasonable compensation for the trouble  Miss A suffered and if Miss A 
wishes to accept that offer she should contact  Mortgage Plc.
  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3715486