K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that MCE Insurance Company Limited declined  his claim on his motor 
insurance policy following  the theft of his motor bike. He wants  it to pay his claim. 
background
Mr Gs bike was stolen by a potential buyer  who tricked him. MCE declined  the claim 
because it said this wasnt covered by the policy and Mr G hadnt done  enough  to safeguard  
his bike. Mr G then told the police that the thief had threatened him, which  he hadnt 
mentioned before. He said this changed  the crime classification  from a theft to robbery. 
But MCE didnt believe that Mr G had been threatened and so it still declined  the claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought Mr Gs 
change in story meant that one version of events  was incorrect.  So he thought this put into 
question Mr Gs credibility and he couldnt  rely on his testimony.  And so he didnt think  MCE 
should accept  his claim.  
Mr G replied that he didnt think it was necessary to tell the police and MCE at the time he 
first notified  the theft that he had been threatened. He said his priority was to have the police 
chase the thief.  He asked for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its come 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr G wanted to speak to me when I reviewed his complaint. But I think Ive 
enough information from him and MCE to make my decision so I dont think a phone call is 
needed. In any case, its so long after the event of the theft that Id prefer to rely on accounts  
given at the time as they are closer to the actual event. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
I can see that MCE first declined Mr Gs claim because of an exclusion in the policy that it 
wont cover  theft resulting  from fraud,  trickery or deception. It also said Mr G was required by 
the policy to take reasonable  care to safeguard his bike from loss. 
I think these terms are clearly set out in the policy  booklet and I dont think they are unusual.  
But when an insurer relies  on theft by deception to decline  a claim, we think  it should 
establish that the consumer wasnt in a position to prevent the theft and whether they 
voluntarily handed  over control  of their vehicle. And for MCE to rely on the reasonable care 
condition, we think it should establish that the consumer realised that there  was a risk of 
theft to his bike and didnt  take reasonable steps to safeguard it. 
Mr G described  the circumstances of the theft to MCE  a day after the event. Ive listened to 
the recording of this call and later validation calls.  He said hed transported his bike to an 
agreed location for the potential buyer to view it. 
Ref: DRN30612112MCE said this was a three  hour journey to an unknown place where Mr G was 
unaccompanied. But I cant see that its shown  how this is relevant to the theft.  From the call, 
there were other people  around at the time. The area was lit. I dont think  the fact that Mr G 
transported the bike some distance  is important. 
Mr G said he checked the potential buyers stated  address online and was satisfied that it 
was legitimate. He described the location of the meeting, a lighted end of a street at the 
address. Mr G described the potential buyer  and said he had misgivings  at the time.  But he 
still went ahead with the meeting. 
Mr G showed the potential buyer how the bike started and rode the bike.  He then turned his 
back and retrieved the V5 registration document from his van. When  he returned,  the 
potential buyer asked if he could sit on the bike to test the suspension.  The bike didnt need  
a key to start but the engine was still ticking over. Mr G agreed but told the buyer he couldnt 
ride the bike as he didnt have  a licence for it. However, the buyer put the bike in gear and 
rode off. Mr G then called the police.
I think Mr G was tricked  into handing over control of his bike. But, as Ive said above, in order  
for MCE  to rely on theft by deception to decline a claim, it should establish  that Mr G wasnt 
in a position to prevent the theft and whether he voluntarily handed over control of his bike. 
From what  I can understand, Mr G was close to the bike at the time. This is because  he had 
been talking to the potential buyer  and had shown him the V5. He said in the validation call 
that he was standing next to the bike by the front tyre. So I think  he was arguably in a 
position to deter the theft. 
I think it was reasonable  for Mr G to let the potential buyer sit on his bike to see if it suited 
him. But the engine was ticking over. I think, as Mr G later told MCE, he should  have flicked  
the kill switch.  And so I think  Mr G voluntarily  handed over control of his bike. And so I think  
MCE could reasonably rely on the trickery exclusion to decline the claim
MCE also said that Mr G hadnt  taken reasonable care to safeguard his bike. I can see that 
Mr G was aware of the risk of theft as he checked the location for the meeting. From the 
phone calls, Mr G had some concerns at the time about the potential buyer. And so I think 
Mr G could have done more to check the buyers  identity. He could have  asked for his 
driving licence, for example. Or he could have checked with the other people at the scene  
that they knew the thief. 
Mr G allowed someone whose identity  he hadnt  established to sit on his bike with the 
engine running.  And so I think Mr G didnt  take reasonable care of his bike and I think MCE 
can also reasonably  rely on this condition to decline the claim. 
After MCE declined his claim, Mr G said hed been  threatened by the potential buyer. Hed 
previously said the buyer had his hands  down his trousers at the time they met. But he now 
said that he thought he may have been concealing a weapon  and he also said the buyer 
made a verbal  threat against  him. 
I think the change  in story throws into doubt  Mr Gs credibility. This is because hed 
described the thief and commented on his appearance but didnt mention  being threatened 
in his first calls to MCE. Being threatened is a significant event. And I think its most likely 
that Mr G would have  told MCE at the time if this had happened.  
Ref: DRN30612113So I think its fair and reasonable for MCE to consider that Mr G changed his story to make 
his claim succeed. And so I think Mr Gs embellishment  of his version of events in order  to 
get something he wouldnt have got is sufficient reason to stop the claim being paid. 
So I think MCE has fairly and reasonably  declined Mr Gs claim for the loss of his bike.  
I dont think it should now deal with his claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3061211