K820x#14complaint
Mr E and Ms R complain  that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
In April 2019 I issued  my provisional  decision. In it I explained in more  detail than the 
adjudicator, why I wasnt intending  to uphold this complaint. 
My provisional decision is attached and forms part of my final decision.
I asked both parties to come back to me with any further information they might want me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr E and Ms Rs case.
Both parties  have confirmed they have received my final decision but neither had any points 
to add. So I see no reason to depart  from any of my findings set out in my provisional 
decision.
Overall, my final decision is that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. But Halifax has already offered to 
give Mr E and Ms R back some of the cost of the PPI for the 2003 and the 2006 policies. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr E and Ms R for both the 2003  and 2006 policies 
once Ive issued  my final decision if it hasnt done  so already.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Ms R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36923962COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  
complaint
Mr E and Ms R complain  that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold them payment  
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr E and Ms R took out a mortgage in 1995  in joint names. They also took out a PPI policy. Halifax  
originally told Mr E and Ms R that it did not uphold  their complaint about this policy (ending 2380-3). 
Later however, it reconsidered its decision and told Mr E and Ms R that it would uphold their 
complaint in relation to this policy.  It refunded the PPI premiums  paid for this policy together with 
compensatory interest. So to be clear I am not looking at Mr E and Ms Rs complaint  about the PPI 
policy sold in 1995 for which they have been compensated.
In 2003 Mr E and Ms R applied for a further advance. Halifax says that due to the passage of time it 
cannot confirm the date of sale of the PPI but will look at the sale as if it took place at the same time 
as Mr E and Ms R taking  out the further advance in 2003.
This PPI policy was part of a packaged protection called  Total Mortgage Protection  Plan (TMPP). It 
covered Mr E only if he couldnt work through accident or sickness or if he lost his job. And it would 
have paid the monthly benefit for up to 24 months per successful claim. 
Later in 2006 Mr E and Ms R took out another policy  in Ms Rs sole name. This policy replaced the 
earlier policy from 2003.  This time, Ms R chose the PPI to cover her (not Mr E) for accident,  sickness 
and unemployment and critical illness and life cover. To be clear  I will only be looking  at the PPI part 
of the policy, that is accident, sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaints about either the 2003 or 2006 sales.
 
Mr E and Ms R disagreed  with this view and asked  that the complaint  be referred  to an ombudsman  
for a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr E and Ms Rs case.
Im not intending to uphold Mr E and Ms Rs complaint about either  policy. I will explain  why below.
As the sale took place so long ago, Halifax hasnt got all the paperwork  from the time. This isnt 
unusual or surprising  as businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely. But where the 
evidence is incomplete, I will look at this case on the balance of probabilities, that is, whats more 
likely to have happened,  taking into account what we do know about  these types of sales, the 
paperwork that is available and what  the parties have  told us.
policies sold in 2003 and 2006.
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr E and Ms R were given a fair choice in buying 
the PPI policies. Theyve said that they were told to take PPI out with the mortgage - Ive 
understood that to mean they didnt  know it was something which they had a choice about 
buying.
Ref: DRN36923963There arent many records  from the time of the sale in 2003. I have been provided  with some 
paperwork from the time of the 2006  sale. In 2003  and in 2006 it looks like the PPI was taken 
out at a meeting in branch.  So I think the PPI was likely discussed. We do know about these  
types of sales - so Ive thought  about  what we know and I think its likely that Halifax would  
have sent a policy booklet  and a welcome letter  which  would have outlined  the choices Mr E 
and Ms R made. I can see it did send a welcome  letter in 2006  setting out the cost of the PPI 
and the choices Ms R had made. And I have also been provided with a copy of the demands 
and needs statement  in 2006. This shows that Ms R required peace of mind  if her income 
stopped unexpectedly. So I think Mr E and Ms R would  have understood they were taking out 
the PPI. If they were  unsure  they could have questioned it at any time.  I can also see the 
cover is in Mr Es sole name in 2003 and in Ms Rs sole name in 2006.  So all in all, I think  that 
they made various choices about who they wanted to cover and what  benefits  they wanted to 
select. Overall I think  they likely had a choice  about buying the PPI and chose to do so 
knowing they could decline the cover if they didnt want  it.
So overall, I think  on balance, Halifax  made it clear that Mr E and Ms R didnt have to take out 
the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  remember 
this.
Halifax recommended the PPI policies  in a meeting in branch in 2003 and 2006 to Mr E and 
Ms R so it had to check that the PPI was right for them  and based on what  Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, as they were working  and in good 
health they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  So I dont 
think they would have found it difficult  to make a claim  if theyd needed  to. And they seem to 
have had a need for the cover. Neither  Mr E nor Ms R has told me about  any savings they 
had available.  And whilst  Ms R says she would  have received six months full sick pay and six 
months half sick pay if she was off work  sick, the PPI sold to her couldve potentially  paid a 
monthly benefit in addition to any sick pay she got and for up to 12 months. So I think shed 
still have found it useful especially if she couldnt work  for a prolonged  period.
Mr E has said hed have received  statutory sick pay if he couldnt work. If Mr E or Ms R 
couldnt work their income would  have  reduced substantially. The PPI covered  their mortgage 
and the consequences  of being unable to repay this were serious. These policies would  have 
paid out for longer  than Ms Rs full sick pay lasted and on top of anything she did get. In 2003 
it would have  paid out the monthly benefit of £273.22 for up to 24 months per claim and in 
2006 it would have paid out the monthly benefit of £218.82 for up to 12 months per claim. So I 
think the PPI would have been useful if things went wrong.
Mr E and Ms R say they would have declined  the cover  if it had been adequately explained. 
Its possible the information Halifax  gave Mr E and Ms R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And for much the same reasons  as Ive found both policies were  suitable  for them, the PPI 
seems like it would have  been  useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off 
taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr E and Ms R have said. But these points dont change my decision. 
Mr E and Ms R were taking out a mortgage which was secured on their home. The consequences of 
not being  able to repay it were  serious and the PPI could have come in useful at what  likely would 
have been a difficult time if Mr E or Ms R couldnt work or lost their jobs.  
This means  I currently dont  intend to decide the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt  need to refund 
everything Mr E and Ms R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr E and Ms R back  
some of the cost of the PPI for the 2003 and the 2006 policies. I dont think  it needs to do anything  
more. 
Ref: DRN36923964Halifax will make arrangements to pay Mr E and Ms R for both the 2003 and 2006 policies once Ive 
issued my final decision  if it hasnt done so already.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to my provisional decision, Im 
not intending to uphold this complaint.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3692396