K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy about Sun Life Assurance  Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limiteds recent  
decision to remove the minimum  sum assured limit from his whole of life policy.  
background
Mr Ps policy  commenced on 30 October  1988  with a £30 monthly premium and £11,628 
minimum sum assured.  In December 2018, the business wrote to Mr P to notify  him that it 
was making changes to his terms and conditions. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didn't think  it should  be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
The business hasn't  taken away any options from Mr Ps policy,  instead  it added an 
extra option.  
Mr P doesn't have  to reduce the minimum sum assured if he doesn't  want  to. 
The changes are not detrimental  to Mr Ps policy. 
The business shouldnt have to provide a minimum sum assured based on the 
premium hes currently  paying.  Its not fair or reasonable that the business should  
provide a benefit thats not being  paid for. 
The terms and conditions make  clear that the policy will lapse if the minimum 
payment isn't paid. 
Mr P disagreed with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision.  He 
feels the decision is unfair and hes been  disadvantaged after paying to keep  the policy 
going for 30 years. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what Mr P says Im not persuaded the business has done anything wrong in the 
circumstances. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Mr P strength of feeling about  this matter.  
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr P and the business, and reach  what  I think  is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
Ref: DRN31947782In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
I appreciate the original  terms and conditions under clause 5(ii) made clear  that the sum 
assured couldn't be reduced  below  a certain  minimum amount. And I appreciate that Mr P 
might now feel the business  has made changes that he didn't agree to when he took out the 
policy in 1988.   
But the business is entitled to make changes in the exercise of its legitimate commercial  
judgment. Its not something that our service would  generally get involved in. Its not for us to 
tell a business to run its affairs.
In this instance, the changes fall in line with common  industry practice, which  isn't unique to 
the business, but in line with how most policies sold after 1988 operate. So I cant say what  
the business has done is unfair.  
In this instance Im also satisfied that the business notified Mr P of these changes  in good 
time, in a clear and fair way, thats  allowed him to make an informed decision about the 
future of his policy. 
The changes seem to have been done in an effort to try to maintain the policy  which would 
otherwise have lapsed, so Im unable to safely say that Mr P has been disadvantaged. 
I agree  with the investigator that theres likely to be a time when the monthly premium is 
unlikely to be sufficient  to cover the cost of the minimum  sum assured. But in this instance 
the insurer is willing to maintain it so long as the appropriate premium  is paid. In other words, 
the term and conditions allow the business  to charge a premium  that covers  the cost of the 
benefit provided, as determined  by the policy reviews. 
Under clause 7(i) of the conditions and privileges, if Mr P doesn't  pay the requisite premium  
the business is entitled to cancel the policy after 31 days, which  I think is fair and 
reasonable. I don't think the business  should have  to provide a benefit for free. 
I appreciate Mr P will be unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion  as the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision  isn't what he wants to hear.  But on the face of the 
available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold  this complaint and give him what 
he wants. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3194778