K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Mr W has been receiving nuisance calls to his mobile 
since reporting an accident to their insurer  Aviva Insurance Limited. 
background
 
Mr W reported the accident to Aviva  and provided  his mobile  number. He says this wasnt 
recorded on the policy before the accident. He received follow  up calls from suppliers of 
Aviva to help progress the claim.  
Following this Mr W began receiving unsolicited  calls from claims management companies  
which he hadnt received before. He and Mrs W believe that Aviva (or their agents) have 
passed on their confidential information when they shouldnt have.
Aviva has investigated  and says it found no evidence of any connection between it and the 
firms Mr W has received calls from. It says it doesnt share or sell customer contact details to 
claims management companies. It says some  of the numbers Mr W has received calls from 
have been reported to it by other  customers as nuisance calls,  and a wider investigation is 
being conducted by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and the Insurance Fraud 
Bureau (IFB). It has committed to sharing any relevant information about  this investigation 
with Mr and Mrs W when, or if, it receives any. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. He said it wasnt  clear how 
Mr Ws contact  details had got into the wrong  hands. But he was satisfied that Aviva had a 
control framework for their agents in place and that they were  taking reasonable steps  to 
investigate. He didnt think it would be fair to recommend  Aviva  should take any further 
action. 
Because no agreement has been reached, the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate that Mr and Mrs W feel frustrated and annoyed at receiving so many  
nuisance calls. Im sorry to hear that some  of these had been received at unsociable  hours 
or while they were  abroad  and that Mr W is considering changing his long held number. 
I fully understand  why Mr and Mrs W believe that these companies mustve  got Mr Ws 
number from Aviva or its agents.  But from what Ive seen Aviva has carried out a suitable  
investigation and found no connection to these firms.
I can see from Avivas  file that it took Mr and Mrs Ws complaint seriously and investigated  
their concerns. It also implied  that the data breach might have come  from other  sources as 
the companies didnt  seem to have detailed knowledge of the incident  which you might  
expect them to if Aviva or its agents  had passed  on the information.
Ref: DRN39547382Aviva isnt able to share details with our service  or its customers  about  the control 
frameworks it has in place with its agents,  and I wouldnt  expect it to. But it has told us that it 
realised a link between  this complaint  and another case and has reported  it to the ICO and 
IFB. 
The matter  continues to be investigated and Aviva  has committed to contacting  
Mr and Mrs W if further relevant information about their complaint  comes to light. Although  it 
has pointed out that it has no control over this investigation or how long it will take. And that 
its possible that the root cause of Mr Ws number being obtained by these companies might 
not be established.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W arent  convinced  by Avivas explanations. But I havent seen 
any evidence that Aviva or its agents  shared Mr Ws details with the companies reported. 
So I cant say it did anything wrong or needs  to pay any compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint against  
Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2019.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3954738