K820x#14complaint
Mr As unhappy with the valuation esure  Insurance Limited has made of his car in a claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr A had an accident and he says esure  told him the car was a write  off. He was offered 
£4,800 for it but this was reduced to £3,700 when esure found out the car had been written 
off twice before.  Mr A says this was before  he bought it and he wasnt aware of this. Hes 
unhappy as he wouldve  liked esure  to have  repaired the car or, as its for sale,  to have been 
able to retain salvage of it. He wants a higher value for it.
Esure said in its final response that it has no record of a request by Mr A to retain  salvage  of 
the car. But it accepted his dispute  about the valuation shouldve  been referred to a senior 
engineer. And its paid £100 compensation for this failing.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Mr As policy says the most esure  will pay is the cars market value. And thats  the 
amount the insurer could reasonably  have  expected to buy the car for on the open 
market immediately before the loss. And it will base its assessment on the value of 
similar cars and the values shown in the main trade  guides.
Here the engineer said the cost of repairing Mr As car was more than its value. And 
it was reasonable  for esure not to repair it.
We find the valuations  in the main  trade  guides most persuasive when looking at 
market value. They are based  on likely selling prices  of cars. Here three of the main 
trade guides show values for Mr As car of £4,690,  £4,300  and £4,205. So esures 
original offer of £4,500 was reasonable. 
The fact the car had been previously written  off twice can put off potential  buyers and 
affect its value. Here esure deducted  20% for this. Mr A says he didnt know of the 
cars history but it doesnt appear  he carried  out any checks  on the cars history when 
he bought it. So its fair for esure  to deduct  20% off the valuation  to reflect  its history.
Mr A didnt  say in his calls to the engineer that he wanted the car repaired or that he 
wanted to retain salvage of it. He was happy for it to be collected from him.
Esure has correctly handled the claim and he isnt going to ask it to increase the 
valuation.
Mr A doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Ref: DRN39082052Mr As policy  says esure will settle the claim by paying him the market  value  of his car at the 
time of loss. That sum isnt necessarily the same amount that he bought the car for or the 
cost to him of actually  replacing it. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced  including adverts. But I place most weight on the values  in the 
main trade guides as theyre based  on likely  selling  prices  rather than advertised prices,  
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless  I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
esures offer. 
In this case its clear esures  valuation  of £4,500 is higher than the average  of the main trade 
guide valuations.  
I also think its fair for esure to take into account the effect of the car having previously been 
deemed to be a total loss, may have  on the saleability of the car and its value. I think a 20% 
deduction for that is reasonable  particularly as Mr A didnt carry out any history checks when 
he bought it. 
Taking everything into account,  although  Im aware of Mr As frustration, I dont think  I can 
reasonably require esure to increase its valuation or pay him any more.
Overall I think  esures acted fairly and reasonably and in line with the policys  terms and 
conditions. And I dont see any compelling  reason  to change the proposed  outcome  in this 
case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3908205