K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) incorrectly recorded that he had made a claim 
under his motor  insurance policy.
background
In September  2018 Mr M contacted UKI to let it know another driver had damaged his car 
whilst it was parked. But, he didnt make a claim under his policy.  Instead, he paid for the 
cost of the repairs to his vehicle himself.
However, Mr M said he later received a letter from UKI, noting that a claim he had made on 
his policy  was now closed. Because Mr M hadnt made a claim he contacted UKI to get this 
corrected. He has said he needed  to contact UKI a number of times to get this issue sorted   
and he shouldnt have  needed to do this.
UKI has accepted  it made a mistake  in the way it recorded Mr Ms call to it in 
September 2018. It said it should  have recorded  that Mr M had only notified it of a loss he 
suffered, instead of recording  that he had made a claim. It confirmed it had now amended 
this error. And it said Claims  Underwriting  Exchange (CUE), the external database that holds  
details of previous  claims, now correctly showed  that Mr M had just provided UKI with 
notification of the incident.
UKI also accepted  Mr M had needed  to call it a number of times to get the issue  resolved. 
And it apologised for the problems Mr M experienced. Because  of the upset and 
inconvenience caused to Mr M it offered him £70 compensation.  
Mr M didnt  agree with UKIs resolution to the complaint.  So he referred his complaint to this 
service for an independent  review.
Our investigator didnt  think this complaint  should  be upheld. She noted that UKI had 
incorrectly recorded that he had made a claim. And it shouldnt have done this. But, she 
thought that UKIs action to put the error right, and its offer of £70 compensation was fair and 
reasonable to reflect  the upset the trouble  and upset this caused  Mr M.
Mr M didnt  agree with our investigator. He said he had needed to make a large  amount of 
calls to make sure UKIs  mistake was corrected. And because of the problems experienced 
he had cancelled his policy  with UKI  meaning he had lost out on a years  no claims 
discount. 
Mr M said that to resolve this complaint he felt UKI should pay him an amount of £300 
towards the cost of the repairs he had needed  to carry out to his car. And, he felt it should 
refund the premiums  he had paid for his policy.
Because Mr M didnt  agree with our investigators opinion this complaint has been referred to 
me to decide.
Ref: DRN39684762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  
UKI has accepted  that it made  an error by recording that Mr M had made a claim in 
September 2018. So I havent needed  to decide whether UKI made a mistake  in this respect 
 this is already  agreed.
Instead, Ive needed to decide if the way UKI looked  to resolve the problem is fair. UKI has 
said it has corrected its records to show that Mr M didnt make  a claim. And that this is now 
also reflected on the CUE database. It has provided  a screen shot which evidences that 
CUE now shows the incident was something Mr M notified UKI of, rather than showing  that 
he made a claim. Because the information recorded  in relation to Mr Ms claims history is 
now correct I dont  think UKI needs  to do more anything here.
UKI apologised to Mr M for the mistake  it had made. And it offered Mr M £70 compensation 
to say sorry for the trouble  and upset it had caused.  Ive thought about whether I think  this 
offer is fair. And I think it is.
From reviewing contact notes UKI has provided  me with Im aware  Mr M did need  to call a 
number of times to get the issue resolved. And I can appreciate how this would  have been  
distressing and inconvenient for him  given that UKI should never have recorded that a 
claim had been  made when this wasnt the case. But, I think  the amount of £70 is 
reasonable to reflect  the level of trouble and upset this issue  caused.  
Mr M has said he cancelled his insurance policy because UKI had recorded incorrect 
information about his claims history. But, it was Mr Ms choice to cancel the policy.  And Ive 
seen a call note in January 2019 where  Mr M says he wanted to insure  a taxi  and UKI said 
it couldnt do this. So, Mr M decided to cancel his policy due to this, rather  than the error  UKI 
had made.   If an insurance  policy is cancelled part way through a policy year it isnt possible 
to receive a no claims discount for that year  as the years insurance hasnt been  
completed. So, I dont  think  UKI did anything wrong here. Or that it needs  to do anything 
further in this respect.  
Mr M said UKI should refund the premiums he paid to it. And pay £300 towards  the repairs  
to his car. But I dont  agree. Mr M had motor insurance cover  in place, which  is a legal 
requirement. And he had the benefit  of this cover. So, Im satisfied UKI doesnt need  to 
refund any of Mr Ms premiums  to him. And Mr M didnt make  a claim under his policy.  So, 
UKI wouldnt need to pay anything  towards  the repairs to Mr Ms car. 
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
UKI Insurance Limited to do anything more. 
Ref: DRN39684763Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3968476