K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that a car finance agreement brokered by Chapel House Motor Co ltd 
(Chapel House) was misrepresented  to him. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in August 2019.  I explained that I wasnt  expecting to uphold  
Mr Gs complaint. An extract of that provisional decision is set out below.
Mr G took receipt of a new car in September 2014.  He financed the deal through a hire 
agreement that was brokered by Chapel House. 
He says that when he visited Chapel House he explained to them that he would be using the 
car for personal travel,  commuting, social use and for travelling abroad to visit family. He 
also said he wanted to take out finance that allowed him to upgrade or change the vehicle at 
the end of the term with an option to buy it if necessary. He says he placed a high value  on 
the advice that he was given by Chapel House and that they suggested he took out a hire 
agreement with a limit of 10,000 annual miles. They said that if there were excess mileage 
charges these would  be peanuts and if the car was upgraded at the end of the contract 
theyd be waived.
So at the end of the four year contract Mr G was disappointed  to be presented with a bill for 
£3,607.13 for excess mileage and to be told hed need to pay £7,000 to buy the car outright.
He complained to Chapel  House but they said they had no record of the conversations Mr G 
said hed had with the original sales agent and that the agent  had now left the business. 
They said Mr G had signed to say he accepted the terms of the agreement and they pointed 
out that the agreement explained  the excess mileage  charges that would apply. So they 
didnt think there was evidence the deal had been  misrepresented to Mr G. 
So Mr G referred  his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He 
thought Mr Gs testimony had been consistent  throughout  and he thought  it was therefore 
likely he had been told the excess mileage would be waived. He noted that Mr G had 
explained if hed been presented with all the options he wouldve gone for a deal in which  
the excess mileage was 20,000. So he recalculated  what Mr G wouldve had to pay in those 
circumstances and suggested Chapel House allow him to pay the difference  between  that 
figure and the bill he was presented with at the end of his contract. He also thought it was 
clear Mr G had been inconvenienced by these issues and he therefore suggested Chapel 
House also pay him £100  to compensate  him for this.
But Chapel  house  didnt  agree. They said there was no evidence  of the conversations Mr G 
said hed had with the dealership but it was clear that hed signed a contract  in which  the 
excess mileage charges were explained  and hed have received annual  statements in which 
the terms of the contract would have been  reinforced. So they asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34997412I dont currently agree with the adjudicators view. I know that will disappoint  Mr G so please  
let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G acquired  his car under a hire agreement.  The hire agreement is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the agreement  shouldnt have been 
misrepresented to Mr G. If it was then Chapel House are responsible and Id think  it fair and 
reasonable to ask them to put things right.
Mr G has explained that the sales agent told him the excess  mileage charges would be 
peanuts and would be waived if he upgraded at the end of the agreement. But his testimony 
isnt corroborated by an independent party or by documentary evidence. The sales agent 
has now left the business so its not been possible to check Mr Gs version of events with 
him.
The signed  documentation doesnt  support Mr Gs claim and in the absence  of any 
independent corroboration  of his assertions Im afraid I find the documentation more  
persuasive. I say that because:
Mr G has signed  to say he agrees to be bound by the contract in which the excess  
mileage is stipulated  and theres no guaranteed  final payment by which  he could buy 
the car at the end of the term 
Mr G has explained  that this was the first time hed signed up for a new car 
agreement so I think its reasonable  to have expected him to read through  the terms 
and conditions so he knew  what he was signing up to
Mr G isnt disputing some  end of term refurbishment charges that are being  applied. 
The creditors rights  to charge these  fees are contained in the finance agreement and 
I think its reasonable to suggest that if Mr G was aware of the creditors rights to 
charge these fees he would most  likely be aware  of the excess mileage charges that 
are referred to in the agreement too
Ive considered whether to ask for other evidence from Mr G to demonstrate the sort of 
mileage hed covered  in the past or what he was insuring the vehicle for but in the 
circumstances I dont  think  that would help.
Thats because Mr G doesnt seem  to be contesting that hed be doing more miles than were  
stipulated in the agreement. What hes saying is that the sales agent said the cost for 
completing these miles would be peanuts and would be waived. 
So even if Mr G was able to demonstrate  he had previously  regularly  exceeded 10,000 miles 
a year or that his insurance was set up for an anticipated higher mileage I dont think  it would 
help his case. As hes not disputing the fact he was likely to exceed  the mileage limit.
Ref: DRN34997413The agreement Mr G signed says,  on the first page,  not in the small print, that the agreed  
annual contract mileage is 10,000 and:
If upon  termination the vehicle exceeds the Total Contract Mileage allowance of 40,000  
then any excess mileage  charge will be payable
And even  if the sales agent did promise to waive the mileage charges if a new agreement 
was formed. That doesnt appear to be what Mr G is now considering  as its clear hes 
enquired about  the cost to take ownership  of his current vehicle  and not to finance  a different 
one.
So I explained that I wasnt expecting to uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Chapel House agreed with my decision but Mr G didnt.  He was disappointed  with my 
provisional decision. He said the finance  was mis-sold as the options were  not fully 
explained, nor were the potential costs given true weighting. He said this influenced the 
decision to take the car. He said hed never disputed signing the paperwork and thought  Id 
given too much weight  to this and hadnt  considered  how things were explained during the 
sales process.
Ive considered what Mr G has said and Ive reconsidered all of the available arguments and 
evidence to consider  whats  fair in the circumstances.  Whilst I understand Mr Gs strength of 
feeling I dont  think Ive been  provided  with any new information that would lead me to 
rethink my provisional decision. So my final decision remains unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3499741