K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that as Capquest Debt Recovery Limited (CDR) has been unable to 
provide the credit agreement it cant prove  that a debt is his and that the outstanding  amount 
should now be cancelled  and he should  be reimbursed all of the payments he has made on 
that account. Mr H also asks that his credit file is updated to show  this account  as settled in 
full.
background
In August  1988  Mr H opened a bank account.  Via that account Mr H had an overdraft and a 
loan facility.
The bank says that in or around  2008  Mr H defaulted on his payments to his overdraft and 
loan. It sold the debt on to another company at the beginning of 2012.
In January 2012 Mr H was written to by both the bank and the company that had purchased  
the debt. The company  said that it had appointed CDR to manage the account on its behalf. 
A repayment plan for Mr H was set up by CDR at the rate of £10pm. Between 2012  and 
2018 Mr H made payments to the account and there was also correspondence  and phone 
calls made  by both CDR  and Mr H to each other.
In August  2018  Mr H asked CDR for more information about the debt that it was managing. 
He also asked for a copy of the original signed agreement with the bank.  CDR  said that due 
to the amount of time that had passed  this agreement could no longer be located  and 
provided to Mr H.
Mr H complained to CDR saying that as there  was no clear  evidence in the form of a signed 
agreement that he owed the money the debt should be cancelled  and the payments  hed 
made towards the debt should  be repaid with interest.
CDR said that it would uphold his complaint in that it wasnt possible to provide a copy  of the 
signed agreement  for the bank account  and loan and that this meant  that the debt was 
unenforceable. CDR said it wouldnt pursue him for the balance  although  the outstanding 
amount would remain due. 
CDR said that there wouldnt be a reimbursement of the payments Mr H had already made  
to the account  as these had been validly made towards the debt.
Mr H disagreed with what  CDR had said and complained to this service. Our investigator  
didnt recommend that Mr Hs complaint should  be upheld.  He said CDR had confirmed that 
the debt was unenforceable which was in line with The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
handbook. This handbook sets out the FCAs legislative  and other provisions for firms and 
consumers on the financial conduct  rules that must be complied with and sets out that if a 
copy of an executed agreement cant be supplied then the debt isnt enforceable by a court 
of law.
Our investigator said that due to the time that had passed since the account had been 
opened he didnt  think it was unreasonable that any agreement signed  at that time could no 
longer be located.
Ref: DRN35203582However, our investigator said that although  no copy  of the original signed  agreement could 
be provided that there was sufficient proof there  was a debt outstanding  and money was 
owed to the company. CDR had provided a copy of a bank statement for the account from 
2005 which showed a negative balance; copies of letters set over a number of years  seeking 
and acknowledging  payments made by Mr H towards clearing the debt; contact notes 
showing an agreed payment of £10 per month had been set and copies  of statements 
showing payments  being  made by Mr H and the debt reducing. 
Our investigator said that from the evidence he was also satisfied Mr H had previously  
acknowledged the existence  of the debt. 
Our investigator said he didnt think CDR had acted unfairly in collecting the debt and he 
wouldnt request  that it reimbursed any of Mr Hs payments.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He said that if there wasnt enough evidence  for 
CDR to enforce the debt on behalf of the company then there was insufficient proof the debt 
existed. He said the decision should be made on the documents  alone.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is missing or contradictory  then I must decide what I think  is the most likely 
think to have happened. Here it isnt disputed that there is no copy of the agreement 
between Mr H and the bank, however I have seen copies of other  documents.  Ive seen a 
bank statement for Mr H from 2005, copies of letters  between CDR and Mr H, CDRs notes  
of contact between  itself and Mr H and letters that show the balance was reducing due to 
payments being  made.
Ive seen that CDR has confirmed that this debt is unenforceable due to the lack of the 
original agreement. This is because under the Consumer Credit Act 1974  a consumer has a 
right to request  a copy of their credit  agreement and if this cant  be supplied  then the 
creditor, in this case the company that purchased the debt from the bank, cant  seek  a court  
judgement against  the consumer. This is also set out in the FCA Handbook.
However, if a debt is unenforceable this doesnt mean that the creditor cant ask for the debt 
to be paid and it doesnt necessarily mean that the debt doesnt exist. 
From the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied that Mr H held a bank  account  for a number of 
years and that a debt that had accrued on that account which was sold on by the bank. I say 
this because looking at the letter of assignment sent to Mr H in January 2012  informing him 
the debt had been passed on to another company quotes the same  account number as 
shown on the bank statement that has been  provided.
Im also satisfied that looking at the contact notes created by CDR and the numerous letters 
it sent to Mr H that CDR requested payment from Mr H on behalf  of the company from 2012; 
set up a payment  plan of £10 per month and chased  up payments if they were missed.  Ive 
also seen that the outstanding balance on Mr Hs account which  was being managed by 
CDR was reducing  and it isnt disputed by Mr H that he made  payments to this account.
Ref: DRN35203583Looking at the evidence, I think CDR has acted fairly in managing Mr Hs account on behalf  
of the company that had purchased the debt. It was reasonable  that CDR sought payments 
from Mr H to clear  the outstanding balance of this debt. CDR didnt delay in its initial contact 
and I think its reasonable to say that Mr H accepted the debt was his as he agreed  to meet  
the payment terms in order  to clear the balance from 2012. 
When CDR was asked  to provide  the agreement to Mr H it contacted the bank but, on 
discovering a copy  wouldnt be forthcoming, told Mr H that this debt was unenforceable. I 
cant reasonably  say that CDR hasnt acted in accordance with the laws and rules for debt 
collection. It was entitled  to manage  the account  and seek payment of the debt from Mr H 
even though the company  who owned the debt hadnt been provided  with a copy  of the 
agreement by the bank.
So I think there is sufficient evidence to say that Mr H had an outstanding debt with the bank 
that was sold on to another company. The company who purchased the debt passed  the 
account to CDR  for it to be managed  on its behalf. CDR sought payment for that debt and 
those payments were  made by Mr H. I dont think its reasonable or fair to require these 
payments to be reimbursed to Mr H. Im satisfied Mr Hs payments were  validly  made to 
clear the balance of the debt that CDR was entitled to collect.
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3520358