K820x#14Complaint
Mrs L says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1994.
Background
Mrs L took out a PPI policy   branded Credit Care   to protect  her credit card payments in 
the event of disability or unemployment. Halifax says this was a postal application but Mrs L 
says she the PPI was sold with branch  involvement.  
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mrs L didnt  agree with the 
adjudicator, so the case was passed to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mrs Ls case. 
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs L says she didnt  want  PPI and didnt know it had been added. I cant  say for sure what 
happened but Ive taken  into account what shes said,  together with the paperwork thats still 
available. 
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Ls signed postal  credit card application form and note that, under 
the section headed Additional Services,  theres a tick to indicate she wanted  PPI. Ive 
thought very carefully about Mrs Ls argument that she was sold the PPI in branch  or with 
branch involvement   but I havent  seen enough  evidence to show  that given the layout of 
the application form and the dates it was signed  by Mrs L and, later,  by staff at Halifax.
So, overall, I think Halifax made it clear to Mrs L that it was offering optional PPI and that she 
chose to take it out. 
Ive gone on to look for any other  reasons why I should uphold  Mrs Ls complaint but I dont 
think there are. Halifax says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs L and I think thats probably 
right given the sale took place by post and without, as far as I can tell, any direct  contact  with 
a Halifax adviser. 
That said,  Halifax still ought to have provided  Mrs L with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that she could decide  for herself  if it was suitable. I cant say for 
sure whether  Halifax did that. And I dont have a copy of the specific  policy terms from the 
time. But, from what I know  of Mrs Ls circumstances and experience  of what the main 
features of the policy are likely to have been,  I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking it. I say that because:
It seems  Mrs L would have been  eligible for the cover. And I dont  believe  shed have 
decided against  taking the PPI because of its exclusions  and restrictions. 
Ref: DRN36777592Mrs L says shed  have  got enhanced sick pay from her public sector  employer and 
that she could  have relied on savings  to keep up with her repayments if she wasnt  
working. But the PPI would  have paid out on top of her sick pay and savings, leaving 
her free to use those  other means to cover  her other living  costs  if she was off work. 
The PPI benefits  would potentially have paid out until the outstanding card balance 
was paid off. 
Although Mrs L says she could have relied on her husband if she wasnt  working,  I 
cant see that his income was guaranteed  unlike the PPI benefits. I think  Mrs L 
would have considered the PPI provided  her with useful  extra security.  
Theres nothing to suggest Mrs L couldnt afford the PPI. And it was flexible enough  
that Mrs L could have cancelled it at any time at no extra  cost if she decided  it was 
no longer suitable  for her.
Taking everything into account,  including all the points Mrs Ls raised, I dont  think  shes  lost 
out because of how Halifax sold her the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3677759