K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr S bought the policy in connection with a credit card that he took out some time between
1995 and 2001. Lloyds  cant say for sure whether the PPI was added to the account  at 
the same  time as Mr S applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance  
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr S applied  for his card some  time between  1995 and 2001  and its possible that he 
bought PPI at the same time. But Lloyds doesnt know for sure if this is the case. Ive 
not seen anything to suggest the PPI was taken out after the card. So I think  its 
most likely Mr S bought the PPI at the same  time as applying  for his credit  card.
I think its likely  that Lloyds made Mr S aware  the PPI was optional and he chose to 
take it. I say this because from what  we know about Lloyds sales processes 
between 1995  and 2001, Mr S wouldve had to actively select the PPI on his credit 
card application  form.  On balance, I think its unlikely that Lloyds wouldve added the 
PPI to Mr Ss account if he hadnt  chosen to take it out.
Lloyds accepts that it probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr S, but it doesnt  look as 
if it was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr H says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because  
of sickness or accident, and that he had some  savings.
But the policy wouldve  paid out in addition to his employer benefits, and would do 
so, it seems, for longer.  And it wouldve allowed Mr S to use his savings to cover  
other expenses. So I think  Mr S wouldve had some use for the policy, despite  his 
existing arrangements. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mr S would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had 
a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information  wouldve  stopped  him buying  
it.
Ref: DRN37771252But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3777125