K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that London General Insurance Company  Limited failed to repair his tablet
after he made a clam  under his added  care insurance policy.
For ease any reference to London General includes its agents.
background
Mr F had an Added Care insurance  policy with London General. The policy  covered  his
tablet for accidental damage  from the time of purchase for three years and for breakdown in
the third year.  He made a breakdown claim after he experienced  problems with the devices
battery life and it overheating. At first, London  General assessed it and was unable  to find a
fault. Mr F challenged this and after a second  assessment, a fault was found and repaired.
However, when it was returned to Mr F there was a different fault that meant the screen kept
turning on and off. Mr F complained and London  General offered him £70 compensation for
the inconvenience.
The tablet was then collected and repaired again. When the device was delivered back  to
Mr F, the original fault was still present. Mr F was also unhappy  as during the repair  the
devices software had been updated  to the most  recent version, which he said meant  some
of his apps no longer  worked. London  General  agreed to pick up the device and assess it.
However the repairers tried to fix the faults  and while doing so accidently  permanently locked
it. So London General sent Mr F a refurbished device as a replacement.
When Mr F received the replacement, he said it was also faulty. He made another complaint
to London General.
London General  partially upheld Mr Fs complaint. It said it wasnt  acceptable  that the device
was returned faulty after repair and agreed  that its communication could have  been  better.
However it didnt agree  with Mr F that the repairers  shouldnt have upgraded it to the newest
version of the software, as it said this often fixes faults relating to battery life. It also said that
in order to assess the complaint about the replacement device, it would need to be inspected
but Mr F hadnt arranged  this.
Mr F wasnt happy with this response as he said London General had sent their final
response to his complaint two days after it had told him it would need to inspect  the
replacement device, so he hadnt  had a chance to arrange this. He brought the complaint to
this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and asked  London General if it would be able to
inspect the device. It said as it had now been a number of months  since the replacement
was sent to Mr F, it would  be too difficult to tell if the damage had developed since  he had
been using it or when  it was originally sent to him. Our investigator concluded that London
General should  pay an additional £50 in compensation, on top of the £70 already paid, for
the inconvenience caused.
Mr F didnt  agree with this as he said he was entitled  to a working tablet so London General
should either replace it or give him a full refund.  He asked for the complaint to be looked at
by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN38147462my provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said:
Mr F is unhappy  with the repairs that London  General  has provided under this policy  and I
can understand his dissatisfaction. Hes said that he still doesnt  have a working tablet he
should be provided with a new one or reimbursed  so he can buy one. As the policy  doesnt
include either of these options,  I dont think it would be fair to ask London General to do
either.
Since the complaint has come to this service London General has said it will no longer be
able to assess and repair the faults  as it wont know if the faults have  developed  in the
months since the device  was provided.  The policy says that London  General will arrange  for
the device to be collected and repaired when a fault is reported. I therefore dont think its fair
that London General has said the reason why the device wasnt  assessed initially  was
because Mr F didnt  arrange a collection.
As its London Generals responsibility  under the policy to arrange collection,  it should have
arranged it as soon  as the problem  with the replacement device was reported.  Had it done
this, it would have  been able to assess the claim in line with the policy  terms. As its now
been over a year since the fault was reported, I agree that it wouldnt be appropriate for
London General  to inspect the device now.  I say this because London General has had
plenty of time to arrange collection and inspection of the device.
London General  also said the inspection wouldnt be appropriate  as it doesnt know  when
the breakdown  happened.  As Mr F reported  the fault soon after he received the device, Im
satisfied that he was sent a faulty  replacement. However,  as London General didnt arrange
a collection as it should have, I think the fairest way to resolve this particular  matter  is for it to
provide another replacement device. I say this because this issue  has been  ongoing  for over
a year and London General has had plenty  of opportunity to inspect and repair  the device
but hasnt. I therefore  intend to require London General to provide Mr F with a working
replacement tablet in line with the policy terms.
Mr F has also complained about  the problems hes had during his claim. His device has
been collected multiple times and hes experienced problems when arranging collections. 
Hes then received  a device that is faulty and damaged. Following this he has been provided
with a replacement  that he says is also faulty. This would have been frustrating and
inconvenient for Mr F, as he has had to continually raise the problems with London General
and arrange collections. And he still doesnt have a working device a year after first raising
the issue.
I also think that some of these delays  could have been avoided.  For example the device was
originally collected  and was returned  with no fault detected. However on the second
assessment, the agent did find a fault. As Mr F originally made  the claim about the fault that
was detected on the second assessment, it seems unlikely that this developed between the
first and second inspection. I therefore  think its most likely that this was an oversight  in the
first inspection. Following this, the device was then inspected a further three times and each
time the fault wasnt fixed. On two of these occasions, the device was left unusable.
London General  has upheld this part of Mr Fs complaint and accepted this isnt what  itd
except from its agents  repairs.  London  General has given Mr F £70 compensation. However
I dont think this is enough to compensate for the inconvenience its caused Mr F. From
Ref: DRN38147463looking at the correspondence between Mr F and London General I can see he had to send
a number of emails in the initial stages to establish if it would even consider the claim at all.
He then had to continue to contact  London General throughout the year to arrange
collections and repairs. As well as ensuring  he was in for the collections. If the fault had
been found and repaired on the first collection, Mr F wouldnt have had to make  any further
contact, so this would have saved him a lot of time and inconvenience. I therefore think
London General  has caused  Mr F unnecessary inconvenience by failing to fix his device and
should compensate  him for this. I therefore intend to require London General to pay Mr F a
total of £200 compensation to make up for this inconvenience.
Mr F also complains  that the repair agents updated the device  to the most recent  software
without checking  with him first. Its the devices manufacturer  that develops  the software
updates. They advise that the updates should  be downloaded in order to ensure the device
runs properly. Therefore,  the agent  was acting on the manufacturers guidelines when
downloading the software update, which I think is reasonable.  Any problems that Mr F feels
were caused  by the update would  be better raised with the manufacturer  directly.
response to my provisional  decision
Mr F accepted my provisional decision with no further comments.
London General  responded to say that the reason it hasnt organised a repair is because  
Mr F didnt  instigate one. It said it wasnt able to do this without his instruction. Further 
London General  said the policy would only provide a refurbished device as a replacement, 
not a new one. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand London Generals comments about  Mr F needing to instruct it to instigate a new 
repair. However from looking  at the emails  between London General and Mr F, he was 
asking for more information  about the process  that would follow if he did instruct a repair. 
During this conversation a final response was issued by London General. I can understand 
why Mr F may have been  hesitant to go ahead  with repairs straight  away, following the 
experience he had up until that point.  And he wasnt given an opportunity  to understand the 
process before the final response  was issued. I therefore think  London General should have 
given Mr F an opportunity to arrange a repair before issuing its final response.
In regards to the replacement  device,  in my provisional decision I stated that I intended  to 
require London  General  to provide a working  replacement device in line with the policy  
terms. I did not require  this replacement to be a new device. London  General has agreed to 
do this on the condition that it can collect the faulty device from Mr F, I agree that this is fair. 
Based on these reasons and after considering all the evidence  again, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision.  I therefore  require  London  general  to provide Mr F with 
a working replacement device, but on the condition that the faulty device is collected. I also 
require it to pay Mr F £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused, as 
explained in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN38147464my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold this complaint. I require London General Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Provide Mr F with a working replacement  tablet, on the condition  that the faulty device is 
collected by London  General. 
Pay Mr F a total of £200  compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has
caused. London General  Insurance Company Limited must  pay the compensation
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr F accepts  my final decision. If it pays
later than this it must also pay interest  on the compensation  from the date of my final
decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3814746