K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out to protect 
loans in 1999 and 2001. Miss M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and I will explain why.
Nationwide had to make Miss M aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent 
before adding the policies  to her loans.  Miss M has she thought the PPI was a standard 
requirement of the loans.  I cant be certain what was said when Miss M applied for her loans 
and PPI but Nationwide has sent us a copy of the available  paperwork.
The loan agreements  for both 1999 and 2001  that were signed  by Miss M describe the 
policies as Optional Credit Insurance the forms also show a cost for the loan and for the 
PPI separately from each other. Nationwide has also provided a copy of the Miss Ms loan 
application for the loan taken in 2001. Within the application is a section for PPI with equally 
prominent options to accept or decline the policy.  The option to take the policy  has been 
selected, and the application  form has been  signed.  With this in mind  I think Nationwide  
made it clear  that Miss M didnt have  to take out the PPI and she chose to take them out  
although I can understand why she may not remember  this. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI policies to Miss M so it didnt have to check  if they 
were right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss M got the information  she needed to 
decide if they were  right for her.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Miss M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had 
available which included sick pay, redundancy pay, and help from her husband. But the PPI 
would have paid out in addition to and for longer than Miss M would have received full sick 
pay. The policy would also have covered circumstances that her redundancy cover wouldnt  
have. And while  Miss Ms husband would have wanted to help his ability to do so would have 
been dependant on his circumstances  which could have changed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Miss Ms circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the non-
disclosure of commission where PPI was sold.
Ref: DRN35021552The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007,  or agreements  taken out before then, which  were  still 
running on 6 April 2008.
So Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss M for the loan she took out 
in 2001 because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss M about that. Because  Nationwide didnt 
tell Miss M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide  has offered to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium for the loan Miss M took out in 
2001- and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
For the loan Miss M took out in 2001  Nationwide has to pay back to Miss M any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Nationwide should also 
pay back to Miss M any extra interest she paid because  of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Miss M the extra she paid each month on the loan she took 
out in 2001 because the commission and profit share was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium - including any extra Miss M paid if the loan was paid off early.  Nationwide  should 
also pay Miss M 8%* simple interest on the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss M can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN35021553my final decision
The PPI policies werent mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium attached to the loan she took out in
2001.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3502155