K820x#14complaint
Mrs D says Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mrs D bought the policy in 1999 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. 
At the time,  Mrs D was employed  as a teacher. She has told us she was entitled to sick pay, 
redundancy pay and death  in service benefit  through her employer. She also says she had 
some savings she couldve used  to repay the credit card if she was unable to work. Mrs D 
has said shed had a medical procedure and suffered an injury several years before the sale. 
BOS hasnt been able to provide a copy of the policy terms from the time of sale.  I dont think 
thats unreasonable given  how long ago the policy was sold. But Ive looked at the nearest 
available policy terms (which I think are likely  to be the same as, or at least  similar  to, 
Mrs Ds policy terms), to help me decide  this case.
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  10% of Mrs Ds credit  card balance  in the event 
of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost around  78p per £100 of the monthly outstanding 
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit  card account  closed in 2006. 
Mrs Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ds representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs D wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ds 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Mrs D about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs D and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
Ref: DRN37086932The information Mrs D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN37086933I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ds case.  
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Mrs D with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BOS gave Mrs D sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs D and BOS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ds complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs D know she had a choice?
BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Ref: DRN37086934Mrs D says she applied for her credit card through the post. BOS has provided a copy of her 
credit card application form. This had a separate section for PPI (called  credit  card 
repayments cover at the time).  There was a box for customers to sign requesting cover and 
one for customer to sign declining it. On Mrs Ds form, shes  signed  the box requesting  
cover. There  was nothing  on this form indicating the PPI was compulsory. And as there  was 
a clear option to decline  cover   I think Mrs D wouldve known she didnt have  to take PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mrs D knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says it didnt provide  advice during this sale. Mrs D hasnt said if she agrees. Looking  
at what happened  when BOS sold Mrs D the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. I 
say this because  I havent seen any evidence  suggesting BOS sought  details of Mrs Ds 
circumstances to assess if the policy was suitable,  or that it gave  her a tailored 
recommendation to take the PPI. 
This means  BOS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs D. Instead,  it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs D to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
BOS has provided us with Mrs Ds application  form  showing that PPI had been selected. It 
has also referred us to a copy  of the paperwork it says she wouldve received,  including the 
policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied  to 
policies like Mrs Ds. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs D at the time, I dont think BOS gave Mrs D the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  by post. I can see the application form described the PPI policy as 
providing cover against unemployment, accident and sickness.
The information provided would have given Mrs D a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was BOSs responsibility to draw  to Mrs Ds attention the important  information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded BOS did enough to do this. For example,  I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mrs D, including the need  to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that BOS  adequately drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think BOS  gave  Mrs D sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
Ref: DRN37086935attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ds. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ds representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs D about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs D has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Mrs D? To what extent did Mrs D suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mrs D. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs D suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs D would have still 
taken out the policy,  had BOS done  things properly.  
Mrs D says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs D had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs D chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs D thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs D has suffered any loss or detriment.  
Ref: DRN37086936In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs D ought  reasonably to have known she would have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  10% of her outstanding balance  this 
was set out on the application form. But I accept that BOS didnt make clear  the on-going 
cost information.  So, while  Mrs D didnt  know  some things, the ultimate  position  in the event 
of a successful claim was not dissimilar  to what  she would reasonably have thought  from the 
information she based her decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs D thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms that 
Mrs D knew about  or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy,  
which recurs within the 12 months  of the start date.  It also excluded claims relating to 
medical conditions  for which treatment  and/or  advice has been suggested by a 
registered medical practitioner  during the 12 months period prior to the start date of 
the policy which recurs within 12 months of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs D 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs D be unable  to 
do her own job or any work  which her experience or training  qualified her to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mrs D pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs D from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mrs D says she had a medical procedure and 
an injury several years  before she took the PPI, I dont think  better  information  about this 
exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. I say this because Mrs D hasnt said she 
suffered any ongoing problems  with these conditions once she recovered  from them.  So, I 
dont think she wouldve envisaged needing  to make  a claim because of them. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  she wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs D might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs D 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs D, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs D had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable to do her 
job but also unable  to do any work  which in the insurers view she might be qualified  for, it 
Ref: DRN37086937might have played into her thinking  about what she would do. And I accept it may have given 
her pause  for thought  although given Mrs Ds circumstances, on balance,  I still think  she 
would have been interested in taking out the cover.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs D would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits and savings. And in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that she would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mrs Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs D would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs D 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs D in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Mrs D compensation, as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Ref: DRN37086938Im also aware that Mrs D thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BOSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why BOS  failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Mrs D, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ds representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find BOS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mrs D and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that BOS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs D in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2021.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3708693