K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the way Lloyds Bank  PLC treated him when he was experiencing 
financial difficulties.
background
Mr M had a current account (with an overdraft facility) and a credit  card with Lloyds.  Mr M 
contacted Lloyds in March  2018  to explain that he was experiencing financial difficulties.  He 
was a full-time student and didnt have an income at the time. He was relying on the financial 
support of his partner  but he told Lloyds that the situation was temporary. Once his studies 
were complete, hed be free to apply for jobs.
The Lloyds representative referred him to a third-party debt advice charity  and also offered 
to suspend charges  and fees on his account.  Unfortunately, Mr M was unable to make any 
further payments  towards the account  and so by September,  Lloyds  recorded  that the 
account was in default and engaged  the services of a third-party debt collector  to seek 
repayment from Mr M. This period coincided with Mr M receiving a life-changing diagnosis  
and experiencing significant mental health difficulties. This interrupted  his academic studies 
and understandably made  it considerably more difficult  to manage his accounts with Lloyds.
Mr M contacted Lloyds again in February  2019  and asked to come to an arrangement to 
repay the debt.  He wasnt aware that Lloyds had passed the debt on to a third party  and was 
unhappy that it had done so without his permission.  He wasnt willing to discuss  the debt 
with a third-party and said hed only make  repayments to Lloyds. 
Lloyds didnt agree  to this and so Mr M complained. He later referred  his complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an investigator  who didnt uphold it. The investigator said:
Lloyds had taken  appropriate steps when Mr M contacted them and explained  his 
financial difficulties
The terms of the agreement Mr M had with Lloyds  meant  it was allowed to engage 
the services of a third-party for debt collection purposes
Although Lloyds would be expected to consider Mr Ms personal  circumstances, such 
as his physical  and mental health,  there wasnt evidence that Lloyds knew  about  
these circumstances.
Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said that the way Lloyds  handled things 
was dehumanising and exacerbated his mental  health difficulties He found the tone of the 
correspondence he received from the third-party  debt collectors threatening. He didnt think  
Lloyds had met its obligations under the Equality Act 2010. Because  Mr M disagreed with 
the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to come a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Lloyds was expected to treat Mr M fairly  when he let it know of his financial  difficulties  in 
2018  what this means in practice  will naturally vary from customer to customer, but 
generally speaking,  its expected to consider options such  as the suspension  of interest,  
Ref: DRN39469962allowing customers to make reduced  payments or take payment  holidays, extending the 
term of any borrowing and so on. 
Lloyds asked several questions about Mr Ms financial  position. Mr M confirmed that he 
temporarily had no income, was relying on his partner for support and the situation wouldnt 
change until after hed completed his studies. Lloyds suspended charges on Mr Ms 
borrowing. It also closed his overdrawn current account to prevent any future  payments to 
him being automatically eaten up by that accounts outstanding balance. Overall,  in view of 
Mr Ms circumstances,  I think these  were appropriate measures to have taken.
Mr M is unhappy  that Lloyds handed  over collection activity to a third party without his 
agreement. But the terms and conditions  of the account allowed it to do so and Lloyds isnt 
required to ask for the permission of affected customers. 
Mr M says that the correspondence sent to him was threatening. Ive looked at a selection of 
the letters he received. But I dont consider that the language or content of the letters  was 
inherently threatening. Having said that, given  what  Mr M has told us about what  he was 
going through at the time, its completely understandable why he would conceive of them in 
such a manner. And of course, its often not appropriate for a business  (or its agent) to use 
the same  form of interaction  for all of its customers. It must be mindful  of the need to treat 
some customers (for example, those with mental health difficulties) with a different level of 
sensitivity. 
Unfortunately, I agree  with the investigator that theres no available evidence  to say that 
Lloyds or its agents  ought to have been aware of Mr Ms circumstances. Its internal  system 
notes dont show that any record was taken of Mr Ms diagnosis  or his mental health 
difficulties. Ive also listened to several phone calls Mr M had with the business in which  it 
isnt raised. Mr M is right that, although  this service cant make a direct  finding on whether 
what Lloyds has done has breached  the Equality Act 2010,  it is one of the things  that we 
consider when looking at whether hes been  treated fairly. But the enhanced obligations 
Lloyds would owe him can only arise once it knows (or ought  to know) about his 
circumstances. Because  Ive not found  any evidence  to show  that he mentioned  his 
diagnosis or mental  health difficulties to Lloyds,  I cant say it did anything  wrong  by failing  to 
take them into account. 
Following the intervention  of the investigator, Lloyds  did agree to contact  Mr M and discuss  
the possibility  of managing his debt in-house. Mr M recently told the investigator  that this 
hasnt happened  yet. I want to remind Lloyds that, as a result  of investigating this complaint, 
it is now aware of Mr Ms circumstances. It is therefore required to take these circumstances 
into account in future  interactions with him. If Mr M feels  that it hasnt done so then hell be 
free to raise a new complaint  with Lloyds which can later be referred to this service if 
necessary. 
Ref: DRN39469963my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3946996