K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that Canada Square  Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold him 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  in 2000,  with a new credit card. He said he didnt need 
PPI and didnt  want it.
Ill refer to CSOL for consistency  as its now responsible for the sale.
background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mr M with a view that his complaint shouldnt  
be upheld. But Mr M didnt agree with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I can see Mr M applied  for his card over the internet. I sympathise that he might  not 
remember exactly what happened from this far back, but Im afraid  I think  hes more  likely to 
have agreed to the PPI when he made his application.
I say this because  weve looked in detail  at CSOLs processes from that time and how it 
generally sold these  policies over the internet. And we know  from what  weve  seen that the 
online application required the consumer to either say that they wanted   or didnt want   
any PPI, before they could go to the next stage of the application.
This sale was around 19 years ago now, so CSOL no longer has access to his actual online 
form. But it sent us an example from its library of the type of screenshots  Mr M wouldve 
seen during the application process.
Using this  and my experience of similar  sales Ive seen   I think Mr M would have been 
able to see he had a choice. I also think its more likely Mr M properly consented to the PPI 
by selecting the yes,  rather  than the no box, during the online application process. Its also 
my experience that consumers who had asked for the PPI were sent a welcome letter about 
the cover.
CSOL also sent us copies of Mr Ms monthly  credit card statements. These show that he 
was being regularly charged for PPI and it was described as Credit  Card Repayment 
Protection on the statements. I think if hed never asked  for the PPI, he would have wanted 
to know what these  charges were  for.
I think all these things point to Mr M agreeing to the cover and to being  aware  it had been  set 
up for him on his credit card account.
Because this was all done over the internet, I dont think this PPI policy  was recommended  
to Mr M as part of an advised sale. Instead,  I think he wouldve made his own way through 
Ref: DRN35944872the application and it was his own choice as to whether  or not he ought to buy the PPI. 
CSOL still had a responsibility to provide information that was clear, fair and not mis-leading.
On the web-based form Mr M used, I think he would have had access  to a link explaining 
more about the policy.  And this link wouldve been  next to where  he made  the yes / no PPI 
selection. I also know that CSOL usually could have made things a little clearer during the 
process. But overall, this doesnt change what I think about this case.
This is because Mr M was eligible for the cover  and not caught  by any of the main 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. The cost was 59p per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding credit card balance and I think this made the policy generally affordable for him.
Mr M said he already enjoyed good protection from sickness through his job and so didnt 
really need any PPI. Ive thought very carefully  about this and I do understand his point. But 
this doesnt make the PPI of no use to him. The policy would have covered Mr M in the event 
of him being  unable to work  or losing his job in addition  to any other means he already had 
in place. And in the event of a successful claim,  it wouldve paid off 10% of his outstanding  
credit card balance for up to a year.
Because of all these  things, I think the policy was of use to Mr M and I think  its fair to say 
thats probably why he chose  to buy it at the time.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or direct Canada  Square Operations  Limited to pay any 
compensation. I understand hes had a separate letter about the commission  element of the 
sale.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3594487