K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about a loan he took out through a company called Elevate Credit 
International Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. Mr C says he was lent to irresponsibly 
and the loan being granted caused  him financial  problems.
To keep  things simple  Ill refer mainly to Sunny throughout this decision.
background
We now know that Mr C took out 1 loan from Sunny, in August 2018. Ive enclosed  a 
summary of Mr Cs borrowing, based  on the information it provided to us. It can be found in 
the appendix at the end of this decision.  One of our adjudicators has looked into the 
complaint and said they didnt think it should be upheld. Ive now been asked to make  an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Cs 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that Mr C could 
repay the loan he was given in a sustainable  manner.  These  checks ought to have taken into 
account a range of different factors, such as the amounts  being  lent, the total repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully  considered all of these things 
and what they mean  for Mr Cs complaint.
Sunny said it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr C, including assessing  
his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that based on what  was said,  this 
Ref: DRN30195872information showed that Mr C would be able to make the loan repayments he was 
committing to. 
Im afraid I too dont  think  theres enough evidence to uphold his complaint. Mr C only took 
out 1 loan with Sunny. He declared his net income (after tax) as £1,350  per month  and he 
also provided details  about his expenditure. I think  the repayments  were probably affordable, 
not least because  the amount being  borrowed  was extended out over 6 instalments. 
Nevertheless, we gave Mr C the opportunity to explain more about any affordability issues 
he had, but we didnt hear back. So it seems  to me the repayments were  within  Mr Cs 
capacity to repay given  what  he himself  had declared his income  to be.
Its possible that more  thorough  financial  checks couldve  exposed  Mr Cs financial situation  
more clearly. But as Ive mentioned above, he was still in the very early stages of a lending 
relationship with this business and there doesnt  seem to be anything that would have 
caused Sunny to think he was in financial trouble or might be unable to pay this loan back. 
In short,  I think the checks carried out in this case were  proportionate and Im afraid there 
isnt enough evidence to uphold Mr Cs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited to pay Mr C any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020. (In the current circumstances, Mr C can do this by 
scanning the reply form we've attached  and emailing it back to us or he can just reply  to by 
email to let us know. We're not currently able to receive it by post) .
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30195873Appendix:
 
Loan Date Taken Date  Repaid Instalments Amount Highest  Monthly 
Repayment
1 24/08/2018 Outstanding 6 £900.00 £300.00
Ref: DRN3019587