K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about errors  made by Lloyds Bank PLC when they sold their 
property in 2015. They say that in error Lloyds removed  a charge over a property that was 
mortgaged to another bank and that this has caused them  considerable trouble, upset and 
inconvenience.
background
Mr and Mrs B owned a parcel  of land which included holiday chalets and their residential 
home. It was mortgaged to Lloyds  and TSB under various commercial loans and a 
residential mortgage. It is only the residential mortgage which is the subject of this complaint. 
That mortgage was granted  in 1996  by Lloyds TSB Scotland plc, which  was at the time a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of Lloyds Banking Group.  In 2013 Lloyds TSB Scotland plc was 
separated from the Lloyds  Banking  Group and the name  was changed to TSB Bank plc. The 
residential mortgage was then with TSB and the commercial loans with Lloyds.
In 2015 Mr and Mrs B sold the entire  holding  the commercial units  and the residential 
property. Their solicitors asked Lloyds (not TSB) for a redemption  statement, which  was 
provided, covering  the commercial loans. The solicitors discharged the securities  with the 
Registers of Scotland, including the security on the residential property, held by TSB.
The day after the sale it came to light that the debt to TSB was still outstanding, even though 
the security for the debt had been discharged.
Mr and Mrs B complained about this, first to TSB and then to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think  TSB was at fault. He said that 
it wasnt entirely clear what had happened, but it did seem to him that Mr and Mrs Bs 
solicitors might not have  realised there  were  two separate lenders or that the banks had de-
merged. But he didnt  think  TSB was at fault.
Consequently, Mr and Mrs B complained to Lloyds about what  had happened. Lloyds  didnt 
think it had done  anything wrong. The bank  explained that it provided redemption figures for 
the loans it held. It had no involvement in the TSB loan and didnt know  how the security for 
that loan could have been discharged.
Dissatisfied with Lloyds  response,  Mr and Mrs B complained to us. An investigator looked at 
the complaint  but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with her findings. 
They say that we need to do the right thing and find that the reason for the loan being left 
unsecured is that the security was not transferred when TSB and Lloyds  were  reorganised. 
As a result, theyve been left with an unsecured loan which they never wanted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive also read the file on the 
related complaint against TSB.
Where the evidence is missing or incomplete, I have to decide,  on the balance of 
probabilities, what  I think  is most  likely to have  happened, based on the information  and 
evidence that is available.
Ref: DRN30940082The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs B say that after Lloyds and TSB de-merged in 
2013, the security  for their residential property was not released to TSB. That,  they say, is 
why when they sold their commercial property the security for the residential property was 
discharged at the same time, leaving  them with an unsecured loan.
TSB said to us that it didnt know if the error was that of the solicitors, the Land Registry or 
Lloyds. But TSB didnt think it was at fault.  TSB was never asked to provide a redemption  
figure for the mortgage  on the house.
In an email to TSB dated 27 March 2018 the solicitors have explained that the residential  
property comprised part of the title to the entire property, including  the holiday chalets. When  
TSB became a separate legal entity  from Lloyds in 2013, it was the responsibility  of TSB, not 
Lloyds, to ensure  that it held proper security  for any mortgages. That would include any 
property where the title was required to be split.
Looking at the title entries  (which are only available  for the property since the sale  there 
are no historic entries from 2013 or 2015) it appears  that the land (including the house) is all 
held under one title number. I dont know if that was the case  before the properties were sold 
in 2015 or at the time of the de-merger of the banks in 2013.  But if it was necessary to split 
the title to the property to ensure the mortgage  on the house was separate from the 
commercial property once  the banks became separate legal entities, it was up to TSB to 
make sure this was carried out.
In the circumstances, Im unable to find that Lloyds  is to blame if the title to the house was 
not split from the commercial property in 2013.
I also note that the solicitors refer to TSB when discussing the redemption figures given by 
Lloyds for the commercial  loan. I agree with the adjudicator who looked  at the TSB complaint 
that the solicitors  dont  appear to have  been  aware of the distinction  between Lloyds and 
TSB or that the house and the chalets were mortgaged to separate  banks.
Without seeing the solicitors file, its not possible  to determine exactly what  happened here 
when the properties were  sold. But from my experience as a conveyancing  solicitor, I would 
have expected the solicitors to have asked  Mr and Mrs B whether there were any charges 
on the properties, who held them and approximately how much  was outstanding. Thats 
standard information which would, or should,  have been obtained at the initial  stage of the 
transaction. So Id have  expected both the solicitors and Mr and Mrs B to have been  aware  
of approximately  how much they owed Lloyds  and TSB.
The solicitors confirmed  that they were  provided with redemption  figures  from Lloyds for five 
accounts totalling just over £450,000.  I dont  know  how much  was owed to TSB on the 
residential mortgage in 2015. In 2018 it was just over £30,000. 
Given this, Id have  expected either the solicitors or Mr and Mrs B to have queried  why there 
was a shortfall in the amount they were  being asked to repay on completion  of the sale, 
assuming the information had been  given to the solicitors  at the start of the transaction.
If TSB had not taken  steps to separate the house from the chalets as a separate legal title 
when the banks de-merged in 2013,  this would  explain why the security was discharged  
when Lloyds signed the discharge of security  for its own loans. As I said above, Lloyds 
wasnt responsible  for ensuring TSB held proper security for its mortgage.
Ref: DRN30940083In all the circumstances, having looked  at the available  evidence  and what I think  is likely to 
have happened, I dont  think Lloyds  has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 June  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3094008