K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that a car he has been financing through a finance  agreement with FCE 
Bank Plc (FCE)  has not been  of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr D took receipt of a new car in March 2017.  He financed the deal through  a hire purchase 
agreement with FCE.
He had problems  with the car in February  2018 when he noticed the coolant level was low. 
He returned the car to the dealership  and they replaced the cylinder head gasket and 
subsequently needed to replace the followers, valves and the plugs. The car was with the 
dealership for some  time and Mr D eventually  got it back in May 2018. At that point the car 
had completed 4,658  miles.
But later that month Mr D noticed the car was backfiring and overheating. A software  
upgrade was completed but no improvement was noticed and Mr D was still complaining 
about the same issue in September  2018. At this point the dealership identified low coolant  
levels. Mr D asked to be allowed to reject  the car in October 2018 and also in February  2019  
when he was still experiencing overheating and when  a leaking pipe was identified.  
FCE would  not allow him to reject the car as they said there  was no proof the fault was 
present when Mr D took receipt of the vehicle, when they said they were responsible for the 
cars quality.
So Mr D referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He 
noted that the car was brand new and he explained that he would therefore expect it to be 
more durable than it had proven to be. He understood that it had been  difficult  to obtain all 
the job sheets  for the work that had been completed  but he listened to voicemails provided 
by Mr D in which it was clear there  were  still coolant faults in September; an issue with the 
radiator cap in November  and a leaking pipe in January  2019.  He therefore thought there 
was evidence this car had not been of satisfactory  quality. 
The adjudicator suggested FCE should allow Mr D to reject the car and terminate his finance 
agreement. He said the deposit should be returned  with interest and 15% of finance 
instalments should  be returned to Mr D because of the lack of use hed experienced. He also 
thought FCE should  pay him £250 to compensate  him for his loss of expectation and for the 
multiple visits hed had to the garage. 
FCE didnt agree with the adjudicators view. They said Mr D didnt have a right to reject the 
vehicle as there was no proof the problems  were there from the beginning. They explained  
that, as such a long time had passed before  any issues  were  identified, the onus was on 
Mr D to demonstrate the faults were present at the point of supply: they didnt think  he had. 
FCE therefore asked  for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN30016392I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint FCE so please  let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired  his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then FCE, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr D. This car was 
brand new and I would not expect it to have  any faults when supplied.
The relevant  legislation  also says that I should take into account whether  a car has proven to 
be suitably durable  when I consider whether its been of satisfactory quality.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask FCE to put this right. 
But FCEs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards 
such as those relating  to wear and tear.  
FCE are right to suggest that legislation would encourage  us to assume that if a car 
developed a fault in the first six months it was likely  to have been there from the point of 
supply. The relevant legislation says that:
goods which  do not conform  to the contract at any time within the period  of six months 
beginning with the day on which the goods  were delivered to the consumer must be taken 
not to have conformed to it on that day.
If the fault happened after that, as is the case here,  wed usually look to the consumer to 
prove this was the case.
But here I think ample evidence has been  provided that this car wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
because its not proven  to be suitably durable.
I think a reasonable  person would expect  a new car not to have significant engine trouble  
after less than 5,000 miles had been covered.  Here I think  the car has suffered significant 
Ref: DRN30016393engine problems as I can see the followers and valves needed  replacing  along with the head 
gasket. Mr D seems  to have accepted these repairs and if theyd worked this may have been 
the end of matters.  But the problems had clearly not gone away  in late 2018 as Mr D was 
still complaining  of coolant  loss and overheating and was still having to return the car to the 
dealership for further attention.
The dealerships attempts to repair the problems dont  appear,  on balance,  to have worked 
and I dont think it was fair to expect Mr D to put up with such significant problems on a new 
car: they werent  trivial issues.
I therefore agree with the adjudicator that FCE should now allow  Mr D to reject the vehicle. 
They should  return  his deposit and as hes been deprived of this money they should  pay 
interest on that sum.  The car has been  at the dealership frequently and for lengthy periods of 
time. I think, in those  circumstances, FCE should  refund  15% of all instalments paid in 
respect of lack of use and they should also compensate Mr D for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced having to take the car for repair and when having to pursue 
his complaint. In the circumstances I would agree with the adjudicator  that £250 is 
reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FCE Bank Plc to:
allow Mr D to reject the car and terminate his finance agreement  at no further cost to 
him;
collect the car at no cost to Mr D;
refund  any deposit that was paid by Mr D and add 8% simple interest from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement;
reimburse 15% of all finance instalments  that have been paid by Mr D to compensate 
him for lack of use;
pay Mr D £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3001639