K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy which was taken out in 2002 during a meeting 
when Mr and Mrs A applied for an additional loan secured on their home. The policy covered 
them for accident and sickness and the benefit  was shared equally between them.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs A didnt 
agree saying, in summary, that:
They  werent  asked  about their health  and whether they had any pre-existing medical  
conditions.
The bank advised them to take out the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Mr and Mrs A say they hadnt  taken out PPI in 2000  when they applied for their mortgage 
and they didnt ask for it in 2002.  They say they visited the branch to apply for a loan and 
Nationwide presented the policy to them. I accept this probably  what happened.  But it 
doesnt follow that because Nationwide explained to Mr and Mrs A why they should consider 
applying for a PPI policy, that it advised them to take the policy. I havent seen evidence to 
persuade me that Nationwide gave a personal  recommendation  to Mr and Mrs A that, in their 
particular circumstances,  they should take the policy.
The secured  loan application  form includes the wording We strongly  recommend  that you 
protect your monthly payments against sickness, accident and unemployment.  But this 
doesnt amount  to a personal  recommendation aimed at Mr and Mrs A. I cant conclude  that 
Nationwide recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs A, so it didnt need to check that it was 
suitable for them.
So the key question I need  to consider  is did Nationwide give Mr and Mrs A information that 
was clear, fair and not misleading in order to put them  in a position where they could decide 
for themselves whether  the policy would be useful. And, if there  was a problem with the way 
the policy was sold, then I need  to consider whether  Mr and Mrs A are worse  off as a result.  
That is, would they have done  something  different  such as not taking  out the policy   if 
there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs As complaint and will explain why.
Ref: DRN30530102The mortgage application included a separate section headed, Mortgage  Payment  
Protection Insurance, and asked the question, Do you wish to cover your Flexible  Advance  
payments with Payment  Guard?  In the box, the member of staff has typed yes which 
suggests to me that there was a discussion about  PPI and Mr and Mrs A decided that they 
wanted it  they wouldve had to give their consent for the member of staff to complete the 
box with a yes. A separate PPI application form was completed  and Mr and Mrs A wouldve 
had time to check and review both applications before they signed them.
Overall, I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs A aware that PPI was optional  and they chose 
to take it out.
Its possible the information the society gave  Mr and Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But I dont think they would have been put off taking out the policy  if 
theyd received better information. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs A were  eligible for the policy  given  their circumstances and the terms and 
conditions.
Mr A was self employed. But hed chosen to be covered for accident and sickness  only 
so any conditions affecting a claim for unemployment  for self employed  people wouldnt 
have applied.
Mr A told us he had a pre-existing medical condition and that the exclusion clause 
wasnt made  clear.  Under the terms of the policy, pre-existing  medical  conditions  were 
excluded for the first 12 months of cover.  The policy was intended  to be in place for the 
lifetime of the mortgage.  Even though Mr A told us he hadnt needed to take any time off 
work for the condition, so he probably thought  hed have been unlikely to need to make  
a claim for that condition, he wouldve been covered after the first 12 months anyway. 
So I think  he wouldve thought the policy still provided  a good level of cover.
Mr A was self employed and wouldnt have  received any pay if he couldnt work due to 
sickness or an accident. So its likely Mr A did want  to make  sure he had some  cover in 
place. Mrs A told us she wouldve received generous  sick pay of at least  six months  full 
pay followed  by six months half pay. But the policy wouldve  paid out for up to 24 
months if either  of them couldnt work  due to sickness  or an accident. The mortgage 
was a major long term financial commitment  and their home was at risk if they couldnt  
meet the repayments.  So I think its likely  they wanted  some additional cover if either of 
them couldnt work.
I cant  see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated  to Mr and Mrs A before 
they agreed to purchase it. I dont think they were  told it would cost £21.50  each month 
until after the mortgage  had started. For this reason I have considered whether clearer 
information about  the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs As decision to purchase  the 
policy. They had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. So 
I think it unlikely they would  have made a different decision if better information about 
the cost had been  provided.
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs A lost out because of anything Nationwide did wrong, 
because I dont think better information would  have put Mr and Mrs A off taking out the 
policy.
Ref: DRN30530103my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3053010