K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of his car 
insurance policy.
background
Mr As car insurance policy was with Admiral. On 1 February 2016,  Mr As wife, who is a 
named driver on the policy, was involved in an accident with a motorbike. They both said the 
other was at fault.  Both vehicles  were  damaged and both Mrs A and the motorbike rider 
were injured.
Admiral settled the motorbike riders claim on a without prejudice basis.  That means that 
although they settled the claim, they didnt admit any liability on Mrs As part. When Mr As 
policy was renewed  in late 2016,  his premium almost doubled. The increase was in part due 
to the accident  Mrs A had that was recorded  as a fault claim against the policy.
Mr A complained. But Admiral didnt  uphold his complaint. As Mr A wasnt happy with 
Admirals decision,  he brought  his complaint to our service. One of our adjudicators looked 
into the complaint.  She felt that Admiral acted fairly. But as Mr A didnt agree with our 
adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 22 March 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im intending to 
uphold this complaint.  I have to decide  if Admiral  have  treated Mr A in a fair and 
reasonable way.
settling the motorbike riders claim
Like most motor insurance  policies,  Mr As policy gives Admiral the discretion to 
settle claims as they feel appropriate. They dont need his permission before doing 
so. But I expect Admirals  decisions to be fair and reasonable. Especially as 
decisions on settling third party claims can have  serious consequences  for policy  
holders and their named drivers. In Mr As case,  settling  the claim has resulted in a 
fault claim being recorded against  Mr As insurance  record which has resulted in his 
premium going up. This is likely to affect him for some years  to come.
I have to look to see if Admirals decision to settle the claim was fair and reasonable, 
and if they investigated it before making their decision. Admiral said that they 
considered the following:  the police report; the report of the independent investigator 
instructed by Admiral;  Mrs As account of what happened; Mrs As sister-in-laws  
statement who witnessed the incident; the motorbike riders  account; photographs 
and video footage taken  by Mr A; and other information.
Of note are the following comments recorded by Admiral in their claim file:
Come to decision on Liab[ility] - don't think we're going to dispute liab[ility] in full. 
Advsd [sic] why... In police report what has been written by police is that we've 
pulled onto opposite  side of the road. If this was to go in front of a judge they will 
go with the factual evidence they have in front of them.
Ref: DRN34317972
Explains that we're going  to make a WOP [without prejudice] offer.
We don't  think we're  responsible but we want to buy off the [third party]  claim to 
avoid it going  so far to get to court.
Claim is still unresolved in terms of liability and we have settled on WOP due to 
costs.
The decision to settle the claim was made  on an economical  basis.
We would not be admitting liability but looking to settle.  Not 100% fault. Felt [the 
motorbike rider has] some negligence towards this.
Dealt on economical basis, this is a process insurance companies  do.
I think Admirals  decision  to settle the claim was, as they have said,  to avoid potential 
costs going up. And while some investigation  was done, I feel more could have been 
done. It would also appear that mistakes were made. The following are of note:
The attending police officer recorded their opinion of how the collision occurred 
after speaking with Mrs A and the motorbike  rider. Their record concluded that 
Mrs A was turning  into her sister-in-laws driveway which meant  Mrs A drove into 
the other lane into the path of the correctly proceeding oncoming motorbike rider. 
The officers diagram  shows  the sister-in-laws house and driveway  on the 
opposite side of the road from where  Mrs As car was. If that diagram were  
accurate the only way Mrs A could get to the driveway was to drive across the 
motorbike riders  lane who was travelling  towards  her from the opposite  direction. 
But the officers diagram was incorrect as the sister-in-laws house and driveway 
was on the side of the road Mrs A was on, so she had no need to drive into the 
other lane into the path of the oncoming motorbike rider. Due to the inaccuracy of 
the police  report,  the officers conclusion suggested that Mrs A was to blame for 
the accident. Admiral  placed reliance on this report.
The following was recorded  in Admirals claim file: Mr A is unhappy that we have 
not fought their case on liability.  He is unhappy that we have based our decision 
on the contents of the police report as he wants us to challenge the police report  
as he thinks it is wrong. He is unhappy  I will not provide a copy  of the police 
report to him for data protection purposes - Overall he feels we have not acted in 
his interests As Ive explained above,  the police report was indeed wrong and 
Mr A was adamant  that that was the case even without seeing  it. Had he been 
provided with a copy he would have been able to point  the error out to Admiral.  I 
understand they didnt disclose it because it had the details  of the motorbike  
rider, but they could  have  redacted  personal  details out. After all, the police report 
was important. 
The independent investigator said Mrs A was a good and consistent witness. 
Admiral said the dispute essentially involved Mrs As word against that of the 
motorbike rider.  But that wasnt correct because Mrs A had a witness  who saw 
the incident, her sister-in-law. Admiral have said the sister-in-law  isnt 
independent. But that doesnt mean  her evidence  is worthless, or that she is 
prohibited from giving evidence in court. There are many cases  that go to court 
where the only witnesses are related  to the parties. And cases  do succeed on the 
basis of the evidence of witnesses who are related to the parties. I think  Admiral 
unreasonably disregarded the sister-in-laws crucial evidence. 
Mrs A said that motorbikes frequently speed  along that road.  She said she has 
seen the motorbike rider and his friends  on their motorbikes before. She said his 
friends often ride dangerously and at speed,  sometimes they  try to ride on one 
wheel, doing stunts. Mrs A also said there have been complaints to the police.  
Ref: DRN34317973Mr and Mrs A have  lived on that road for around 10 years so I think  they are 
familiar with what goes on. I think a reasonable line of enquiry  would have been  
for Admiral to ask the police if there were any records of reported  incidents 
involving motorbikes speeding or riding  dangerously, but as far as Im aware no 
such enquires were made.
Admiral concluded  that it was likely  Mrs A wanted to park on her sister-in-laws  
drive that was to her left, so she may have swung out to the right encroaching 
onto the oncoming  lane and the motorbike rider so as to give herself a wide 
berth. But I have seen the photos of the road and the drive  and they show  the 
pavement in front of the drive is wide and has a dropped curb,  which means  it 
would have been possible for Mrs A to have turned onto the drive to park without 
the need to give herself  a wide berth. I dont think Admiral took sufficient 
consideration of that. I acknowledge that Mrs A said she never  intended to park 
on the drive but was going to momentarily park on the road in front of the drive  to 
collect someone.
Mrs A and her sister-in-law both said the motorbike rider was travelling fast 
towards Mrs A, that he lost control and skidded towards her at an angle before he 
crashed into her while at all times she was on the correct  side of the road. Mrs A 
was travelling at a very low speed  in readiness of stopping to park. I have seen 
the video footage  of the aftermath of the scene  and it does show a very clear, 
long skid mark in the road that is consistent with Mrs As account.  The skid mark 
is black and starts  in a straight line then bends  at an angle towards Mrs As cars  
location. The thickness  of the mark is consistent with the wheel of a motorbike. I 
think Admiral didnt  place  sufficient  emphasis on this evidence.
Because the motorbike driver was injured as a result of the accident and claimed 
against Mrs A, Admiral instructed their solicitor  to defend her. The legal advice has 
been inconsistent  in that different solicitors  who have  had conduct  of the case have 
given different opinions as to the chances of success. I understand Mrs A won the 
court case  and the motorbike rider has been  held to be at fault for the accident.  So 
given the nature of the accident and the claim of serious injury, I think it would  have 
been reasonable for Admiral to have got a legal opinion on the chances of success 
before settling the claim. But they didnt.
Given the above, I intend to uphold this part of the complaint and intend to require 
Admiral to: correct the insurance databases to show the accident  as non-fault; 
reinstate any lost no claims bonus  years;  pay Mr A £500 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he and Mrs A experienced,  especially as this matter has 
been ongoing for over three  years; and to refund the portion of the 2016 premium  
increase added because of the fault claim against the policy.  Interest should be 
added at a rate of 8% simple  from when Mr A paid the renewal premium until a 
refund is made.
premium increase on renewal
Mr A wasn't happy with the level of the 2016 premium increase. The premium for the 
2016 renewal  almost doubled  when compared  to the 2015 premium. When setting 
that renewal premium Admiral took into consideration a number of factors, including 
the fault claim resulting from Mrs As accident.  
Admirals given me information  showing  how it calculated Mr As premium.  Having 
looked at that, I can see that the renewal  premium calculation was in line with 
Ref: DRN34317974Admirals rating guidance (what they base their premiums on). I think  at the time of 
the renewal the claim was still open (not yet settled),  but open  claims are treated as 
fault claims so when Admiral calculated  the renewal premium they would have 
treated the open claim as a fault claim. So while  the actual renewal premium  
calculation was correct  at the time, given my provisional findings  above, namely that 
Admiral should correct the insurance database  records to show  Mrs As accident as a 
non-fault claim on the policy, they should refund  the portion of the premium  that 
increased because  of the open claim. Admiral should recalculate the 2016 renewal 
premium on the basis of Mrs As February 2015  accident  being a non-fault  accident. 
Any reduction in premium should be refunded to Mr A with interest, as described  
above.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Mr A agreed with my provisional 
decision, but he said he felt the compensation should be higher  than £500.  Admiral accepted 
my findings  in part, they said:
Mr As no claims bonus has been  allowed.
The incident has been amended from a fault claim to an open claim on the 
insurance database records until Admiral recover their outlay from the other driver.
They dont agree to the £500 compensation as they were entitled  to settle the claim 
as they did.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. But I would like to respond  to the additional  comments as follows:
While Admiral are in the process  of recovering their outlay from the other driver, I dont think  
its fair for the claim to remain as open  on the insurance database  records.  Open claims 
are treated  as fault claims for the purposes  of setting premiums. The accident happened 
over three years ago and I have found  that Admirals investigation and decision to settle 
wasnt reasonable. So I dont think it would be fair for Mr A to be penalised with potential 
higher premiums going forward until Admiral recover their outlay, which  may take some  time. 
Admiral should therefore  correct all records as soon  as possible to show  the incident as 
non-fault.
While the policy does  give Admiral  the discretion to settle claims as they feel appropriate,  as 
Ive said in my provisional findings  I expect Admirals decisions to be fair and reasonable. 
But in this instance, I dont think their decision to settle was fair or reasonable. As a result,  
Mr A had to take the matter to court  himself  and has had the matter  hanging  over him for 
over three years. I therefore think Admiral  should pay him £500 compensation to address the 
distress and inconvenience Mr A has experienced. I understand why Mr A feels  that amount 
doesnt go far enough, but having  considered  all the circumstances of this complaint I feel 
£500 is an appropriate amount of compensation.
Ref: DRN34317975my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance  
Company Limited  to:
Correct the insurance database records to show that Mrs As accident was non-fault.
Recalculate the 2016 renewal premium  on the basis  of there  being  a non-fault accident. 
Any refund due to Mr A should include interest  at a rate of 8% simple a year from the 
date he paid the premium until the refund is made.1
Pay Mr A £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to him and Mrs 
A. This should  be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr A has accepted  my final 
decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.  
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
1 If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Mr A how much they have taken off. They  should also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3431797