K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a credit card. The late Mr M said American Express  Services  Europe Limited 
(AMEX) mis-sold  him the PPI.
To keep  things simple,  and in the hope  that Mrs S doesnt mind,  Ill refer to the late Mr M as 
Mr M throughout my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr M said he was told hed have a better chance  of being approved for the credit card if he 
took out the PPI. AMEX says that this was a postal application and that it had no interaction 
with Mr M at the time,  asides from the provision of the application  itself.  Ive looked closely at 
the application form Mr M completed at the time and I think its likely that this was a postal 
application as it was addressed to Mr M and included information  on how to complete the 
form. So Ive not seen any evidence that Mr M spoke  to anyone from AMEX  who couldve 
given him the impression  that he would only get the card if he took out the PPI. 
Mr Ms application form included a section for PPI where Mr M ticked  the box to agree to 
have the policy.  But Ive not seen  anything on the form which suggests this was a 
compulsory product or that taking it out would improve his chances  of getting the card.  So I 
think Mr M wouldve known he couldve left this box blank  if he didnt want  PPI. So based  on 
everything Ive seen I think AMEX made it clear that Mr M didnt  have to take out the PPI and 
he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this.
AMEX didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if the PPI was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if the policy 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information AMEX gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. When looking at the cost of the policy  and the 
benefit it wouldve  provided, I think the benefit wouldve been useful to him and I dont think  
its cost made it unaffordable for him. 
Ive not been given  any information about  Mr Ms sick pay entitlement at the time, but Mr M 
said that he didnt  have any savings or other  insurance which he couldve relied on if he was 
suddenly unable to work. So Ive not seen any evidence that the policy wouldnt have been 
useful for Mr M and based on what Ive been  told, I dont think better information about  the 
policy would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN33944012Ive also thought about the commission Mr M paid on his PPI  and whether AMEX treated 
him unfairly.  
AMEX has told us that the commission  for Mr Ms PPI was less than half of what he paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how AMEX  has been working this out and based on what  
weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Ms commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, I dont  think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont think 
AMEX treated him unfairly.  This means it doesnt  need to pay Mr Ms estate any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision on behalf of the late Mr M before 28 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3394401