K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold them  two mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies. 
background
In 1996 and 2008, BoS sold Mr and Mrs G two regular premium  PPI policies  each one 
protecting their joint mortgage repayments if either was unable to work because of disability 
or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint about  either policy should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs G disagreed, so the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why. 
BoS doesnt still have all the paperwork that was completed at the time of these sales.  Thats 
not surprising,  especially  given that the first policy was sold more  than 20 years ago. But its 
provided screenshots from its computer systems that show Mr and Mrs G answered a 
number of questions  about their personal  circumstances which related to the sale of PPI in 
2008. And the paperwork they were sent  albeit just after that sale  refers  to them as 
having chosen to take PPI. 
So Ive nothing to indicate Mr and Mrs G didnt agree to take PPI in 1996, or that they didnt 
know it was optional. And, on balance, I think PPI was discussed with Mr and Mrs G in 2008.  
From what  I know of BoS sales processes  back then, I dont think  its likely that it would 
have added this cover without getting their agreement to take it.
The parties agree that BoS likely recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. That meant  BoS 
needed to take steps  to ensure its advice was right for them.  Regardless  of what  steps it 
took, I think the PPI it recommended was right for them  in any case. 
BoS hasnt been able to provide  the applicable policy  document for the sale in 1996, so Ive 
based the following on other  policy terms and conditions from after the sale,  and on 
experience of the typical main features and limitations of these  types of policies.  I also have 
a copy of the policy document from 2008. With that in mind,  Im satisfied Mr and Mrs G were  
eligible for the cover and werent affected by any of the main things the policies excluded or 
limited cover  for. I cant see that theyd have found  the monthly premiums unaffordable  
either.
Mr and Mrs G say theyd have received generous sick pay from their employers and held 
savings which meant they didnt need PPI. But the PPI benefits would have paid out for up to 
12 months per claim, and covered them  for unemployment too. The PPI would have allowed 
them to retain their savings if either of them wasnt working or use them towards covering 
their ongoing  living  costs at what could have  been a difficult time. Given  Mr and Mrs G had 
Ref: DRN31183372taken out mortgages  important financial commitments  that were  secured against their 
home  I think theyd have valued  the extra security  the PPI provided.  
BoS also needed to ensure that it gave Mr and Mrs G enough information about  the PPI 
policies for them to decide for themselves if they were right.  I think its possible that the 
information it gave  them could have been better than it was, both in 1996 and 2008. But, for 
much the same reasons that I dont think the PPI was unsuitable for them, I dont  think that 
better information would  have  changed  their minds  about taking it. I think  they would  still 
have thought the PPI gave them useful benefits at an affordable cost.
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Mr and Mrs G have lost out because  of how BoS 
sold them  either policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3118337