K821x#15complaint
Mr G and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC failed  to honour a cheque  drawn on their 
joint account when  it should have, and that it closed their joint current  and savings  accounts  
without giving proper  notice.
 
background
cheque incorrectly dishonoured
In November 2012 Mrs R reported the joint account cheque book lost and Lloyds put a stop 
on it. In January 2013 Mrs R contacted Lloyds to say the cheque book had been found.  Mr G 
then sent a cheque to another bank to pay his credit  card bill, but Lloyds didnt honour the 
cheque because it hadnt removed the stop.
Lloyds issued its final response letter on 22 April 2013. It upheld  the complaint and offered 
compensation of £235. It said that the complaint could  be referred to us within 6 months of 
its letter. 
In February 2016  Mr G brought this complaint to us. In mid March 2016  our investigator 
wrote to Mr G enclosing  a copy of the April 2013 final response letter  Lloyds had provided to 
him. He said it would be too late to bring this complaint to the ombudsman  now.  
Due to Mr Gs absence overseas with a medical  condition this complaint was on hold for 
quite some time. In mid 2018 another investigator took on the file. She issued her view in 
October 2018. She agreed with our previous investigator that this complaint had been made 
too late for us to consider  it. 
Mr G asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
Joint accounts closure
By letter dated 2 April 2015 Lloyds  wrote to Mr G saying that following a recent review of his 
account, it was unable to maintain a banking relationship with him. It gave him notice that his 
accounts would be closed on 1 June 2015.  Lloyds advised that he would need to make 
alternative banking  arrangements by that date.  
Mr G was away overseas from 3 April to 28 May due to a death in the family. So he didnt 
actually see the letter until 29 May.  He immediately  visited  his regular bank branch where he 
spoke to an Assistant Manager.  He says she told him she couldnt see a reason for the 
closure but could  see a reference to adverse transactions.  He also spoke to the manager  
who couldnt give him any further information.
Mr G telephoned the complaint  department  of Lloyds  on 30 May. He also wrote the bank on 
31 May, asking it not to close the accounts at that time.  He wanted to know  the reason for 
the closure, and if Lloyds  did want  to proceed with the closure, he wanted two months  
longer. He acknowledged the terms and conditions allowed Lloyds to close accounts without 
a reason by giving two months notice,  but hed been  away. 
On 1 June, Lloyds wrote to Mr G, explaining  that it was unable to go into specific  detail about 
why the accounts were  closed, as the criteria  were  confidential. The letter  said it hadnt been 
Ref: DRN37015252possible to get agreement from the account  review team  to extend the time for closure and 
the account had been closed at around  noon that day. 
Lloyds apologised  for the account closure  letter  being issued  in his name alone, even though 
the main account  was held with Mr Gs wife. It offered compensation of £100,  which  Mr G 
didnt accept.
In early August  2015 Mr G complained  to us. He wanted his account restored with the full 
benefits he had at the time of closure. He said the closure had drastically affected his credit 
score. He also wanted an apology and compensation.
In November 2015 we received a complaint form signed by Mr G and Mrs R. This was 
necessary because the accounts were held jointly. 
In December our investigator gave  Mr G an indication that he thought the reason for the 
account closure was a CIFAS warning put on credit reference files by another  financial 
institution. But some  time after that Lloyds confirmed to our investigator that it wasnt due to 
the CIFAS warning. Our investigator told Mr G this, and said Lloyds wasnt  willing  to give the 
reason for closing  the accounts, and it didnt have to. It had given notice. 
In mid February Mr G responded, saying  Lloyds had closed  the account half a day early. He 
thought this was done  on purpose and it caused  problems for him and his wife as he had 
many direct debits in place on the joint account. He also said that if it had informed his wife 
of the closure  (as it should  have) she would have had time to open another account.  He 
asked our investigator to consider this when  considering compensation for stress, 
inconvenience, and financial  difficulties caused  by the closure.  
On 9 March our investigator  wrote to Mr G, saying hed asked Lloyds whether it would pay 
compensation of £200 for the issues caused  by the joint account closure notice going only to 
Mr G, and for the problems with his safety deposit box (which Ive dealt with in another 
decision notice because  it concerns only Mr G.) He said he didnt think anyone  had promised 
Mr G that the account would stay open for longer, but only that itd try. 
Shortly afterwards Lloyds  agreed to pay the compensation recommended  by our 
investigator. On 18 March  2016 our investigator  sent his view to Mr G, confirming he thought 
the amount of £200 compensation was fair. 
On 23 March 2016 Mr G replied. He said he understood  that banks could close  accounts 
without a reason  but in this case the reason was due to an error of Lloyds in relation to the 
credit card payment. He asked us to liaise  with Lloyds  and the other bank so liability is 
placed appropriately. 
Our investigator said he couldnt  consider  the issues concerning the credit  card payment and 
the other banks actions  concerning adverse reporting and CIFAS because  the complaint 
had probably been  brought to our service too late. So his assessment of the current  
complaint hadnt  changed- he still thought £200  was fair. 
Mr G had been overseas  for some time and was unfortunately unable to travel due to a 
medical condition,  so the case was put on hold. In mid 2018 another  investigator took over 
the file. She conducted a full review.  This included the letter Mr G sent in April 2018  setting 
out events and their impact.  
Ref: DRN37015253In October  2018 our investigator gave her view on the complaint.  She acknowledged  hed 
been overseas  when  Lloyds sent the account closure letter  and that he didnt open it until 
close to the deadline. She said the account  closure  letter shouldve been  addressed  to Mr G 
and his wife. We couldnt  make  Lloyds give a reason for the closure, but Lloyds had told us it 
wasnt due to the CIFAS  indicator. 
She thought  Lloyds had caused  inconvenience  with the notice going to one account holder  
only and she also thought £200  compensation for this and the safety box issues (dealt with 
in another decision notice) was fair. 
Mr G asked for a decision from an ombudsman. He referred our investigator  back  to his 
letter of April 2018 showing  the impact of the Lloyds actions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see Mr G feels very strongly that 
Lloyds have shut their accounts unfairly and for a reason that is Lloyds fault. But Im afraid 
Im going  to have  to disappoint him and Mrs R as I agree with our investigator, for much the 
same reasons. 
Having looked  very carefully at the file, I agree with our investigator  that the complaint about 
the cheque being dishonoured has been  brought to our service  too late for us to consider it. 
I can only decide complaints where I have the legal power to do so. The rules that contain 
my legal powers are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) Rules,  known as the DISP 
rules. These are contained in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) Handbook. The rules  
specifically provide time limitations within which to refer complaints to this service. DISP rule 
2.8.2 says that we cant consider a complaint if it is referred to us more than six months after 
the date the business  sent its final response to the complaint, unless the business agrees to 
us considering it or there  are exceptional circumstances. 
Lloyds have not agreed to us looking at the complaint. So I have to consider  the time limit. 
Lloyds has said it sent its final response  letter to this complaint on 22 April 2013. Im satisfied 
that it meets the criteria  for being  final response  letter as set out in DISP rule 1.6.2. So the 
complaint should  have  been brought to our service no later than October  2013.  Instead, it 
was first raised with us in February  2016. And Ive seen no evidence  to suggest that there 
were exceptional  circumstances that prevented Mr G from raising the complaint with our 
service by October 2013. 
So Im afraid  I cant consider the complaint in relation to Lloyds dishonouring his cheque 
because I dont have  the legal power  to do so. Im sorry to disappoint him and Mrs R. 
In his letter to us of 9 April 2018 Mr G has set out what he says are the consequences of 
Lloyds error  in relation to the cheque.  He says his credit history has been ruined, he has 
been accused of fraud,  and his Lloyds  accounts have been closed, along with the closure of 
an account at another  bank. But Im afraid Im unable to consider any of this because  his 
complaint has been made too late. 
Joint accounts closure
Ref: DRN37015254Mr G thinks the accounts have been  closed  because of the Lloyds error in relation to his 
cheque that led to the CIFAS report.  As Ive said above, Im unable to consider that issue 
because I dont have  the power  to do so. But I can say that Lloyds have told us that the 
accounts werent closed  because  of the CIFAS notice. Ive no reason to doubt this. 
Lloyds is able to close accounts without giving  a reason, provided it gives  the appropriate  
notice. The bank has accepted that it should  have given notice of the joint account closures 
to Mrs R as well as to Mr G. It offered £100 compensation for this. Our investigator 
recommended compensation of £200 in total for this issue  and for the difficulties with Mr Gs 
safety deposit box. Im dealing with the complaint concerning the safety  deposit  box in 
another decision. She didnt say how this compensation was allocated between  the two 
issues. I think it is reasonable to split it evenly, so I need to consider whether £100 is fair 
compensation for the failure  to give notice to both account holders. 
I think that it is. I appreciate Mr G thought the amount offered was insulting,  given  the 
consequences of the Lloyds error in relation to the cheque, and of the account closures. But 
I cant consider the cheque issue. And I cant hold Lloyds responsible for all the 
inconvenience that follows from an account  closure, since Lloyds  is entitled  to close  
accounts provided it gives notice. 
I agree  that if Mrs R had been given notice other arrangements may have been able to have 
been made before the account was closed on 1 June 2018. But the arrangements  would still 
have had to have been made to move  any direct debits and open  a new account.  The lack of 
notice did potentially prevent the use of the current  account switch service  which  would have 
been the most convenient method. So I think £100  is a fair amount of compensation and that 
is what I will tell Lloyds to pay for this inconvenience. I know  this will disappoint Mr G and 
Mrs R and Im sorry for that. 
Mr G is unhappy the accounts were  closed at mid day on 1 June,  and not at the end of the 
day. But the bank didnt  say when on 1 June it would close the accounts. And I agree with 
our investigator that there is no evidence to suggest  that this was done to prevent an 
extension of time before the accounts were closed.  
my final decision
My final decision is that:
(a)I do not have  the power to consider the complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC incorrectly 
dishonouring a cheque drawn  on the joint account.
(b)Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mr G and Mrs R £100 for inconvenience in relation to the 
closure of their joint accounts.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2018.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37015255
Ref: DRN3701525