K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says The Royal  Bank of Scotland plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Ts credit card account  when  she applied  for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators opinion.
Mrs T mainly complains  that she was entitled  to significant sick pay benefits, and if the costs 
versus benefits, as well as the optionality of the policy had been made clear to her, she 
wouldve declined the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ts complaint  because:
I think RBS made Mrs T aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. RBS 
has provided a copy  of the credit card application she completed. Mrs T had to tick to add 
the policy to her RBS credit card and it looks as if Mrs T did this. And shes  signed  and dated  
the completed application. This sale took place a long time ago so I can understand why 
Mrs T has forgotten these  details now. But, from what  Ive seen, she made it clear on the 
application form she signed that she wanted to take the policy  out. So, on balance,  I find that 
RBS did make it clear that PPI was an optional feature, and that Mrs T applied to have it. 
RBS didnt advise  Mrs T to take out the policy so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable for 
her. But it still had to make sure that Mrs T had enough information to make  a proper 
decision about whether PPI was right for her.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. Ive taken into account  Mrs Ts comments,  including what  shes  said about  having 
other means  to cover the repayments. But Mrs T chose to take out the policy  and so appears  
to have wanted this type of cover despite  this. 
And I cant reasonably  say that Mrs T couldnt  have benefitted from the PPI. She was 
entitled to 6 months full sick pay, followed by 6 months half pay. But the policy  wouldve paid 
more than her minimum credit card repayments  in addition to this sick pay, for up to 
12 months if she couldnt work, providing  a useful  extra benefit at a difficult  time. 
Although Mrs T had life and critical illness insurance, PPI provided a different sort of cover  
and wouldve paid out in other circumstances. So this information  doesnt affect my overall  
view.
Ref: DRN35936492There were some things the policy didnt  cover.  But it doesnt  look as if those applied  in 
Mrs Ts case.  So, I dont think having  more information about things the policy  didnt cover  
wouldve affected her decision to take out the policy .
I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mrs T before she agreed 
to buy it. But she chose  to take it out so it looks like she wanted to have the benefits  the 
policy offered, despite the other  means she says she wouldve been  able to rely on. And it 
doesnt look as if the policy was unaffordable for her. 
So I think it unlikely Mrs T wouldve made a different decision if better  information  had been  
provided. On balance I think shed still have taken  out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 July 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3593649