K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Yorkshire  Building Society  (YBS), then trading as Barnsley Building 
Society, mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with his mortgage.
background
Mr T took out a mortgage with YBS in 1992. Its likely that at the same time he was sold a 
PPI policy  which wouldve covered his mortgage repayments for up to a year at a time if he 
couldnt work.
Mr T says he doesnt remember being  told about the PPI and that he didnt need  it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ts complaint should  be upheld. Mr T disagrees, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken it 
into account when  deciding this case. Having done  so, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr T says he doesnt recall ever being  told about  the PPI. I can understand why Mr T wouldnt 
remember much about it as it happened over 26 years ago. But YBS has been  able to provide 
a copy of his mortgage  application  form which shows that he ticked to say he wanted the 
policy. The wording on the form made  it clear  that he had a choice about buying it.
YBS say that Mr T wouldve then filled out a separate PPI application which wouldve been 
sent to the insurer.  There is no copy of this available, which is understandable  given the time 
which has passed. But I dont think the policy couldve  been set up, or the premiums taken 
from Mr Ts account,  without this happening. 
So on balance, on the limited information  I have,  I think  its most likely Mr T bought the PPI 
knowing he had a choice  about it.
YBS didnt give Mr T a personal recommendation about the PPI, so it didnt have  to take 
steps to make sure it was suitable  for him. But it did need to make  sure Mr T had all the 
information he needed to make his own decision.
Theres no copy of the original policy terms, so I have based  this decision on the terms most 
commonly seen in similar policies sold around the same time. After  so many  years,  I cant 
know what information Mr T was given about  the PPI at the time of sale. But looking at 
Mr Ts circumstances  at the time I dont think even if the information wasnt  as good as it 
should have been that more information wouldve made him change his mind about buying 
the policy. I say this because:
Mr T was likely  eligible for the policy, as he was of working age and in employment  and 
resident in the UK;
Ref: DRN38031642Mr T doesnt seem  to have been affected by any of the terms which commonly  make  it 
more difficult to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or certain employment circumstances;
Mr T says hed have received some sick pay from his employer. But the policy wouldve 
paid out in addition to this and for longer  than his full sick pay wouldve  lasted;
Mr T didnt have any other  means  to make  his mortgage repayments. He was solely  
responsible for them, so if he was made  redundant I think hed have found it difficult to 
meet his financial  obligations  without  the PPI;
Its not clear how much the PPI cost, but I havent  seen anything to suggest  that the 
payments were unaffordable for Mr T.
So, on balance, I dont  think Mr T lost out as a result of anything YBS mightve  done  wrong
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint, so it follows that Yorkshire Building  Society  doesnt  have  
to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3803164