K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc acted  unfairly and unreasonably when dealing with 
his mortgage application. He wants to find out why his application  wasnt  successful.
background
Mr J wanted a mortgage from Santander,  and said that his application wasnt successful, but 
was told that if he increased  the deposit  available from 5% of the propertys value to 10%, it 
would be approved. Mr J increased his deposit  and got a mortgage  offer,  but Santander then 
refused to proceed. Mr J said that he was told that the refusal  was connected  to CIFAS, a 
fraud prevention service,  but CIFAS said that it held no entry about Mr J in its databases for 
the address hed supplied  to it. A credit reference  agency  also confirmed that there  were  no 
CIFAS markers  against  Mr J in its records.
Mr J complained to Santander.  It said that it couldnt provide detailed information,  but he 
could contact CIFAS for more information. Santander explained  that mortgage offers could 
be withdrawn at any time if additional checks were required.
Mr J complained to us. The adjudicators view was that the mortgage offer made it clear that 
it could be withdrawn under certain conditions, and Santander was entitled  to carry out 
checks, even  after making a mortgage  offer. She said that it was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances for Santander to withdraw its offer, and this service wouldnt ask Santander to 
give Mr J a mortgage. The adjudicator also explained that Santander didnt have to give a 
detailed answer  about its refusal to give Mr J a mortgage, but she was satisfied that its 
refusal wasnt for an unlawful reason, such as discrimination. The complaint wasnt  upheld.
Mr J disagreed. He said Santander had lied and said that there was a reason connected to 
CIFAS for its refusal, when CIFAS had said otherwise. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive had the benefit of seeing all the evidence  available  in Mr Js case,  including confidential 
information that I cant disclose to him. Having reviewed this information, Im satisfied that 
the reason why Santander withdrew  its mortgage offer had nothing  to do with Mr Js race or 
religion but was due to further checks it carried out after making the mortgage offer.
Under the terms and conditions  of the mortgage offer, it can be withdrawn in certain 
circumstances. The information  Santander  received after making the offer in my view met 
the criteria to allow it to withdraw the offer. I appreciate Mr J has tried to find out from third 
parties what the information is; I suggest  that he may wish to discuss further with CIFAS and 
third parties to see if they can assist him further.  But Santander doesnt have to give more 
information about its refusal and its fair and reasonable in the circumstances for it to refuse  
to do so and simply withdraw its offer.
Ref: DRN33967142my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject  my decision before 
26 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3396714