K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  misled  him about information 
it had asked for when  considering a claim made under his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr B is insured to drive a vehicle under a policy owned by his son. The policy is underwritten 
by Admiral. 
In January 2017 Mr B registered a claim with Admiral. He said hed parked the vehicle on a 
road and another vehicle had caused it damage. Admiral initially agreed  to settle Mr Bs 
claim based on the information hed provided. But when the third party disputed liability,  it 
asked for more information.  An engineer inspected the vehicle but wasnt able to determine  
how the accident had happened  and whether the damage could have  been  pre-existing.
Mr B asked Admiral to obtain  Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) footage from his Housing 
Association (HA) and the council. He believed the footage from the HA would show him 
leaving his car park on the day of the accident without the vehicle having any damage. He 
also thought the councils  CCTV system would have captured  his journey to the road where 
he parked, again  showing  that his vehicle wasnt damaged prior to the accident.  
Admiral wasnt  able to obtain  the CCTV footage  from the HA as it said it was given the 
wrong email address  by them. By the time it found  this out and resubmitted  the request, the 
footage was no longer available. Admiral didnt request  any CCTV footage  from the council. 
It said in its experience, the quality of the footage  wouldnt have shown what  it considered to 
be minor  damage to the vehicle. Mr B complained  about this and the time taken to make a 
decision on the claim. 
This was the subject  of a separate complaint with our service that was determined by an 
ombudsman. He concluded that Admiral  had delayed making a decision on liability and 
recognised a number of other customer service issues.  He awarded a total of £400  for the 
trouble and upset  caused. However, he thought it was reasonable for Admiral  to not request 
CCTV footage  from the council.  He also didnt think Admiral was at fault for not being  able to 
obtain footage from the HA as it hadnt  been  given the right email address.
Mr B made a subject  access  request to Admiral. As a result he was able to listen to a call 
Admiral had made to the HA on 16 February 2017 to request the CCTV footage. Admiral had 
previously told Mr B that the HA had provided the incorrect email  address in this call, which  
had ultimately prevented  them from obtaining  the CCTV footage. However, the recording of 
the call demonstrated  that Admiral  had in fact been  given  the correct  email address.
The ombudsman was asked to consider this information and whether it would have made a 
difference to his final decision. The ombudsman ultimately didnt think  this would have made 
a difference to his decision. This was because even  if the CCTV footage showed the vehicle 
wasnt damaged  prior to the accident,  it wouldnt have  helped to determine  liability. That is, 
whether the accident and damage occurred in the way Mr B says it did.
A senior  manager  at our service told Mr B that he could  make a new complaint about the 
email address issue to Admiral, but any new complaint wouldnt  be able to address the 
concerns already considered by the ombudsman.
Ref: DRN31111252Mr B referred his new complaint to Admiral.  It accepted that the call handler  had misheard  
the email address given to it by the HA and that this had ultimately  led to the CCTV footage 
being unavailable. It offered Mr B £250  for the trouble and upset caused and to cover the 
cost of Mr Bs calls.
Mr B didnt accept this and referred  his complaint to our service. Our investigator thought the 
compensation offered by Admiral was fair. He said he could only consider the trouble and 
upset caused  by the misinformation.  This was because the impact of the availability  of the 
CCTV footage  had already been considered by an ombudsman.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Admiral should  have  obtained CCTV from the council and the HA. 
He believed it would have shown his vehicle wasnt damaged prior to the accident and so 
Admiral wouldve been able to settle  the claim. As Admiral failed to obtain  this he believed 
he should receive £15 per day in compensation from the date of the accident.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Admiral has made  
a reasonable offer to Mr B in respect of the concerns raised, so Im not asking it to do any 
more to put things  right.
I know Mr B will be very disappointed with this. But a lot of the concerns hes raised were 
considered by the ombudsman who issued a decision on his previous complaint. Our rules  
say that I can dismiss a complaint if the subject matter has already been considered  by this 
service. Im not dismissing this complaint, but I wont be making any finding on whether or 
not Admiral should  have  requested CCTV footage from the council. And I wont be 
considering whether Admiral would have accepted his claim if the CCTV footage  from the 
HA had been  available.  These issues have already been addressed under the previous 
complaint reference.
It isnt in dispute that Admiral was given the correct email address by the HA to request the 
CCTV footage. And that Admiral incorrectly told Mr B and our service  that the HA had given 
it the wrong email  address. The issue I have to consider is whether the compensation 
offered in respect of this mistake is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B argues  that if Admiral hadnt made  the mistake with the email address,  the CCTV 
footage wouldve been obtained  and it wouldve accepted his claim sooner. So, he believes it 
is fair for Admiral to compensate him for the delays  in settling the claim since  then. But as 
Ive said above,  the ombudsman has already considered whether the CCTV footage 
wouldve made a difference  to the acceptance  of the claim. So, I wont be considering this 
further.
Instead, Ive focused  on the trouble and upset caused to Mr B by being told the wrong 
information about the email address. Its clear that Mr B has spent considerable time on this 
issue. He had to make a subject access request  in order to obtain the call recording and on 
learning it was Admiral who had made the mistake, he felt let down  by the way his claim had 
been handled from the outset. Mr B has also lost the opportunity  to see the CCTV footage,  
Ref: DRN31111253which may have given him some clarity on the matter. And I understand why he feels  his 
claim cant be fairly assessed without it.
Admiral offered Mr B £250 to compensate him for this. Having carefully considered  the 
above, I think this offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr B has asked  how this compensation has been arrived  at and whether there  is a 
calculation involved.  When he wrote to us in March 2019, he said this was the equivalent of 
£0.31 per day for every day that had passed since the accident  in January 2017. I havent 
used any calculation to arrive at the figure of £250. But Ive considered  the impact of the 
error on Mr B and the disappointment he experienced as a result   I think £250 is fair and is 
broadly in line with awards I would make for similar administrative mistakes. The 
compensation offered isnt related to the delays Mr Bs experienced since the accident 
happened, which were considered by the ombudsman  previously. So, it isnt appropriate  to 
measure the compensation  in these terms.
Overall, I think the offer made  by Admiral to compensate  Mr B for its mistake  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  has made  an offer to pay Mr B £250. I conclude that 
such an offer is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of this complaint.
My final decision is that Admiral Insurance Company Limited should pay Mr B £250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3111125