K821x#15Complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc rejected his claim  under  Section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section  75).
 
Background
In July 2018, Mr P used his HSBC credit card to buy tickets for return flights. The tickets  
were for flights to take place in April 2019 and cost £1,164.51.
On the outbound flight Mr Ps seat was faulty.  He said it didnt recline and he had to sit 
upright for the duration of the flight (almost  12 hours). He asked  to move sets but as the 
flight was full this wasnt possible.  Mr P said that due to his height this meant  for a 
particularly uncomfortable journey  and he needed a massage on arrival at this 
destination. On returning home he contacted  the airline to ask for part of his flight  cost to 
be refunded. He was instead offered frequent flyer points which  he declined.
Mr P raised a section  75 complaint with HSBC Bank. He said that the airlines website 
said that the seat was ergonomically  designed and comes with an adjustable headrest,  
lumber support and recline. He said that because his seat didnt recline it had been 
misrepresented to him.
HSBC said that because the service  was still provided to Mr P it was unable  to raise a 
dispute. It suggested Mr P contact  the airline about  the issue.  HSBC raised a 
chargeback but this was defended and so the temporary credit that had been applied  to 
Mr Ps account was reversed.
Mr P didnt  agree with HSBCs response  and brought his complain to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  didnt think that the full cost of the flights  should be 
refunded but did recommend a price  reduction. She said Mr P should be refunded  £100.  
HSCB agreed to this.
Mr P doesnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators recommendation for the following reasons:
Section 75 allows, in limited circumstances,  someone buying goods and/or  services 
on credit  to claim against their credit  provider over the actions of a third party 
supplier. In this case, Mr P bought flight tickets using his HSBC  credit card.
For there to be a valid section 75 claim there has to be either a misrepresentation or 
a breach of contract.  Mr P said that there had been  a misrepresentation because his 
seat was advertised as being able to recline but this wasnt the case. I do not find 
that there was a misrepresentation as the seat provided did have the features that 
were advertised however  due to a fault the seat was unable to recline.  
There was a breach  of contract  as Mr P was told that his seat would have certain 
features and these  werent available on his outward flight. Mr P couldnt  be moved 
due to the flight being full and so he had to travel with a seat that wouldnt recline.  
Ref: DRN39354552Mr P was caused discomfort by the issue with his seat and I note his comments 
about needing a massage on arrival at his destination. However,  the price he paid 
was for return flights. These took place and I have nothing to suggest he was 
inconvenience on his return  flight.  Given this I do not find it reasonable that he would 
be provided with a full refund. Our investigator  recommended a priced reduction to 
reflect the issue and I agree this is reasonable.
HSBC agreed to our investigators recommendation  of £100 price reduction. Mr P 
didnt. I appreciate that Mr P feels a larger portion  of his flight cost should be 
refunded but, in this case, I find that the £100 recommended  is reasonable. I say this 
because the price he paid was for two flights,  (a return trip). I have nothing  to suggest 
here were issue with the return  flight. While I sympathise with the discomfort  Mr P 
must have experienced and note his comments regarding this, the main  value  of the 
flight relates to Mr P being taken to his destination. This happened. Therefore I think  
a refund of £100 is reasonable to reflect the discomfort Mr P experienced by the seat 
not having the ability to recline  on his outward  journey.
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint  and find that a payment of £100 to reflect the 
price reduction is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In order  to resolve Mr Ps 
complaint, HSBC UK Bank Plc should, as it has agreed, pay £100 to Mr P in relation  to the 
price reduction. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3935455