K822xcomplaint
Company B complains  that, without  telling it, British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI)  changed 
the terms of its home emergency insurance  policy after it took out the policy.  Its represented 
in bringing this complaint by its director, Mr F.
background 
Company B owned a number of properties  which it rented to students.  It took out a home 
emergency policy with BGI covering amongst other things the boiler and central heating  at 
the properties. The policy was renewed  in September 2017 to run for 12 months.
Company B didnt  have any problems in 2017. However in January 2018  it found that BGIs 
engineers seemed to have changed  the terms on which  they would attend its properties.  
Because they were in an area of restricted parking, engineers wouldnt attend a property 
unless they were assured that a parking permit would  be available for them.
Mr F said there had been the following incidents:
1.January 2018   engineer booked  to look at boiler. He rang tenant to say he wouldnt 
attend unless  a visitors parking permit was available at the property. The tenant  
didnt have one, so he didnt attend.  The boiler problem went  away  so another 
booking wasnt needed;
2.February 2018  engineer booked to look at boiler on another  property on                   
3 February. He didnt  attend, apparently because of pressure of call outs. Rebooked 
for 6 February. Mr F said the engineer was rude to the tenant. The engineer 
complained to the tenant about the lack of a parking permit.  He had to return  the next 
day to fit a part but said he would only do so if a parking permit  was available;
3.March 2018   boiler break down. Engineer  arrived but wouldnt look at boiler unless 
the tenant provided a parking permit, which the tenant didnt  have. Mr F spoke to the 
engineer but he wouldnt change his mind. Eventually the tenant managed to obtain a 
permit from a neighbour. After  looking at the boiler, the engineer  said he would have 
to return the next day but a permit would  need  to be available.
Mr F spoke  to Company  Bs account manager  at BGI to complain about what  was 
happening. The manager  wasnt  aware  of what was going on. After investigating he said this 
was now BGIs policy in the city where  the properties were  located because of the local 
parking difficulties.
He offered to pay for Company B to buy some permits to be available  for the properties and 
engineers when they called. However Mr F didnt  think this was a workable solution. Many of 
the tenants were  students, so he thought that any permits that he gave them  were  likely to 
be misplaced, or misused, and wouldnt be available when needed by an engineer. So in 
March 2018 Company B cancelled its policy with BGI and complained about the problems it 
had encountered.
BGI accepted the cancellation.  It refunded part of the premium Company B had paid in 
advance, and offered compensation of £50 for the broken appointment and poor service  
experienced in incident  2 above.  But it wouldnt offer any further compensation or refund as 
it said it had provided  the service contracted for during  the policy period until cancellation.
Ref: DRN33155342Company B wasnt satisfied with this and complained to us. Mr F thought BGI should refund 
in full the premiums  Company B had paid for the months  of January, February and March 
2018. He said the requirement to have a parking  permit available  wasnt in the policy terms 
and conditions, and hadnt been  mentioned  when  Company B took out and renewed the 
policy. He thought BGI had missold the policy.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that BGI should  have to do anything  more. She said that 
although the policy terms and conditions required the policyholder to give BGI access  to their 
premises, she hadnt seen anything that said they had to provide engineers with parking 
permits.
Company B had had a policy with BGI for some ten years, and the issue had never arisen 
until 2018. From BGIs case  notes  it seemed that this was a local issue in the city where 
Company Bs properties were located. And not all of BGIs engineers in the city insisted on 
permits being  made  available.
The investigator thought the offer by BGIs account  manager to pay for a number of permits  
wasnt an unreasonable proposal, but it wasnt clear how many permits  were to be provided 
or for what period. So she couldnt  say it was wrong  of Company B to reject this proposal.
She also thought  BGIs offer of £50 as compensation for the broken appointment and poor 
service was reasonable in the circumstances.  And the refund BGI had made in respect of 
the three affected  properties was also fair.
Mr F responded on behalf of Company B to say, in summary, that:
its main complaint hadnt  been addressed, namely that BGI had changed the policy  
terms after it took out the policy without  telling it. He thought BGI had missold the 
policy for which Company  B should be compensated;  and
it didnt think it should have to pay the premiums for the policy for January, February 
and March 2018 when BGIs engineers werent fulfilling their obligations under the 
policy.
The investigator said there wasnt an explicit term in the policy  that BGI had changed. But 
the way the policy operated in practice had changed  since  the policy was taken out, which 
she agreed wasnt fair.
As the policy was in the name of a company, she could only consider the effect of BGIs 
actions on the company,  not its tenants. Company  B wasnt out of pocket as a result of the 
parking issue. So she couldnt ask BGI to compensate  it in respect  of the parking issue.
Company B didnt  accept the investigators recommendation. So this complaint has been 
passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all I must make it clear that our role isnt to fine or punish a business,  or to tell it to 
run its business differently   that is for its regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to 
Ref: DRN33155343consider. Our role is to consider complaints about  particular events, and to require a 
business to compensate its customer, or restore their position, where the circumstances 
require.
In this case BGIs customer was a company   Company B. So in considering what BGI did, I 
can only look at the financial  effect  this had on Company B, not any financial effect  or any 
distress and inconvenience suffered by its tenants, or indeed  its directors or employees.
I dont think BGI set out deliberately to change its policy terms and conditions.  Mr F says the 
city has had parking restrictions for many years during which  Company  B had its policy  with 
BGI, and there havent been  problems  in the past. So its not clear  why the issue suddenly  
flared up in 2018.
It seems  to have been a localised  issue  in the city where Company Bs properties were 
located. So I cant say BGI deliberately missold the policy when Company B renewed it in 
September 2017.
Nevertheless, by allowing  its engineers  to add an extra term in the policy  conditions  before 
they would  attend a property BGI effectively  changed the policy  terms unilaterally. I agree  
with the investigator  that this was unfair.
When Mr F brought this to the notice  of BGI, it offered to mitigate  the effect of this by paying 
for some parking permits to be kept at the affected properties. Mr F explained  that he didnt 
think this would work in Company Bs circumstances. So Company B terminated  the policy 
with immediate effect. BGI accepted  this and refunded some premium that had been paid in 
advance.
While I agree it was wrong  for BGI unilaterally to change  the policy terms, and then not tell 
Company B what it had done, Company B hasnt suffered any financial loss as a result.  
During the period of the policy, BGI provided  the service to Company B that it paid for in the 
way of insurance cover and boiler repairs at the various properties.  So there isnt any basis  
for me to say BGI should pay any compensation to Company B. 
BGI has paid compensation of £50 to Company B in recognition  of a broken appointment 
and poor service by one of its engineers, and has refunded some premium  which  had been 
paid in advance  when the policy was cancelled. I dont  require  it to do anything  more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33155344
Ref: DRN3315534