K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that HSBC Bank  Plc mis-sold  him an income protection  insurance 
policy.
background
In 2002, while in the process of seeking  to obtain a mortgage, Mr L met with an adviser from 
HSBC and agreed to take out an income  protection insurance policy.  The policy would pay a 
regular benefit,  after a waiting period of twelve months, in the event that Mr L was unable to 
work because of illness or injury.
In 2018, Mr L complained  that the policy was mis-sold. He said he hadnt wanted  or needed 
the policy but was led to believe  it was necessary  to take it out to obtain the mortgage.
HSBC didnt uphold  the complaint. It was satisfied the policy had been suitable for Mr L and 
had been sold properly.
Mr L was unhappy  at HSBCs response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. He wasnt persuaded that 
the policy had been mis-sold.
Mr L didnt accept the adjudicators findings.  He pointed out that his employer offered him six 
months full sickness pay followed by six months half pay. He further said his partner was in 
full-time employment and they were both entitled  to good redundancy packages. He 
therefore felt he hadnt needed the policy.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The evidence from the time of sale shows that the adviser conducted a fact find. According 
to this, Mr L wanted to protect his income in the event that he was unable to work  for more 
than twelve months, which was when his employers  sick pay would end. The adviser 
recommended an income protection  policy with a waiting period  of twelve months. Im 
satisfied this was an appropriate recommendation. The adviser recommended a particular 
level of benefit  after taking into account  Mr Ls salary and outgoings.  Again, Im satisfied the 
recommendation was appropriate.
Mr L says he and his partner were entitled  to good  redundancy packages. I can see from the 
fact find that Mr L wasnt concerned about redundancy. However, I dont see that this 
necessarily meant he wouldnt have wanted  to protect his income  in case he was medically 
unable to work. Mr L confirmed at the time that he wanted to do this.
Mr L says he was led to believe it was necessary to take out the policy to obtain the 
mortgage. However, I can see no evidence that this was the case from the available 
evidence. There was no mention of it in the mortgage offer letter.
Ref: DRN30062452Mr L was provided with the policys  key features document before he applied for the policy.  
The key features document explained Mr Ls right to cancel the policy  without penalty within 
fourteen days of it starting. Mr L didnt do this. The document also explained that he could 
still choose to cancel it anytime thereafter.
Im satisfied from the available evidence that the adviser recommended a suitable  policy  to 
Mr L. Mr L chose  to follow the recommendation and didnt exercise his right to cancel the 
policy within  the designated cooling-off period.  I dont consider that the policy  was mis-sold 
and can see no reasonable grounds  for saying  Mr L should be awarded  a refund of his 
premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3006245