K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Mr H say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2001. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Santander  has said but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mr B and Mr Hs 
complaint. This is because Santander  recommended the policy  to Mr B and Mr H but I dont 
think it was suitable  for them. I say this because Mr B has suffered from a medical  condition  
for most of his adult life. He has been  consistent about when the condition was diagnosed,  
and his account of the ongoing  treatment convinces  me that it could have affected his ability  
to claim under the policy. This is because the policy did not cover claims that arose because 
of medical conditions suffered at the start of the policy. 
Santander say that this would have all been  discussed when the PPI was sold. But Ive seen  
no evidence of this. Instead, I think if Mr B and Mr H had been properly advised of this 
restriction in the policy, theyd have decided not to take it. I think theyve lost out as a result. 
fair compensation
Santander should put Mr B and Mr H in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr B and Mr H the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.  
If Mr B and Mr H made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander UK Plc to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr B and Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if they 
ask for one.
Ref: DRN34092172my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr B and Mr Hs complaint. 
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr B and Mr H compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3409217