K821x#15complaint
Mr E says Progressive Money Limited  (PML) didnt complete proper checks to make  sure 
the loan he applied for was affordable.
background
Mr E took out a 60-month instalment loan from PML on 24 May 2018.  It was for £6,500 and 
the monthly repayments were £244.14. The total repayable was £14,636.60. I understand 
the loan remains  outstanding.
Mr E says the loan was unaffordable for him and forced  him to take out further loans. 
Our adjudicator found that the loan should  not have been given.  He said PML carried  out 
proportionate checks but from the information  it gathered it should have seen that Mr E was 
having problems  managing his money. 
PML disagreed saying it had taken  a balanced approach  to assessing the affordability of the 
loan. It considered not only Mr Es credit report,  but also his disposable income (and it 
verified this using bank  statements), as well as information Mr E shared on the phone during  
the application process. It was based on all these factors combined that it found the loan to 
be affordable for Mr E. So the complaint was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints  is set out on our website and 
Ive followed it here.
The rules  and regulations when PML lent to Mr E required  it to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment  of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred  to as an affordability assessment or an affordability 
check.
The checks  also had to be borrower-focused. So PML had to think about whether repaying 
the credit  sustainably would cause any difficulties  or adverse consequences for Mr E. In 
other words, it wasnt enough  for PML to simply think about the likelihood of it getting  its 
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr E.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent  upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied 
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
-the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to make
Ref: DRN31009732any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
-the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to
meet higher  repayments from a particular  level of income);
-the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about  whether PML did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr E. So to reach my conclusion I have considered  the following questions:
-did PML complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing Mr Es 
loan applications  to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
-if not, what would  reasonable  and proportionate  checks have shown? 
-did PML make a fair lending decision?
-did PML act unfairly or unreasonably  in some  other way?
I can see PML asked  for certain information  from Mr E before it approved the loan. It asked 
for details  of his income, credit commitments and living expenses.  And it validated these by 
obtaining his recent  bank  statements. It also checked his credit file to understand his existing 
monthly credit commitments  and credit history. It further investigated its findings on calls with 
Mr E prior to approving the loan. I have listened  to the call recordings PML supplied.  On 
these it asked for clarification of certain types  of expenditure and what  the loan was for. 
When Mr E replied  debt consolidation and home improvements, it went  on to ask  
Mr E why he had needed to take out his recent  payday loans.  It obtained details of the 
lenders and amounts owing. From these  checks combined PML concluded the loan was 
affordable for Mr E.
Im satisfied the checks were proportionate.  But, on balance, I dont think  that PML made a 
fair lending  decision. In response to the adjudicators view PML said that we seem  to infer a 
lending decision should be based  solely on the data on a credit file and if an applicant  is at 
or close to their credit limit they should  not be lent to. This is not the case - we expect a 
lender to reach their decision based on all the information it gathers,  taking  into account the 
relevant rules and regulations. 
In this case I dont think  PML has evidenced  that it made a borrower-focused assessment, 
and I think ought  to have realised it was unlikely Mr E would be able to repay  his loan 
sustainably  even  if it seemed  affordable  on a pounds  and pence basis. And this was what 
PML needed to check to meet its regulatory obligations as CONC 5.3.1(G) stated: 
1. In making the creditworthiness  assessment or the assessment required , a firm
should take into account more than assessing  the customer's ability  to repay  the
credit.
2. The creditworthiness  assessment and the assessment required  should include the
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability  to meet repayments
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer
Ref: DRN31009733incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Ill explain  why this is my finding. Mr Es credit file showed that he had unsecured  debt of 
around £20,000 in loans  and £15,000 of revolving  credit in May 2018. He had 18 active 
accounts and had opened nine new accounts  in the last six months, and there  were  17 credit 
searches from the last three months.  Six of his credit cards had either exceeded their limit, 
or were close to doing so, and he was overdrawn on his two current accounts  and had 
been for at least 12 months. 
Whilst Mr E was taking out the loan in part to repay  the high-cost short-term  loans that he 
had recently taken out, this only amounted to clearing around £3,000 of his total unsecured 
debt. I think PML ought reasonably to have been aware from the information it had gathered  
about the level and growth of Mr Es outstanding debt that the consolidation of these most 
recent payday loans  alone wasnt likely  to help Mr E make sufficient inroads into his existing 
debt. Whilst its loan would reduce  his monthly repayments in the near term - and so PML 
might argue it was a more affordable solution  that his existing short-term  borrowings - over 
the longer term it was significantly increasing  his indebtedness given the total repayable  debt 
was over £14,500.
I think PML ought  to have realised giving more credit to Mr E put him at high risk of going  on 
to experience financial difficulties. The fact that he had several credit cards up to or close to 
their limit and still needed to take other payday loans recently  should  reasonably  have 
suggested to PML that Mr E was having  serious  difficulties managing his finances.  And that 
his financial position  was steadily worsening, despite the level of his income. I have thought 
carefully about the context Mr E provided  on the calls with PML as to why his financial 
situation was temporarily  challenged. But Im not persuaded that the information he gave 
should have reassured PML that he could afford to borrow sustainably at this time. I say this 
as he referred to a lower  than expected bonus  in March 2018 that he had been hoping could 
cover extra bills and corporate card repayments. But I cant see that it asked for any values 
to properly understand to what extent this recent issue was contributing to his money 
problems. Plus his credit  file shows that he had been relying on credit  for many months prior 
to March 2018.
 
PML argues that despite Mr Es credit card balances remaining at a level above the credit 
limit, its assessment showed Mr E was successfully  making the required payments without 
undue difficulty.  But I dont this is most likely  a fair summary of his financial position. I can 
see that on 47 occasions in the 12 months prior to his loan application  Mr E had made just 
the minimum repayment on his debts.  So in all these  instances its most likely he was only 
covering interest  payments and not repaying  any of the capital. 
PML also pointed to a number of overpayments  on one his credit  cards as, I think, evidence  
of his financial stability. But even  the most recent  of these  was 15 months prior to this loan 
application so I disagree that the overpayments can fairly be relied on as evidence of his 
financial stability in May 2018. It highlighted that Mr Es income had increased  since  his loan 
application. And it listed out a number of high-value discretionary transactions Mr E made in 
October and November 2019,  as well as new credit agreements he has entered into since it 
approved his loan.  But these points  do not change my conclusion that PML failed to meet its 
obligations as a responsible lender in May 2018.
For all the reasons set out above,  I think PML ought  reasonably to have realised that Mr E 
was finding it difficult to get out from under his debt problems, and that it was unlikely that he 
would be able to sustainably repay  his loan over the 60-month loan term. I think in these 
Ref: DRN31009734individual circumstances,  PML should have made a different lending decision.  It follows  I 
think Mr E has lost out because of what PML did wrong.
putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr E to repay the capital that he borrowed,  because he had 
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt  have 
been provided to him. 
If PML has sold the outstanding  debt it should  buy it back if it is able to do so and then take 
the following  steps. If PML is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise  with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined  below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the loan and treat all the payments Mr E 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Es loan account results  in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital  borrowed, then PML should refund these overpayments  
with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital  still to be paid, then PML should 
work to agree  an affordable  repayment plan with Mr E, bearing in mind its obligation 
to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions. PML should not 
pursue outstanding balances made  up of capital it has already written-off.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Es credit  file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  PML to deduct tax from this interest. PML should give Mr E a 
certificate showing  how much tax its deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I upholding Mr Es complaint. Progressive Money  Limited must put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2021.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3100973