K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Phoenix Life Limited  has unfairly deducted  units from their 
reviewable whole of life policy in 2017 which has reduced the surrender value to zero.
background
Mr and Mrs Ks policy was index linked so the cover and premium  increased each year.  
Charges are paid by deducting units from the policy each month. Phoenix hadnt deducted 
the right number of units to pay the charges, due to a system error, from 2012.  It then 
deducted all the units in 2017 when  it became  aware of the mistake.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In short I made the following findings:
Phoenix had provided a wrong  valuation for the policy  after Mr and Mrs K complained 
which was separate  matter and not part of this complaint.
The terms of the policy  allow for deduction  of units  to pay the charges.
I didnt think it was necessary for Phoenix to provide a detailed statement  from the 
start of the policy, as Mr and Mrs K wanted,  for me to make  my decision.
Deducting the units in 2017  that shouldve been  deducted  from 2012  put the policy in 
the position it should be in.
The policy wasnt an investment so I wasnt satisfied that if the deductions had been 
applied as they shouldve been Mr and Mrs K wouldve cancelled their policy 
because the surrender value wouldve decreased from 2012.
Phoenix recreated the reviews that took place with the correct deductions applied  
which showed the policy wouldve failed a review  in 2016.
I wasnt satisfied they wouldve  cancelled the policy if they had been  made  aware of 
a failed review in 2016, given the policy had failed the review in 2017 when the policy  
was in the correct  position and they chose  not to cancel.
Phoenix should pay Mr and Mrs K £300  for the distress and inconvenience caused, 
rather than the £150 it had offered.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding. Phoenix initially  questioned the increase to 
the distress and inconvenience  award but then agreed to the decision. Mr and Mrs K said 
that before a decision could be made  the following matters still needed to be addressed:
They have still not heard from Phoenix  about  it providing a wrong valuation after they 
had initially complained to it.
A detailed  statement  from the commencement  of the policy  has never  been  
forthcoming. They need a statement in chronological order  columns with dates, unit 
prices, number of units, adjustments,  bid prices  and policy  values and terminology to 
make an informed decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs K have  raised two points.  The first relates to the wrong valuation being  provided 
after they had complained. As I said in my provisional decision, that is separate  a separate 
matter and isnt something I am considering in this complaint.  So I wont comment further on 
Ref: DRN34497422that, although I have asked for this to be opened  as a new complaint given they say they 
have not received any response from Phoenix.
The second  point raised by Mr and Mrs K is that they havent been given a detailed  
statement. But this isnt a new issue  as it is something they raised before I made my 
provisional decision, and on which I commented.  I have  nothing further to add to what  I have 
already said about  this. 
In summary  Phoenix were entitled  to deduct the charges that shouldve been deducted from 
2012 but have to pay Mr and Mrs K £300  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  for the reasons I have  explained  above and in my 
provisional decision. Phoenix Life Limited has to pay Mr and Mrs K £300 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34497423COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Phoenix Life Limited  has unfairly deducted units  from their reviewable 
whole of life policy in 2017 which has reduced the surrender value to zero.
 
background
Mr and Mrs Ks unit-linked  joint reviewable whole  of life policy  began in 1990 and initially provided life 
cover of £43,100  for a monthly premium  of £30. Mr and Mrs K agreed to index-link the premiums and 
cover to protect against inflation. So the premiums and cover have increased  each year.
Phoenix became  aware in 2017 that it hadnt been deducting sufficient units  from the policy to pay the 
full charges and costs for around five years. As a result of this the policy had a higher level of units 
and higher value than it shouldve done. Phoenix informed Mr and Mrs K of this in December 2017 
and explained that to the correct the error,  the value  of the underlying fund was being reduced to zero 
 in effect all the remaining  units in the policy were deducted in one go.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree that Phoenix shouldve  taken these units  from the policy and complained. 
Phoenix apologised for the poor service  it had provided  and offered £150 for this. But it said that it 
needed to make sure the policy was in the correct  position and apply the right amount of charges 
which it had now done.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint. She agreed that an error  has been made  by 
Phoenix but didnt think it had done anything wrong in taking  the additional units to pay for the 
charges. She said the policy charges wouldve been agreed  to by them from the outset and Phoenix 
is entitled to deduct these. She thought the amount  it had offered  of £150 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused  was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with the adjudicator  and said that they didnt feel she had addressed the 
whole of their complaint. They said that they had been told on 15 December  2017 that insufficient 
charges had been taken and the policy value was zero. But when they telephoned for a valuation on 
27 December 2017 they were told the policy value was around  £1,800. They said they were entitled to 
know the true value of the policy. They also said the adjudicator had wrongly assumed they had 
agreed to the deduction of units to pay charges as this was never agreed to by them
Phoenix confirmed that it had made a further mistake and that the units  for charges  that shouldve been 
deducted on 15 December  2017 were mistakenly  added  instead due to a system error. And when Mr 
and Mrs K rang the business for a value  on 27 December 2017 this included the units added  by 
mistake. It corrected  this on 4 January 2018 when  the policy value was adjusted to £13. The 
adjudicator was satisfied  that this was the correct value. She noted Mr and Mrs K said they had never  
agreed deductions for charges. She referred to the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ks policy 
which allowed  for the deductions and said she couldnt  agree Phoenix wasnt allowed  to deduct  units  
to pay the charges.
Mr and Mrs K still didnt agree with the adjudicator. In short they said:
They  were astonished  how the policy  was worth £3,740 in December  2012 and this has 
reduced to zero in six years when  it had previously been running  for 22 years with an 
increasing policy value.
This was on top of them paying index-linked premiums  every anniversary.
They  have lost faith in Phoenix as they are making  too many errors and we seem to be 
accepting that this is ok.
They  wanted a detailed statement with dates,  unit prices, number of units, adjustments, bid 
prices and policy values from the time the policy started to date.
Ref: DRN34497424As agreement  hasnt  been  reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
After Mr and Mrs K initially complained to Phoenix about the deduction of units  Phoenix provided  the 
wrong information  about  the value of the policy and they said the adjudicators initial opinion  didnt 
make reference to this. The adjudicator asked Phoenix about this and it confirmed that it had made a 
mistake about  the valuation. 
But this hasnt  been  put to it as a complaint and it hasnt dealt with it as such. I have asked Phoenix to 
consider this as a complaint so I am not going  to comment further on that particular issue. Mr and Mrs 
K can refer this to us if they are unhappy with the response Phoenix provides.
In the circumstances I am only considering the complaint about the deduction of units due to a system  
error meaning Phoenix didnt deduct  enough units as from 2012 so the policy  was showing an inflated 
value. 
Mr and Mrs K have a reviewable WOL policy which was index linked so the premium and amount of 
cover increased  each  year.  The premium they pay purchases units in an underlying investment fund. 
Under the terms of the policy the number  of units allocated to the policy is increased by one twelfth of 
the then current annual rate of periodic  charge. But after this the number of units will be reduced by 
cancellation to pay for Phoenixs charges and the cost of providing the life cover.
I think  it is important to make clear that the cost of life cover increases over time as people get older.  
The purpose  of the investment is to build up a value  that can be used, in due course, to help offset the 
increasing costs  once  the amount payable by way of premiums stops being  enough.
I have made  this clear  because Mr and Mrs K have referred to the unit value of their policy increasing  
for many years and questioning how this couldve reduced from £3,740 in December  2012 to zero in 
December 2017. But it wouldnt be unusual  for a WOL policy to lose this sort of value over that period  
of time as they age and life costs increase. 
Mr and Mrs K have questioned whether they had agreed to deduction of units  to pay the charges and 
life cover costs. But the terms of their policy  allow for this and I dont think Phoenix has done anything  
wrong in applying  these  deductions.
I note Mr and Mrs K have asked for a detailed statement  from the start of the policy to date. I 
understand why they may want  this given  the mistakes made by Phoenix.  But it is for me to decide 
what information  I need  to make a decision in this complaint. I dont think I need  the information  they 
have asked for to decide on the complaint about Phoenix having deducted units  in 2017 to make up 
for having failed to deduct  these in the previous  five years. If Mr and Mrs K want  further information 
they will need  to ask Phoenix  to provide this.
I asked Phoenix for some further explanation of what had happened and how insufficient policy 
charges had been taken. It has explained  that up until the end of 2011 the charges that were  paid by 
deduction of units had included an amount  that became payable after indexation of the policy  when 
the premium (and amount of cover) increased.
Phoenix refers to this as an incremental debt because the deduction of units  takes place  over the 
months after indexation. So as there is an amount owing from the policy until this has been paid this is 
treated as a debt of the policy. 
Ref: DRN34497425This is what happened with the policy  until 2012, when  Phoenix say a system  change meant the 
incremental debt wasnt being applied to the policy so units werent being deducted after indexation to 
pay charges  and costs as they shouldve  been. This meant Mr and Mrs Ks policy had more units  than 
it shouldve done and showed a value  it shouldnt have had. 
 
Making things  right in 2017 by deducting the units that shouldve been deducted each year after 
indexation has put the policy in the position  it wouldve  been in if Phoenix hadnt got things wrong. In 
other words Mr and Mrs K are no worse off now than they would  have been if things had been done 
correctly in the first place.  
They are understandably  disappointed that the policy now has no surrender value, and this will have 
caused them  distress and inconvenience. But I dont think Phoenix has done anything wrong in 
deducting what it is entitled  to deduct to pay charges and costs. This has put the policy back  in the 
position it should be in.
I have considered whether  Mr and Mrs K wouldve  done something  different,  such as cancel their 
policy earlier, if the deductions  had taken place  as they shouldve done since  2011. If these had been 
taken they wouldve  seen the value  of their policy  going  down over time. But this wasnt an investment 
and Im not persuaded that simply seeing the surrender  value of their policy  going down wouldve led 
them to cancel the policy earlier.
The policy failed a review  in 2017 when the sum assured  was reduced  to £142,200  - before  being 
increased by indexation in 2018 to £158,800 with a premium of £226.82. I asked Phoenix to recreate 
the reviews that took place  from 2012 because of the possibility  the policy wouldve  failed a review at 
some earlier point.
Phoenix has said that this shows that the policy wouldve  failed the review in 2016.and to keep the 
then sum assured at £282,494  the premium  wouldve needed to increase to £379 or the sum assured 
wouldve needed to drop to £146,300 if there was no increase to premium.
Mr and Mrs K obviously didnt get this information at the time so were not given the opportunity of 
considering their options  available to them, one of which wouldve been to cancel the policy. 
But they continued the policy after the failed  review  in 2017. At that time they were given the option of 
keeping the same  level of cover with an increased  premium of £448 or keeping the premium  the same  
but reducing  the sum assured to £142,700. They chose to reduce the sum assured and keep the 
premium the same. The current position is they are paying just under £244 for cover of £125,000. 
Given they decided to keep  the policy going in 2017 with a reduced sum assured  and he policy  is still 
ongoing now with a further reduction  to the sum assured there is no reason to think  Mr and Mrs K 
wouldve stopped  the policy  if 2016 if they had been made aware  of a failed review at that time.  
I understand why Mr and Mrs K say there have lost faith with Phoenix, given the system error that led 
to insufficient units being deducted and the subsequent system error which  caused an overvaluation  
of the surrender value. But I cant do anything to help them  with regard to how they feel about 
Phoenix. 
It is a matter for them to decide whether they want to keep the policy  and remain in a relationship with 
Phoenix, or not  although if they were to end their relationship with Phoenix and take out a new 
policy with a different provider they may find it difficult to get a policy on terms that are as good 
as/better than their current  policy  and they should seek advice if this is what they want  to do. 
Phoenix has offered £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused by what went wrong.  If this was 
a complaint by an individual I would agree the amount was about  right.  But Im mindful  this is a joint 
policy and both Mr K and Mrs K will been caused some distress and inconvenience.  I think  an overall 
amount of £300 to include  the amount of £150 previously offered is reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN34497426my provisional  decision
I uphold this complaint to the extent and for the reasons I have explained  above. Phoenix Life Limited 
has to pay Mr and Mrs K £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3449742