K820x#14The complaint
Mr and Mrs D say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them three  mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D arranged a mortgage with Halifax in late 1991. At this time a PPI was set up 
that covered Mr D only. It cost £30 a month to provide cover for up to 12 months  if Mr D 
made a successful claim for unemployment and for up to 24 months for any successful 
claims for an accident or sickness. The cover started in 1992.
In 1996 Mr and Mrs D arranged a new mortgage  with Halifax.  At this time their previous PPI 
policy was cancelled, and a new policy set up. This again covered Mr D only. It would have 
paid a benefit of £500 a month for up to 12 months  if Mr D had made a successful claim for 
accident, sickness or unemployment.
A further  mortgage  was taken out in 2006. This policy also had the option to provide life 
cover and critical illness cover. But only the PPI option was chosen. The policy  again  only 
covered Mr D and it covered him for up to 12 months if he was unable to work due to 
unemployment or being too unwell to work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
1991 sale
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mr and Mrs D and Halifax.  During that meeting 
Halifax shouldve made Mr and Mrs D aware  they had a choice in buying the policy. Mr and 
Mrs D say nothing was mentioned about  the PPI. 
Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs D have much paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think 
thats surprising  given how long ago the sale took place. But it does mean I have limited 
information about what happened, so I have to decide what  I think  is more  likely to have 
happened, given the information I do have and what I know about policies sold at this time.
Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ds comments alongside  what we know  in general about  how 
Halifax sold PPI at the time to decide  what I think is more likely to have happened.  And 
based on this knowledge, I would have  expected  there to have been  conversations between  
Halifax and Mr and Mrs D about the PPI and paperwork would have been completed to 
confirm the cover. And in my experience, Halifax usually  made  it clear  that the policy was 
optional. Nothing  Mr and Mrs D have  told me make  me think that Halifax  did anything  
different here. 
Ref: DRN35927052So overall, I think its more likely  Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs D they had a choice 
about taking the PPI and they agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended  this policy to Mr and Mrs D. So, it had to check it was right for them.  
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances  Mr Ds in particular as the policy was split 100%  
to Mr D and 0% to Mrs B  they seem to have had a need  for the cover. Mr D wasnt affected 
by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr D says he had good sick pay benefits  from his employer. And given the length of time 
hed worked for his employer at that point, I think he would have entitled to redundancy pay. 
But the policy wouldve  paid out alongside  these  benefits. And although Mr and Mrs D say 
they had other means they couldve used  to make their repayments, having the PPI would 
have meant  they couldve  used  those  other  means  to cover other things if Mr D was unable 
to work for any reason.  So, it seems  they had a need for the policy. 
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But for the reasons Ive 
explained above, it looks like the policy would have been useful for them if something went  
wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So, I dont think  better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs D off taking out the cover.
1996 sale
This policy was also sold during  a meeting between Mr and Mrs D and Halifax.  Again, during 
that meeting Halifax shouldve  made Mr and Mrs D aware they had a choice in buying the 
policy. And again, Mr and Mrs D say they have no recollection about  the PPI being 
discussed. 
Halifax has provided copies of Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage documents   including copies of 
their PPI and mortgage application forms. 
On the mortgage  application form there  is a section for the PPI which asks applicants  to sign 
to say they would like PPI. On Mr and Mrs Ds form this section has been left blank, but 
there is a handwritten note saying Mr Ds form is on file. The separate PPI application form 
has then been  completed with some  details about  how much  cover is required and some 
basic questions about Mr Ds employment and health at the time.  
I think the information on both forms suggests that a discussion took place between Mr and 
Mrs D and Halifax about PPI and they chose  the benefit amount that best suited their 
circumstances at the time. And based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like 
this at the time I think its likely the optional nature wouldve been made clear. Mr D has 
signed the PPI application  form so, I think Mr and Mrs D wouldve had the opportunity  to 
question anything they hadnt agreed to or were unsure about before he did. 
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs D they had a choice 
about taking the PPI and they agreed to it  although I can understand why they cant 
remember this.  
Ref: DRN35927053Halifax also recommended this policy to Mr and Mrs D. So, it had to check  it was right for 
them. 
Ive considered their circumstances in 1996 and Mr D wasnt  affected by any of the 
exclusions or limits on this PPI cover. 
Mr D says he had good sick pay benefits  from his employer and would  have been  entitled to 
redundancy pay. But the policy would have also paid out alongside these benefits. Ive noted 
Mr and Mrs Ds comments  that they had savings they could have  relied on if Mr D was too 
unwell to work or became  unemployed.  But having  the policy would have meant  they could 
have used those  savings to pay for other  essential  costs. So, it seems  they continued  to 
have a need for the policy. 
Mr and Mrs D were borrowing funds against  a large and long-term  financial commitment,  
which was secured on their home. And Mr D was the main earner. So, I think having the 
security that their mortgage  repayments would be made if Mr D was unable to work would 
have been important to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Halifax gave 
Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But Mr and Mrs D chose to 
take out the PPI, so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive 
explained above, it looks like the policy would have been useful for them if something went  
wrong. 
From everything Ive been given, it also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So, I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs D off taking out the 
cover.
2006 sale
Like with the other  policies, this one was also sold during a meeting between  Mr and Mrs D 
and Halifax. Again, during that meeting Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs D aware  they had a 
choice in buying the policy. 
Halifax has provided a copy of the letter  sent to Mr D containing  all the details of the PPI. 
This letter has the key facts document which lays out what  he was covered for and the 
associated costs. It also contains the answers to questions Mr D would have been asked 
about his employment and health.  
I think the information contained  in this letter suggests that a discussion took place between 
Mr and Mrs D and Halifax about PPI and they chose  the benefit  amount that best suited their 
circumstances at the time. And based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like 
this at the time I think its likely the optional nature would have been  made  clear.  The letter 
explains that if there was anything  that Mr D isnt sure about  he should contact Halifax  so, I 
think Mr and Mrs D had the opportunity to question anything they hadnt agreed to or were 
unsure about  before  they did. 
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs D they had a choice 
about taking the PPI and they agreed to it  although I can understand why they cant 
remember this.  
Ref: DRN35927054Like with the other  PPI, Halifax also recommended  this policy  to Mr and Mrs D. So, it had to 
check it was right for them. 
Ive considered their circumstances in 2006 and again, Mr D wasnt affected by any of the 
exclusions or limits on this PPI cover. Like the other  two policies, the PPI would have paid 
out alongside Mr Ds employee benefits  and any savings or other means Mr and Mrs D had. 
Mr and Mrs D were, once  more, borrowing  funds  against a large and long-term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. And Mr D was the main earner. So, I still 
think having the security  that their mortgage repayments would be made if Mr D was unable 
to work due to being too unwell or because of unemployment, would have been  important  to 
them. I have noted  Mr Ds comments that his type of employment meant he could have 
easily got work elsewhere if hed been made unemployed. But circumstances can change, 
and I dont think it could  be guaranteed that Mr D could find new employments  quickly.
Looking at everything available, its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs D 
about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But Mr and Mrs D chose to take out the 
PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained  
above - it looks like the policy would have been useful for them if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So, I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs D off taking out the cover.
All this means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. 
But it has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Mr and Mrs D feel strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Theyve put time 
and effort  into their complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points theyve raised,  
but for the reasons explained above these  points dont change  my decision. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN35927055Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 November  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3592705