K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC prevented him from increasing his holdings 
in a set of corporate bonds he transferred unto its platform.
background
Barclays did not uphold  Mr Cs complaint, so he referred  it to this service.  In summary, 
Barclays position is that:
The bonds in his complaint have been considered  alongside those which his wife 
queried  making a total of eight  bonds. Seven of them have a hybrid debt/equity 
feature which  brings them under the scope of the Packaged Retail and Insurance-
based Investment  Products Regulations of 2018  (PRIIPs).  In terms of advising,  
distributing or selling  such a bond  PRIIPs requires  a firm to ensure there is a Key 
Information Document  (KID) in place for it. 
Seven  of the bonds do not have KIDs, hence its decision that they cannot be sold to 
Mr C  or that Mr C cannot buy them  on its platform. 
The eighth bond has a regulatory call option  within it which allows  the issuer to 
redeem it before its maturity. That creates  a reinvestment risk for the investor in 
terms of the potential need to reinvest the principal  at a lower  interest  rate. It 
understands that KIDs would not be issued for this type of bond but, because of the 
call option feature, it considers it to be potentially within  the scope of PRIIPs  unless 
and until the regulator  says otherwise.
It operates a retail  platform  so it considers that PRIIPs applies to Mr Cs account.
Its terms (for the account) provide that it may not make  investments or products 
available to clients where they are subject to restriction or intervention by 
regulation(s). Its policy, in relation to Mr Cs complaint and its application of PRIIPs,  
is a firm wide policy so the matter is not exclusive to Mr C.
There is widespread  uncertainty  and concern about the lack of clarity on the scope of 
PRIIPs which was and remains the subject of a review by the regulator.  It has given 
its input to the review  based on its experience of the same concern.
It has invited Mr C to provide any evidence he has to show  that the relevant bonds 
are not within  the scope of PRIIPs.
In the main,  Mr Cs position  is that:
Barclays accepted  the transfer  of his pre-existing holdings  (in the bonds) unto its 
platform. He is entitled  to deal in those bonds on the platform. Barclays  action in 
preventing him from increasing his holdings unfairly  defeats the service he is entitled  
to and breaches that service.
He is a professional  investor and not a retail client.
The bonds are not packaged  products, so PRIIPs does not apply to them and KIDs 
are not issued for them. His complaint  is not about Barclays attempt to implement  
PRIIPs, it is that Barclays has incorrectly classified  the bonds  as being within the 
scope of PRIIPs  which they are not. 
Barclays position is confused and it has arbitrarily blacklisted the relevant bonds 
because it considers that there  could be an element of doubt  about them.
There is an outstanding issue about Barclays  failure to reinvest dividends in 
VWRL because there  was/is no KID in place.
Ref: DRN36940892One of our adjudicators considered the matter  and broadly agreed with Barclays  position 
(and its reasons). He did not uphold the complaint. Mr C did not accept this outcome and 
asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider the following:
As the parties are aware,  the purpose  of PRIIPs is to aid transparency  and 
understanding of specific  types of investments for retail  clients,  through  access to 
KIDs for those investments. It applies to firms  advising  on, distributing and selling the 
specific types of investments within their service. According to the regulators 
interpretation, it covers investments  regardless of [their] legal form[s]  in which 
 the amount repayable to the retail  investor  is subject to fluctuations  because  of 
exposure to reference values or to the performance of  assets  that are not directly 
purchased by the retail investor;  or an insurance-based investment product which  
offers a maturity or surrender value that is exposed   to market fluctuations. 
Under PRIIPs this definition applies to debt securities (bonds, notes or debentures) 
where the amount repayable is subject to fluctuations because of exposure to 
reference values  or to performance of  assets which are not directly purchased by 
the investor. Guidance  from the regulator  says that the list of products defined as 
PRIIPs is not exhaustive,  as new products may also fall within  the definition.
I note the suggestion  that because PRIIPs applies to retail  clients it should not be 
applied to a professional  investor  (which Mr C appears to have said he is). However,  
the agreed terms for the account present a retail platform service  from Barclays  in 
which the customers are treated as retail clients unless agreed  otherwise. I have  not 
seen evidence of an agreement between the parties  for Mr C to be treated as 
anything but a retail  client. In this context and despite any assertion about Mr C being 
a professional investor, I consider that PRIIPs applied to his account.
In one respect, the bond holdings transferred by Mr C unto Barclays platform are 
tradeable  they can be sold.  In another respect,  they are not  because of Barclays 
stance, the holdings cannot  be increased by additional purchases.  The issue is 
whether (or not) Barclays has breached  the terms of its service  to Mr C by not 
allowing him to make  the relevant additional  bond purchases.
Barclays reference to the agreed terms is correct. The relevant section (Section B) of 
the terms says it may not make investments or products available  to investors where 
they are subject to restrictions or intervention by regulations. Barclays cites PRIIPs  in 
this respect and in relation to the bonds in Mr Cs complaint. It essentially says that 
the bonds either come under the scope  of PRIIPs  or they potentially  come under that 
scope (in terms of the hybrid and call option features), so until the regulator clarifies 
uncertainties in this respect and in the absence of KIDs for the bonds, it will not allow  
them to be sold on its platform. 
I have not seen enough  evidence  to determine  Mr Cs assertion that the bonds are 
not under  the scope of PRIIPs.  However, the key consideration appears to be 
Barclays position  as a firm trying to ensure  it is compliant with regulations   that it 
Ref: DRN36940893cannot say, with certainty, the bonds  are not within  the scope of PRIIPs  so it has 
taken the decision  (across the firm) not to have  them sold on its platform. 
This position does  not appear  to be unreasonable  or unique to Barclays. I have 
considered the regulators  PRIIPs review that it referred to. The Feedback  
Statement (February 2019) from that review  says the same or similar position exists  
in firms within the industry who responded to the review  and highlighted key 
concerns about corporate bonds and the potential for some features within them to 
take them into the scope of PRIIPs.  I do not suggest  that Barclays  position is justified 
simply because other  firms have adopted  the same.  The point is that Barclays 
position appears to have  resulted directly  from a credible concern within the industry  
and one which the regulator  is trying  to address. The respondent firms  confirmed 
their need for clarification  and certainty and the regulators Feedback  Statement  says 
it will consider how domestic guidance could be given in the matter  pending  its 
treatment and clarification  by the European  Commission. 
I am persuaded  that the terms of the account provide Barclays with the discretion to 
err on the side of caution in the matter of whether  (or not) PRIIPs applies to the 
bonds in Mr Cs complaint. If, as it appears, lack of clarity on the wider  matter (which 
is relevant to the matter in the complaint) is a concern for other firms in the industry,  
for the regulator  and for the European Commission, Barclays  cannot reasonably be 
criticised for taking the position  it has taken in Mr Cs complaint. It invited Mr C to 
provide evidence which it could consider in terms of his assertion that PRIIPs does 
not apply to the bonds. It does not appear that such evidence which,  proves his 
assertion (on balance), has been  presented. Overall, I consider that Barclays is 
entitled to disallow the additional bond purchases  which Mr C wants  (or wanted) to 
make unless  and until the required  regulatory  clarification  exists.
Mr C is supposed to have referred  to a comparator account(s) or firm(s)  where 
comparable bond purchases are not restricted.  I have  not seen evidence  that 
establishes this. In any case,  each firm is responsible for ensuring its compliance 
with regulations. Barclays is entitled to take what appears  to be a cautious approach 
in Mr Cs case and it appears  to be supported by the agreed terms of the account in 
doing so. Barclays  is not obliged to take guidance from other firms in terms of 
complying with regulations.
Upon consideration of the contents of Mr Cs complaint form and correspondence  
from Barclays, the outstanding issue about reinvestment of dividends does not 
appear to be or have  been a feature of the complaint. It is not clear that it is a matter  
that has been exhausted within  Barclays complaints  process. In addition,  it would 
appear that the same or similar issue (and findings)  as I have already addressed  
above applies to this outstanding issue.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Ref: DRN36940894Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3694089