K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  held him liable for four online payments 
that he says he neither  made nor authorised.  He also says Nationwide  closed  his account 
but didnt give him proper  notice before doing  so. 
background
In March and April 2019 four online payments were taken from Mr Ms account  with 
Nationwide, using his debit card details. Nationwide  says it sent him a text message in 
respect of at least one of these and that Mr M confirmed by text that it was genuine. On that 
basis, it didnt agree to refund any of the payments. 
Nationwide also told Mr M it would be closing  his accounts after 60 days, in part because 
hed made  a number  of similar fraud claims in the past. In the meantime, it said it would 
block online  and card payments. Mr M says that in fact it blocked all transactions. Its closure 
letter included details of another  customer,  in error.  
Mr M said he had no recollection of the text message about one of the earlier  payments or of 
his card being temporarily blocked as a result.  He hadnt heard of either of the payees  
which it appears are subscription  websites.  
Mr M referred the matter  to this service, where one of our investigators considered  it. Initially, 
he recommended  that Nationwide  refund the disputed  payments  and pay him a further  £150  
in recognition of the inconvenience  to which Mr M had been put and the distress  hed 
suffered as a result  of his handling of the complaint  and in particular the information hed 
been given about the account closure. 
Nationwide agreed  with the proposal to pay Mr M £150, but not to the refund of the disputed  
payments. The investigator considered the matter further and, having done  so, reached the 
conclusion that Mr M must  have  known about the payments. On that basis, he agreed that 
Nationwides offer of £150 to resolve  the complaint was fair.              
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I agree with 
the investigators overall assessment that a fair outcome would be for Nationwide to pay 
Mr M £150, as it has agreed to do. 
Nationwides decision not to refund the disputed payments was based  to a large degree on 
the security message it says it sent in March 2019. That flagged up a payment as unusual; 
but, it says, Mr M confirmed it was carried out by him. Mr M said he had no recollection  of 
that message  or of replying to it. When the investigator pressed Mr M on this, he said that 
hed lost his phone and had told Nationwide that. He didnt however provide any evidence  of 
that to this service,  and Nationwides own notes dont refer to the loss of Mr Ms phone. I 
note as well that Mr M said that he did receive  a text message from Nationwides  after the 
final payment. 
Its possible that Mr M did authorise one or more of the payments  but that the websites took 
more than he had agreed to. Having reviewed their terms, I note that they both say a lot 
about disputed  payments  and very little about  the services  they provide. But I think  it likely  
that Mr M did confirm that early payment.
Ref: DRN39133272Against that, I agree that Nationwide didnt handle things as clearly as it might  have done  
and in particular  in relation to the account closure.  It and Mr M both agreed to the 
investigators proposal of a payment  in respect  of that aspect of the complaint, and so I dont 
need to comment  any further on it. I shall however make a formal  award  in line with that 
offer, so that Mr M can enforce it, should he need  to.
my final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of Mr Ms complaint, Nationwide  Building 
Society should pay him £150. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3913327