K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the increases in premiums on their home buildings insurance 
with Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA).
background 
Mr and Mrs Js insurance policy with RSA started  about 30 years ago. The earliest records 
available (a renewal letter provided  by Mr and Mrs J) show  that in 1992 the policy cost £199 
for the year. The price  didnt  change until 1994  when it was £200.
The earliest records of the price  of the policy that are held by RSA are for 2006, when the 
policy cost £460.  In 2007, the cost was £481.  By 2017 the premium was £836  for the year.  
At that point, Mr and Mrs J found alternative  cover  for less than £500, so they complained  to 
RSA. 
Mr and Mrs J say they were told by RSA initially that they could offer them a £50 discount on 
their premium but that, if they cancelled the policy and took out a new policy, the premium 
would be £390.  Mr and Mrs J think theyve  been  significantly overcharged  over the years. 
RSA said in its final response letter that the premiums for Mr and Mrs Js policy  had been 
calculated correctly. The alternative policy that was offered had different terms and sums 
insured so was not directly comparable. 
Our investigator thought that part of the increase in price from 2012 onwards  seemed unfair.  
As a result, RSA offered to refund some of the money Mr and Mrs J had paid for the policy  
from 2012 onwards . Although RSA didnt  think it had done anything wrong, it offered 
Mr and Mrs J £550 as a gesture  of goodwill. Our investigator thought this was a reasonable 
way to resolve the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs J disagreed,  so Ive been  asked to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should cost. I would be, in effect,  determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. But I can look at whether RSA has treated Mr and Mrs J fairly 
throughout the period  they held their insurance policy. If I thought they had been treated 
unfairly, I would  decide what  compensation would be appropriate to put things right.  And, in 
this case, whether I think what RSA has offered is fair.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. But I think that RSAs  offer is a fair 
and reasonable way to put things  right.  
Ref: DRN33722062I would like to explain that an insurer hasnt necessarily done anything  wrong  by changing 
the premium at renewal   and there  are often risk related  reasons why an insurer has done  
so. But where an insurer knew, or ought  reasonably to have  known, the consumer wasnt  
engaging with the renewals process, they should have taken care to make  sure they treated 
these consumers fairly  and that they didnt take advantage  of the consumers  behaviour by 
increasing their premiums just because  they didnt engage with the cost.
Theres no evidence to suggest that Mr and Mrs J engaged with the cost of their policy.  And I 
think RSA shouldve been aware  of this when the policy renewed for a number of years  with 
no contact from Mr and Mrs J about the premium. So, RSA shouldve taken care not to take 
advantage of their lack of engagement. 
RSA has given us a lot of information about how it decided how much  to charge 
Mr and Mrs J for their policy. Im afraid I cant share  this as its commercially sensitive, but I 
would like to assure  Mr and Mrs J that Ive carefully considered what  RSA has provided.
From what  Ive seen, it doesnt look like RSA was increasing Mr and Mrs Js premiums 
unfairly prior to 2012. RSA has shown there were changes in its rates, its view of the risk of 
insuring Mr and Mrs Js house  and its understanding of future likely claims. These are all fair 
reasons for RSA to increase the premium.  Theres nothing to suggest  RSA was charging  
Mr and Mrs J more for their insurance, just because theyd had their policy with it for a long 
time and werent  engaging with the renewal cost.
RSA has also shown  that part of the reason  for the increases from 2012 onwards was its 
changing view of the risk of insuring Mr and Mrs Js home. But, based  on the available 
information, this doesnt account for the level of increases Mr and Mrs J experienced from 
2012. As a gesture of goodwill, RSA has offered to refund some of the money Mr and Mrs J 
paid for their policy from 2012, essentially putting  them in the position as if the premium had 
only increased for risk related reasons. I think thats a fair and reasonable way to resolve this 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy because they found  insurance cheaper elsewhere. When  they 
complained, RSA told them it could offer them another,  cheaper  policy  if they cancelled their 
existing one. I fully understand Mr and Mrs Js views  on this, but insurers often  include 
discounts in order  to obtain new customers. That means that a new customer  will often be 
paying less than the true cost of providing the insurance policy. I understand the quote given 
to them  included a new customer  discount. 
In addition to this, insurance  policies are not all the same. They have different levels  of 
cover, excesses, terms and conditions  that can affect the price  charged.  And each insurers 
costs may vary depending on many things, including  the makeup of the pool of customers  
and properties  each policy insures.  So, just because Mr and Mrs Js existing policy  cost a lot 
more than another policy RSA could offer, or a policy from a different  insurer, I dont think 
that means the amount  Mr and Mrs J were  charged was unfair.
Overall, having considered the evidence available, I think the offer of £550 made by RSA is 
fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN33722063my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plc should put things right by paying  Mr and Mrs J £550 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3372206