K822xcomplaint
Mr R has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a packaged  bank 
account called a Plus account. He paid a monthly  fee for the account and received several 
potential benefits  in return. He thinks that HSBC should refund him all the fees he paid, plus 
interest.
(While Mr R held the Plus account, HSBC  changed its name to an Advance account. It also
changed the circumstances under which customers would have to pay fees. However, for
simplicity and consistency, I have used the term Plus throughout this decision).
background
I previously sent HSBC and Mr R a provisional decision on this complaint. That provisional 
decision now forms part of this final decision and I have attached a copy.
In my provisional decision,  I set out the background and circumstances of the complaint. I 
explained why I thought  that HSBC had mis-sold the Plus account to Mr R and I described 
how I would  tell HSBC  to compensate Mr R if I finally decided  that way. I asked both parties  
to send me any further comments and evidence they wanted  me to consider before I made a 
final decision.
The period  of time I gave for responses  has now passed. HSBC has said that it accepts my 
provisional decision and is willing to pay the compensation  I described,  without  making any 
deductions for possible banking benefits.  Mr R has said that he is satisfied  with the 
provisional decision and has nothing further add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked into everything that Mr R and HSBC have told us or sent us throughout the case,  
but as there is nothing  new for me to consider since I sent my provisional decision, I have 
reached the same conclusions for the same reasons.
Unless it has already  done  so, HSBC should  now put things right for Mr R by paying him 
appropriate compensation.
putting things right
To put things right for Mr R, HSBC should  return him to the financial position  he would have
been in if it had never sold him the Plus account.
HSBC should  therefore:
refund  Mr R all the fees he has paid for the Plus account, including  the renamed and 
restructured accounts,
add interest to each  of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the 
date Mr R paid the fee until the date it makes the refund (+).
Ref: DRN37881022(+) HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. HSBC must
give Mr R a certificate showing  how much  tax it has taken if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, and in my provisional decision,  I am upholding Mr Rs 
complaint against  HSBC  Bank UK Plc. It should now put things right for him by paying  him 
the compensation I have described. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37881023Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr R has complained that HSBC mis-sold  him a packaged bank account called a Plus
account. He paid a monthly fee for the account and received several  potential  benefits  in
return. He thinks that HSBC should refund  him all the fees he paid, plus interest.
(While Mr R held the Plus account, HSBC changed its name to an Advance account. It also
changed the circumstances  under which customers would have to pay fees. However,  for
simplicity and consistency, I have used the term Plus  throughout this decision).
background
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that HSBC  should uphold this complaint. Mr R
didnt agree  with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to look at his case
again. So it has come  to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used this approach  to help me to decide what to do about  Mr Rs case. Ive looked
into everything that Mr R and HSBC have told us or sent us about the case  and Ive
provisionally decided  to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Neither Mr R nor HSBC have sent us many detailed records of exactly how and why HSBC
sold the Plus account to Mr R, and they have disagreed markedly about  what  happened. So
I will start by establishing the common ground which does exist. Both parties  agree  that:
Mr R has banked with HSBC, or one of its predecessors, since at least the early  1980s.  
Until HSBC sold the Plus account to Mr R, he had held one of its fee-free  accounts.
Mr R kept the Plus account until at least  2019.
Initially, the two parties also disagreed about when  Mr Rs account changed. Based on his 
business history, Mr R said it was probably either before September 2004 or after May 2007.  
However, HSBC has checked its accounts database which it says shows that it sold the 
account to Mr R during  May 2006. I think that HSBCs information on this is probably reliable, 
and in more  recent correspondence with us Mr R also seems to have accepted it to be 
accurate, so I have taken May 2006 to be the correct date.
The crux of Mr Rs complaint is that he believes HSBC changed him from the fee-free
account to the fee-paying  Plus account  without  asking  him, telling him anything about  the
account, or getting his permission. HSBC  has said that Mr R agreed to the change  and gave
his permission.
Mr R has made  the point  that he thinks HSBC changed his account without his knowledge or
consent very consistently. Hes told us that:
(he) didnt know (he) was paying (for the Plus account) and doesnt remember ever
agreeing to having (it),
(it) was upgraded without  (his) knowledge",
Ref: DRN37881024and he never  signed up for it.
Hes explained that during May 2006 he was self employed,  his business was struggling,
and his personal  account was virtually inactive. Hes also explained that he was behind with
his mortgage repayments  and that his house was at risk of being repossessed. Hes said
that because of the difficulties  with his business and income, his financial situation was such
that there were  no circumstances on Earth in which  he would have signed  up for a new bank
account, which would immediately have cost him money.
In 2006, the main benefits  of the Plus account included worldwide travel insurance and fee-free  cash 
withdrawals from overseas cash machines. HSBC  also offered cheaper overdrafts
to customers with Plus accounts  than it usually  provided to customers  with fee-free
accounts.
Mr R has told us that in 2006, due to his finances, there was no prospect of him taking a
foreign holiday so he wouldnt  have wanted the travel  benefits. He has accepted that he
overdrew his account balance, but has pointed out that any savings he could  make on this
by having the Plus account  would be less than the monthly fee, so hes said that this benefit
had no monetary  attraction  for him.
In response, HSBC has stated that it gave Mr R a free choice about buying the Plus account
and that he bought it because he wanted the benefits  it could  provide. To illustrate its case, it
has pointed out that in reality Mr R did travel  abroad several times  in the five years or so
after May 2006. It has also highlighted  the savings  he made on his overdraft, although  it
seems to agree with Mr R that these were smaller  than the monthly fees.
With this level of disagreement and no detailed  records to show me exactly  what  happened
in 2006, I cant tell for certain what took place. Instead, I have looked at the evidence I do
have available, including Mr Rs circumstances  at the time, to compare what  should  have
happened when HSBC offered the Plus account to Mr R, with what  seems most  likely to
have taken place.
HSBC has told us that this was an information only sale and it didnt make a personal
recommendation to Mr R. I accept this, but I would  still have expected it to tell him clearly
and fairly how much  the account would cost, what benefits he could expect in return, and
then to give him a clear choice to buy it or to keep his fee-free account instead. HSBC  has
told us that its policy in 2006  was to do just that, and I accept this may well be true.
However, in Mr Rs particular case Im not convinced that it followed its policy.
I have no reason to dispute Mr Rs summary  of his financial situation in 2006,  and his
explanation of why he would not have chosen to buy the Plus account  if HSBC had told him
about it fairly. Given the clarity, consistency and level of detail in his account, I dont believe
he has reached his view just with the benefit of hindsight.
Mr R accepts that he travelled abroad in the way HSBC has described. But he has explained
that the first occasion was in December  2006 to attend  a family funeral, for which he says his
relatives paid most  of the costs, and that he did then take holidays in 2008,  2009 and 2010.
But by that time, he says he had sold his house and his financial situation had changed.  So I
dont think this later travel is inconsistent with Mr R not wanting  or needing the Plus account
for its travel-related benefits  in 2006.
HSBC has sent us copies of some of Mr Rs bank statements and these  seem to correlate
closely with his description  of events.  For example,  the statements dont show any significant
overseas transactions  in December 2006, when Mr R said his relations had to pay for him to
attend a funeral, but they do show transactions from 2008, 2009  and 2010  when he said he
was able to travel  again  under his own means. They  also include a large deposit during 2007
Ref: DRN37881025which seems  to have come  through  a solicitor and is probably the proceeds of his house
sale.
I also accept that Mr R wasnt particularly interested in the cheaper overdrafts in 2006,  as
there seemed little prospect that when  set against  the monthly fees for the account  he would
have saved money.  And at that time, I understand that limiting  costs was very important for
Mr R.
Nor have I seen any reason  why any of the other benefits of the account would have been
sufficiently attractive to Mr R in May 2006 for him to decide to buy it instead of keeping his
fee-free account.  So it seems likely to me that if HSBC  had explained  the Plus accounts
costs and benefits  to Mr R clearly and fairly, he would  have declined to buy it.
Of course, I still dont know  exactly what HSBC did to sell the account. Mr R has told us that
it must have  changed his account automatically  without speaking to him. This is possible,  but
given HSBCs  policy  and the way it normally sold Plus accounts in 2006, I think its unlikely.
There are various other possibilities. For example,  Mr R had several HSBC accounts at that time and 
seems to have had discussions with different  parts of HSBC about his difficult financial  situation,  so 
HSBC may simply  not have explained the different accounts and Mr Rs options clearly enough; or it 
may have confused  him - quite possibly by accident - about which  benefits came with which account; 
or something totally different  may have  happened. However, these background whys  and wherefores 
are not of particular concern  to me in making  this decision about what Mr R experienced. I will leave 
them for HSBC  to investigate if it so wishes. 
The critical point here is that I dont think HSBC explained the Plus accounts costs and benefits  to Mr 
R with sufficient clarity for him to make an informed  decision. Had it done so, then in his difficult 
financial situation I dont  think he would have bought the account.
In correspondence with us, HSBC has pointed out that after 2006,  it sent Mr R several
documents about the Plus account. I fully accept that it did this. However,  by that time HSBC
had already sold the account  to Mr R, and I dont think these documents  rectified the
mistakes HSBC seems  to have made earlier.
So in summary, there are widespread disagreements and very little first-hand written
evidence in this case. And the individual circumstances  are quite  unusual.  But based on
everything I have seen  so far, I currently think that HSBC failed to tell Mr R about the Plus
account in the way it should have done. If it had done things properly, I dont think  he would
have bought the account. So it follows  that HSBC should put things right for Mr R by paying
him appropriate compensation.
putting things  right
To put things right for Mr R, HSBC should return  him to the financial position  he would have
been in if it had never  sold him the Plus account.
HSBC should therefore:
refund Mr R all the fees he has paid for the Plus account, including  the renamed and 
restructured accounts,
add interest to each of these refunds at the rate of 8% per year (simple) from the date Mr R 
paid the fee until the date it makes  the refund (+).
(+) HM Revenue & Customs  requires  HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must
give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax it has taken if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN37881026If HSBC can show that Mr R gained financially from the banking benefits  that came with the
Plus account  (such as the cheaper  overdrafts), then it may deduct the relevant  amount from
the compensation it works out as above.  If it chooses to do this, then it must  set out its
calculation clearly and simply for Mr R, so he can follow what it has done.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I currently intend to uphold Mr Rs complaint. Should I
finally decide this way, I will tell HSBC UK Bank Plc to put things right for Mr R by paying  him
the compensation I have described  above.
But first, I invite both parties to respond to this provisional decision with any further
comments or arguments they wish to make, or any information they wish me to review.
I will consider any responses they send me by 18 July 2020 before  making a final decision.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3788102