K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Ms G complain  through  their representative that their mortgage adviser from 
Advance Mortgage Funding Ltd (AMF) gave them incorrect information about  the charges 
they would  face on their Help to Buy loan. Mr R and Ms G feel that they should be only 
responsible for the actual loan amount borrowed and not the associated charges as these 
were never explained. 
background
Mr R and Ms G bought a property in 2013 with a Help to Buy equity loan. This funded 20% 
of the purchase  price.  Mr and Ms G understood that there would be no interest payable on 
the loan for the first five years and hoped to repay  the loan at the end of that period. Mr R 
and Ms G were unaware that they would have to buy out the increased equity of 20% of the 
property to buy out the Help to Buy loan. They only became aware  of this and a number of 
charges including a valuation fee when they contacted Help to Buy about paying off the loan.
Mr R and Ms G say that they didnt get suitable or adequate advice from AMF. AMF says 
that in 2013 their adviser gave Mr R and Ms G details  of the Help to Buy scheme and gave 
them the Help to Buy information pack and Authority to Proceed. AMF says this explained 
the steps involved in the repayment of the equity loan.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he felt that AMF 
werent responsible  for explaining the recommendations of the equity loan to Mr R and 
Ms G. The representative  of Mr R and Ms G asked  for a review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This complaint relates to what  AMF  told 
Mr R and Ms G about the equity loan. Ive also considered a number of additional points 
made by Mr R and Ms Gs representative and although I may not refer to each individual 
point I have given  them consideration. 
A Help to Buy loan is a loan to assist new purchasers buying  a property whereby the 
scheme takes an equity  stake in the property and doesnt require repayments in the first five 
years. Its not a straightforward loan and I see that the government publishes a 21 page  
Help to Buy Buyers Guide to explain its complexity. Ive looked at that document  which  
sets out how the scheme works  and makes various references as to how the governments  
share can be purchased  including the following:
the amount  required  to increase your equity share will be dependent  on the total value of 
the property at the time you want to redeem  part of your equity loan. The amount you need  
to do this will increase  if your home increases in value  and decrease  if its value falls.
So if Mr R and Ms G wanted to buy out the governments share it wouldnt be by simply 
repaying the loan but depended on the value of the property at the time they did so.
But Mr R and Ms G and members of their family who were  assisting them  clearly  had a 
different understanding as to how the scheme  worked believing that this was simply a loan 
Ref: DRN38075012and not an equity stake. They believed  that they could repay this loan at the end of the five 
year period  by repaying the capital  borrowed. So they opened a savings account  to prepare 
to pay off the loan at the end of the five year period. The question  I have to look at is 
whether the fault for this misunderstanding  lay with AMF
I have looked  at whether in its written documentation AMF  distorted  this government 
information. But in its letter  of suitability to Mr R and Ms G it confirmed that an important 
feature of the scheme  is that the government  was holding  a share in the ownership of the 
property and if Mr R and Ms G wanted  to redeem the loan and buy out the equity share they 
would have to pay the market value  at the time of redemption. I noted the following in that 
letter:
as you have a deposit of 25,000 we have decided that requesting  a 20% share from the 
scheme would  suit you as an up to 75% mortgage is affordable The Government  scheme  
will hold a second charge for the 20% repayable within 25 years,  or mortgage  term, 
whichever is the lower, based on the market value  at the time of redemption  of the scheme 
loan
and 
Shared equity means that you buy a given  equity share in a property the Government owns 
the remaining  share 
I believe that this fairly  sets out that if Mr R and Ms G wanted  to buy out the governments  
share that they would  have to pay off the governments  20% equity in the property which  
depended on the value at the time.
But Mr R and Ms G and their family  came  to a different  understanding  and refer to 
conversations they had with the AMF  representative in 2013.  There  seems to be no dispute 
about parts  of these conversations namely  that the loan was interest free and that it could be 
repaid in 5 years. The dispute seems to be that the representative gave them  to understand 
that there  would be no additional charges if the loan was paid back in five years  and say that 
at no time were they made aware  of any potential increase in the loan value or any 
valuations required.  
Looking at all the evidence I can see that the Help to Buy scheme is quite technical and the 
government believes it requires a 21 page  guide to explain it. I recognise that it would be 
very easy for a misunderstanding to arise in conversations and that the repayment of the 
equity loan can be confused with the payment of an ordinary loan.
But I have to recognise that this is a government scheme and that AMF werent the agents  of 
the government. AMFs  role was to arrange  the mortgage with the lender. The Help to Buy 
Guide was produced  by the scheme  organisers not by AMF and was intended to cover any 
questions about  how the scheme  operates. I also note that in the Guide there is a role for 
Mr R and Ms Gs solicitor  to explain the legal  implications  of the equity loan - that was not a 
role given to AMF. 
So its difficult to find AMF at fault if it wasnt responsible for providing the advice about the 
scheme, if the written  documentation suggests  that it didnt mislead Mr R and Ms G and if in 
fact the Guide indicates that it was the role of their solicitor to explain the legal implications 
of the equity loan to them. So, for the above  reasons I dont  believe  that I can fairly find AMF 
at fault and I dont  uphold  this complaint.     
Ref: DRN38075013my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Ms G to accept or reject my decision 
before 3 March  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3807501