K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that British Gas Insurance Limited  gave poor service under a home  
emergency insurance policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with complaints about regulated  activities  carried  
out by regulated financial firms. Where  I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance 
company of that name and I include  engineers, call-handlers and others  for whose  actions I 
hold that company responsible.
Mr S had a policy that covered his central  heating boiler for repairs  and an annual service. 
So British  Gas did annual  service visits each year from about 2013 to 2018. British Gas also 
made some repair visits, for example  in October 2015.
Mr S says his boilers exhaust flue never  had a clip to support it. But the British Gas engineer  
who did the annual  service visit in September 2018  said the absence of such a clip meant  
the boiler was too dangerous to use.
Mr S complained that British Gas hadnt told him that on any of its previous visits. He was 
troubled that he and his family had been at risk for years. And he says British Gas made up 
an incorrect explanation  about a change  in regulations.
our adjudicators opinion
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  there 
wasnt any evidence that engineers inspected  the flue on previous service visits  or any 
evidence of changes  in legislation. She recommended that British Gas should pay Mr S 
£400.00 compensation for the trouble  and upset caused by the situation. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to British  Gas on 18 March 2019.  I summarise my findings:
After consulting her manager,  the British Gas call-handler  said that regulations  had 
changed in the previous 12 months.
I wasnt satisfied that what British Gas said was correct.
Mr S was affronted by what he already had reason to believe was an incorrect  
explanation about changes in regulations
Subject to any further information from Mr S or from British Gas,  my provisional  decision was 
that I was minded to uphold this complaint. I intended to direct British Gas Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr S £250.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr S agrees  with the provisional decision.
British Gas disagrees. But its case-handler  says she has provided all the information she 
has. 
Ref: DRN36402572 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Ive looked at the British Gas policy terms from 2015  and 2017. They say that the annual 
service is to check that the boiler  is working safely. They  also say that if it finds a problem or 
fault that needs to be fixed,  British  Gas will tell the customer. Thats  no more than I would 
expect.
I have no reason to doubt Mr Ss statement that the flue never had a clip. So I can 
understand that he was surprised when  during the annual service in September 2018  the 
British Gas engineer  categorised the boiler  as at risk.
That category  isnt as bad as immediately dangerous . But the British  Gas notice said that 
at risk might  include carbon monoxide  from flues and danger to life. So Mr S was upset  by 
the thought of what mightve happened  to him and his family in the years  since about 2013.
During our investigation, a British Gas Service Manager said the following:
call centre will sometimes use gas regulations change from time to time 
From that, I think the Service  Manager  had on other occasions heard call-handlers use an 
explanation about changes in gas regulations.
Ive listened to the recording of a call Mr S made to chase up his complaint. From that, I find 
that  after consulting her manager   the British  Gas call-handler  said that regulations had 
changed in the previous 12 months. Thats more specific  than saying  that regulations 
change from time to time.
But British  Gas has failed   despite  requests from Mr S and from us  to provide any detail 
of any such change in regulations. And Mr S has shown us an email he received  from the 
gas safety body,  saying that there  had been  no new regulations. So Im not satisfied that 
what British Gas said was correct.
I think all this left Mr S feeling that British Gas had given a deliberately false  explanation. 
I dont condone  what British Gas had said to Mr S. But  under the rules  by which  we are 
bound  I cannot assess compensation at a level to punish or deter  British  Gas. 
Rather, I have to look at the effect  on Mr S. And Ive listened to what  Mr S said on the call 
recording. I have  heard him saying - of the flue - that there were no issues  with it. So I think  
hed satisfied himself  quite quickly that the flue hadnt been likely to harm him or his family. 
I think hed already had an email  from the gas safety body. So he was affronted by what  he 
already had reason to believe was an incorrect explanation about changes  in regulations.
So overall I find £250.00 fair and reasonable compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience British  Gas caused  Mr S. 
Ref: DRN36402573my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr S £250.00  for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3640257