K820x#14complaint
Miss P has complained  that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) didnt downgrade her 
fee-paying packaged bank account  when she requested it.
background
In 2016, Miss P complained that her fee-paying Advantage Gold  packaged bank account 
(later renamed  a Select Platinum account) had been mis-sold. NatWest upheld  the complaint  
and provided Miss P with a refund of the account  fees, plus interest.  Following this, Miss P 
says she called NatWest  to downgrade her account. However, recently  Miss P has noticed 
that her account was still a fee-paying packaged  bank account.
One of our adjudicators assessed  this and didnt uphold the complaint as they did not think 
that Miss P had requested  her account be downgraded.  
Miss P disagreed with the adjudicators  assessment and so the complaint was referred for 
an ombudsmans decision. This decision will only be looking at whether NatWest failed to 
downgrade Miss Ps account.
my findings
Ive considered all of the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And where matters  are unclear or in 
dispute - as they are in this case  - I need to decide  what I think was most likely to have  
happened, based on all of the information and evidence that is available.
Miss P says that, following NatWest upholding her mis-sold packaged bank account 
complaint in 2016, she was put through to the downgrade team  to downgrade her account. 
She says during this call she asked to downgrade her account.
I have listened  to this call and I accept that Miss P starts the call by asking to downgrade her 
account to a fee free account. However, later in the call the NatWest representative explains 
that if the account is downgraded Miss P will lose the £250 interest free overdraft buffer 
which came  with the Select Platinum account. In response to this Miss P says that she will 
think about whether  she wants to downgrade and says she will get back to NatWest  once 
she has decided this. From what I can see Miss P did not ask for her account  to be 
downgraded until 2019.
Miss P has also said that NatWest made  her keep the account  but having  listened to the call 
the NatWest staff member  did not encourage Miss P to keep the account. On the contrary, 
the member of staff was merely explaining  what benefits Miss P will lose by downgrading her 
account and it seems Miss P had a change of heart when she realised  what shed lose by 
downgrading. So as far as I am concerned, the only reason the account  was not 
downgraded was because Miss P had asked  for it not to be.  
Given this I dont think that NatWest did anything wrong by not downgrading Miss Ps 
account in 2016. I therefore dont think it would be appropriate to ask it to refund the monthly  
account fees that were incurred from 2016 to present.
Ref: DRN39877172I appreciate that Miss P will be disappointed by this decision as she clearly feels strongly 
that her account should have been  downgraded.  But I have not seen anything to suggest 
this was due to an error by NatWest.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3987717