K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the mortgage  which, until March 2019, Mr S held with Paragon  Bank  
Plc. He believes Paragon unduly  delayed  issuing the redemption  statement, causing him to 
pay several days interest at Paragons  standard variable  rate rather  than his new lenders 
lower rate. Hes asked to be refunded the difference.
background
Mr Ss solicitor  faxed Paragon on 17 February 2019  asking for a redemption statement 
calculated to 1 March 2019. Paragon  sent the statement out on 26 February 2019; it sent it 
by post and fax to the solicitors, and sent a copy to Mr S. The solicitor redeemed  the 
Paragon mortgage  on 7 March 2019. Mr S says the delay was down to his solicitors not 
receiving the statement  in time to complete the transaction on 1 March 2019.
Paragon didnt agree,  and nor did our investigator  when  the complaint came  to us. Mr S 
wishes to continue with his complaint, so its been referred  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
news for Mr S; I dont  agree that Paragon is to blame for his re-mortgage completing  later 
than planned.  Ill explain why.
Mr S says lenders shouldnt be allowed to profit from errors, but I want to assure him thats 
not what has happened here.  The outcome of the complaint doesnt turn on how quickly 
Paragon responded to the request for the statement; rather,  it turns on whether the solicitors 
received the statement in good time to complete on the intended date. In my view,  that 
happened. 
The faxed statement, which included the exact amount needed to redeem on 1 March 2019  
plus a daily amount to add thereafter, reached the solicitor on Monday 26 February. In the 
modern environment of faster  payments  technology, that gave ample  time for the money to 
be paid to Paragon  by 1 March 2019.  It was incumbent on Mr Ss solicitors  to ensure theyd 
received funds from the new lender  in good time to forward to Paragon  for 1 March  2019. 
In saying that, I imply no criticism whatsoever  of Mr Ss solicitors.  There  may be any number  
of other, legitimate,  reasons  why redemption didnt happen until 7 March 2019. But I cant  
fairly hold Paragon to blame for that delay.
Ref: DRN35879812my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Paragon Bank Plc. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3587981