K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Legal and General insurance Limited hasnt offered them a fair 
amount for their insurance claim, after a fire at their home.
background
In May 2017  a fire in Mr and Mrs Bs garden  got out of control. Damage to the following has 
since been reported:
-Mr and Mrs Bs summerhouse, and its contents
-Mr and Mrs B boundary hedge (made up of Leylandii trees)
-A fence  Mr and Mrs B shared with their neighbour
-Mr and Mrs Bs neighbours  shed,  and its contents 
Shortly after the fire, Mr and Mrs Bs neighbour made a third party  claim for their shed and 
contents, which Legal and General went on to settle.
In August  2017  Mr and Mrs B replaced the shared fence for £1,935  and covered 100% of 
the cost themselves. They later said they did this as they were  told by Legal and General 
they couldnt claim for the fence.
In October  2017 Mr and Mrs B reported their own claim to Legal and General for the damage 
to their summerhouse and contents. Legal  and General appointed a company to assess the 
summerhouse, which was later cash settled  and it asked Mr and Mrs B for a list of their 
contents items.
In March 2018 Mr and Mrs B also queried the shared fence and their hedge. They  also told 
Legal and General they were still compiling  the contents list, but they were two thirds  of the 
way through and so far the list came to £3,500.  Legal and General  explained  it would refer 
the query about the hedge and fence to the company who assessed  the summerhouse.  It 
also offered to appoint  another company to assess  their contents items,  but the handlers 
call note explains Mr and Mrs B didnt want another visit, so they were  instead asked to 
forward their list once  completed. The call note also explains  that Mr and Mrs B were  
intending to dispose of the damaged items.
In April 2018 Legal and General received Mr and Mrs Bs list of contents, and the items 
totalled over £7,000. Due to the value  of the claim, Legal and General appointed loss 
adjusters.
Mr and Mrs B became unhappy with the loss adjusters, particularly because it was declining  
their contents items. A complaint was raised and in June 2018  Legal and General issued its 
final response  covering  all aspects  of the claim.
To summarise, Legal and General said the following:
It was prepared to settle the summerhouse for £1,850 net of the policy excess  this 
was based on the valuation by the company who assessed it.
Ref: DRN34345472In terms of the contents,  the photos  that were taken  dont show  fire or water  damage;  
and the company that assessed  the summerhouse  only mentioned fire damage to a 
leaf blower and hedge trimmer  and also noted that the other  items  were in a very 
poor condition. Legal  and General  therefore  offered to settle these two items only.
It offered  Mr and Mrs B £350  for their loss of expectation regarding the contents  on 
the basis they were  led to believe  an assessment could be completed from a list.
It would  settle the hedge  based on Mr and Mrs Bs estimate of £3,750  once the 
invoice was received.
It would  settle Mr and Mrs Bs share of the fence based on what  its costs would have 
been had it done  the work. Legal  and General said it could have done the work for 
£1,000  so it offered Mr and Mrs B £500.
The summerhouse was subsequently cash settled  for £1,850 as Mr and Mrs B agreed with 
this amount. However,  they referred  their complaint about the other items to this service, 
where it was considered  by one of our investigators.
During our investigators review, Legal and General said it was no longer prepared  to settle 
the hedge  because it considered the hedge to be trees, which  arent covered under the 
policy.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld:
She noted that hedges werent defined  in the policy  and concluded it wasnt fair or 
reasonable to not consider Mr and Mrs Bs Leylandii trees  to be a hedge given their 
purpose and location.  
She was persuaded that some  of the contents  items would have  been  damaged  by 
the incident, but not all of them. So she thought it would be fair and reasonable for 
Legal and General  to pay 50% of the policy limit for contents in outbuildings.
She thought  that Legal  and Generals  offer to pay 50% for a shared fence was fair, 
but said this should  be based  on Mr and Mrs Bs actual costs  given they were  told 
they couldnt claim for this item.
Because Legal and General disagreed  with our investigator,  the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 14 June 2019. I explained that I intended  to come to a 
different outcome to our investigator,  although still upholding the complaint  but I would 
consider any further evidence  or comments I receive. In my provisional  decision I said:
I have considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
There are three areas to this complaint, which I will address  in turn. These are the fence, 
hedge, and contents items.
Ref: DRN34345473fence
Generally speaking, we wouldnt normally expect an insurer to cash settle repairs for more 
than it could do the work for. But here, Mr and Mrs B say they were told they couldnt claim 
for the fence, so they had to go ahead with the repairs. 
Ive reviewed Legal and Generals phone notes for Mr and Mrs Bs claim, and also the third 
party claim  and I havent seen any mention of Mr and Mrs B being told they couldnt claim 
for the fence. But the third party file does  show that Mr and Mrs B discussed the fence (and 
hedge) with Legal and General before the repairs were  completed; and Im also mindful a 
discussion may have  been  held with the loss adjusters appointed on the third party  claim, 
which wouldnt be captured in the information we have been shown. Equally, on balance, 
I consider it unlikely that Mr and Mrs B would have paid out nearly £2,000 to replace the 
fence themselves, if they hadnt been led to believe they couldnt claim for it by 
Legal and General, or one of its agents. 
So in conclusion, Im persuaded that Legal and General should, at least,  pay Mr and Mrs Bs 
share of the costs  they incurred, which is £967.50.
In respect of the neighbours share,  Legal and General has met that third partys claim  so 
its my understanding that Legal  and General  should  be covering the neighbours share of 
the fence too. Therefore, if the shared fence didnt form part of the third partys settlement, 
I consider it fair and reasonable for Legal  and General to now settle all of Mr and Mrs Bs 
invoice. Legal  and General should  let me know if the fence did form part of the third party  
claim  and if so, how much was paid.
Because Im persuaded, on balance, that Mr and Mrs B paid for the fence due to being led to 
believe they couldnt claim for it, Im satisfied that interest should  also be added to this part 
of the claim settlement. Interest should  be calculated at a rate of 8% simple   from the 
invoice date until the date of settlement.
hedge
Mr and Mrs B are claiming for 15 mature Leylandii trees. Under  the buildings section of their 
policy hedges are covered, trees are not. Theres limited cover for trees in containers, under 
the contents section,  but that doesnt  apply here as the trees were in the ground.  The policy 
doesnt define what a hedge is, so its left to interpretation.
Legal and General originally accepted  that the trees  were a hedge   it based  its decision  on 
its own internal guidance  that defined a hedge as a line of closely  spaced  trees  or shrubs 
planted and trained to form a boundary or barrier  in much the same way as a fence.
However, Legal and General now points to online  sources  that define a hedge as a row of 
plants, shrubs, or small trees  and Mr and Mrs Bs trees  were  about four metres tall. It also 
says Mr and Mrs Bs Leylandii fit the definition of a tree because they didnt have  branches  
from the ground up. 
Legal and General also contacted Mr and Mrs Bs local authority about  this matter  and the 
local authority explained  that the guidance  for hedges is they should be a maximum of two 
metres tall. But it also said that a hedge can be allowed to grow  much higher as long as it 
doesnt impact neighbouring properties.
Ref: DRN34345474Having carefully considered the arguments presented, Im persuaded its more reasonable to 
consider Mr and Mrs B leylandii to be a hedge,  rather than trees.  Ill explain why.
Its clear from the photos that the trees were  closely spaced and planted  to form a barrier  at 
the boundary  of Mr and Mrs Bs home  which fits Legal and Generals own internal hedge  
guidance. Even if I were  to accept that the trees needed maintenance to form a hedge like 
shape  which is very hard to tell given  the fire  the trees  were  still planted and trained to 
grow for that purpose. The information  Ive seen also explains Leylandii trees  are used to 
create a hedge.
Legal and General points  to the size of Mr and Mrs Bs trees, but in my view they are not so 
high that they cant  reasonably be considered a hedge, and even the local authority didnt 
give a definitive  answer on this point.  Furthermore,  the photos Ive seen clearly show that 
Mr and Mrs Bs Leylandii had branches from the ground up  which  is contrary to the tree 
definition Legal  and General now seek to rely on.
Legal and General previously concluded Mr and Mrs Bs quote for replacing the Leylandii 
was reasonable,  so Im persuaded it should settle  this part of the claim  on that basis,  i.e. 
£3,750.
Im also mindful that the quote doesnt account  for delivery costs,  and the retailers website 
clearly shows  there will be a delivery cost dependant on various factors.  Mr and Mrs B may 
also incur further costs planting the Leylandii if they require professional assistance. Both 
costs should be covered  under their claim.
If Mr and Mrs B wish to claim for either delivery  or planting I consider it reasonable to decide  
they must  do so within six months of receiving  the hedge settlement. These costs  also need 
to be agreed with Legal and General before  they are incurred, and it reserves  the right to 
only pay those agreed costs on receipt  of invoices.
I also intend to award  Mr and Mrs B £150  for the trouble  and upset that was caused  to them  
by Legal and General changing  its position   in my view that decision was unreasonable.  
contents
Mr and Mrs B say the items that were  in their summerhouse were damaged beyond repair  
by either  the fire, or the fire brigades  water. Ive carefully considered what  they have said, 
the history of the claim,  and the limited photos  available.
The photos  show only minor fire damage  occurred to the outside  of the summerhouse. They 
also show there wasnt any fire damage to the inside   and there are no obvious signs  of 
water damage either. The company that assessed the summerhouse noted a leaf blower 
and hedge trimmer had been damaged; and I can see fire damage to a few items in the 
photos provided.
However, Mr and Mrs B have produced a long list of items totalling  over £7,000  and given 
the limited fire damage to the summerhouse, on balance, Im not persuaded many  of these 
items would have been damaged by the heat. Equally, Im not persuaded that many of the 
items, given  their materials, would have  been damaged beyond repair by the fire brigades 
water  but rather they would have been  salvageable.
Ref: DRN34345475Mr and Mrs B didnt  claim for their contents until five months after the incident. At this point  
they were only asked for a list of the items.  However, a further five months passed before  
they returned with an indication of the amount they were  claiming  for; and consequently  
Legal and General asked  to inspect the items   which in my view was reasonable  but 
Mr and Mrs B declined,  and so they were told to just send a list.
Overall, Im persuaded that Legal and General should have been  clearer   by either  asking 
for photos of all the items  before they were disposed, or by insisting on an inspection. But 
that doesnt lead me to conclude that all the contents should be settled. Given my other  
observations about the likely  damage,  I dont consider that would be reasonable. 
Furthermore, in my view Legal  and Generals  ability to assess  the contents  was significantly 
prejudiced by the ten month delay between the fire and Mr and Mrs B providing a loss list. 
The call notes also dont suggest  any guarantees  were given in terms of the items  being 
covered based  on a list alone  and Im satisfied the onus remained on Mr and Mrs B to 
prove their loss.
Our investigator recommended 50% of the policy limit for contents  in outbuildings be paid to 
settle this part of the claim, which equals £3,170.  But having thought about matters carefully, 
Im not persuaded this represents a fair outcome  for Legal and General. Im not persuaded 
that Mr and Mrs B have, on balance, shown  they suffered this level of loss.
Legal and General accept  a leaf blower  and hedge trimmer were damaged  and a few other  
items in the photos appear to have suffered from fire damage (in my view most items simply 
look damaged  because they have  been  left outside or wet for a long period of time). Based  
on this, overall I consider  a fair and reasonable settlement to be £1,000. I consider that this 
sum fairly accounts  for the leaf blower and hedge trimmer, and the few other  items  visibly 
fire damaged in the photos.
Legal and General also offered £350 to Mr and Mrs B for their loss of expectation in terms of 
not being able to assess their items  from a list. Given that Im persuaded Legal and General 
should have been clearer, Im satisfied  its offer should remain,  in addition  to the above 
£1,000.
Legal and General accepted my provisional findings regarding  the summerhouse  contents, 
but it disagreed  about the fence and hedge. It said:
Mr and Mrs B should provide a copy of their fence invoice to demonstrate they 
incurred £1,935 costs.
If Mr and Mrs B are unable to show that Legal and General told them they couldnt 
claim for the fence,  then it only needs  to pay what its repair  costs  would have  been.
The third party didnt  claim  for the shared  fence,  and no settlement was paid.
The damage to the summerhouse was minimal and Legal and General should have 
only offered a repair, not a cash settlement for a replacement  this should be taken 
into account.
In respect of Mr and Mrs Bs Leylandii, it pretty much guarantees that if anybody  
else was asked they would say they are a row of trees  and not a hedge.
Ref: DRN34345476Ive reference  Legal and Generals internal guidance regarding hedges, but failed  to 
acknowledge that the trees should be trained  to form a fence.  It says this means the 
trees should  be maintained and trimmed to form a hedge,  rather  than being allowed 
to grow over four metres tall.
Mr and Mrs B accepted my provisional findings  regarding their fence and hedge,  but they 
wanted the following points noted in respect  of their summerhouse contents:
They were advised by Legal and General  to compose a list of damaged contents but 
at no time did they refuse a visit. They advised Legal and General if they attended 
the contents wouldnt be present  and Legal & General  consequently  arranged a 
meeting at their home where this was confirmed.
They are unhappy because the loss adjuster  who visited  in April 2018 said there  was 
no evidence of a fire taking place in May 2017   despite the fire report and their 
summerhouse already  being  settled.
The contents inside the summerhouse  at the time of the fire were  doused in water  by 
the fire brigade  to extinguish the flames and to prevent the fire from spreading. The 
items were consequently removed  by the fire officers  to check  if the summerhouse 
and contents were safe of potential re-ignition  so the items were water damaged.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I will again address  the fence, hedge,  and contents  items in turn. 
fence
Legal and General had previously accepted our investigators view that the fence settlement 
should be based on Mr and Mrs Bs invoice  rather than on the amount it says it could have 
done the work for. But in response to my provisional decision it now argues  this point.
Legal and General says Mr and Mrs B need to show that it told them they couldnt claim for 
the fence. But this service  doesnt require conclusive evidence. As explained  at the start of 
my provisional findings, I reach my decision on the balance  of probabilities  its for me to 
determine what I consider  to be more likely  in view of all the evidence thats available and 
the wider surrounding circumstances. Mr and Mrs Bs own recollections form part of the 
available evidence. On balance, I still consider it unlikely  that Mr and Mrs B would have  
covered the replacement fence costs themselves if they hadnt  been led to believe they 
couldnt claim for it, either  by Legal and General or its agents. It hasnt said anything in 
response to my provisional  decision which changes my opinion  on this matter.
Legal and General says Mr and Mrs B should provide a copy  of their fence invoice to show 
the costs they incurred.  But Legal  and General already has a copy of their invoice, which  is 
on letter  headed  paper  from a registered  limited company. However, on further review, Ive 
noted that Mrs B is a director  of that company. We have asked Mr and Mrs B if they can 
show the invoice  was paid, but they say it was likely  paid by cash  nearly  two years ago.         
I have kept these circumstances in mind  when considering the below.
Ref: DRN34345477Legal and General estimated it could  have replaced  the fence for about £1,000, so it offered 
Mr and Mrs B £500 for their share.  Its file explains that these costs were based  on supplying  
and installing fence  posts and bays. However, Mr and Mrs Bs invoice also included cutting 
back the fire damaged Leylandii, removing the damaged fence, and disposing  of materials.  
Given the invoice  included additional  work, which would be covered under the claim,  on 
balance Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs Bs invoice  was unreasonable,  or inflated for the 
purpose of their claim.  So having thought about matters carefully, Ive decided  its 
reasonable to accept  their invoice as a reflection  of their costs.
I note Legal and General says the summerhouse  settlement should be taken into account on 
the basis it was generous. But I dont consider that would be fair or reasonable. If it thought  
the summerhouse could  have  been repaired,  or was already beyond repair before the fire, it 
should have made that decision at the time so Mr and Mrs B had a fair opportunity to 
challenge the matter. 
In conclusion, overall I still consider it fair and reasonable for Legal and General to settle the 
fence based on Mr and Mrs Bs invoice. This includes the neighbours share given  the fence 
didnt form part of the third party claim.
hedge
In response to my provisional decision Legal  and General said most people would consider 
Mr and Mrs Bs Leylandii to be trees, not a hedge. But during  the claim and complaint a 
number of people  have concluded  otherwise, so I disagree the matter is so clear  cut.
Legal and General also said I had misinterpreted  its internal  guidance as the trees should be 
trained to form a fence.  However, in my provisional decision I directly commented on how 
the Leylandii  had been planted, trained to grow,  and maintained   and I took those points 
into account when  reaching my provisional findings. So I wont  comment again here.
The onus is on Legal and General to make its policy terms sufficiently clear.  Mr and Mrs Bs 
policy doesnt define what a hedge is, so its left to interpretation. Overall,  in view of how the 
Leylandii was planted, the advertised  purpose  of such trees, and Legal and Generals own 
internal guidance  I consider Legal  and Generals decision  to decline the Leylandii  to be 
unreasonable. Its not said or shown me anything that persuades me otherwise.
contents
I accept what Mr and Mrs B say about  them not refusing a visit, and their explanation about  
the items  being  doused and removed by the fire brigade. I can also understand their 
dissatisfaction regarding  the loss adjusters comments.
However, Im still not persuaded many of the items  would have been damaged by the water,  
I consider it more likely  that they could have simply been dried  or at least repaired. Its for 
Mr and Mrs B to prove, on balance, their loss  and Im not persuaded they have  done  so 
given the limited photos provided dont show most of the items claimed for. Furthermore, 
there was a five month delay between the incident and the claim,  and then a further five 
months before the loss list was provided.  It remains my opinion that Legal and Generals 
ability to assess the loss was significantly prejudiced by these delays.
Ref: DRN34345478So overall, I still consider  £1,000 to be a fair settlement  in all the circumstances, plus £350 
for the loss of expectation regarding the list of items. Im not persuaded I can reasonably 
decide Legal and General should pay more  for this part of the claim.
my final decision
I appreciate both parties will remain disappointed with certain aspects of my decision. But for 
the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. My final decision  is Legal & General Insurance Limited should:
settle Mr and Mrs Bs £1,935 fence invoice in full; 
add interest to the fence settlement at a rate of 8% simple, calculated from the date 
of the invoice until the date of settlement; 
settle Mr and Mrs Bs Leylandii for £3,750  (and consider delivery and planting costs if 
presented within  six months of the Leylandii settlement);
pay Mr and Mrs B £150 for the trouble and upset caused by the handling of the 
Leylandii part of the claim;
settle Mr and Mrs Bs summerhouse  contents  for £1,000;  and
pay Mr and Mrs B £350 for the trouble and upset caused by the handling of the 
contents part of the claim
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 October  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3434547