K822xcomplaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the way John Lewis Financial Services  Limited handled  her fraud  
claim.
background 
In November 2017, several fraudulent  transactions were carried out using Mrs Bs 
John Lewis  credit card. Mrs B reported  the fraud  to John Lewis on 1 December 2017.
John Lewis  refunded the fraudulent transactions  along with associated fees and interest  
on 22 December 2017. And on 3 January 2018, it confirmed in writing  that the fraudulent 
transactions had all been refunded. It also said that, by way of compensation for the 
inconvenience and stress this matter  had caused  Mrs B, it had paid £100 into her credit card 
account, and sent her £50 in John Lewis vouchers.
But Mrs B wasnt  happy  with the way John Lewis had handled her fraud claim, and she 
thought its offer of compensation was insulting and inadequate for the distress and upset 
caused. In summary,  shes  said that John Lewis:
-Didnt deal with her, as an honest  customer, in an acceptable way. She was treated 
as if she were guilty and lying. And John  Lewis  requests  for her to report the fraud to 
the police, and provide evidence, felt spurious and irrelevant.
-Didnt investigate properly until she complained, with help from her contact network.
-Refused to refund  the fraudulent transactions until she contacted  senior people.
Mrs B has also said that she had health issues  over Christmas 2017, which ruined a trip she 
had planned, and are still ongoing.  She believes her health issues  are linked to the stress 
caused by this matter.
After Mrs B referred  her complaint to this service, John Lewis offered to pay her a further 
£100 to resolve  things.
Overall, our investigator thought that what  John Lewis had offered was a fair resolution in the 
circumstances. But Mrs B didnt agree, so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
John Lewis  has refunded all of the fraudulent transactions, together  with associated fees and 
interest. So Im satisfied Mrs B hasnt lost out financially.  What I need to consider is whether 
John Lewis  did anything  wrong in handling Mrs Bs fraud claim, and whether its offer of 
compensation is fair in all the circumstances. 
Mrs B has said that she has been distressed and upset by whats  happened.  She believes 
that the stress shes experienced has caused ongoing health issues. Being  a victim of fraud 
is likely  to upset someone whether or not something else goes wrong. And whilst I dont 
doubt that this has been  a troubling  time for Mrs B, I dont think it would be fair to say that 
John Lewis  has caused all of the trouble and upset shes experienced. 
Ref: DRN36863052The fraud was reported  to John Lewis on 1 December 2017.  Looking at the notes recorded 
at the time, I can see that a block was placed  on Mrs Bs credit card account to prevent 
further fraudulent  transactions on the same day. John Lewis investigated  the fraud, and 
made a decision  to refund the fraudulent transactions on 22 December 2017.
So 21 days  passed  between  the fraud being reported, and the fraudulent  transactions  being 
refunded. I dont think this was an unreasonable amount of time for John  Lewis to take to 
investigate. I understand how Mrs B feels about  being asked to report the fraud to the police 
and provide evidence. But from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that John Lewis investigation  
was in line with what Id expect in this type of case. Mrs B has said shes an honest 
customer. But I still think its reasonable to expect John Lewis  to want to satisfy itself that the 
transactions were  fraudulent before agreeing to refund  them.
I havent seen  anything that would  make me think John Lewis didnt deal with Mrs Bs fraud  
claim appropriately until a complaint was raised, or senior people got involved, as Mrs B has 
said. 
John Lewis  has offered Mrs B a total of £250  for her trouble and upset in this matter  its 
credited £100  to her credit card account, sent her £50 in John Lewis vouchers and offered to 
pay her a further £100. Overall, I think this offer is fair, and so I wont  be asking it to do 
anything more to resolve  things.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that John Lewis  Financial Services  
Limited has made a fair offer to resolve Mrs Bs complaint. If it hasnt done so already,  it 
should pay Mrs B the outstanding £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3686305