K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold her a Premier packaged bank account. She 
paid a monthly fee for the account which provided  several benefits  in return.
background
Mrs Fs account  history is as follows:
opened a fee free current account in 1987.
changed to a fee-free classic plus account  in 2006.
upgraded to a Premier  Added Value account  in August 2008.
changed to a Premier  Club Lloyds Added Value account in July 2014.
Mrs F told us she still had the account,  but that she was going to arrange to change  it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mrs F disagreed 
saying, in summary, that:
She felt forced into taking  the account.  She was told she wouldnt be able to have an 
overdraft if she didnt take the account  and that she couldnt have a fee-free account 
because she didnt earn enough each  month.
Shes been penalised  because her account  hasnt been  overdrawn.
Lloyds' staff were given incentives  to sell the accounts.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mrs Fs complaint. And where  
evidence is incomplete  and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available 
and the wider circumstances at the time.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  this complaint. Id like 
to explain the reasons  for my decision  in more detail.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mrs F was given a clear  choice  in taking this account. 
Mrs F recalls she was told she couldnt have a fee free account  because she didnt earn 
enough. But I havent seen anything to suggest  that she couldnt have kept her fee-free 
account if shed  wanted to. Also, fee-free  accounts  have always been, and continue to be, 
available in the UK. There were some other fee paying accounts which  required a minimum 
monthly credit to the account and perhaps  this is where the misunderstanding  arose.
Ref: DRN35364802Mrs F says she was told she had to have the account if she wanted  an overdraft facility. Im 
sorry, but Im not persuaded  by Mrs Fs recollections. She already enjoyed an overdraft 
facility on her fee-free account.  And I can see from her bank statements from around  the 
time she took the account that her account  was comfortably in credit. So I dont think she 
wouldve felt pressured  to take a fee-paying  account just for the overdraft facility.  
Overall, Im not persuaded that Lloyds pressured Mrs F into agreeing  to the account  or made 
her think  she had no choice. On balance, I think its more likely that she chose to upgrade to 
the Premier account,  knowing that she didnt have  to agree to it if she didnt  want to.
Lloyds recommended the account to Mrs F. This means it had to make  sure it was right for 
her, based  on her personal circumstances at the time. 
At the time,  the account cost £25 and provided  worldwide family  and winter  sports  travel  
insurance, breakdown  cover, mobile phone insurance, home  emergency  cover,  identity theft 
and card protection cover. It also provided a £500  interest and fee-free overdraft benefit, with 
a reduced interest  rate on balances overdrawn by more  than that amount  alongside  a 
range of other benefits.
It seems, from the records Lloyds  still has from the time of the sale,  that Mrs F was 
interested in particular in the home emergency cover.  She also registered two handsets at a 
time and a total of 13 phones under the mobile phone insurance.  She also made three  
phone calls to the travel insurer so it seems  she was interested  in this benefit  as well. Given  
Mrs F was interested in, and was able to use, these benefits, I dont think  Lloyds 
recommendation was unsuitable.
Mrs F told us she hadnt claimed under any of the policies. But just because  she hasnt 
needed to make a claim, doesnt  mean she didnt have a need for the insurance.
In addition to making  sure the account was right for Mrs F, Lloyds also had to give her 
important information  about the account  benefits.  I accept  its possible that Lloyds might  not 
have given her all of the information it shouldve about all of the account benefits. But Ive 
not seen anything specific about her circumstances that make me think she wouldve been  
put off from upgrading to the Premier  account,  had she been given more  information  about it. 
Because of this, I dont think, on balance,  the Premier account was mis-sold to Mrs F.
In July 2014, following Lloyds recommendation, Mrs F chose to convert  the Premier account 
to a Premier Club added  value account. This was a bolt-on to her existing Premier account  
and, for an additional monthly fee of £3, Mrs F had access  to further benefits. Mrs Fs 
statements do show her being  charged for the bolt-on. But these charges are followed by an 
immediate credit for the amount  taken. This is because Mrs F was in receipt of a fee waiver 
for the Club Lloyds  bolt-on because she credited her account each month with at least 
£1,500. As Mrs F is effectively in the position  where she hasnt paid a fee for the bolt-on, she 
hasnt been financially disadvantaged.
So I dont  conclude that Lloyds treated Mrs F unfairly in respect of the Club Lloyds bolt-on. 
Ref: DRN35364803Ive carefully considered  everything both parties  have said and provided, including  what 
Mrs F said about Lloyds staff being  given incentives to sell packaged bank accounts. But 
this service isnt the industry regulator. That means we dont set the rules  for financial 
businesses or police the industry to make  sure those rules are followed. Thats  the role of 
the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). My role is to consider individual 
disputes and reach  an outcome I think is fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances. 
And that is what Ive done here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3536480