K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Link Financial Outsourcing Limited  is chasing him for a debt that doesnt  exist. 
background
In 2015, Mr B took a store card with another  business  as it entitled him to a discount on a 
purchase. He says he only used it for that purchase. Hes provided an account  statement 
dated 21 June  2015 showing the amount  being paid in full, and an annual  statement 
covering the period 2 May 2015  to 22 May 2016 showing just the one transaction  and a zero 
balance.  
In March 2018, Link wrote to Mr B to say that his account had been assigned  to it and it was 
now the legal owner of the debt. Mr B asked for information about the account as he had no 
recollection of using the card after the initial transaction. He said hed not heard anything  
from the store card provider about missed  payments and the account had been set up to be 
paid by direct debit, so it would automatically be paid off each month.  He asked for details of 
the amount owed  and the transactions that led to it.
Link looked into his concerns and issued a final response on 15 August 2018. It provided 
statements from 2017 showing  that a balance of £32.24 had been brought forward from the 
previous statement and charges had since been applied. Link said Mr B should have kept 
the store card owner up to date with his address and contact details. It felt it had provided 
enough information to show he was liable  for the current balance  of £111.44 and asked  him 
for proposals  to repay it. Link said it didnt feel it had done anything wrong and he could  refer 
his complaint to us if he was dissatisfied.  
Mr B did so and one of our investigators  looked  into it. On 1 March 2019,  our investigator 
asked Link for information to show how the debt arose. Despite  reminders, it hadnt been  
able to do so by 23 April 2019. So our investigator  upheld Mr Bs complaint. He said that as 
Link hadnt been able to show how the debt had come about, it should  write off the debt and 
remove any information it had recorded  on Mr Bs credit file. 
Mr B accepted what our investigator had said, but Link didnt. It said it had provided  all the 
information it had and Mr B should contact the previous owner to claim the balance as fraud 
if he believes it is incorrect. As there  was no agreement,  the Mr Bs complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr B has provided evidence to show that the account was used for the initial  transaction in 
2015 and paid off in full. Hes provided  an annual statement covering the first year of the 
account showing it was only used once. It seems strange  then that he should  suddenly use 
the card again   presumably at some point in 2017  for a relatively small amount such as 
would have given  rise to a balance brought forward of £32.24 in September  2017. Mr B has 
offered to pay the debt if it can be shown how it arose. 
Ref: DRN31846982Link took ownership of the debt in March  2018  but hasnt been able to provide Mr B with 
evidence of how it came about. Its provided copy statements from September 2017 
onwards, but by then, the debt was already in place and growing due to charges. It hasnt 
been able to provide a statement showing the initial transaction which  led to this debt despite  
repeated requests from Mr B and this service over the 10 months  or so. 
Link has said it was Mr Bs responsibility to keep  his creditors updated when he changed his 
address. He does  not dispute  this, and says he may not have done  as he wasnt  using the 
card and hadnt for some time before hed moved. Hed had his mail redirected for nine 
months after he moved. He says hed given his mobile telephone number when he opened  
the account and this hadnt changed.  But he hadnt  received any calls or letters  from the 
original account  owner.  
Ive seen the annual statement from 2015/6 showing the account was only used once in that 
period. On balance,  I think  its improbable that hed have used the card so much later and for 
a relatively small amount.  Link has been  unable to show  how this debt arose despite being  
asked repeatedly for the information.  That being  the case, I think  the fair and reasonable 
thing for it to do is to write off the debt and remove any adverse information  it has recorded  
on Mr Bs credit file. 
I have considered whether or not to make  an award  for compensation to Mr B for the delays 
in providing information that, in my view,  Link should have. But given the possibility that Mr B 
may have  used the card and the debt may indeed exist, I think  the writing off of the debt is 
sufficient in the circumstances. 
my final decision
I uphold Mr Bs complaint  and Link Financial Outsourcing Limited should:
Write  off the amount it says is owing;
Remove any information its recorded on Mr Bs credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Richard Hale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3184698