K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mrs W says Nationwide  Building  Society (trading as Dunfermline  Building Society)  
mis-sold her the MPPI.
background
I sent Mrs W and Nationwide  Building  Society my provisional decision on 29 March  2019. I 
said that before I made my final decision Id look at any more  comments  and evidence that I 
got by 29 April 2019.
Mrs W and Nationwide Building Society  didnt send me any new comments or evidence  for 
me to consider in response to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ws case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions and for the same  reasons as in my provisional decision. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
In the mortgage application there  was a separate section for the MPPI, in which  I can see 
cover for just accident  and sickness was selected,  and Mrs W signed  to confirm she 
wished to apply  for the MPPI. Mrs W has said that she was told there  was a high risk her 
mortgage application would be refused without the MPPI and that she felt pressured to 
take out the MPPI. Ive thought about this very carefully, including  what Mrs W has said 
about commission  for the MPPI  being  payable. But I just dont think theres enough  
evidence for me to conclude Mrs W was pressured. I accept its possible.  And Ive seen a 
copy of Mrs Ws letter  to Dunfermline Building Society  dated 28 February 2004  in which 
she advised  she was going to look further into whether  the cover was suitable for her. But 
she signed  the application  for the MPPI  on 3 March 2004. And Mrs W hasnt provided any 
evidence that persuades  me that she decided the cover wasnt suitable for her  but that 
she was nevertheless railroaded into it. Again, I accept  this is possible. But overall  I think 
its most likely that Nationwide Building Society made  it clear that Mrs W didnt have to 
take out the MPPI and that she chose to take it out.
Ive not seen enough evidence to say that Nationwide  Building  Society  provided  Mrs W 
with a personalised  recommendation to take out the MPPI,  as distinguished from it 
instead giving  Mrs W information about  the MPPI  so she could make up her own mind  
whether she wanted it. Nationwide Building Society  therefore didnt have to check it was 
right for Mrs W. But it did have to make sure Mrs W got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Ref: DRN36314592Its possible the information Nationwide Building Society gave Mrs W about the MPPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the MPPI - so it looks  like 
she wanted  this type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the MPPI cover 
- so it could have been useful for her if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the MPPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information  about the MPPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.
Which means Nationwide Building Society doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
MPPI to Mrs W.
But Nationwide Building Society will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to Mrs W 
because:
Nationwide  Building Society got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 
50% of the MPPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about that. Because  
Nationwide Building  Society didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide Building  Society has basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission  and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I 
think that offer is fair in this case. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs W has said - including what shes  said about building  
insurance she says was also sold to her, and her financial situation and circumstances. But 
the building  insurance is a different matter  to the MPPI.  Like Ive said, I dont think 
Nationwide Building  Society was obliged to check the MPPI was right for Mrs W. And even 
given Mrs Ws circumstances, the accident and sickness cover  the MPPI provided couldve 
been useful  it wasnt illogical  or automatically unwarranted because of her situation. So for 
these reasons, and the reasons explained  above,  these  points  dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide Building  Society has to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the MPPI  premium.  Nationwide Building Society should also pay 
back to Mrs W any extra  interest she paid because  of that.
Nationwide Building  Society should  pay back to Mrs W the extra she paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of MPPI. 
Nationwide Building  Society should  also pay Mrs W 8%* simple  interest  on each payment. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs W can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN36314593my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society (trading as Dunfermline 
Building Society) does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI  to Mrs W.
But Nationwide Building Society (trading as Dunfermline Building Society)  does have to pay 
back to Mrs W any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3631459