K821x#15Complaint
Ms J complains, in summary, that Al Rayan Bank PLC delayed  responding to a request to 
transfer her ISA to another bank.
Background
In early April 2019, Ms J decided to transfer  her ISA to another  bank.  The  new bank sent 
the transfer request to Al Rayan Bank, but it did not receive a response.  So, later that month  
Ms J completed a second transfer request which the new bank again sent to Al Rayan Bank.   
But there was still no response so, on 10 May 2019, Ms J personally delivered a transfer 
request to Al Rayan Bank.  Her  ISA was then transferred to her new bank on 15 May 2019.
Ms J held Al Rayan Bank responsible for the delay, but it said it had not received the earlier  
transfer requests.   So it declined  her claim for compensation.
Initially, our investigator felt unable to recommend  that Ms Js complaint should be upheld.  
But after it was assigned to a new investigator  he felt the complaint should be upheld.  He  
concluded, in summary,  that the new bank  most  probably sent the first transfer request to 
Al Rayan  Bank on or about  15 April 2019   so, after allowing the maximum 15 working days 
for it to make  the transfer, the new bank should  have  received the money no later than 
8 May 2019.   However, because the transfer  wasnt completed until 15 May 2019  the 
investigator recommended that Al Rayan Bank  pay Ms J the difference in income between 
the two ISAs for that period of a week, plus £50 compensation for inconvenience.
Ms J accepted that recommended outcome but Al Rayan Bank  did not, on the basis  that it 
had no record of receiving  Ms Js transfer  request  until 10 May 2019.
My findings
I have considered the available  evidence and arguments in order  to decide  what  is fair and 
reasonable in the individual circumstances of this complaint.  Where  the evidence  is 
incomplete, inconclusive,  or contradictory  as some  of it is here  I reach  my decision on 
the balance of probabilities; that is, what I consider is most  likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The issue  here is a simple one; did Al Rayan Bank receive the first two ISA requests but do 
nothing with them?  It says it didnt  receive  them, but we have evidence from the new bank  
chiefly by way of confirmatory  letters to Ms J  that they were sent.
I appreciate its possible  that the new bank did not send either  of the first two requests, or 
that  if it did  they were lost in transit such that Al Rayan Bank  did not receive  them.  But  
its clear that Ms J doesnt  think thats  the most  likely explanation,  adding that one of the 
reasons for wanting to transfer  her ISA was because she felt Al Rayan Bank was inefficient.
Al Rayan  Banks  position is that the only record it has of receiving anything  is the third 
transfer request,  because  thats all thats recorded on its system.  But  thats not the same as 
saying Al Rayan Bank didnt receive  the earlier requests  it could have done so but 
overlooked them, meaning they werent recorded on its system.
In all the circumstances, and on balance, I find this to be the most  likely explanation.  
I consider it less likely  that the new bank failed to send  either  the first or the second transfer 
request.  I also consider  it less likely that one or both were lost in transit.  
Ref: DRN36670702Ive therefore  come  to the same overall conclusion as the second investigator did.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my Final  Decision is that I uphold  this complaint.  To settle 
it, Al Rayan  Bank PLC should  pay to Ms J:
1.the income differential on the sum of £16,190.12 transferred from her Al Rayan  Bank 
PLC ISA (the bank  will know for certain,  but I understand that  at the time  it paid 
expected profit at 1.35% a year) to the new banks ISA which  paid interest at 1.50% a 
year, for the period 8 May 2019  to 15 May 2019;  and 
2.compensation of £50, to reflect the inconvenience caused to Ms J arising  from its delays.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 August  2020.
David Millington
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3667070