K820x#14complaint
This complaint is being made  by Miss D1 on behalf  of her stepmother,  the late Miss D2, and 
herself. In the hope that Miss D1 wont mind, I will refer to the late Miss D2 as Miss D2 
throughout this decision.
Miss D1 says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her and Miss D2 a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss D1 and Miss D2 arranged a mortgage  with Lloyds  in 1998 and PPI cover  was sold at 
the same  time. The policy was in Miss D1s sole name and covered her for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. 
The PPI would have  paid a benefit of £215.06  a month for up to 12 months if Miss D1 made 
a successful claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss D1 disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints  about the 
sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss D1 and Miss D2s 
case.
Having done that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold during a meeting between Miss D1 and Miss D2 and Lloyds. Lloyds shouldve 
made Miss D1 and Miss D2 aware  the policy was optional. Miss D1 says she and Miss D2 were 
told they had to take the PPI. 
Lloyds has provided  a copy of the application  form for the PPI. On there the policy is for Miss D1 
only. So I think its likely that Miss D1 and Miss D2 discussed the option for the policy  at the time 
and they chose the cover which best suited  their circumstances at the time. There is nothing to 
suggest the policy was a compulsory part of the mortgage agreement. 
So, taking everything  Ive seen into account,  I think Lloyds made it clear that Miss D1 and Miss D2 
didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose  to take it out  although I can understand why    
Miss D1 cant remember this now.
Based on my experience of how Lloyds usually  sold these policies at the time, I think  its likely it 
gave Miss D1 and Miss D2 advice about  whether to buy the policy.  So it had to check  it was right 
for them. 
Looking at Miss D1 and Miss D2s circumstances   Miss D1s in particular  they seem  to have 
had a need for the cover. Miss D1 wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limits on the PPI 
cover. Miss D1 says she wouldnt have received any sick pay benefits from her employer. And    
Miss D1 says they didnt  have any other  means  such as savings  they couldve used so it 
seems they had a need for the policy. Miss D1 and Miss D2 were  borrowing funds against a large 
and long term financial commitment,  which was secured  on their home. So I think having the 
Ref: DRN36910742security that their mortgage  repayments would be made if Miss D1 was unable to work  would  have 
been important  to them.
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Lloyds  gave 
Miss D1 and Miss D2 about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But Miss D1 chose to 
take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of cover.  And it looks  like the policy would 
have been useful for her and Miss D2 if something went  wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have  put Miss D1 and Miss D2 off taking out the cover.  Which  means Lloyds doesnt  
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss D1.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss D1 because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Miss D1 and Miss D2 about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Miss D1 and 
Miss D2, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I know Miss D1 feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes put time and effort  
into the complaint.  And Ive thought carefully  about everything she has told us, but for the reasons 
explained above these points dont  change my decision. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Miss D1.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Miss D1 any commission  and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont award  
any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss D1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3691074