K820x#14complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that Hargreaves Lansdown  Asset Management Limited (HL) did not carry 
out adequate due diligence on an AIM listed share  he held in his self invested personal 
pension (SIPP) and ISA.  He considers  that if HL had carried out its due diligence properly it 
would not have allowed the investment to be held.
background
The shares were listed on AIM in mid 2015.   From  May 2017  onwards Mr P made  a 
substantial investment in the shares  both in his SIPP  and his ISA.  The shares  were  delisted 
from the AIM market in December 2018.   The company had ran out of money  and there 
were allegations  that the proceeds of a bond issue had been misappropriated.  Mr Ps losses  
prompted him to complain  to HL.  It did not uphold his complaint  and so it was referred to us.
Mr Ps complaint was looked at by an in investigator.  It was his view that the complaint 
should not be upheld.  He  agreed  with Mr P that SIPP operators have to carry out due 
diligence on investments held within a SIPP.  However, he did not think  that the due 
diligence needed  to be carried out on a share  listed on a recognised stock exchange was the 
same as on a non-standard  investment.   The ombudsman decision referred to by Mr P 
involved due diligence obligations for a non-standard investment and so wasnt a guide to 
this case which involved a listed security.  He went on to say that before a company is listed 
on AIM it has to appoint  a nominated  adviser  (Nomad) who has to carry out due diligence  on 
the company before  the shares  could  be listed.   It was reasonable to assume that a listed  
company was an appropriate investment for a SIPP or an ISA.    
Mr P did not agree  with the investigator.  He said:
The fact that he bought the shares on an execution  only basis does not absolve  HL 
of their due diligence obligations.
It was readily apparent that there were multiple indicators of possible fraud  in relation 
to the company.
HL is a substantial  company  and has the resources needed to carry out extensive 
due diligence.
There is a difference  between losses  caused  by fraud and ordinary investment 
losses.  He was prepared  to accept the investment risk but should  have  been  
protected from the risks of fraud.
The checks needed to identify fraud  risk are not onerous.
There are numerous examples of problems with companies listed on AIM  which 
shows that an AIM listing  does not provide any meaningful reassurance  for an 
investor.
The companys  broker has been found guilty of fraud  which should have concerned  
HL.
There is a close connection between the broker and the Nomad.  The Nomads  
association with the broker should  have  been  a concern.
Mr P has made a large  number of points.   I have quoted the main  ones above but havent 
listed everything he has said.   However, I confirm that I have read and considered  everything 
Mr P has said.
HL agreed with the investigator and had nothing further to add.
Ref: DRN33424602my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for the same reasons.
The investigator set out the various  guidance and alerts issued by the FCA (and the FSA) in 
respect of the due diligence obligations on SIPP operators.  So I will not repeat them here.  It 
is clear from what  the FCA has said that SIPP operators have obligations to investors to 
ensure that investments held within a SIPP are appropriate  and these  obligations have 
existed since SIPPs became regulated in 2007.  
Most of the attention and comment  around  the due diligence obligations  of SIPP  operators  
have concentrated  on issues arising  from holding non-standard investments.  The 
ombudsmans decision involving the SIPP operator Berkeley Burke, referred  to by Mr P, 
involved a non-standard investment.  So I dont think that case  is directly relevant to Mr Ps 
complaint.  However,  the FCA has said due diligence obligations apply to all investments 
and not just non-standard investments.  This was made  clear  in the FCAs Dear CEO letter  
of July 2014 which said:  
Although our thematic review focussed on non-standard investments, it is important to note 
that guidance on due diligence applies to all investments.
However, no specific guidance has been  issued  about appropriate due diligence on standard  
investments.  Investments listed on a regulated exchange  such  as AIM  are classified as 
standard investments.
The key areas  for due diligence on non-standard investments are set out in the FCAs 2014  
Dear CEO letter and.are:
correctly establishing  and understanding the nature  of an investment 
ensuring that an investment is genuine  and not a scam,  or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation  
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally  enforceable) 
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued,  both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and 
ensuring that an investment is not impaired  (for example that previous investors have 
received income  if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy  etc.) 
Please note that the due diligence necessary  for individual investments  may vary depending 
on the circumstances, and the five areas  highlighted above are not exhaustive.
So the due diligence required is not prescribed and depends on the particular investment.  
Whilst not explicitly stated  I consider it reasonable to consider that the due diligence required 
on standard investments will be less than that on non standard investments  or that it will 
be far more  straightforward to establish the above for a standard investment.
The particular standard investment in this case was shares listed on a regulated  exchange.  
A company listed on AIM is required to appoint a nominated adviser or Nomad.   A Nomad is 
Ref: DRN33424603a firm regulated by the FCA.   The LSE website describes the role of the Nomad in the 
following terms:
The role of Nominated Advisers
Nomads are corporate finance advisers  approved by the London Stock  Exchange to act in 
this capacity. To obtain approval as Nomad, a firm must meet the eligibility criteria set out in 
the AIM Rules for Nominated  Advisers.
A Nomad  is responsible for advising and guiding a company  on its responsibilities in 
relation to its admission  to AIM as well as its continuing obligations once on market. To help 
fulfil this role, the Nomad will:
undertake extensive due diligence to ensure a company is suitable for AIM 
provide guidance throughout the flotation process  
help prepare  the AIM admission document   
prepare the company for being  on a public market
confirm appropriateness of the company for an exchange
act as the primary regulator  throughout a companys time on AIM                    
In addition a Nomad  is responsible for following the rules of the AIM market.  Rule 1 of the 
AIM market is:
In assessing the appropriateness  of an applicant and its securities for AIM, a nominated 
adviser should achieve a sound understanding of the applicant  and its business. In meeting 
this, the nominated adviser should  usually:-
ensure it has, or has access to, appropriate knowledge of the applicants area of 
business (taking into account its country  of incorporation and operation),  using in-
house specialists  or external experts where necessary to achieve  this.
consider the applicants  sector,  proposition, business plan or similar, historical  
financial information and other  corporate information, including the due diligence  
performed further to AR3.
consider any issues  relating to the applicants  country of incorporation and operation 
and any other issues that might affect  its appropriateness.
undertake a visit to the applicants material site(s) of operation and meet  the directors  
and key managers. The necessity of meeting any other relevant material 
stakeholders (e.g. key shareholders) should  also be considered.
consider appointing its own legal  advisers  who are independent from the applicant to 
assist in the nominated advisers understanding of the applicant  and to provide 
advice to the nominated adviser  that is independent  of the applicant.
Looking at the extent of the due diligence required to be carried out on an AIM company 
both before listing and on an ongoing basis, in my view it is at least as stringent and in-depth 
as that required  of a SIPP  operator.   
Ref: DRN33424604When carrying out due diligence on a potential investment  a SIPP  operator  will not have the 
degree of access that a Nomad has.  In the case of a listed security  it will have  to rely on 
publically available information.  On  the other hand a Nomad will have greater  access  to 
information about a listed firm.  So I consider that, provided it is carried out diligently, a 
Nomads due diligence would be more thorough and complete than a SIPP  operator would 
be able to do.  
A firm listing on AIM must produce a listing document  which  will contain financial information 
about the company.  In the case of the company the accounts were audited  by a well 
established and reputable  firm of chartered  accounts. In the admission document the 
accountant confirmed:
In our opinion, the Financial Information gives, for the purpose  of the Admission Document, 
a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as at the dates stated and of its 
results, cash  flows and changes in equity for the periods then ended in accordance  with the 
applicable financial reporting framework.
This declaration is included in the Admission  Document in compliance with Schedule Two of 
the AIM Rules for Companies.
So a competent  professional firm had reviewed the companys accounts and had been 
satisfied that they gave  an accurate picture  of the company and its operations.
For these reasons I am satisfied that HLs due diligence  on the shares was sufficient.   Whilst 
it relied on other parties (the Nomad and a chartered  accountant) to establish  the required 
information about the company I consider in the circumstances this was reasonable.  The 
key entity relied  on was the Nomad  which was a firm regulated by the FCA.  So I think this 
reliance was, in the circumstances, reasonable.   
The number of standard investments a SIPP operator  will allow is substantial.   There are 
over 2,000  companies  listed  on the London  Stock exchange, of which over 1,0000 are listed  
on AIM.  In addition most SIPP operators will allow investors to trade  in overseas listed 
shares.  So the number of standard investments  that a SIPP  operator  allows  investors to buy 
is substantial running to many thousands.  In my view it is unrealistic to expect HL to have 
carried out the level of initial and ongoing due diligence which Mr P suggests it should.  I do 
not consider it a reasonable expectation on the part of Mr P that HL would closely monitor all 
listed companies for indications of fraud  or other  wrong doing.  HL  gave no indication that it 
would do so.  
Mr P has highlighted instances of problems with other AIM listed companies  and has 
suggested this is that the mere fact of an AIM listing is not sufficient reassurance  about the 
quality of a company listed.  I do not agree.  Investing in smaller companies  such as those 
often listed on AIM is generally considered to be higher risk than investing  in large 
capitalisation blue chip shares.  Fraud or inappropriate actions  by directors  are more likely 
to occur in smaller listed companies  but this is a risk inherent in investing  in this type of 
company and one of the reasons why smaller company shares  are generally considered to 
be high risk investments.   Mr P was an experienced investor and presumably prepared to 
accept the risks of investing in smaller companies.
Whilst there has been guidance  from the FCA about the investments allowed in a SIPP  there 
has been no such guidance for ISA managers.   This probably reflects the far wider  range of 
investments that can be held within  a SIPP.  However, the FCAs principles  for business 
Ref: DRN33424605apply to ISA managers as well as SIPP operators.   My conclusion  is that it is reasonable for 
a SIPP  operator  to rely on the due diligence required  to be undertaken on a company listed 
on a recognised exchange.   This would also apply to an ISA manager.    
For these reasons I am not persuaded that HL has done anything wrong.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.  
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3342460