K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the way The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc handled  a call after he 
received a letter warning him about  possible fraudulent activity on his credit  card.  Mr R 
complains that his account was blocked and hes been asked  to visit as a branch to remove 
it. Mr R says he thinks the security questions asked by RBS were unreasonable. Mr R also 
complains that he wasnt  able to complain over the phone.  
background
Mr R has a credit card with RBS and in December 2018 it wrote  to him as it was concerned 
there may have been fraudulent activity on his account. Mr R called RBS but it wasnt  able to 
successfully identify him after asking security questions. That meant Mr R was asked to visit 
an RBS branch with identification to remove the block.
Mr R called RBS again to complain. When he was passed to the Fraud  Team Mr R was told 
it couldnt take his complaint over the phone. 
Mr R complained and RBS responded on 24 December 2018.  RBS said that Mr R had failed 
to answer two security  questions correctly which meant that to remove  the block he would 
need to visit a local branch. Details of RBS closest branch  were  provided. RBS apologised 
that Mr R had been told he wasnt able to raise  a complaint over the phone  and paid him 
£5.40 to cover call costs. 
Our service was asked  to look into Mr Rs complaint and it was passed to an investigator.  
She said Mr R incorrectly  answered two security questions when he called on 
14 December 2018 so RBS decision to ask him to provide identification in branch was 
reasonable. She also thought RBS  apology for failing to log his complaint over the phone  as 
well as call costs was reasonable so didnt  ask it to do anything further to resolve Mr Rs 
complaint. Mr R didnt accept and asked for his case to be appealed so its been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr R has raised a number of concerns 
about how RBS has handled his credit  card so Ill look at each in turn. 
RBS says its systems identified a potentially fraudulent transaction  on 8 December 2018. 
RBS has provided systems  evidence  to show it tried to call Mr R but wasnt able to get 
through. RBS wrote  to Mr R the following day and he called on 14 December 2018. Im 
satisfied from what Ive seen that RBS tried to call Mr R before it wrote  to him. 
Ive listened to Mr Rs call on 14 December  2018. Mr R says the call handler wasnt  
professional and seemed inexperienced.  But I thought the person he spoke with dealt with 
the call well. The call broke down a little when the call handler refused to provide any details 
of the credit  card to Mr R after he failed  security. I thought the service provided was good. 
Having listened  to the call, I agree with RBS and the investigator that Mr R didnt answer  the 
security questions correctly. As a result, I think its decision to ask him to visit a local branch 
of RBS with identification to remove the block is reasonable. 
Ref: DRN39558832Mr R says the questions  he was asked could be used for fraudulent purposes. I appreciate 
RBS asked Mr R for very personal information when he called but it has to be sure its 
talking to the account holder. And RBS is free to decide what approach it takes  to security 
questions and account access.  I havent  found anything to show  RBS asked unsuitable 
questions when Mr R called. 
To remove the block Mr R will have to visit a branch of RBS.  I take Mr Rs point that hes not 
a current account  holder  and doesnt  have a branch. But the call handler said Mr R could  
visit any RBS branch. RBS final response gave Mr R details  of his closest  branch. As Ive 
said above, RBS is able to decide  what security measures it puts in place  and I think  its 
request that Mr R visits a branch with identification is reasonable. 
I understand that the transaction flagged by RBS systems was allowed to go through but 
subsequent transactions were declined. Thats because RBS  systems identified the 
transaction on 8 December 2018  as a potential fraud risk. When Mr R didnt pass security on 
14 December 2018 it wasnt able to remove the account block  so any further payments 
wouldnt go through. I think thats reasonable. 
Ive listened to the follow up call Mr R made  to complain and I agree he shouldve been  able 
to do that over the phone.  In its response to Mr R RBS apologised and paid him £5.40 to 
cover his call costs.  I think RBS was right to apologise because Mr R shouldve been  able to 
complain when he called.  But Im not telling  RBS to pay compensation. Thats because I 
dont think there was a significant impact caused  by being given the wrong information 
during the call. Mr R was still able to raise a complaint with RBS and its apologised for the 
incorrect advice he was given. Im satisfied RBS has dealt with this issue  fairly. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R but I havent  found any evidence that RBS has treated him 
unfairly or made a mistake when  it blocked  his credit  card. The transaction  on 
8 December 2018 was legitimately flagged  by RBS systems. After RBS tried to call Mr R it 
wrote to him about  what had happened. Mr R called but failed security  so has to visit a RBS 
branch to remove the block. Im not telling  RBS to take any further  action in this case.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 30 June 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3955883