K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, closed his accounts  without  
giving him any reason  why. He says he was told he could  withdraw  the balance on the 
accounts, but then payments were taken  and the bank says he owes  it money.
background
Halifax decided to close Mr Bs two accounts  and gave him 60 days  notice. A block was 
placed on the account to prevent  further transactions and Mr B was able to withdraw  the 
closing balances. But then three  payments debited his accounts  and the bank asked him to 
pay the resulting  balance.  When  Mr B complained, the bank agreed  to write off £200  of the 
amount owing, leaving Mr B to pay £141.96.  It also paid him £100 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded  Mr B 
had authorised the three card payments,  but that these werent  showing as pending when  he 
visited a branch to withdraw the balances  on his accounts. He thought  the bank had acted 
fairly in paying  Mr B £100 compensation and writing  off £200  of the debt. He noted Mr B had 
had the benefit of the goods or services hed paid for using his card and that it was fair that 
he paid the bank the remaining balance  of £141.96.
Mr B didnt agree saying,  in summary, that:
Halifax told him payments were  frozen  and that he should withdraw the balance on his 
accounts.
The bank shouldnt have authorised the payments  they were taken two to three weeks  
after hed withdrawn the balance.
Halifax wouldnt  have paid him compensation if it wasnt  at fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied that Halifax acted in line with its account terms and conditions when it decided 
to close Mr Bs accounts. And its shown us evidence that it wrote to Mr B on 3 December to 
tell him its decision. Unfortunately  Mr B didnt receive this letter before he tried to transact on 
his account online and he realised his accounts  had been frozen.
Mr B authorised three  card payments on 30 November 2018.  The payments were  made  by 
debit card so the bank  was obliged to honour  them, even though there  wasnt  enough money  
in Mr Bs accounts.
The payments didnt debit Mr Bs accounts  until around three weeks  later. The bank  couldnt  
control how long the merchants  took to approach the bank for payment. And, because the 
account was frozen,  the payments had to be made manually which took longer than the 
usual automated process. Unfortunately  this meant  the payments werent  shown as 
pending in the banks records when Mr B was advised to withdraw  the balance  on the 
accounts. 
Ref: DRN33419772But, when Mr B phoned the bank  to complain, it concluded the branch was probably at fault 
for not checking  whether  the balance on the accounts was needed to meet any other  
payments, and that it couldve  handled  things better. It wrote  off £200 of the amount Mr B 
owes and it paid him £100 compensation.  I consider  this to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr B has had the benefit of the good  or services, so I find its fair that he should  pay the 
remaining sum he owes.
The bank has already spoken  to Mr B about  a repayment plan for the sum he owes.  I would 
remind it of its obligation  to treat Mr B positively and sympathetically if he is experiencing 
financial difficulties.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3341977