K820x#14Complaint
Miss S has complained  that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund unauthorised payments
from her credit card account.
Background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Miss S has not responded.
Barclays said it was happy  to accept my provisional conclusions.
This case has now come back to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Im afraid there are no 
new reasons for me to reach a different conclusion.
The reasons  for my decision are set out, in full, in my provisional decision.  
In summary,  Barclays is required to refund the amount  of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). So, my primary concern is to come  to a view about who authorised  the cash  
withdrawals.
Having considered all the evidence, I find, on balance, that its most likely  that Mr I 
authorised the disputed  transactions as the secondary cardholder.
In reaching this decision, I have taken into account the following:
Mr I hadnt lost his card. He had it with him when he and Miss S spoke to Barclays
on the phone
he didnt keep a written note of the PIN
he didnt share his PIN with anyone else, other than Miss S
there were no incorrect attempts at the PIN
the last disputed transaction occurred at 6.38pm,  which was an unsuccessful ATM 
transaction. He had the card with him when  he and Miss S called the bank at 
7.03pm. I dont see how a third party couldve  returned the card to him between  
6.38pm and 7.03pm without him noticing.
Im not convinced by the new evidence that his former employee  might have used his credit 
card after hed left his wallet in the van. The bank and this service have asked Miss S and Mr 
I where they kept the card and whether any third party could  have taken it. However, they 
never mentioned the former employee  or that he left his wallet  with his card in the van. He 
Ref: DRN36089792and Miss S waited over a year before providing this information and only told us about it 
when the investigator  rejected the complaint.  If it were true, then I would have expected 
them to share this information  at a very early stage.
I find, on balance,  that Miss S and Mr I authorised the disputed  transactions. It follows that
Barclays is entitled to hold Miss S liable for them.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2020.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN36089793Complaint
Miss S has complained  that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund unauthorised  payments from 
her credit card account.
Background
Miss S has a credit card account with Barclays. Mr I, her husband, is the secondary cardholder. 
On 10 March  2018,  Mr Is card was used in several stores and at ATMs in the local area 
between 15:53 and 18:38. A total of £5,295 was spent on his card.  Miss S said neither she nor 
her husband made these  transactions.
Below is a table showing the disputed transactions and other relevant activities on the account.
Time Merchant Amount Authentication
15:05 Euro Florist (genuine) online
15:53 Apple Store £1, 918 Chip and PIN/Declined
16:08 ATM balance enquiry Chip and PIN/approved
16:17 Argos £959 Chip and PIN/approved
16:37 Apple £1, 918 Chip and PIN/approved
17:13 John Lewis £959 Chip and PIN/approved
17:42 Argos £959 Chip and PIN/approved
18:30 ATM cash withdrawal £250 Chip and PIN/approved
18:31 B sends text message
18:32 ATM cash withdrawal £250 Chip and PIN/approved
18:38 ATM cash withdrawal £250 Chip and PIN/declined
19:03 C calls bank
19:45 C calls bank  again
The table shows the GMT timings for when the purchases and cash  withdrawals were made. In the 
past, Miss S has been given the GMT and Pacific timings for when  the payments were processed.  
The timings in this table are the relevant ones.
At 18.31 Barclays sent a text message to Miss S mobile phone asking her to call. She 
returned the call at 19:03, after first checking her account online, and again  at 19:45.
Miss S told Barclays she didnt recognise the disputed payments. She confirmed that she 
last used her credit card the same day when she ordered some flowers online. Then,  she 
authorised Mr I to speak  to Barclays, as she was unwell.
Mr I told the bank he hadnt  made  the disputed payments. He said Miss S had been at home that 
day recovering from a serious illness. He said he was at home until 12:45  when he went to his 
uncles house to watch a football match. He said there were several  cousins at his uncles 
house. He told the bank he didnt take his card with him. He later told us he couldnt remember if 
he took his card with him.
He said he returned  home around  18:00 and he then went to get a takeaway. The restaurant is 
around 10 minutes away and he waited for around 20 minutes for his food. He paid in cash.
Mr I said he last used his card on 8 March  2018 at a petrol pump  station.
Both Miss S and Mr I had their cards with them  when they spoke  to Barclays on 10 March. Mr I 
told Barclays  that they knew  each others PINs.  However,  they didnt  keep a written  record of 
their PINs and hadnt shared  them with anyone else. Mr I said he keeps his card in his wallet at 
Ref: DRN36089794all times. If he is in his car, the wallet sits on the dashboard  and when  he is at home, the wallet 
is kept in a secure location.
They asked Barclays for a refund.
Barclays investigated  the claim and decided  not to refund the disputed payments. It believed 
Mr I had authorised  the disputed  payments  because:
his genuine card and correct PIN were used for the disputed payments
there were no incorrect  attempts at the PIN
he still had his card with him when he spoke to the bank
he said he hadnt  given  his card to anyone else
he said hed memorised the PIN and hadnt shared it with anyone  else, other than 
Miss S
there was no evidence a cloned card was used
the card was used in the local area.
There were  two declined transactions,  but Barclays said it doesnt know why they were 
declined as the account  was within  the agreed credit  limit.
Miss S didnt agree with Barclays decision, so she asked  us to investigate.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. In short, she was satisfied Mr Is genuine card was 
used with his PIN and not a cloned one. And, she was unable to conclude that someone 
unknown to Mr I had taken his card and used it because:
 he hadnt lost his card
 there was no opportunity for someone to take his card and replace it
 no one else knew his PIN.
Miss S and Mr I disagreed  with our adjudicators view.  They have offered new information  
that they believe  might  shed some  light on what happened.
Mr I said one of his employees  borrowed  his van on 10 March. He said the employee collected 
the van around 8am and returned it around 6 or 7pm. He thinks its possible he left his card and 
wallet in the vehicle. He said the employee  had been with him at the petrol  pump stations on 
many occasions and would have seen him enter his PIN on the keypad.
He said he sacked the employee eight weeks later for stealing from him. He said he didnt 
mention it earlier because it didnt seem significant at the time.
Miss S has now asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account:  relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes  of practice; and, where  
appropriate, what I consider  to have been good industry practice at the relevant  time
Having done so, my review of the evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached  by the adjudicator and for much the same reasons. I will explain why.
Ref: DRN36089795Generally, Barclays  can hold Miss S liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence shows 
its more likely  than not that she or Mr I authorised  them.  The relevant  regulations  on this matter 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). My task is to decide if I think 
they authorised  the transactions.
I have seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed transactions, and I am satisfied that 
Mr Is genuine card and PIN were used  to make them. Furthermore, the information tells me that 
the chip in the card was read by the payment terminal and the ATMs, which means  a cloned 
card wasnt used.
But the regulations say that this not, on its own, enough to allow Barclays to hold Miss S liable. 
So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that its more  likely  than not that 
she or Mr I consented to the transactions by making them.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable  for Barclays to conclude that Mr K 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
Mr I had not lost his card. He had it with him when  he and Miss S spoke to Barclays on 
10 March.
he didnt keep a written note of the PIN.
he didnt share his PIN with anyone else, other than Miss S
there were no incorrect  attempts at the PIN
I dont  think someone at his uncles house took his card. Mr I isnt sure he took his card 
with him. If he did, then there  would have been the opportunity for someone to take his 
card without him noticing  but they would not have known his PIN. Also, the last disputed 
transaction occurred at 18:38, which  was the unsuccessful ATM transaction. Mr I 
returned home at 18:00. Its not possible that someone returned  his card, without him 
noticing, between 18:38 and 19:03 while they were both at home.
Ive considered the new evidence about the former employee but unfortunately, I dont find this 
to be a credible explanation.
Mr I only thinks he might have left his wallet in the van. He is vague on where his card was that 
day. And this is the first time they have mentioned the employee.
Its common for people to forget information when  they are questioned about an incident.  And 
sometimes they dont recognise the relevance of certain facts when they first make a complaint. In 
this case,  Mr I said the information about the employee didnt seem significant.
However, I dont consider  this is information that a person forgets  easily  or regards as insignificant  
- not in these  circumstances. The bank and this service have asked Miss S and Mr I where they 
kept the card and whether  any third party could have taken it. This line of questioning should have 
jogged their memories. If it were  true, then I would have expected them to share  this information at 
a very early  stage and especially when  they sacked  the employee for theft, eight weeks after the 
incident. Instead,  they waited 14 months before raising  it.
Also, if Mr I had left his wallet in the van that day, then he would have  needed to get it before  going 
to collect  the takeaway. I have listened to the phone call with Barclays.  At no time does he mention 
retrieving the wallet from the van that evening. Yet, this would surely have been fresh in his 
memory if he had done.
Lastly, I note that they havent reported the employee to the police.
The transactions were  unusual for the account but having considered  all the evidence, I find, on 
balance, that Miss S and Mr I authorised  the disputed transactions. It follows that Barclays is 
entitled to hold Miss S liable  for them.
Ref: DRN36089796I apologise for such a lengthy delay in sending my decision. I am grateful to Miss S for her patience.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN3608979