K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that a car he has financed through an agreement  with Close Brothers  
Limited (Close Brothers)  was not of satisfactory  quality when he took receipt of it.
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019.  I explained why I was planning to uphold  
Mr Ss complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision  is set out below:
In January 2018 Mr S took receipt of a used car. He financed  the deal through  a four year 
conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers.  At that point the car had already completed 
80,000 miles and was first registered in 2008.
In May 2018  Mr S noticed  problems with the car. He reported  the issues to Close Brothers in 
June. He said there was a problem with the exhaust,  turbo and head gasket. So Close  
Brothers arranged an independent  inspection.
The inspector said that A definitive causal factor cannot be accurately established at the 
current level of dismantling and he therefore couldnt comment on the turbo, exhaust, 
pistons and their related  components. He went on to explain that accelerated  engine wear 
issues might  reasonably be expected on a performance model  of this specification.
Close Brothers said that, as the independent  inspector had suggested wear might  be 
expected, Mr S hadnt shown the problems  he now complained of, to be there at the point of 
supply. They therefore wouldnt take responsibility  for the problem.
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our investigator reviewed the evidence. She 
noted that the faults Mr S had referred to had been  reported within  the first six months  of his 
ownership of the car and that hed only completed 2,000 miles in it when the problems 
started. She understood that the car had completed  significant mileage  at the point  of supply 
but she didnt  think it was reasonable for these issues  to be present  so soon and she thought 
it was reasonable  to suggest the car hadnt proven to be suitably durable and was most  
likely to have been faulty when Mr S got it.  
She wasnt persuaded by the independent experts  report. She thought it had been 
inconclusive as the car clearly needed further  dismantling and whilst she noted  hed 
suggested wear may have been  a reasonable expectation she didnt agree, as shed seen 
no evidence and Mr S had completed  very few miles in the car.
She therefore thought it would be fair for Close Brothers to allow  Mr S to reject the vehicle 
and terminate his finance agreement with them  and, as he hadnt been able to drive  the car 
since it failed its MOT in July 2018, she thought Close Brothers  should  refund any 
instalments hed paid towards his agreement from that point; return his deposit and remove  
any adverse records they may have placed on Mr Ss credit file in relation to this issue.
Mr S agreed with the investigator but Close Brothers  didnt. They said the independent 
inspection had confirmed  the issue was due to wear and tear and there  was no evidence  the 
faults Mr S complained  of were there at the point of supply. So they asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN30010782my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I agree with the investigators findings  I dont currently agree with her proposed  
resolution. Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr S acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers  are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But Close Brothers  responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible for 
its condition at the point of supply  they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr S complained about significant faults  with his car within six months. I think that as this 
was so soon after hed taken charge of the vehicle and as hed only completed 2,000 miles, 
it was likely the faults would have been present from the beginning. But Close  Brothers were 
able to challenge that through an independent  inspection.
The inspector attended on two occasions  but having  read his reports in detail,  I think both of 
them are inconclusive.
He explains that because the engine  hadnt been sufficiently stripped on his arrival he was 
unable to comment on the turbo, exhaust,  pistons and their related components.
Mr S was complaining about the turbo, exhaust  and the head  gasket. So two of the three  
areas the engineer had been asked to review, couldnt be reviewed.
I understand that the engineer suggested accelerated engine  wear issues might  reasonably  
be expected on a performance  model of this specification, but Im not persuaded hed taken 
into account the limited  mileage Mr S had completed  and I think its clear he was not able to 
provide any commentary  on the turbo  or exhaust.  Other than to note thered been  a previous 
repair to the exhaust.
Its true that the car had completed  80,000 miles and was about nine years  old when the 
agreement was put in place. Ive thought  about whether this means problems of the nature 
Mr S has described would be expected for a vehicle of this age and mileage  but I dont think 
a reasonable person would expect  that. The issues were major  ones that seriously impacted 
on the engines  performance and have  led to it being taken off the road.
Ref: DRN30010783So I think its clear Close Brothers  need to take some action here. But relevant  legislation  
gives them  one opportunity to repair a fault and as theyve not currently been given that 
opportunity I think its fair they should  be.
my provisional decision
So Im expecting to tell Close Brothers  Limited  to:
repair Mr Ss car 
refund  any instalments hes paid towards his finance agreement  from the date of the 
failed MOT to the date the car is repaired,  and 
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Close Brothers didnt  reply to my provisional decision within  the deadline but Mr S did. He 
explained that whilst he agreed with some  aspects of the decision he didnt think  it would be 
fair to ask the business to repair the car. He said it had been  stripped down now for some  
time and during that time hed been paying  instalments on it and funding another car. He 
thought a more appropriate solution  would be to allow him to reject  the car and get his 
deposit and some of his finance instalments back.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Ss frustration. He tells us that if Close Brothers had sanctioned  a repair  a 
year ago that would  have  been fine but he doesnt think  its fair now  a year later.
But as I explained  in my provisional decision,  the relevant legislation  allows  Close Brothers  
an opportunity to attempt a repair  and as I need to consider that legislation  when deciding  
whats fair and reasonable here I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable not to give Close 
Brothers the chance  to repair the vehicle.
The relevant  legislation  says that if that repair is unsuccessful the consumer  may be entitled 
to reject the car and have the finance  agreement terminated. So its important  for Close  
Brothers to ensure  the repairs  are satisfactory. Otherwise, Id expect Mr S to raise a further 
complaint with them.
Im suggesting that all instalments Mr S has paid towards  his finance agreement  since  the 
vehicle was off the road, after the MOT,  are refunded to him so hes not been  paying for the 
vehicle whilst hes been unable  to use it. I dont think it would be fair to ask Close  Brothers to 
refund any payments hes been  making towards another  vehicle as that was for Mr S to 
finance.
So overall, Ive not been  persuaded  to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited  to:
repair Mr Ss car 
Ref: DRN30010784refund  any instalments hes paid towards his finance agreement  from the date of the 
failed MOT to the date the car is repaired,  and 
remove any adverse reports they may have made to his credit file in relation to this 
issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3001078