K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank  UK PLC hasnt treated them fairly on their 
mortgage.
background
In May 2006, Mr and Mrs G took out a repayment mortgage with another  lender over a term 
of 11 years 8 months. In 2008 they switched the mortgage  to interest only.  In 2009,  Mr and 
Mrs G took out an additional  £25,000 on a repayment basis.  Later that year the mortgage  
was transferred to Barclays.  In May 2010, they switched to a mortgage  with a 10-year term. 
The main  mortgage  remained interest only and the additional lending on repayment.
Mr and Mrs G said they contacted Barclays many times from 2010 until 2019 asking the 
same questions: what were their options? Could they have a lower  interest  rate? Could they 
switch to part-repayment? Could they extend  the term?  But they said that each time they 
were passed  round  various departments only to be told that they should  wait until closer to 
the term end date. 
In 2019, Barclays  wrote to Mr and Mrs G and said that their mortgage  was scheduled to 
mature in May 2020. The letter said that if Mr and Mrs G werent confident  they could repay  
the mortgage they should contact it to discuss  their options. Following that they made  an 
application to extend the term of their mortgage, but it was declined.
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays:
Missed many opportunities  to address their concerns  at an earlier date.
Hasnt given them enough information to make  an informed choice what to do. That 
wasnt in line with the guidelines from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA).
Systems, processes and staff training  have  all failed. 
Hasnt helped them find a mutually acceptable solution regarding  their mortgage. 
Our investigator said that we couldnt  look at anything  that happened  more than six years 
before they complained to Barclays. So we could only look at events  from 28 March 2013.
Mr and Mrs G and Barclays accepted the investigators conclusion  about our jurisdiction.
I issued a provisional decision and invited both sides to make any further submission if they 
wished. My provisional findings were, and which for part of this decision:
I agree  with the investigator that we can only consider events from 2013.  But it would be 
from May 2013 as that is six years from the date Mr and Mrs G referred  their complaint to us.
did Barclays fairly explore  what options were available to Mr and Mrs G.
The evidence we have  supports that Mr and Mrs G did regularly contact  Barclays from 2016 
regarding the end of their term.  They  say there  was earlier contact than this. Mr and Mrs G 
have been clear and consistent  in what they said they asked  for. I am satisfied that they 
were taking steps to explore what their options  were in respect of the interest only balance  
Ref: DRN36885832on their mortgage. But Barclays passed  them around various departments only to tell them  
there was nothing it could do until the mortgage  was closer to its end date.
Barclays position is that it has adopted the FCA guidelines on interest only mortgages 
issued in 2013. It said it had complied with the guidance by contacting customers every  six 
months to check what the repayment vehicle is. But it failed  to understand that there was 
more to the guidelines  than just communicating with Mr and Mrs G  and in fact, there is no 
dispute that Mr and Mrs G knew they had an interest  only mortgage that they wouldnt be 
able to repay at the end of term.
The guidance also says that lenders should  consider  what  options can be offered to 
customers with interest  only mortgages  during the term of the mortgage  or at maturity. Ive 
already found  that Mr and Mrs G had asked Barclays if there was anything it could do to 
help. But Barclays considered that all it had to do was to communicate with Mr and Mrs G. 
That is supported  by the evidence we have. So I dont consider Barclays has treated  Mr and 
Mrs G fairly or reasonably. It ought to have explored  if there was anything  it could do to 
assist Mr and Mrs G. It is disappointing that Barclays didnt understand what  good  practice  
was. In responding to this complaint it has failed to explain  what options were available or 
what its policy was. 
I need to consider what is likely to have happened had Barclays treated Mr and Mrs G fairly 
 that is if it had explored Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances  and whether there was anything  it 
should have offered them.
Mr and Mrs G consider  that there were a number  of options that would  have helped  them   
switching to a lower interest  rate, switching partly to repayment and extending the term. The 
difficulty here is that the mortgage was in arrears at times from 2013 until late 2017. I think  it 
is unlikely that there  would have been  much  that Barclays could do during that period. 
Extending the term would not reduce the payment on the mainly interest only mortgage  
and switching to repayment would increase the payment. So I dont consider either  or a 
combination of those  things would have been in Mr and Mrs Gs best interests at the time in 
question. And switching  to a fixed rate would not have  been in their interests  either as they 
could incur an early repayment  charge (ERC) if they couldnt keep up with payments. It isnt 
clear whether there  were any variable rate products that didnt have an ERC.  But Mr and Mrs 
G didnt want to provide  details of their income and expenditure to Barclays,  so I dont 
consider that it would have been reasonable in this case to offer a new interest rate as a 
concession while they were experiencing financial difficulty.
In August  2018,  once the arrears were cleared, Mrs G contacted  Barclays  and asked to 
arrange a remortgage. There were a number  of discussions with Barclays, but there were no 
changes made to the mortgage. I can see in February 2019 Barclays  did consider extending 
the term, switching  to repayment  and switching interest rate products. But Barclays  declined  
the application as it said the necessary extension would  take Mr and Mrs G past 85 years 
old. Looking at all the circumstances here I agree that it wouldnt have been  in Mr and Mrs 
Gs best interests to essentially start a new 25 year mortgage term at that point.
Even if Barclays had considered a similar switch  once the arrears had been cleared in late 
2017, I dont consider it would have made any difference  to its decision. In other  words,  
addressing this issue a year or so earlier  wouldnt have meant that a term extension was in 
Mr and Mrs Gs best interests. And switching part of the mortgage to repayment  would still 
Ref: DRN36885833have meant  that Mr and Mrs G had an interest  only balance remaining  with no means of 
repaying it.
I have also considered whether Barclays should have agreed to switch  interest  rate products 
once the arrears were  cleared. The earliest  contact from Mr and Mrs G once the arrears  had 
been cleared was in August 2018.  An appointment wasnt  arranged  until October 2018. By 
that time there was less than two years remaining on the mortgage  term.  So a fixed  rate 
interest rate product  would extend  past the end of the mortgage term. But Mr and Mrs G 
were paying  Barclays  standard  variable rate. Switching interest rate product would save 
them a significant  amount  of money.  So if only fixed rate products  were available, I think  
Barclays ought to have thought about whether extending the term by a few months  to 
accommodate such a switch was in Mr and Mrs Gs best interests. 
Barclays was always likely to give Mr and Mrs G more time to consider their options once 
the mortgage term had ended. I cant see any reasons why extending the mortgage term for 
a few months so that Mr and Mrs G could benefit from a lower  fixed  rate would  not be in their 
best interests. I think if Barclays had treated Mr and Mrs G fairly, then it would  have offered 
them a reduced  interest  rate. 
Mr and Mrs G will have  suffered distress  and inconvenience because  of the failure of 
Barclays to explore whether it could help them and in paying a higher interest rate than 
necessary for two years.
two-year term extension
Barclays hasnt agreed to a two-year term extension. Mr and Mrs G havent put forward  a 
plan as to how they will repay the mortgage  at the end of any extended term. In view of that, 
I dont consider it was unreasonable for Barclays to decline the extension.
Barclays should give Mr and Mrs G time to explore their options  and treat them fairly. It 
should take into account the fact that Mr and Mrs G havent been able to pursue  things  while 
this complaint was ongoing.
customer service  
Mr and Mrs G have taken steps  to try and explore  what  options  were available  to them  over 
a number of years. In line with the above,  other than offering a new interest rate product and 
short term extension in 2018, I dont consider the outcome  would have been any different 
had Barclays treated them fairly throughout that time.
But Mr and Mrs G were acting reasonably in attempting to see if there was anything  they 
could do to put them in a better position. I accept that Mr and Mrs G werent always given 
accurate information  by Barclays and were passed  between various departments.  I consider  
this caused Mr and Mrs G distress  and inconvenience at that time.  They  wasted their time 
unnecessarily and will have been  left disappointed  when they were left with the incorrect  
impression that Barclays couldnt do anything.
Further, I can see why Mr and Mrs G would be left thinking that they have  potentially  missed 
out on an opportunity  to sort things out. Of course, I have found that I consider it unlikely that 
there was. But it would have been  far more  satisfactory had Barclays  been  able to show that 
it had conducted  a full and thorough assessment of their circumstances and if it had given its 
full reasoning. 
Ref: DRN36885834Barclays has already  offered Mr and Mrs G £150  for poor complaint  handling.  Despite 
reminders, Barclays has not provided  information or answered questions  that I asked  it. 
Under our rules I can take into account  the failure to meet the time limits  I set.
putting things  right
I understand Mr and Mrs Gs loan-to-value is around 36%. Barclays  should  put them in the 
position they would have  been in had they been  on Barclays best two-year  fixed  rate for 
customers with a 36% loan-to-value that were available  in October  2018.  Barclays  should 
provide evidence to show  the two-year fixed interest rates  available at the time. If Barclays  
doesnt respond or provide sufficient  information by the deadline to this decision, I will 
choose an interest rate based  on the information available  to me about the interest  rates that 
Barclays was offering. 
Based on the information in Moneyfacts, Barclays offered the following two-year  fixed  rates 
for a loan-to-value under  60% in October 2018:
1.49%  with a fee of £999 
1.70%  with a fee of £299
1.97%  with no fee
Both Mr and Mrs G and Barclays should  provide comments on which  interest rate they would 
have chosen.  If there was a product fee, that will be deducted from the total redress.
Interest should  be paid at 8% simple  on the difference  between  the amount  Mr and Mrs G 
have paid and what they would have  paid on the fixed  rate. The refund  of the difference  and 
the interest can be applied to the capital balance of the mortgage.
This was a very important matter for Mr and Mrs G. They acted reasonably in trying to 
address the fact they didnt have  the means to repay the mortgage. But Barclays failed to act 
on that. Its customer service has been poor over a number of years   and it hasnt engaged 
with us as it ought  to.
Looking at everything that happened,  I consider  it would be reasonable for Barclays  to pay 
Mr and Mrs G £750  in total for any distress and inconvenience this matter has caused to 
them
Mr and Mrs G accepted  my provisional findings. They say they would have chosen the fixed  
rate of 1.49% with a fee of £999. They asked if I could confirm  if the interest rate would 
revert to the standard variable rate SVR at the end of the fixed  rate in October 2020 rather  
than the higher rate they have been paying.
Barclays did not respond to my provisional  decision within the deadline. It later provided 
details of the interest rates  that were available  in October 2018.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN36885835Barclays didnt respond to my provisional decision within the deadline that was set  and it 
didnt respond  to my earlier emails  asking for clarification on this complaint. 
I had already drafted my decision by the time Barclays responded with the information about 
the interest rates available in October  2018.  
Under our rules I am entitled to reach  my decision based on the information  available to me. 
I am satisfied that Barclays  has had sufficient time to respond to my provisional decision. 
And it hasnt  given us a reason why it needs more time.
In the absence of any substantive new information, I dont see any reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
Barclays should put Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage in the position they would have been in had 
they switched  to a two-year fixed interest rate product in October 2018 and pay the 
difference in interest to the capital balance of their mortgage. The information  from Barclays  
shows that the interest rate was 1.48% fixed until 31 October 2020. It also shows it would 
revert to the follow-on rate of the Bank of England base rate (BEBR(currently 0.1%)) plus 
3.49%. 
I note Mr and Mrs Gs point that they have  been  paying a higher interest rate than SVR since  
the fixed rate would have ended on 31 October  2020. It is not clear if this is the follow-on 
rate referred to above:
If Mr and Mrs G have been  paying  the follow-on  rate  Barclays does  not need to do 
anything further  as they would have reverted to the follow-on rate in any event.
If Mr and Mrs G have been  paying  an interest  rate that is lower that the follow-on rate, I 
dont consider it would be fair to change it at this point.
If Mr and Mrs G have been  paying  an interest  rate that is higher than the follow-on rate, 
Barclays should restructure the mortgage  as if they were paying the follow-on rate from 1 
November 2020 until date of settlement.
Barclays should also pay Mr and Mrs G £750. That reflects that Barclays  handling  of this 
matter  including the attempts by Mr and Mrs G to find a solution to their problem, the initial 
complaint handling and the way Barclays has dealt with this complaint when it was referred 
to us  have fallen short of a reasonable standard. This was an important matter to Mr and 
Mrs G and I am satisfied that £750  is a fair amount to reflect  the impact of Barclays  handling 
on them.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK Plc should:
Re-work Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage  as if they had been on a 1.48% two-year  fixed rate 
interest rate product  from 2 October  2018  (when  the rate was effective) until 31 October  
2020  with the term of the mortgage formally  extended to accommodate  the full length 
of the fixed rate product.
Ref: DRN36885836Refund the difference between what Mr and Mrs G paid from 1 October  2018  and what  
they would  have paid had the mortgage  been  switched to a new fixed rate in line with the 
above.
If Mr and Mrs G have been  paying  the follow-on  rate or an interest rate that is lower  than 
the follow-on rate  Barclays does not need to do anything in respect  of Mr and Mrs Gs 
current interest rate.
If Mr and Mrs G have been  paying  an interest  rate that is higher than the follow-on rate, 
Barclays should restructure the mortgage  as if they were paying the follow-on rate from 1 
November 2020 until date of settlement.
Pay interest on the above amounts at 8% simple per year from the date of each payment 
until the date of settlement. If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs G how much 
its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs G a tax deduction  certificate if they ask for 
one, so they can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Apply the above amount to the capital balance  of Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage  less £999 
product fee that would have been  charged.
Pay Mr and Mrs G directly £750  for the distress and inconvenience  this matter has 
caused to them.  Barclays must pay this part of the compensation  within 28 days  of the 
date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs G accept  my final decision. If it pays  later than this it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date 
of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2021.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3688583