K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited hasnt correctly recorded  
payments shes made to reduce  her outstanding balance.
To settle  matters shed  like confirmation  that her payments have been taken into account  to 
reduce the amount she owes.
background
Miss A took out a loan with a financial business in 2006. In late 2009  Miss A fell into arrears  
and in February 2010 her outstanding debt was assigned to Link.  Link obtained a 
County Judgement in March 2011  for £3,756.46  plus any further  interest becoming due 
and it later obtained a Charging Order for the debt.
Miss A says her statement dated April 2018  isnt correct because  it doesnt reflect  instalment 
payments she made by standing order for £20 and a lump-sum payment of £100 and which  
were shown on her previous statement dated  April 2012. Miss A says that after she received 
her statement dated April 2012 she received no further information from Link until she 
received her statement dated  April 2018.
Link didnt uphold her complaint.  Unhappy with Links response Miss A brought  her 
complaint to this service.  Our investigator  didnt think Link had done  anything wrong. He 
could see from Miss As statements that shed made  one payment of £100 and six payments 
of £20 - all of which had been  credited  to her account so he didnt think Link was at fault. 
However, further interest and charges were added to the account and this meant Miss As 
overall balance  increased.
Miss A disagrees with the investigators view. She says the payments shes  made should 
have reduced the amount she owes to Link under the charging order. Instead,  she says Link 
has added  interest to the amount due under  the charging order  and then applied her 
payments against  this amount.
The investigator still thought Link had acted  correctly. This is because  the payments she 
made reduced the overall amount she owed. He didnt think any distinction should  be made 
between the amount mentioned in the original charging order  and the interest that Link had 
added later. And in terms of the interest Link had charged since  the original charging order 
this wasnt something we could look into because Miss A had made  a complaint to our 
service about this previously and the investigator  concluded that Link had discretion to 
continue adding interest in accordance with the finance agreement.
Miss A still disagrees with the investigators  view and has asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I broadly agree with the 
investigators view.
Miss As statement dated April 2012  shows  a brought forward  opening  balance  of £4,596.96. 
I can see she made a payment of £100  in April 2011 and six further payments of £20 
Ref: DRN32729542between May 2011 and September 2011.  These payments were  credited to her account  and 
I can see that the payments she made  reduced the amount she owed to Link. The reason 
why the amount she owes to Link hasnt reduced is because  during this time further interest 
and charges were  applied. And this is why the closing balance shown on her 2012 statement 
had increased  to £5,022.25.
Since the closing  balance  shown on her 2012 statement, further interest  and charges were  
added so that the amount  outstanding as at 31 July 2012 was £5,263.34. The outstanding  
balance has remained at £5,263.34 as further  interest charges have been  capped.
Miss A thinks the £220 payments shes made  should reduce the amount originally secured 
by the charging  order. Instead she says Link has added further interest to the amount due 
under the charging order and then deducted her payments of £220 from this amount  which  
she says is unfair.
In terms of the interest thats been added to Miss As account, Im afraid I cant look into this 
as part of this complaint.  Thats because  Miss A previously  made  a complaint to our service  
about this issue  and the investigator at the time concluded that Link had discretion to 
continue adding interest in accordance with the finance agreement.
Like the investigator I dont agree that any distinction should be made  between  the amount 
mentioned in the charging order and the interest added later. This is because the debt 
secured by the charging order was for the sum of £3656.46together with any further 
interest becoming due .. The payments Miss A made to Link reduced the overall amount  
she owed and this is what Id expect to see. Im satisfied that the £220 payments Miss A 
made were credited  to her account so I cant say that Link has acted unfairly.
I realise my decision will come as a disappointment  to Miss A but it brings  to an end what  we 
 as an informal dispute resolution  service   can do to help resolve her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 August 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3272954