K820x#14complaint
Mrs J complains about the encashment value of her ISA. Shes unhappy  that TFP Financial 
Planning Ltd didnt  tell her it had dropped in value  when  she asked for it to be encashed. 
background
Mrs J emailed TFP Financial Planning  on 3 December  2018 requesting  the encashment of 
her ISA. She also asked  for them to look at what  the implications would be if she increased 
the amount of income from her Collective Investment Account (CIA). 
TFP Financial Planning  called Mrs J to discuss this. And following their conversion they 
emailed Mrs J, on 5 December  2018,  asking her to confirm that she wanted to proceed  with 
the encashment  of her ISA along  with increasing  the amount of income from her CIA. 
Mrs J gave her confirmation and directed TFP Financial Planning  to proceed.
On 6 December  2018 TFP Financial Planning emailed Mrs J confirming the encashment of 
her ISA and that the monies should be received by no later than 18 December 2018.
Mrs J checked her account on 13 December 2018  and found that the value of her ISA was 
lower than she expected  about £70,300. She emailed TFP Financial Planning telling  them 
to stop the encashment and requested a call to confirm this had happened. She also wanted 
an explanation  as to why they didnt tell her the ISA had dropped in value, from about 
£75,600 in September 2018, before she asked for it to be encashed.
TFP Financial Planning  called Mrs J the next day explaining the encashment of her ISA 
couldnt be stopped as the investment funds had been sold and the payment to her account 
was in process. They said the drop in value  was due to market fluctuations and that, had the 
ISA not been encashed,  the stock  market volatility couldve compounded the reduction in 
value further.   And as their understanding was the money was required for a house  purchase 
in 2019, there was little time for the investment  to recoup its lost value. So their advice 
wouldnt have been to retain  the ISA given the capital requirement for such a purchase.  
Mrs J remained  unhappy with the matter and considered  TFP Financial Planning responsible  
for the loss that shed suffered as a result of the drop in value. She said she shouldve been  
told about the reduction in value before the encashment  was processed and therefore given 
the opportunity,  with the knowledge of its value, to decide whether to retain  or encash  the 
ISA. Because  of this, Mrs J didnt think TFP Financial Planning had acted in her best 
interests and asked for them  to compensate her for the difference  in value of about  £5,300.
TFP Financial Planning  didnt change their position and reiterated what they had explained 
in the call of 14 December 2018.  And so they didnt think  feel they should compensate Mrs J 
as shed requested.
Mrs J referred  her complaint  to our service. Our investigator looked in to the matter but she 
didnt think TFP Financial Planning had acted unreasonably when  following  Mrs Js 
instruction to encash the ISA. She acknowledged Mrs Js concerns  about not being  informed 
about her ISA valuation,  but she didnt think they were obligated to do this due it being a 
direct instruction rather than an advised  transaction. She also added  that Mrs J couldve also 
requested the current value of her ISA at the time 
Mrs J disagreed and so the matter has been  passed  to me to review.
Ref: DRN35813442Im aware that Mrs J has since raised  further  concerns  to us about the service shes  received 
from TFP Financial  Planning and difficulties in obtaining advice since shes  moved abroad. I 
wont be considering  these as part of my decision and if Mrs J remains dissatisfied in respect 
of these issues, then they should first be directed to TFP Financial Planning.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Js disappointment  with whats happened and why she feels that through 
no fault of her own she has suffered a loss of about £5,300. But while I sympathise with her 
situation, I dont  think TFP Financial Planning is responsible for this or that they should pay 
the difference in the ISA value. Ill explain why.
It isnt in dispute that Mrs J instructed TFP Financial Planning to encash her ISA. But rather,  
Mrs J argues that she wasnt in a position  to make  an informed decision, and therefore give 
such an instruction, as she wasnt in receipt  of all of the relevant information  at the time. She 
thinks TFP Financial  Planning failed  to act in her best interests by not telling her about the 
drop in value. 
Ive carefully considered  Mrs Js points  and I agree that had she known the value of her ISA 
then she wouldve been in a more informed  position when she decided  to encash it. But 
while that might be true I dont think TFP Financial  Planning was necessarily required to 
provide her with the ISA value or that they failed to act in her best interests by not doing  so. I 
think it was reasonable  for them to act on the instructions they received from Mrs J in good  
faith and if she had any concerns about the value of her ISA, or whether the encashment  
was in her best interests, then she couldve asked them  about  this. Had she done so, I 
wouldve expected  TFP Financial Planning to have  responded accordingly.
Mrs J has questioned why TFP Financial Planning didnt mention the drop in ISA value but 
did express concern  about the impact  increasing income from the CIA would have on her 
capital. This however, in my view,  was due to her email of 3 December 2018 in which she 
specifically asked about the implications  of increasing income from the CIA, whereas in 
respect of the ISA, she gave a clear  instruction  to encash it. I therefore think  it was 
reasonable for TFP Financial Planning to respond to Mrs Js queries in respect of her CIA 
and advise her on this accordingly.
Mrs J also feels  that TFP Financial Planning, acting in their capacity as her adviser, 
shouldnt have blindly followed  her instruction but ought to have suitably advised her. TFP 
Financial Plannings call notes show the encashment  of the ISA was discussed and that the 
funds were to be used for a property purchase  in the New Year. Mrs J however says that 
she hadnt yet found a property at this time and so there wasnt  an urgency to cash in the 
ISA.
I cant be sure what was discussed between TFP Financial  Planning  and Mrs J. But Im 
satisfied that there was at least some discussion about the purpose of the funds. And while  
Mrs J may not have needed the ISA funds  immediately, it doesnt seem  unreasonable for it 
to have been encashed given there  was a clear intention for it to be used for a property 
purchase during  2019. So even though the value of the ISA had dropped  by about £5,300,  
whether TFP Financial  Planning were  aware  of this or not, I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for TFP Financial  Planning to have  acted on Mrs Js instruction. This ensured Mrs J had the 
Ref: DRN35813443funds readily available for the property purchase and, as TFP Financial Planning has since  
explained, it meant there was less risk to the funds  in respect of any further  potential  market 
volatility. Because of this, Im satisfied TFP Financial Planning took in to consideration the 
purpose of the funds  and that it wasnt unreasonable for them to have gone ahead with the 
instruction they received.   
Mrs J has also argued that TFP Financial Plannings actions are in breach  of the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  Statement of Principles  - with particular reference to the first two 
principles. Mrs J has suggested that theyve beached these principles as they deliberately 
didnt pay due regard  to her interests  and failed to inform her of material information  that 
they ought to have  been aware of and shouldve provided to her. 
Ive taken this in to consideration  but Im not persuaded that TFP Financial Planning has 
failed to act in line with these principles.  I havent seen anything to show  that they took any 
deliberate action to hide the ISA value  from Mrs J or that they deliberately didnt pay due 
regard to her interests. I think the discussion around the purpose of the funds, along with the 
request for Mrs J to provide confirmation  of her instruction,  sufficiently demonstrates their 
regard for her interests.  And although  I appreciate Mrs J may have found it helpful to have 
known the ISAs value, as Ive explained,  I dont think TFP Financial  Planning was required 
to provide this. But if its value was materially relevant to Mrs Js decision to encash then she 
couldve checked this by accessing  her online account or requesting it from TFP Financial  
Planning. 
I think its also worth noting that Mrs J received the amount from her ISA that she was 
entitled to. So although I appreciate she was expecting to receive a higher amount, Im not 
persuaded that shes actually suffered a financial loss. 
I know this will likely  come  as a disappointment to Mrs J but for the reasons Ive explained, I 
dont think it would be fair to direct  TFP Financial Planning to pay the difference  in the ISA 
value.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3581344