K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy taken out in 
2003. Ms S says AXA France  IARD  (AXA)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Briefly:
In 2003 Ms S took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying  for a high street store  card 
during a store visit. 
The policy provided  protection for Ms S store card payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy benefit was 15% of the 
outstanding account balance each  month  and it would pay out until either Ms S returned to 
work or the balance was paid off - whichever happened first. It cost £1.00  for every £100 Ms 
S owed  on the card.
At the time of the sale Ms S was employed,  and she says she was entitled to full sick pay for 
six months.  She says she had a small amount in savings and couldve relied  on family help 
to make her repayments. She was in good health  at the time.
AXA's records show Ms S paid around £151 for PPI in total during the accounts lifetime.
The adjudicator didn't  recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said the available 
evidence showed  that Ms S chose to take out the cover.  And there was nothing  to indicate it 
was wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Ms S disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Ms S case.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Ms S was hoping  for, Ive decided not to 
uphold her complaint  and my reasons are set out below.
did Ms S have a choice about PPI?  
did she agree to take it out?
I can see Ms S says she doesnt recall it being explained  to her what  PPI was  she says 
she just signed  the card application where  she was told. 
I've considered this carefully. And having done  so, while  Ive listened to what Ms S says 
happened, I think AXA made  it clear  that Ms S didn't have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out.
Ref: DRN30387482AXA has provided a copy of Ms S' store  card application. Looking  at this I can see there  was 
a separate section about PPI, which required a customer  to sign if they wanted  to take out 
PPI. And in Ms S case she signed  this section. If Ms S didn't want to take out PPI she 
could've left this section blank. By having  to give her signature on the form and in the way it 
was required,  I'm not persuaded she would've done  so without knowing what she was 
signing for - notwithstanding  the fact that she might not have understood all that she needed 
to know about  it.
I'm also mindful that the PPI premiums would've  appeared  on Ms S statements for several 
years  she spent around £150 in total.  So, if she didn't recognise what they were  or hadnt 
agreed to it, I might've expected her to have  queried it with AXA at the time.
So overall, I think Ms S chose to take out PPI. 
the information   
AXA says it didn't recommend or give advice  to Ms S to take out PPI, and I've not seen 
anything to suggest that it did. So, AXA didn't have to ensure the cover  was right or suitable 
for Ms S. But it did have to give her enough clear and timely  information about the policy,  so 
she could make an informed decision about  it.
Given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave Ms 
S about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve  been. I also accept that because  the sale 
took place in a non-financial business  there  wasn't likely anything  that could reasonably be 
described as a conversation about PPI.
But as I found  above, Ms S chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And based on her circumstances  at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - for example she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by the 
significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances;  and given her existing means it seems 
like it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So, I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put Mrs J off taking 
out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think Ms S has lost out as a result of having  PPI, so AXA doesn't have to 
pay back to Ms S what  she paid for PPI.
Ive thought about everything Ms S has said - including what  she's said about  not knowing  
she had PPI; that had she known about it she wouldve used  it when she was out of work;  
and that she didnt receive  any communication to advise her that the cover was in place 
when her account was in arrears. But these points dont change my decision.
As Ive said above,  Ive thought carefully about  what Ms S says about not knowing she had 
PPI. But the application form in my view suggests otherwise  it shows that she signed to 
agree to take out the cover.  As I also said, Im mindful that the premiums  wouldve appeared 
on her account statements and wouldve done  so over a period  of time  I think  Ms S 
wouldve noticed them.
Im sorry  to read about  the difficult personal  circumstances  Ms S has described. 
Ref: DRN30387483Other than what I said above  about Ms S choosing to take out the cover - based on what  Ive 
seen I dont think I can fairly say AXA shouldve told or reminded Ms S that she had the 
policy. For example, Ms S hasnt said that she had detailed  conversations  with the business  
about her arrears and discussed why she was struggling with her payments. 
But I would add in closing that if Ms S still has evidence of her unemployment at the time she 
describes, then she could investigate  the possibility of making a retrospective claim on the 
policy with AXA. But I cannot comment on the potential for success  of such  a claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3038748