K821x#15complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about the amount  of compensation Lloyds Bank PLC,  offered following a 
complaint about  a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy taken  out by Mr R in 2007. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Lloyds got due to the PPI. I am unable to consider how the policy was sold as my colleague 
has already issued a decision saying that Mr Rs mis-sale complaint is out of time. Ive only 
looked at whether the offer Lloyds has made is fair.  
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Lloyds said that the level of commission and profit  share it received  did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr R paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
It also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mr R for the time he was out of 
pocket. 
Mr R has said that he doesnt think that the refund hes been given by Lloyds has been 
calculated properly  and that hes due more money. But from the information Ive seen, 
Mr R only had his card for about six months, and during this time only paid one PPI 
premium. So theres  nothing to suggest  that Lloyds  has done anything wrong when it 
calculated Mr Rs refund  and Lloyds has done  what the rules it must follow tell it to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Rs particular complaint and 
circumstances that mean Lloyds should  do something different to put right the unfairness  
caused by not telling him about  the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont 
think there is. I think the offer thats  been made is a fair way to resolve this complaint. So I 
wont be telling Lloyds  to do anything more.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Lloyds Bank PLC has correctly worked out what  it needs  to 
pay Mr R. 
Lloyds Bank  PLC should update and pay its offer to Mr R if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Ref: DRN35910812Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3591081