K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a monthly 
premium mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C were sold a MPPI policy in 1998  during a meeting. 
The PPI would have  provided a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months per claim if Mr and/or  
Mrs C were off work sick or lost their job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs C didnt 
agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. I will now explain 
why.
First of all Ive considered whether Mr and Mrs C were eligible under the policy. Based on, 
amongst other things,  Mr and Mrs Cs age, residence and employment at the time of the 
sale, Im satisfied they were eligible.
Santander had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the MPPI was optional  and needed their 
consent before it could  be applied to their account.  Mr and Mrs C say they didnt want  to risk 
being turned  down  for the mortgage and so took MPPI when  it was suggested they take it 
out.
Of course I cant  be sure of what happened during  the sale and Santander no longer have 
the completed application form from the time of the sale.  So Ive thought carefully about what 
Mr and Mrs C and Santander have  told us and looked to the other information and 
documents available from the time of the sale to help me decide what  is more likely to have  
happened.
Santander have  told us that MPPI wasnt a compulsory product. And as I understand it Mr 
and Mrs C would have  had to complete a separate application form to take it out as well as a 
separate direct debit  mandate. Ive seen a copy of the policy document,  the welcome letter   
and schedule of cover. There  is nothing on these to indicate that MPPI had to be taken out. 
And while I appreciate  what  Mr and Mrs C say about feeling they should take MPPI because  
their experience was they were always advised to take it despite  their generous  employee  
benefits, this isnt sufficient evidence for me to conclude that Santander specifically told them 
or even  implied  that taking MPPI would strengthen their mortgage  application  or that they 
would have been turned  down for the mortgage if they didnt take MPPI. Especially when  
balanced against the documents that I have seen.
Ref: DRN39352452So all in all, I cant say its more  likely  that Mr and Mrs C werent  made aware that the MPPI 
was optional or that they didnt choose  to take it out.
Santander accept  they advised  Mr and Mrs C to take MPPI. This means they had to check it 
was suitable for them.  I dont know  if Santander  took all the steps they should have to check 
if the MPPI  was suitable for Mr and Mrs C but I do think  the policy was suitable  for them.  I 
say this because:
-Although Mr and Mrs C would have had generous sick pay and redundancy 
entitlement from their employer, the PPI policy would have paid out in addition  to this. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C have questioned whether it would  have paid out in 
addition to their employee benefits,  but having  read carefully  through the policy 
document, I cant see anywhere  that it states that the policy  wouldnt have paid out in 
addition to the employee benefits. Santander have also confirmed that it would have 
paid out in addition to their employee  benefits.  
-Although Mr and Mrs C could potentially have been entitled to the equivalent  of 
around 9 months worth  of full pay (either as six months  full followed by six months 
half pay or 9 months full pay),  the policy would have  provided the requested monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months per claim.
-Mr and Mrs C have referred  to the many  exclusions and restrictions in the policy.  But 
I havent seen  any evidence to suggest  that the policys  exclusions and restrictions 
would have affected Mr and Mrs C such that it would  have been unsuitable for them 
at the time of the sale. 
-Mr and Mrs C have explained that things were financially tight for them  at the time of 
the sale. However, I havent seen any evidence which suggests the MPPI in itself 
was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs C at the time of the sale.  The cost of the policy  was 
relatively low in comparison  to the benefit  it could have  provided.
-Mr and Mrs C could have cancelled the MPPI  at any time without losing out 
financially if they no longer wanted  or needed  it.
As well as checking that the MPPI was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C, Santander  also had to 
give them  clear information  about the MPPI   in particular about  the costs,  benefits and main 
exclusions in the policy  so that they could make  an informed decision about whether or not 
to take it out.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs C wasnt as clear as it should  have 
been but this in itself doesnt  mean the policy was mis-sold as I have to go on and consider 
whether better information would have put them off taking it out. And I dont think  it would 
have. I say this for the same reasons I think the MPPI was suitable for them.
Mr and Mrs C have questioned how the MPPI was a useful benefit  when their employee 
benefits were better -  in that they wouldnt have had to be off sick for 4 weeks  before getting 
employee sick pay and their occupational sick pay didnt  have  any exclusions. This may well 
have been the case. But as Ive already explained, the MPPI was an additional  benefit  and 
would have provided cover in addition to their existing benefits. The MPPI was protecting  a 
valuable asset  so Mr and Mrs Cs employee benefits could have been used for other 
essential living expenses  while the MPPI took care of the mortgage repayments.
Ref: DRN39352453I understand that Mr and Mrs C have  provided an example of another case  where the 
complaint was upheld because the consumer had six months full pay followed by six months 
half pay. However, each  case  is decided on its merits and having taken everything  into 
consideration, I dont  think Santander mis-sold  Mr and Mrs C this MPPI policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3935245