K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 to 
protect a mortgage. Mr and Mrs F say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr and Mrs F aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs F have told us that they were led to 
believe they had to take the PPI. The policy was taken out a long time ago so there  is limited  
information available.  But from what  we do have there isnt enough  for me to say Santander 
didnt make Mr and Mrs F aware the PPI was optional, or that they didnt choose  to take it 
out.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs F so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them. Mr and Mrs F were directors of a family  business when they applied  for the PPI 
and have told us they would have  received  pay if they were sick. They  also had redundancy 
cover. But the PPI would  have paid out in addition to any pay Mr and Mrs F would have 
received when they were sick. The policy would also have  paid out in circumstances other 
than redundancy.  
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Fs circumstances  at the time they werent  affected  
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for 
the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs F about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  its most  likely they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for them  if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs F.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Ref: DRN36813702Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3681370