K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a further advance mortgage application Mr and Mrs L made to 
HSBC UK Bank Plc. Theyre unhappy  that HSBC wouldnt lend them  the money they wanted 
for debt consolidation.
background
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with HSBC and wanted to borrow more money. Mr and Mrs L 
said they were going to use the money to pay off their debts which  would then reduce their 
outgoings. Because HSBC said it couldnt  lend the amount they wanted, Mr and Mrs L say 
they were forced to sell their flat and move  50 miles away - which is affecting Mr Ls job - as 
they couldnt afford a new property in the area they were living in.
Our case handler didnt  uphold the complaint. He said HSBC has made the decision based  
on its lending criteria,  which still includes the debts due to be repaid in the affordability  
assessment. Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They said it wasnt fair for HSBC to refuse to lend to 
them because of the amount of their debts,  when they wanted  to pay them off with the extra 
money to be borrowed  from HSBC.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs L wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read 
and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
This service is impartial between, and independent  from,  consumers and businesses. What  
this means is that we dont represent  either party, and I dont act under eithers  instructions  
or take directions on how a complaint will be looked at or what  questions  should be asked 
and answered.
Im aware Mr and Mrs L think our case handler  has shown bias towards  HSBC.  Were 
required to assess all of the evidence from all the parties. Insofar as he didnt agree with 
Mr and Mrs Ls view of the complaint, that wasnt - in itself - indicative  of bias,  however 
unwelcome Mr and Mrs L found his conclusions.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L feel HSBC is being  unfair  and unreasonable.  But it isnt my role to 
tell lenders how much money to lend to particular consumers. Lenders  are able to use their 
commercial judgement to decide how much, if anything, to lend to consumers. My role is to 
ensure such judgement is applied fairly  and reasonably; it isnt to substitute my judgement 
for the banks.
In this case, HSBC  applied  its lending  rules to Mr and Mrs L. It also reviewed its decision to 
refuse to lend the amount  Mr and Mrs L wanted.  It isnt unfair or unreasonable to look at the 
amount of unsecured debt; I understand Mr and Mrs L wanted  to use the money to pay off 
that debt, but once  they had the money,  there wasnt any guarantee they would use it to pay 
the debt. I also think  it was fair and reasonable for HSBC  to be worried Mr and Mrs L might 
end up with similar debts in the future.
Ref: DRN33455862Mr and Mrs L have said  nobody would put themselves back into a whole load of stress  
by not paying the existing debts , and I think herein lies the problem. Unfortunately a lot of 
people do exactly what Mr and Mrs L say nobody  would do. That is, get the new money but 
either not pay off the debts, or pay the debts  off but immediately build them back  up to the 
same level as before.  So its entirely  understandable why HSBC chooses to build those risk 
factors into its affordability calculations.  The fact that other lenders may choose  not to do so 
 and so a lender was willing to grant Mr and Mrs L a new much  larger  mortgage   doesnt 
mean HSBC  is wrong to not have the same appetite for that risk.
When deciding whether or not to lend more money,  lenders  have to apply the current  mortgage 
rules and think about whether the mortgage would be affordable. It isnt unfair or unreasonable 
for a lender  to look at all the information about  a consumer  and based  on that, decide the loan 
may be unaffordable based  on its lending  criteria. Having  considered  everything Im satisfied 
HSBC dealt fairly with Mr and Mrs Ls application to borrow more money.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint. My final decision concludes this services  consideration of this 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion on 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 November  2019.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3345586