K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly declined  their home insurance 
claim for their static  caravan.
background
Mr and Mrs L have a static caravan in the boundary of their home,  which they mainly use for 
storage and as a workshop. During  a period of high winds,  the roof was blown off and the 
inside was damaged by rain. 
Mr and Mrs L made a claim on their buildings insurance policy.  AXA appointed a surveyor  to 
assess the damage, who reported that the caravan appeared to be in reasonable condition  
for its age, but extremely high winds had ripped off the caravans roof  and rainwater had 
entered every room,  damaging the ceilings and floors. The report  also noted  the caravan  
wasnt fitted on a permanent base and could  be moved. 
 
AXA declined the claim on the basis the unit was a caravan, rather  than an outbuilding that 
formed part of the property. Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with AXAs decision, so they 
referred their complaint  to this service.  
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who thought it should 
be upheld. She explained  that she had seen documentation which  shows  they had to obtain 
planning permission  for the unit to be on their property and it couldnt be used or referred to 
as a caravan,  and nor did she consider it to be suitable to be used for such  purposes.  Also, 
in these circumstances, she didnt think caravan insurance would have been appropriate.  
She noted that the policy terms dont define outbuildings, so she thought the general  
meaning should apply  and given the units location and use, she thought it should 
reasonably be considered  an outbuilding.  So, in view of all these observations,  she 
concluded the unit should be covered under the buildings section of the policy. 
Therefore, our investigator  recommended AXA to reconsider Mr and Mrs Ls claim, on the 
basis their caravan was an outbuilding, applying the remaining policy terms. Mr and Mrs L 
accepted our investigators outcome,  but because AXA disagreed the matter  has been 
passed to me for a final decision. AXA made  the follow points:
-AXA isnt responsible simply because alternative cover may not have been  available.
-Its possible to move the unit, so it cant be considered a permanent structure.
-Irrespective of use and condition, the unit is a caravan.
-The policy specifically excludes  caravans from cover.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  I need to decide here is whether its reasonable to consider Mr and Mrs Ls static 
caravan an outbuilding. In their policy terms, secured outbuildings come under the home 
definition, which in turn comes under  the buildings definition. Therefore, if Im persuaded 
the unit should reasonably be considered  an outbuilding, I would be satisfied it should be 
covered under the buildings section  of the policy. Notably, the terms dont provide a 
definition for outbuildings.
Ref: DRN31348672AXA points towards  Mr and Mrs Ls caravan not being a permanent  structure.  But I havent 
seen any requirement  within  the relevant policy terms that buildings need to be permanent.  
Although the buildings definition refers to permanent fixtures and fittings,  as per the fixture 
and fittings definition, this is in respect  of items  fixed to the home, rather than separate  
structures in its boundary.
In any event, Mr and Mrs Ls caravan isnt a vehicle, i.e. its not a touring  caravan that can be 
towed for recreational purposes. But rather, its a static caravan, or unit, that needs specialist 
equipment to be moved. Based  on the information Ive seen, static caravans are generally 
considered to be permanently sited  although  like many sheds or summerhouses, which 
are generally  accepted  to be outbuildings, can be lifted and moved.  
I note AXA says caravans  are specifically excluded by the policy  terms. But whilst the terms 
exclude caravans  under  the contents  section, they are not excluded  under the buildings  
section. 
Mr and Mrs L told our investigator the axel is broken on the static  caravan. The surveyor also 
reported some pre-existing damage to the floor near the entrance, and our investigator  didnt 
consider the caravan to be suitable for staying in. AXA has therefore made the point that the 
caravan has fallen into disrepair. However,  the pre-storm condition of the caravan (which  in 
any event, the surveyor  reported to be reasonable)  isnt relevant to whether it should  be 
considered an outbuilding  which is what Im considering here.
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments presented,  as well as the location of the unit, and 
what its being used  for  and in the absence of an outbuilding policy definition, on balance, 
Im not persuaded AXA can fairly  decline the claim on the basis  its not a building.  Im more 
persuaded that the unit is similar to other  structures  which would reasonably be considered 
to be outbuildings. Therefore, Im satisfied AXA should reconsider the claim subject to the 
remaining policy terms and conditions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I uphold this complaint.   
My final decision is AXA Insurance UK Plc should treat Mr and Mrs Ls static caravan  as an 
outbuilding and reconsider their claim subject to the remaining policy terms and conditions. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 December  2019.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3134867