K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  about Legal  & General Insurance Limited. (L & G)
background
I issued a provisional decision on this case as follows  
Mr and Mrs A held a buildings policy with L & G and made a claim under this in 
September 2017 following  a leak. There then followed a period  where  L & G couldnt find 
what they considered  a valid claim, and some  delay where trace  and access was followed to 
source the problem.  Finally in December 2017 L & G declined the claim. Mr and Mrs A 
werent happy with this, and also thought  that L & G (or their agent) agreed  the claim.  
Mr and Mrs A complained to us.
One of our investigators  looked in to the matter, and upheld the claim in part. They  felt L & G
should pay a restricted amount  but didnt uphold the complaint in full. And they didnt feel 
L & Gs service levels  warranted  an additional award. L & G didnt agree with the 
investigator, so the case has been passed to me for a decision.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what I have seen so far Im not currently inclined to make any award.  Ill explain
why.
The claim began in September 2017 when L & G were contacted  to be told that there  was
water dripping from the bathroom, and this had damaged the ceiling below. L & G appointed
an agent to inspect the damage, and when they attended they advised  that Mr and Mrs A
needed to get the leak fixed  before any repairs  started. This isnt unusual,  most policies dont
cover the cost of repairing  the leak if it may be due to wear and tear or simple age. It might
be covered under other circumstances,  but they werent apparent here.
The agents  report  states they the leak appears  to have  begun before September  2017,  and
that even in September it wasnt clear where the leak was coming  from. They couldnt
source the leak and apparently informed Mr and Mrs A of the need to trace and identify the
cause. And although  they found  damage  to the ceiling  below  they didnt find damage to the
bathroom itself.
There then seems to have been some delay in the case. L & Gs notes suggest this was
because they were waiting on Mr and Mrs A to source the leak,  and because  over some of
this period Mr and Mrs A went  on holiday.
The next document of note is a plumbers report  provided by Mr and Mrs A dated 
27 November 2017. This suggest that the shower  door in the bathroom was causing a leak, 
and there  were leaking pipes both behind a wall, and under the bath. However, the 
photographs from around that time dont actually show leaks in the pipes.
There is also an audio provided, which features at two points Mrs As voice as well as 
L & Gs agents, which suggests the leak(s) occur only when someone is taking a long 
shower. That does  suggest the problem is with the door, as leaking pipes tend to leak all the 
Ref: DRN31462452time, unless  they are waste  water pipes. The plumbers photographs  dont show  a waste 
water problem as such, although as above they dont show any leaking pipes.
The audio  suggests that the ceiling needs  drying,  which is suggested will happen  naturally
and that assisted drying isnt needed  due to low water readings in the ceiling, and then
redecoration. It isnt indicated that replacement  of the ceiling, as opposed to drying, is
needed.
I now turn to the two most important, to my mind, pieces of evidence.  The bill for repairs and
the policy conditions  re these  types  of claim.
The bill for the repairs  dated May 2018 includes many items that I wouldnt expect to see in a
case like this. There are items concerning a new sub floor, a new shower cubicle, and in an
earlier document (November  2017)  a statement that the tanking was done.  For an escape of
water, unless the pressure of the leak was so great that physical damage was caused  by the
force of water, a new shower wouldnt be needed.  Equally  for a one off leak that was spotted
and resolved the floor wouldnt normally need replacing, and certainly tanking isnt covered
especially if the room  wasnt  previous  tanked.
Looking at the policy conditions these, in two places, very clearly exclude  damage that
happens gradually over time, which is very much what appears to have been the case  here.
The fact staining  on the ceiling occurred  over time and wasnt dealt with immediately means
the leak was ongoing for some time. And I also note the very long period between  the
original claim  and the actual repair works. All of this points towards a gradually operating
cause.
Whilst I would be wary  of applying a gradual damage clause to damage  that was not
reasonably within the knowledge of a consumer, here the damage was apparent because of
the effect on the ceiling. And I dont  think the leak(s) was dealt with quickly  enough after that
by the consumers.
There are also some  other issues connected  with this case, such as the repairers actual
address and VAT status,  the ceiling issue, and details being omitted from an early  report.
But as I dont think the claim is payable I dont need  to consider those at this stage.
My current  view is that L & G dont have to meet the claim. The gradually operating cause
exclusion seems to apply,  and the repairs  dont  seem to be appropriate for the damage and
cover the consumers hold.
If Mr and Mrs A arent happy  with this I would highlight that to change  my mind I will need
strong evidence about  the time period the leak was happening over, the reason for the
seemingly excessive work on the bathroom,  and a more cohesive answer concerning the 
amended report and VAT issue.
Since my provisional decision L & G dont  have anything  to add. Mr and Mrs A have said 
they disagree with me and believe my mind  is already made  up. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31462453Whilst I note Mr and Mrs As views  I can only say my mind wasnt  made up and I would have 
gladly considered any more evidence they wished to supply, particularly about the VAT and 
the works  here.  But in the absence of any such evidence I dont see a reason to alter my 
provisional decision. 
my final decision
I make  no award against Legal & General  Insurance Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3146245