K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading  as MotoNovo Finance) unfairly  
terminated his finance agreement, repossessed the vehicle and recorded adverse 
information his credit file. He wants a refund of his payments  and the adverse entry removed 
from his credit file.
background
Mr B is represented in this complaint by his wife, but for ease of reading Ill just refer to him.
Mr B tells us he acquired the vehicle through a hire purchase agreement  in May 2016.  He 
says this was through a dealer Ill refer to as S, a company.
He says the vehicle failed  within five months and MotoNovo didnt deal with these issues 
properly which left him in financial  difficulty. He says said it then took the vehicle away  and 
recorded the repossession on his credit file. He says he hadnt  been told there would a debt 
and he now finds he owes over £5,000 on the agreement.
MotoNovo told us it had issued a notice of default  in December 2016 and Mr B had then 
notified it that he didnt intend  to make any further  payments. It said Mr B had invited it to 
collect the vehicle  and it had completed the repossession in February 2017. It said it was 
unable to find evidence  that Mr B was unaware of the outstanding liability  and it was 
unwilling to amend his credit  file. It said the outstanding liability remained payable.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said the account had 
fallen into arrears and had eventually defaulted.  She saw that the account  had been  passed 
to third party collection agents in January 2017  and the vehicle had been repossessed in 
February 2017. She said she was satisfied that Mr B was aware of the arrears and that the 
terms and conditions of the agreement allowed for repossession if payments were missed. 
So she didnt think MotoNovo had done  anything wrong in taking this action. She said she 
wouldve expected  MotoNovo to report true and accurate information to the credit reference 
agencies(CRA). And as she thought the missed payments and default  had been reported 
accurately she wouldnt  be asking MotoNovo to change anything.
Mr B didnt agree with this and said he didnt think hed been treated fairly. As its not been 
possible to resolve  the complaint an ombudsman has been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr B has encountered several difficulties which  have arisen out of the hire 
purchase agreement  by which he acquired  this vehicle.
I need to explain  that Im unable to look at all the aspects  of Mr Bs complaint - particularly in 
relation to the quality of the vehicle and alleged mis-selling of the agreement. Both issues 
are now outside our jurisdiction. Following  a complaint by Mr B, in 2016, Motonovo  issued 
separate final response letters - rejecting the complaints  -  in September and November 
2016. 
Ref: DRN36569012Mr B doesnt  seem  to have followed this up until raising the matters again in this complaint in 
early 2019.  Our rules dont allow us - other  than in exceptional circumstances - to investigate 
complaints made more  than six months after a FRL has been  issued. Our adjudicator  has 
advised Mr B of this and hes told us he still wants us to look at the circumstances of the 
repossession and the effect on his credit  file.
Although I cant look at all the issues which Mr B would  wish, for completeness  Ill mention 
them briefly  in order to make the context of this complaint clearer.
The first problem appears to relate to a belief  that the agreement was misrepresented.  There 
was a requirement that the third payment was £1,290 - which  was considerably  more  than 
the usual monthly  payment. I understand this related  to a VAT element. I note that Mr B 
subsequently made  the payment and MotoNovo removed  the charges it had made for the 
late payment.
Shortly after this, issues with the quality of the vehicle arose and this seems to have  had a 
direct bearing on the present circumstances.
Having made both the larger payment and the October monthly payment, it seems that Mr B 
stopped paying. The account  statement  shows no further payments were made until the 
vehicle was repossessed in February 2017. MotoNovo issued a default notice on 16 
December 2016  for arrears of £395.07. It said to remedy these arrears they needed to be 
paid by 3 January 2017.
The letter contained the following warning:
If the arrears are not paid by the time referred to above -
a)the agreement  will automatically terminate, and
b)b) we will seek to recover possession of the goods the subject of the agreement  and 
this notice is to be treated  as our demand for the return  of the goods the subject 
matter of the agreement in the event that the arrears are not paid in accordance with 
and pursuant  to this notice
c)we will seek  payment  from you of any monies due under the agreement on 
termination including interest on arrears and any charges which  we are entitled to 
claim pursuant to the agreement.
And upon receipt of this notice Mr B sent an email  to MotoNovo saying he wouldnt be 
making further payments. Ive seen information in the notes provided by MotoNovo that the 
vehicle was recovered from Mr B on 25 February 2017. It was subsequently sold for £1,950.
Mr B complains that he didnt know that if the vehicle was repossessed hed still have  to pay 
any outstanding  balance. Or that a failure  to do so would affect his credit file. But I cant 
accept this.  
Ref: DRN36569013Apart from the contents of the default notice the agreement contains a section labelled:
Consequences of missing payments  
This states:
If you miss any payment,  the vehicle maybe repossessed and sold at auction,  after which 
you may still have a financial liability to Motonovo Finance.  A debt collection  agency could 
contact you. A record of your default  will be passed to the Credit Reference Bureaux  and this 
could make it more difficult to obtain  credit in the future.
Whilst theres some suggestion Mr B didnt read the agreement at the time he acquired the 
vehicle that doesnt mean  hes not bound by it. And whilst  I understand Mr B wasnt satisfied 
with the vehicle or how MotoNovo handled  his complaint that doesnt mean he could simply 
walk away from the agreement. Given he knew there were  arrears, Im sure he would  have 
realised - and if not I think he ought  reasonably to have known - that this would mean he 
would have to make a payment to settle the agreement once the vehicle had been 
repossessed. Whilst he may not have immediately known the exact amount - as that was 
affected by the price  obtained on resale  - he was later notified of the liability. In the 
circumstances - and faced with a consumer whod made it clear he wouldnt make further 
payments - I think MotoNovo was entitled to terminate the agreement and repossess the 
vehicle. And it was entitled to require that the outstanding contractual  balance on the 
agreement was paid.
Whilst I accept  this has had an adverse effect on Mr Bs credit  file it seems to me thats an 
inevitable consequence  of the non-payment.  And wed expect a business  which reports to 
the CRAs to advise accurately of account  behaviour. As itd given the required notice, 
MotoNovo was entitled to report the account  as having defaulted.
In summary,  I accept Mr B feels that hes not been treated fairly by MotoNovo. Unfortunately, 
for the reasons Ive explained, I cant look at the underlying cause of his dissatisfaction with 
the vehicle. And its clear  that in large  measure this led to his decision to stop payments. As 
this was in breach of the terms  of the agreement, I cant reasonably  say that MotoNovo was 
wrong to take action  to enforce those terms.
So whilst I know my decision will come  as a disappointment to Mr B, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN36569014my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3656901