K820x#14Complaint
Mr D has complained that The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited mis-sold his annuity 
as it failed to let him know he couldve  received an enhanced annuity from another provider.
Background
The Prudential Assurance Company  Limited (Prudential) sold Mr D an annuity in 2008.  
In 2017 Mr D complained  that his annuity had been  mis-sold. He said he shouldve been  
sold an enhanced  annuity due to an underlying  medical condition which had caused  him 
serious ill-heath in 2013.
Prudential said it couldnt have offered Mr D an enhanced  annuity  at the time, but agreed it 
shouldve made  him aware he may have been able to obtain an enhanced annuity from 
another provider.  It said it was awaiting  guidance from the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) which it would  use to ascertain whether or not Mr D couldve obtained  a higher 
income from another provider at the time.
In April 2018 Mr D was informed that Prudential had carried out a calculation  using the 
FCAs guidance, but that he hadnt lost out financially. This was because the FCAs 
calculator indicated he wouldnt have been able to achieve an enhanced annuity  elsewhere. 
Mr D complained again as he couldnt  understand how his medical  condition  didnt satisfy 
the requirements for an enhanced annuity. He wanted further  information  about how the 
calculation had been completed and the underlying data used.
Prudential explained  that it couldnt offer Mr D an enhanced annuity at the time because he 
was only taking one medication to control his condition. It said the firm who put together  the 
calculator tool, W, had been chosen by the FCA to undertake this task  it couldnt provide 
him with any further information about  the underlying data as this was commercially 
sensitive. It however offered Mr D £100 for some service issues.
Mr H remained  unhappy and referred his complaint to our service.  He said it was 
unreasonable for Prudential not to give him the underlying data used in the calculation.  He 
also said having undertaken  his own research hed found a number  of business connections 
linking W and Prudential,  so he believed there  was a conflict  of interest.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Prudential  had done what  he wouldve 
expected it to do by carrying  out a comparison using the FCAs guidance and calculator. He 
said if Mr D had concerns with firm used to put the calculator together  this would need to be 
directed towards  the FCA.
Mr D didnt agree so the complaint was passed  to me to make  a final decision. Mr D 
maintained W wasnt independent in the matter and that the calculator favoured Prudential.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I realise this will be a disappointment to Mr D, as he feels strongly that Prudential has treated 
him unfairly.  He says the calculator hasnt taken  into account every provider on the market  at 
the time,  so it doesnt actually show that he couldnt  have achieved  a higher income. 
Ref: DRN31063772I appreciate why he feels this way  I agree it isnt possible to know with certainty what 
position hed have been in if hed been able to make an informed choice in 2008. But its 
because of his uncertainty  that the FCA developed a tool to help businesses  like Prudential 
ascertain, as far as possible,  whether its likely a customer couldve achieved  a higher 
income elsewhere at the time of sale.
In the absence of being  able to conduct  a full search of the market  at the time the annuity 
was sold, I think it was fair for Prudential to use the FCAs calculator to determine whether or 
not Mr D couldve achieved a higher  income in 2008. I think the calculator provides a fair 
indication of what was available in the market at that time. And Mr D hasnt provided any 
other evidence to support that he couldve obtained  an enhanced annuity  from any specific 
providers.
Prudential completed  the calculation in April 2018.  This showed Mr D wouldnt have been 
eligible for an enhanced annuity based  on his circumstances  and health at the time,  and he 
wouldnt have likely  been able to receive  a higher  income elsewhere.  For this reason, I dont 
think Prudential needs to make any adjustments to his annuity income going forwards.
Mr D believes  that he ought to have been  eligible  for an enhanced  annuity because of his 
health condition,  which caused severe ill-health in 2013. Im satisfied Prudential  couldnt 
offer him this at the time. And I cant interfere with this decision as it is based on Prudentials  
commercial judgment.  Ive reviewed a copy of a key facts document  which  accompanied 
Prudentials calculation relating to other products on the market  at the time. This shows that 
the FCAs guidance told it which medical  groups to consider and the specific  medical 
conditions to enter when completing the calculation  Mr Ds medical  condition  didnt qualify 
him for an enhanced annuity.  So, while I understand Mr Ds belief that he ought to have 
been eligible for an enhanced annuity  from another provider, I havent seen enough 
evidence to say that was most likely the case.
Mr D asked to see the underlying data used to complete the calculation. Prudential  said this 
information was commercially sensitive as it contained information about  how competitors 
price their products. So, this information was only made available to W, who used it to build 
the calculator.  The research  and analysis that W used to build the calculator was approved  
by the FCA, so I dont  think Prudential is required to provide any further information about  
the calculation.
Im aware Mr D has raised concerns about  the FCAs use of W to build the calculator 
because of potential  bias towards Prudential. After  complaining to our service,  he 
complained to the FCA about this. Mr D wasnt satisfied with FCAs response,  so he then 
referred his concerns to the complaints  commissioner. But it isnt within  my remit to say 
whether or not the FCAs decision to use W to build the calculator was reasonable. My role 
is limited to deciding  whether  Prudential has treated Mr D fairly.
Overall, I think it has, having used  the regulators approved redress  method to determine 
whether hed lost out as a result  of the mis-sale.  The calculations show  he hasnt. While 
I understand Mr Ds frustration with this, I havent  seen enough to say he is worse  off 
financially due to Prudentials actions in 2008.
Ref: DRN31063773My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3106377