K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC Bank Plc has registered two CIFAS  (Credit Industry  Fraud 
Avoidance Scheme)  markers on his credit  file following his bank  account  applications  in 
2013 and 2014.
background
Mr T applied  for a HSBC  basic  account  in 2013 and says he recorded the address on the 
application form that he had been living at for the previous three years.  He says he wasnt 
given an option  of providing  previous addresses. He also says he made  a further  application 
for an account in 2014. But both were refused and the two markers  were recorded on his 
credit file which has caused him financial  and other  difficulties.
HSBC says it hasnt  made a mistake and that it carried out checks on Mr T which showed he 
hadnt provided it with correct information.  It also says Mr T had County Court Judgements  
(CCJs) recorded at an address that wasnt disclosed to it but he told it he lived at another 
address at this time. HSBC says if there  is incorrect information on Mr Ts credit file about 
his address history  then its not responsible for that and its policy  is to report such  matters to 
the Credit Reference  Agencies.
Our investigator looked at that complaint and upheld it. She thought  the 2013 application 
asked for Mr Ts address for last three  years  which he provided. She also thought  the CIFAS 
warnings were disproportionate as Mr T wasnt applying for credit. The investigator 
recommended HSBC pay £300 compensation  and remove the markers and also gave HSBC  
a copy of Mr Ts tenancy agreement which confirmed the date it was taken out.
HSBC didnt accept  that view and provided further information about other markers on Mr Ts 
credit file. The investigator reconsidered  her view. She didnt think  for that reason HSBC 
should pay the compensation but maintained  her view on the removal  of the markers. She 
also thought the application  forms didnt ask for details of any CCJs
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that the fairest  course of action here would  be for HSBC  to remove the CIFAS  markers.
I can understand why HSBC recorded  the markers.  As on the face of it, the CCJs were 
registered to a previous property after the date Mr T says he was living  at the address  he put 
on the account application form. But Im satisfied that Mr T has given HSBC a copy of his 
tenancy agreement  which shows he was living at the address on the application  form. I also 
think that the CCJs may have been  recorded  some time after Mr T left that (previous) 
property. And Im satisfied  that HSBCs application form asked for Mr Ts address  for the last 
three years.
I appreciate HSBC says Mr T couldve complied  with any CCJs and indeed  made sure they 
were recorded against  him at the correct (up-to-date) address. But I dont think  thats 
something I need to consider or is relevant to the recording of the markers.
Ive looked at the second application and can see that Mr T may have made a typographical 
error about the date he had been  living  at his current address (he used 2001 instead of 
Ref: DRN359727622010). I think  it unlikely it was a deliberate  action  as I think  Mr T wouldve known that HSBC 
would carry out further checks or look at his 2013  application. 
So overall I dont  think HSBC necessarily made a mistake in 2013 or 2014 in recording the 
markers. But I think that as it now has a copy of the tenancy agreement which I think 
provides evidence that Mr T did provide  the correct information in 2013. It should  remove 
both markers. 
I agree  with the investigator that as there was other  adverse  information  recorded on Mr Ts 
credit file its unlikely that these markers affected Mr Ts credit  applications. I can see that 
Mr T also agrees with that view. So I dont think any compensation is appropriate here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order HSBC  Bank Plc to remove the CIFAS  
markers from 2013 and 2014 related to Mr Ts account applications.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before7  March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3597276