K822xComplaint
Mr V is unhappy with the response of Shawbrook  Bank Limited (Shawbrook), following a 
claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
Background 
Mr V was contacted by a company Ill refer to as A that supplied and installed solar panel  
systems. Following a meeting at his home,  Mr V agreed to enter into a contract with A for it 
to supply and install a solar panel  system  costing  around £7,500. To fund this he also 
agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.
Mr V made a claim under  section 75 (s75) of the CCA via his representative.  The 
representative said that A had told Mr V that the solar panels would be self-funded and that 
the monthly loan repayments would be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income. 
But that hadnt happened. Instead,  the monthly loan repayments had been much higher than 
the income. 
Shawbrook didnt provide Mr V with a final response  before the case was referred to this 
service. During the course of our investigation, Shawbrook sent its final response letter  to 
Mr V. It agreed that the benefits  of the solar  panel  system had been  misrepresented. To put 
things right it had worked out the potential  savings and income from the solar panels  to Mr V 
over the term of the loan. It had then reworked  the loan so that he would pay no more than 
this over the original 10 year term of the loan. It also agreed to honour the remaining period 
of the warranty that A had provided  and offered £200 to recognise the trouble and upset 
caused.
As Mr V had settled his loan early, he was due a refund of around £3,000  the difference 
between what he had paid compared  to the expected benefits over the 10 year loan term.
One of our investigators  reviewed the offer put forward by Shawbrook  and thought  it was 
fair.
Mr V, via his representative  didnt.  In summary, it said:
the offer put forward didnt compensate Mr V for the £43,167 he was led to believe he 
would receive over the lifetime  of the solar panel  system,  and;
that he had a performance  guarantee included that had induced him to enter  into the 
contract.
To put things right it said the fair outcome was to allow Mr V to rescind the contract,  
Shawbrook refund all payments  he had made,  remove the solar panels  from his home and 
make good  any damage that may have been  caused.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached the case has been passed to me to review.
   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN35522472Mr V says that he was contacted by A and during a sales meeting told that the solar panel 
system would be entirely self-financing. As Shawbrook  doesnt  dispute that the benefits  of 
the solar panel  system were misrepresented to Mr V, my decision will deal with what  I 
consider to be fair compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking into account  the particular circumstances.
Mr V has said that it was the over-inflated returns that induced  him to enter into the contract. 
And that the offer put forward by Shawbrook doesnt compensate him for that loss of 
expectation.
Ive thought carefully on this point. I consider that fair compensation isnt to put the innocent 
party, in this case Mr V, in the position he wouldve been in had the representation been 
true. Instead, I think fair compensation is to put Mr V back in the position he wouldve been 
in if the misrepresentation hadnt  been  made  in the first place.
Ive considered whether it would be fair and reasonable  to allow  Mr V to rescind  the loan 
agreement and for Shawbrook to arrange  for the removal of the solar panel  system. Here, I 
dont think that would  be fair or proportionate. My view of Mr Vs complaint is that it isnt so 
much about  the solar  panels themselves, but that he was led to believe that they would be 
self-funding. Rather,  I think the fair outcome  here is to put Mr V in a position where the solar 
panel system is self-funding over the original term of the loan. By allowing Mr V to keep the 
panels, Im satisfied that he will likely benefit  from lower electricity bills and FIT payments 
going forward. 
Ive carefully considered  the methodology that Shawbrook  has submitted to this service to 
calculate the total benefits of the solar panel  system.  This methodology is based on the 
actual performance and estimated future  performance of Mr Vs solar panel  system.
Shawbrook has outlined  that when calculating the estimated future performance of Mr Vs 
solar panels,  it will use a number of assumptions. These include using a self-consumption 
rate of 37%.  This is the percentage of energy generated by Mr Vs panels that he is 
expected to use, or self-consume, rather than buying it from his energy provider.
The self-consumption rate that is used by Mr Vs energy provider to calculate his FIT 
payments is 50%. This is based on the rate that has been set by the Government. The 
Energy Savings Trust previously set out a table  that showed potential  savings  under  various  
scenarios depending on the consumers lifestyle rather  than a specific  percentage. 
Self-consumption is impacted by the amount of time that someone is in their home and able 
to self-consume  the electricity being generated by their solar panel system. It is self-evident  
that determining  an exact figure over the term of the loan is difficult. My role is to determine  
fair compensation and arrive at an outcome that is fair and reasonable overall. And in case  
of this nature that isnt an exact science.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the opinion  that this takes into account changing 
consumer occupancy habits over the lifetime  of the solar panels. Once the loan has been 
repaid, as it has in this case, Im satisfied that it is highly likely that Mr V will continue  to 
Ref: DRN35522473benefit from the system  as a result  of a reduction in his electricity bills because  of the 
electricity generated  by the panels  as well as the FIT payments.
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by Shawbrook, including electricity  price 
inflation, the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI). Im of the view that 
these appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the 
actual average RPI for the last four years doesnt  seem to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  used by Shawbrook provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Mr Vs representative has said that the contract Mr V signed had a performance guarantee 
for the first year and this is what induced  him to enter  into the contract.
The offer of compensation from Shawbrook is based on the actual performance of Mr Vs 
solar panel  system and makes the solar panel  system cost neutral over the original term of 
the loan, as he was led to believe. Taking  this into account, Im satisfied that the offer 
proposed by Shawbrook is fair in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shawbrook has also agreed  that it will honour  the warranty  that was provided by A. This 
doesnt guarantee the outcome of any future claim but, if Mr V experiences any system 
issues within the original  warranty period,  shed  be entitled to raise  a claim under the 
warranty and Shawbrook  will consider it under  the terms  of the warranty.
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information  available at the time that Mr V first 
contacted Shawbrook that means  his complaint should have been upheld  sooner. The fact 
that this didnt happen undoubtedly caused  him trouble and upset.  Im satisfied that the £200 
proposed by Shawbrook accurately reflects this.
Ref: DRN35522474My final decision
My final decision is that Mr Vs complaint should  be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Shawbrook Bank Limited must:
allow Mr V to keep the solar  panel system,
estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr V from the solar  panels over the 10 
year term of the loan and rework  it so he pays no more  than this. Where possible, it 
should use Mr Vs electricity bills and FIT statements to do this.
Add 8% simple interest*  to any overpayment made from the date of the overpayment 
to the date of the settlement, and;
Pay Mr V £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before  10  March  2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr V how much its taken off. It should  also 
give Mr V a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can claim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN3552247