K820x#14complaint
Mr P says MYJAR  Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to him. Mr P says the loans were 
unaffordable and he had to borrow further  to repay  them. 
background
This complaint is about three short-term loans MYJAR provided to Mr P between 
May and July 2018. Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Number
Date Taken
Date Repaid
InstalmentsAmount £
Repayment
1 24/05/2018 18/06/2018     6   550 £156.75
2 19/06/2018 29/06/2018     6   600 £173.53
3 20/07/2018 Outstanding   12 1200 £174.42
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint and thought that taking into account Mr Ps 
known circumstances  at the times the loans  were given, there wasnt  anything  to suggest 
that he wasnt able to sustainably make the repayments. 
Mr P disagreed and as the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed  to me to 
decide in my role as ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN39266942There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  the arguments,  evidence and information in this context and what  
this all means for Mr Ps complaint. Having  done  this, Im not upholding the complaint and Ill 
explain why.
MYJAR has told the service about  the checks it carried  between  May and July 2018 before  
approving any of the borrowing.  It has said it asked  Mr P about his employment status and 
he confirmed he was employed and had a monthly  income of £2,000. MYJAR also checked 
Mr Ps normal monthly living costs. Mr P declared these as just under £500 per month.
MYJAR says it also searched  Mr Ps credit file, and there werent any recent  adverse entries 
recorded on it at the times the loans  were taken out. I think  it was reasonable for MYJAR to 
have relied on this information bearing in mind  these were the first loans that Mr P had taken 
from MYJAR  and his monthly commitment was relatively small. So, in these circumstances  it 
wasnt irresponsible to lend loans one and two. 
Its possible that Mr Ps financial circumstances werent correctly  reflected in either the 
information he provided, or the other information MYJAR obtained such as the results  of its 
credit checks. And Mr Ps actual financial position may well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit  checks  had been  obtained.
But MYJAR could  only make a decision based on the information  it had available  at the time. 
And as it was still in the early stages of a lending relationship  taking into account  how long 
each loan was to run, with Mr P, I dont think it had reached the stage where there was a 
greater risk of the loans  being unsustainable  for Mr P. In these  circumcentres, I dont think 
MYJAR needed to take further steps  to verify the information provided  such as asking  Mr P 
for evidence  of his income and outgoings  which MYJAR could have gathered from his bank 
statement or copies  of any bills.
Before loan three was approved, MYJAR  carried out the same type of checks as it had done 
previously. However,  I do accept that by this time,  MYJAR ought to have had some  concerns 
about Mr Ps financial circumstances. I say that because it was now the second time Mr P 
had taken a loan within days or weeks of repaying  the previous one  and repaying  those  
loans early  which  can sometimes be an indication of further borrowing to pay off current 
debts. And the third loan was twice the amount of loan two. So at this point I think  it would 
have been reasonable  for MYJARs checks to have gone further  and for it to have a 
complete picture  of Mr Ps financial position  and gone further to verify this information. 
Although I dont think MYJAR did enough  before providing loan three,  Im not in a position to 
uphold this loan.  The reason for this is that Ive not seen  any other information or evidence  
that makes me think that further checks would have shown MYJAR  that this loan wasnt  
affordable or unsustainable for Mr P. 
I have considered the information MYJAR  was provided with when it carried out its credit 
checks. And there  isnt anything in this information that may have led MYJAR to conclude 
that it should decline Mr Ps application  for these  loans.  And there isnt anything  contained 
within the reports to have given MYJAR cause for concern, or to have prompted it to ask for 
more information  from Mr P. So, I dont think MYJAR was wrong to have provided these 
loans, based solely on the information it gathered  from the credit reference agency.
 
Ref: DRN39266943So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  MYJAR did for these  loans were  
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mr P was reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3926694