K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about the service he received from BMW  Financial Services (GB)  
Limited (BMWFS) when handing back a car that hed acquired under a hire agreement.   
background 
Mr C acquired  a brand new car under a hire agreement with BMWFS  in March 2014. The 
agreement ended in March 2017 but there  were  a few issues  when Mr C handed back the 
car. BMWFS had to change the original collection date and its agents failed to turn up to the 
subsequent booking. Mr C tells us he was abroad at the time, and he was unhappy that his 
wife had to wait in all day for the agents, only for them  not to turn up. Mr C says hes also 
unhappy he received phone calls about the collection while he was abroad.  He says he was 
woken up in the middle of the night  by the calls because of the time difference. 
BMWFS eventually collected  the car and it wrote to Mr C to let him know that hed exceeded 
his mileage limit. The excess mileage charge was around £1,400.  BMWFS apologised for 
the problems with the collection and let Mr C know that it wouldnt apply any late return  
charges. It also offered  to reimburse  Mr C any extra insurance costs he had to pay due to 
the delays. But it asked him to pay the excess mileage charge. 
Mr C wasnt happy with BMWFS response. He thought a fair way to resolve the complaint 
would be for it to waive the excess mileage charge. 
BMWFS didnt agree to waive the excess mileage charge. But it offered to reduce it by 
£326.55 in recognition of the trouble and upset  caused. Mr C wasnt happy with this. And he 
wasnt happy with the service  received  from BMWFS when trying to sort things out. He 
complained about receiving arrears notices while there was an ongoing dispute. And Mr C 
wanted BMWFS to provide him with copies of call recordings from when hed phoned it so 
he submitted a Subject Access Request (SAR). 
  
BMWFS offered Mr C a further £50 compensation because of the problems. But Mr C still 
wasnt happy. He continued to communicate  with BMWFS over the next few months   
primarily asking for call recordings  and disputing the arrears  notices. Mr C paid the excess 
mileage charge, but he remained unhappy with how things were handled. Hes also unhappy  
that negative information was recorded on his credit file. As things couldnt be resolved,  Mr C 
referred his complaint to our service.  
Ref: DRN39972232Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. He thought  BMWFS should do 
slightly more than it had already done to resolve the complaint. He thought that BMWFS  
hadnt handled the collection properly.  And he thought that BMWFS handling of the 
subsequent dispute wasnt reasonable either. He didnt think  BMWFS should have reported 
negative information  to the credit  reference  agencies about Mr Cs agreement while this 
particular dispute  was ongoing.  So in addition  to BMWFS original offer,  he asked  it to 
remove the adverse  information about the agreement from Mr Cs credit file and he 
recommended it pay him a further  £200.  
BMWFS accepted the assessment but Mr C didnt. He was unhappy his wife had to wait for 
three days for the car to be collected.  He also felt that hed been  put to significant 
inconvenience. And he said that he had problems opening a bank account and purchasing a 
car because  of the mistakes caused  by BMWFS. To resolve  the complaint, Mr C requested  a 
total of £1,500 compensation.
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the complaint  has been passed to me to make a final 
decision on the complaint 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C acquired  the car under a regulated  hire agreement  with BMWFS. Our service is able to 
consider complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. 
It doesnt seem to be in dispute that there were issues with the collection  of Mr Cs car. It 
must have  been  frustrating when BMWFS agents didnt attend when they were supposed to, 
and it would have  been inconvenient having  the appointment changed. Matters were  made  
worse because Mr C was abroad and BMWFS failed to properly arrange the collection with 
his wife. So I can understand why Mr C felt dissatisfied by BMWFS  actions and it no doubt 
caused inconvenience. 
I think BMWFSs early set of offers to resolve the complaint were fair. It offered to refund any 
extra insurance costs  hed incurred due to the delayed collection.  Its compensation offer 
totalled £376.55. I think this is fair in the circumstances and is reflective of the overall trouble  
and upset it caused Mr C up to that point in time. 
Ive reviewed the terms of Mr Cs hire agreement, and it sets out that he would be charged 
an excess mileage charge at 11.7 pence  per mile for each mile covered in excess of 30,000 
miles. Mr C exceeded his mileage limit by around  11,000 miles so I dont think it was unfair 
for BMWFS to apply the charge that it did. 
However, I think BMWFS  could have handled  the subsequent communication better. It 
corresponded with Mr C about the complaint  for about a year after the initial  problems with 
the collection. Part of this was in relation to its response to Mr Cs SAR. It would be more  
appropriate for the Information Commissioners Office (ICO)  to deal with any complaint that 
specifically relates to BMWFS handling  of Mr Cs data. However, BMWFS also 
communicated with Mr C about  the outstanding balance, which is a complaint our service  
can consider. 
Ref: DRN39972233I think BMWFS could have done a lot more to get things resolved sooner than it did. It didnt 
respond to all of Mr Cs requests, and it didnt contact him when it should have. This went  on 
for longer than it should have done   around a year. I imagine this would have been very 
frustrating for Mr C. 
Mr C has said that the fine on BMWFS  recommended by our investigator isnt sufficient, but 
the compensation isnt intended to fine or punish BMWFS  its to recognise the impact 
BMWFS actions have had on Mr C. Ive thought about the amount of contact between 
BMWFS and Mr C and Ive thought about  the overall  impact on him. Whilst things went on 
longer than they should have, the contact was relatively infrequent.  And, to my mind, I think  
the extra £200 compensation is a fair way to resolve  the complaint and is reflective of the 
overall inconvenience caused.
With regard to the negative credit  reference information recorded  on Mr Cs credit file, given 
there was an unresolved  complaint ongoing, on this particular occasion, I think BMWFS  
could have held off from reporting  any negative  data to Mr Cs credit file until the dispute was 
resolved. From the evidence that Mr C has provided I cant  see that he has incurred a 
financial loss, or incurred any significant  detriment  because  of negative information  about the 
agreement on his credit  file. BMWFS has agreed  to remove the negative information.  I think 
this is fair in the circumstances  and I wont be asking it to do more  to resolve this part of the 
complaint.
In summary,  I think the investigators recommendations, along with the offers previously 
made by BMWFS seem like a fair way to resolve the complaint. BMWFS has already paid 
Mr C £300. Therefore, for completeness, to resolve the complaint, in addition to paying the 
£200 recommended  by our investigator, it should  pay Mr C a further £76.55  in relation to its 
initial offer. It should honour its offer to refund any extra insurance costs that Mr C incurred  
after 24 March 2017 until it collected  the car. And it should remove  any adverse information  
from Mr Cs credit file. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial  Services  (GB) Limited  
should:
Pay Mr C £276.55 compensation. 
Reimburse Mr C any insurance  costs  he incurred from 24 March 2017 until the car 
was collected  (upon receipt of evidence). 
Remove any negative  information about the agreement from Mr Cs credit file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3997223