K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the interest  rate The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB)  has 
charged on their mortgage.  Theyre unhappy  the latest reduction in the Bank of England 
base rate wasnt passed on by a reduction  in TMBs standard variable rate (SVR). 
background
Mr and Mrs M took out an interest-only mortgage  with TMB in 2008. The mortgage was 
initially on a two-year tracker rate, which was 0.79% above the Bank of England  base rate. 
The mortgage offer shows  that after 31 May 2010 the mortgage would move onto TMBs 
SVR, which  was 7.69% at the time Mr and Mrs M took out the mortgage.
In 2010, Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage moved  onto the SVR,  which  was 4.84% at the time. 
Since then,  the SVR increased to 4.95% in 2011 and remained at this level until the 
mortgage was redeemed in 2018.  
Mr and Mrs M complained to TMB  about their SVR not falling when the Bank of England 
base rate dropped in 2016.  TMB didnt uphold the complaint. They  explained that they dont 
automatically pass on changes in the Bank of England  rate. They said they consider what  
action to take based on business need  and economic climate.  They  also said that whilst 
TMB couldnt offer them  a new rate as they no longer offer rates  to customers  and havent 
done since late 2008  Mr and Mrs M could have  applied to Halifaxs specialist re-mortgage 
team for a new rate.
Mr and Mrs M applied to Halifaxs  specialist  re-mortgage team for a new rate but this was 
declined due to the monthly payments being  unaffordable for them. Mr and Mrs M were  also 
trying to sell their house at the time so the business felt it wouldnt have been  in their best 
interests to tie them into a new fixed rate. Mr and Mrs M redeemed  the mortgage in 2018 
when they sold their house.
Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint  to our service. Our investigator looked  into things and 
explained that he didnt think TMB had charged  their interest  rate unfairly. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed so the complaints been passed to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the Bank of England base rate dropped in 2016, Mr and Mrs M asked  TMB to reduce 
their SVR for them  to help make their mortgage  payments more manageable whilst trying  to 
sell their house. Whilst I understand  the reasons for Mr and Mrs Ms request, I dont think  
that TMB declined this unfairly. The SVR is a set rate that the bank set themselves  and 
this same rate is charged to all customers who have their mortgage  on their SVR.  
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage that they agreed to 
when they took it out. These explain that the lender may vary the standard variable rate, and 
they give a list of reasons  for why the rate may be varied. Theres  nothing in the terms and 
conditions of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage that suggest a change  in the Bank of England base  
rate would, or should, result  in a change to the SVR that TMB  charge.
Theres also no indication on any of the other mortgage paperwork that the SVR would track 
the base rate. The terms of the mortgage  explain that the interest  rate applicable is variable, 
Ref: DRN33518932and the bank set this rate. So whilst  I appreciate  Mr and Mrs M feel the interest rate theyve  
paid has been  too high in comparison  to the Bank of England  base rate, Im satisfied TMB  
have charged interest in line with the terms of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage, and were  entitled 
to do so. I also want to point out that Mr and Mrs M have in fact benefited from the lenders 
ability to change the interest rate, as it fell since they agreed to an SVR of 7.69% in 2008.
When Mr and Mrs Ms fixed rate ended, TMB no longer offered other interest rate products to 
their customers. I understand that because of this, Mr and Mrs M felt they were trapped paying 
TMBs SVR. But whilst Mr and Mrs M were paying the SVR, there were no Early Repayment 
Charges (ERC) payable if they wanted to redeem their mortgage and go elsewhere if they were 
able to find a more preferable rate with another lender. Whilst they may have found this difficult 
in practice because of their financial circumstances, I cant say this was as a result of anything 
TMB had done. So Im satisfied there were no contractual barriers preventing Mr and Mrs M 
from redeeming their mortgage early if they wanted  to. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M did apply to re-mortgage  through Halifaxs specialist  re-mortgage  
team following  conversations with TMB in 2016, but unfortunately the mortgage  was in 
arrears and Mr and Mrs M were already trying to sell their house. Halifaxs  decision not to 
offer the re-mortgage isnt something I can hold TMB responsible for, but I am satisfied that 
TMB kept Mr and Mrs M informed about  the position  of the mortgage, and made them  aware 
of what their options were  if they didnt want to continue paying the SVR once theyd raised 
their concerns. 
Overall, whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the interest rate they were  
paying on their mortgage,  Im not satisfied this was because TMB were charging their 
interest rate unfairly.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3351893