K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a single premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1999 Mr P took out a loan and at the same time he bought PPI to protect  his repayments. 
Mr P says he had very good sick pay at the time and the company  he worked for wasnt  
making people  redundant,  so he didnt need the PPI. He thinks  the bank was wrong when it 
sold him the policy.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ps complaint and Ive set out below my reasons for this.
We dont have all the paperwork  from when Mr P took out his loan. Mr P says the sale took 
place over the phone, and theres no reason  to doubt this. Ive seen a copy  of his loan 
agreement. That shows the PPI as optional, and provides a breakdown of the cost, interest 
charged and the monthly payments. Mr P signed  this form. 
I think its more likely than not that the form reflects the discussion Mr P had with Nationwide. 
Overall I think  Nationwide gave Mr P a choice  about  buying the policy,  and that he bought it 
knowing that he didnt  have to.
Nationwide doesnt  think it recommended  the PPI to Mr P. But it still had to give him enough  
information so he could decide  if it suited  him. From  what  I know of Mr Ps circumstances at 
the time,  I think the policy was suitable  for him.
I say that because:
-Mr P was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions. It doesnt appear that Mr P would have been affected  by any of the significant 
limitations or exclusions of the cover, such as those relating  to pre-existing medical 
conditions. 
-Mr P says he would  have received sick pay for 12 months  if he couldnt work. But this 
policy would potentially have  paid his repayments  for the whole length of the loan (36 
months). I understand Mr P doesnt think he could have  claimed  on the policy   but it 
would have paid out on top of any work related  benefits. It also could  have paid for 12 
months if he was made redundant. I accept Mr P says his employer wasnt making 
anybody redundant when  he took out the loan. But he was making a three year 
Ref: DRN30877592commitment and I dont think anyone could be certain that situation would continue for 
the whole  period. Overall, I think he would have had some use for the policy.
-The loan was repaid early.  But Nationwide  gave Mr P a pro-rata refund at the time, so he 
didnt lose out because of this. 
-Nationwide needed to give Mr P enough  information for him to make an informed  choice 
about buying the policy. The credit  agreement had a separate  column  that listed the 
main costs  of the PPI, including the interest and monthly payments. Im satisfied Mr P 
had enough information about the cost.
-Its possible that Nationwide could have provided more  information about the policy,  
particularly in regard  to the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr P wasnt affected by any of 
these things so I dont think that more information would have caused him to change his 
mind about buying the policy. So he isnt any worse off as a result  of anything  
Nationwide may have done wrong.  So theres  nothing that Nationwide needs  to do to put 
things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3087759