K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold an Ultimate  Reward 
Current Account (URCA) packaged bank  account to him in 2009. 
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr Rs complaint and didnt think  that BOS  mis-sold the URCA.    
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr Rs complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think BOS  mis-sold the URCA to 
Mr R or that it has treated him unfairly. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr R was given a clear choice in taking this account.  At this 
point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is most likely  to have happened. When the parties to a complaint disagree  about what 
happened (such  as here) and theres a lack of evidence  from the time,  I have  to think about  
what I have been  provided with, what  I do know and the wider  circumstances at the time. In 
other words, what l have to do, in this case, is decide what I think is likely to have happened 
having weighed  up what both Mr R and BOS have been able to provide me with.  
From what  Ive seen, Mr Rs account  was opened  as a fee paying URCA.  But its common  
knowledge that free accounts  are widely available in the United Kingdom. And hes also 
suggested that he previously had a free account elsewhere. So I think  that Mr R wouldve 
known he couldve had a fee free account  if thats what he really wanted.  Overall and having 
thought about everything,  I think that Mr R chose to take the URCA after having  been given 
a choice. 
Mr R says that BOS recommended the URCA to him. But I havent  seen anything to suggest  
that an assessment  of Mr Rs demands  and needs  was carried  out, which is what  shouldve  
happened if the URCA had been recommended,  either.  So overall and having weighed up 
everything, I dont think that BOS recommended the URCA  to Mr R and it didnt have to 
check if the URCA was right for him. It was up to Mr R to do this. But BOS did have to give 
him clear enough information to do so. 
I think its likely Mr R was provided with information  on the main benefits included  on the 
URCA. After  all BOS was trying to get him to pay for it when he in all likelihood knew he 
didnt have to. And explaining what hed get for the fee was probably the best way to do this. 
When Mr R agreed  to the URCA it included benefits such as mobile phone insurance, 
breakdown cover and travel insurance.  Mr R appears to have  had a mobile  phone  at the 
time. So Ive seen no reason why he couldnt  have used  the cover. Equally he used the 
breakdown cover and contacted the travel insurance provider which  suggests he might have 
been relying on this cover  too.
Ref: DRN39608332Overall everything Ive seen and been told suggests  Mr R used some  of the benefits 
included on the URCA  and he was eligible for and couldve  used  some  of the other benefits 
too. As this is the case, I think its most  likely Mr R received enough information for him to 
know what he was agreeing to. 
Mr R may now, with the benefit  of hindsight, think he shouldnt  have upgraded. And given 
what he mightve read or heard about packaged bank  accounts, I can understand why he 
believes his URCA might have been mis-sold. But I think its most likely Mr R chose to take 
the URCA.  And while  he may now believe the account hasnt proved value for money, Ive 
not seen enough here to make me think that BOS misled him. So I want to reassure  Mr R 
that having looked at all the information provided and thought about everything hes said,  
I dont think BOS mis-sold the URCA to him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3960833