K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs N are unhappy  with the response  theyve received  from Shawbrook Bank 
Limited (Shawbrook), following their claim against  it under section 75 (s75) of the Consumer  
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
background
In September  2012, My Planet Ltd (My Planet),  a company that supplied  and installed solar 
panel systems cold called Mr N. Following a meeting at their home with a salesperson, Mr 
and Mrs N agreed to enter  into a contract  with My Planet for it to supply and install  a solar 
panel system costing  about £11,000.  To fund this they also agreed to enter  into a 15 year 
fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook. The solar panels were installed shortly  after.
In June 2016, Mr and Mrs N made  a claim under  s75 of the CCA  to Shawbrook through their 
representative. To summarise, the representative said that Mr and Mrs N had been told by 
My Planet that the solar  panels would be self-funded and the monthly  loan repayment cost 
would be more than offset by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income. But this hadnt happened. 
Instead their monthly  loan repayments  had been  much higher than the FIT.
The representative also raised a number of other  issues including;  Shawbrook had failed to 
assess the credit worthiness of Mr and Mrs N when it provided the loan, theyd been told 
their electricity bills would be reduced  annually and that the customer hadnt received their 
warranty for the inverter.
Shawbrook responded to say, in summary,  that it didnt agree that the benefits had been 
misrepresented based  on the evidence available. It did confirm  that it would  cover  the 
warranty as My Plant had since gone into liquidation.
Unhappy with this response the representative contacted our service. And in 2018  Mr and 
Mrs N paid off the loan in full. One of our investigators looked into what  had happened. He 
felt that the benefits of the solar panel system had been misrepresented to Mr and Mrs N. He 
proposed that Shawbrook  recalculate the fixed sum loan to make,  in essence, the solar 
panels self-funded  over the 15 year term and pay £200 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr and Mrs Ns representative didnt agree. In summary:
It wants the credit agreement cancelled and all the payments made by Mr and Mrs N 
to be returned  to them. It cited some court judgements in this regard.
That the proposal put forward wasnt fair compensation  and Mr and Mrs N should  be 
given the option  of having the solar  panels removed from their property.
There should be a greater award  for the trouble  and upset caused. It suggested 
£1,800.
Shawbrook didnt agree  either. In summary:
It didnt agree there had been a mis-representation and that the solar  panels had 
been sold on the basis of being self-funding.
Ref: DRN32261182The investigator had placed too much weight on documents supplied by the 
representative and Mr Ns testimony of what had happened.
As neither party agreed on the investigators  view this complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I would consider to have been good  industry  practice at the 
relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  Section 56 (s56) and s75 of the CCA, which  provides  
protection for consumers for goods and services  bought using credit.  S75 states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the 
debtor..
As Mr and Mrs N paid for the solar panels  through a fixed sum loan, Im satisfied that s75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs N could claim against Shawbrook   
the creditor  for any misrepresentation  or breach of contract by My Planet in the same way 
they couldve claimed against My Planet, the supplier.  So Ive taken s75 into account  when  
deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
S56 is also relevant.  This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr and Mrs N 
and My Planet as the supplier are deemed  to have been conducted by My Planet acting as 
an agent for Shawbrook.
what happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must  decide on the balance  of probabilities what  
I consider is most likely to have  happened, given the evidence that is available and the wider 
surrounding circumstances.
Mr N says that he was cold called and told that the installation would be entirely  self-
financing. I havent  seen anything that suggests Mr and Mrs N had shown any previous 
interest in solar panels before they were approached by My Planet. And it is difficult  to see 
why they would agree to the installation of the solar panels financed  through  a loan that 
would increase their monthly outgoings. Therefore, I think its unlikely that they wouldve 
agreed to go ahead and install the solar panels,  and take a loan with Shawbrook, unless 
they were led to believe that it would be self-funding and come at no additional financial cost 
to them.
Ive also taken into account other submissions made  by Mr and Mrs N and their 
representative. This includes copies of My Planets sales literature. Mr and Mrs N havent 
Ref: DRN32261183said that they were  given  this particular literature. And Shawbrook has said that there is no 
date on the literature so our service cant be sure they wouldve been used at the time they 
were sold their solar panels. However,  Ive noted that some of the statements made in the 
literature are similar to what Mr and Mrs N remembered being told. As an example, it refers 
to the solar panel  system as being  self-funding and that the consumer would be never out 
of pocket. So weighing this all up I consider it more likely than not that its contents would 
have featured  at the sales meeting.
Ive also considered the action taken by the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC)  
against My Planet. My understanding is that RECC administers the renewable  energy 
consumer Code and ensures its members  comply with the Code.
The RECC investigated My Planets conduct  and in September 2014 determined  that My 
Planet was in breach of Sections 5.2 and 5.4 of the code. These  two sections relate  to 
essentially requiring members not to provide false or misleading  information to consumers 
and providing  clear and accurate information  about the costs and benefits of the product 
sold. 
I understand that what happened in respect  of the cases RECC looked into may not have 
necessarily happened  in Mr and Mrs Ns case.  Whilst the RECC Panels findings are general 
and do not refer to Mr and Mrs Ns case, the findings suggest that there  were  conduct 
concerns in the areas that related to their complaint and at around the time they were sold 
the solar panel  system and loan. 
Given the amount  of evidence presented to me, Ive concluded that it is more likely  than not 
that the salesperson for My Planet led Mr and Mrs N to believe that the solar panels would 
be self-funding and that the savings would be sufficient  to cover the monthly contractual  
repayments under the loan agreement.
was the solar panel  system self-funding at no extra cost to Mr and Mrs N?
Ive then considered  whether the solar panel  system was self-funding  at no extra cost, so 
that the monthly savings they would  achieve were sufficient to pay the repayments 
necessary under the loan agreement.
Im of the opinion that for the solar panels  to be self-funding and come at no additional cost 
to Mr and Mrs N, the savings and income  they would receive should have been  sufficient to 
cover the repayments  due under  the loan agreement.
Mr and Mrs Ns expected  savings and incomes  from the solar panels  are from:
(1)generation income tariff,
(2)export tariff income, and;
(3)savings to Mr and Mrs N by using  the electricity  generated  by the panels instead of 
buying it from his energy provider.
From the available submissions I can see that the expected total return  in the first year, from 
the above three items, came to around £620 whereas the loan repayments were about  
£1,200 a year.
Taking this into account, Mr and Mrs N were likely to have been out of pocket by about  £580 
in the first year. And this would have broadly been  the same  during the term of the loan. This 
Ref: DRN32261184means that, even based on this estimate, the solar  panels were  not self-funding.  So I 
conclude that My Planet misrepresented the benefits.
have Mr and Mrs N suffered a loss?
Neither Mr nor Mrs N had any previous  experience of solar panel systems  and Mr N was 
cold called  by My Planet.  Im satisfied that they decided to go ahead  with the purchase of the 
solar panels  based on the representation  made by My Planet the panels would be self-
funding.
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I find that Mr and Mrs N have suffered a loss as a result of 
the misrepresentation made by My Planet. Notwithstanding what Mr and Mrs N were  told, 
the solar panels  werent self-funding and they have  ended  up paying a significant amount 
over the savings. And as Shawbrook has equal liability  for the misrepresentation made  by 
My Planet,  I find that it is responsible for their losses.
fair compensation
Mr and Mrs Ns representative has said that it wants all the payments made by Mr and Mrs N 
to be returned  to them and to have  the solar panels  removed from their home.  It has cited 
some court judgements in regards to this.
Shawbrook didnt agree  with the investigators  view of the case. However,  it did accept that if 
the complaint  were  to be upheld, the proposed  method of redress  to make the solar panels  
self-funding, would be fair and reasonable. 
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one, determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. I appreciate that a court  might  
decide that Mr and Mrs N are entitled  to rescind the purchase and credit agreement or it may 
decide that there is no case  to answer or that another remedy may be appropriate. My role 
here is to arrive at a fair and reasonable outcome taking account of the particular 
circumstances.
My view of Mr and Mrs Ns complaint is that it isnt so much about  the solar  panels 
themselves but that they had been  led to believe that the panels would be self-funding.  And 
based on this I dont think it would be fair or reasonable  to require the removal of the panels 
from their home. And its also accepted  that it would cost Shawbrook a significant amount to 
remove them. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable  to ask it to do that. I think  that 
a fair outcome here is to put Mr and Mrs N in a position where  the panels are self-funding  
over the original term of the loan. By allowing Mr and Mrs N to keep the panels,  they will 
likely benefit  from lower  electricity bills or FIT payments  going  forward.
Mr and Mrs Ns representative says that they were  told that the loan repayments would be 
covered by the FIT. So Ive gone on to consider whether any savings should be taken into 
account when  arriving at fair compensation.
Although Im satisfied  that Mr and Mrs N were misled into thinking  that the solar panels  
would be self-funding, its difficult for me to know  exactly  how this was explained  to them.
The RECCs findings I referred to earlier do suggest that at least on occasions  My Planet 
may have  misled consumers into thinking that the loan repayments  would be covered by the 
Ref: DRN32261185FIT. But Ive also been provided with a Contract that stated that the total potential income 
Year 1 would  be £620.79. And I can see from the Contract that this figure includes not only 
the FIT income  but also savings in electricity,  assuming 50% usage. I think  this suggest that 
the salesperson  may have explained to Mr and Mrs N that the total  return  would include the 
savings in electricity.
If I accept what  Mr and Mrs Ns representative  says,  I think that when a consumer decides to 
go ahead  and install a solar panel  system, its reasonable  to assume that their key objective 
is to firstly  generate electricity for their own use. So I dont consider it reasonable to ignore 
this important benefit when arriving at fair compensation.
Ive noted that Mr and Mrs Ns representative  has said that our service  has historically 
issued decisions offering a full rescission.
As Ive explained above my role is to help settle individual disputes taking into account the 
individual circumstances.  I acknowledge that previous decisions have reached a different 
settlement to the one Im putting forward here.  However, my role is to decide what 
represents fair compensation in this case.
other assumptions
Shawbrook has provided our service with its proposed calculation for this complaint if it is 
upheld.
Shawbrooks calculation  is based on the actual performance and estimated future 
performance of Mr and Mrs Ns solar panels.  This shows the first years annual system  
generation to be 2,392 kWh and then it has allowed for an annual  degradation of 0.5%.
Mr and Mrs Ns representative has provided  a report from a solar panel  expert  setting out 
what they believe a fair self-consumption rate would be, depending on the size of the solar 
panel system and the period of time someone is at home. The expert  says a fair self-
consumption rate would  be between 25% and 30%.
Shawbrook has based its savings assumption  on 37% of the energy generated being used 
by Mr and Mrs N. To reach this conclusion it has referred to the Energy Savings Trust online 
calculator. This calculator  set out the mean  self-consumption rate based  on the period of 
time that the property is occupied and the size of the solar panel  system. 
Ive looked at the Energy  Savings Trust website and it currently  gives  a table of potential  
savings under various scenarios depending  on the location and the consumers lifestyle 
rather than a specific percentage.
Ive also noted  that the government has set out that the export FIT income  is calculated  on 
the assumption that 50% of the energy produced will be exported  to the national grid. So 
there is an implied assumption that the remaining 50% is used by the consumer. 
Its clear that there are various factors that determine the actual level of savings a consumer 
could make. Even with respect to the same  consumer,  that figure could change from time to 
time. So in my view determining an exact  figure  over a period of 15 years is difficult. And, as 
previously said, in determining fair compensation in cases of this nature isnt an exact 
science and my aim is to arrive at an outcome thats fair and reasonable overall.
Ref: DRN32261186Given what Ive explained above,  I find that in order to arrive at a fair compensation figure, 
estimating potential savings by assuming 37% usage isnt unreasonable.  
Ive also considered the other assumptions Shawbrook  has used such  as electricity price  
inflation, the benefit of having the voltage optimiser, the degradation rate and the estimated  
retail price  index (RPI).  Im of the view that they dont seem unreasonable taking into 
account the actual known  figures. As an example  the actual average RPI for the last four 
years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed  figure.
maintenance costs and inverter 
Ive looked at the information available from the Energy Savings Trust. It says that solar  
panels dont need a lot of maintenance but usually the inverter would need  replacing 
sometime during  the lifetime of the panels at a current  cost of about £800.  So I 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs N could  have some maintenance costs over the lifetime  of the 
solar panels.  But on the other hand,  I also acknowledge that Mr and Mrs N would likely have 
some benefit  by way of savings and the FIT income going forward.
Its impossible  to know what  the extent of these costs and benefits  would actually  be. 
However, based on available information I think that the potential  benefit should be 
adequate to offset any reasonable  maintenance costs. And because of this Im not 
persuaded to make  an award in this regard.
other issues and the voltage optimiser
Mr and Mrs Ns representative have told us that this whole matter has caused Mr and Mrs N 
trouble and upset.  In particular it has mentioned the financial hardship that Mr and Mrs N 
have endured for the last six years. I havent  seen anything to show  that they experienced a 
monthly financial shortfall and as I understand it they were  able to make the required 
contractual monthly loan repayments.  And based  on this, it doesnt appear  that the loan has 
caused them  financial hardship.
The representative, on behalf of Mr and Mrs N, has said that they had to pay for someone to 
remove the voltage optimiser as it was stopping  power coming into their home. And, that this 
cost them  a few hundred  pounds. Mr N has told our service that the original voltage 
optimiser was faulty and was causing the power  in his home to cut out. When he contacted  
My Planet he was told it would take them around  a week to come out and change it, leaving 
Mr and Mrs N without electricity. Fortunately,  a local electrician known to Mr N disconnected 
the voltage optimiser at no cost and My Planet fitted  a replacement unit the following week.  
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the £200 proposed  by the investigator 
represents fair compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
summary
In summary  for the reasons Ive explained  above, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs N were led to 
believe, by My Planet, that their solar panel system  would be self-funding.
To put things right Shawbrook should:
(a)allow Mr and Mrs N to keep the solar panels;
Ref: DRN32261187(b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr and Mrs N from the panels over the 
15 year term of the loan and rework  the loan up to the point it was settled; 
(c)add 8% simple interest  to any overpayments made from the date of the overpayment 
to the date of settlement; and,
(d)pay Mr and Mrs N £200 to recognise  the trouble  and upset caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Shawbrook  Bank  Limited. In full and 
final settlement Shawbrook Bank Limited  should:
(a)allow Mr and Mrs N to keep the solar panels;
(b)estimate the potential  savings and income  to Mr and Mrs N from the panels over the 
15 year term of the loan and rework  the loan up to the point it was settled; 
(c)add 8% simple interest* to any overpayments  made from the date of the 
overpayment was made to date of settlement; and,
(d)pay Mr and Mrs N £200 to recognise  the trouble  and upset caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
*If Shawbrook Bank Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs N how much itss taken off. It 
should also give Mr and Mrs N a certificate  showing this is they ask for one, so they can 
claim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3226118