K820x#14Complaint
Ms P has complained about  a loan Everyday Lending Limited (Everyday Lending) provided 
to her. She says she struggled  to make the repayments and had to borrow  in order to keep 
up with them.
Background
I attach my provisional decision of 11 February  2021, which  forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I wasnt intending to uphold Ms Ps complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, neither  party provided anything for me to think about or asked for any 
additional time to do so either. 
My findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail  why I wasnt intending  to uphold Ms Ps complaint in my provisional  
decision. And, in the absence of anything further from either party,  I see no reason to 
change my conclusions.
So having  carefully considered everything, Im still not upholding Ms Ps complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 11 February 2021, Im not 
upholding Ms Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN30539462COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
Complaint
Ms P has complained  about a loan Everyday Lending  Limited (Everyday Lending) provided to 
her. She says she struggled  to make  the repayments and had to borrow in order to keep  up with 
them.
Background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Ms P and Everyday Lending  had told us. And he thought  
that Everyday Lending shouldnt have provided this loan. So he upheld Ms Ps complaint. 
Everyday Lending disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to look at this complaint.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending  on
our website. And Ive used this approach  to help me decide Ms Ps complaint.
Everyday Lending needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this 
means is Everyday  Lending  needed to carry out proportionate checks  to be able to understand  
whether Ms P could afford to repay what she was being lent without increasing her indebtedness 
in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. 
Our website  sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks  
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks  to be less thorough  
 in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does  to verify it  in the early stages  of 
a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer  the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial  difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Ive kept all of this in mind while deciding Ms Ps complaint.
Everyday Lending provided Ms P with a loan for £7,100 in September 2017. It had an APR of 
71.1% and was to due be repaid in 48 instalments of £368.09, which meant the total amount to 
be repaid was £17,668.32. Everyday Lending says it agreed to Ms Ps application after she 
provided details of her monthly income  and expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against 
information on a credit search it carried out on Ms P and bank  statements which Ms P provided. 
All of this showed that Ms P would be able to comfortably make the repayments she was 
committing to. On the other hand,  Ms P has said she was in financial  difficulty and had to borrow 
to make the payments she did.
Ive carefully thought about what Ms P and Everyday Lending have said.  The first thing  for me to 
say is that this wasnt Ms Ps first loan with Everyday Lending. She had an existing  loan which 
was repaid with some of the proceeds of this loan. So Id expect Everyday Lendings checks  to 
have gone further than simply  asking Ms P about her income and expenditure.
That said,  I am mindful that Everyday Lending did obtain  bank statements from Ms P and having 
reviewed them I cant see anything on there which would suggest that Ms P wouldnt  have been 
Ref: DRN30539463able to make  the repayments.  The income going into her account broadly  matched her 
declaration and there wasnt anything  which contradicted the expenditure  calculation either.  The 
credit search Everyday  Lending carried did show  Ms P also had nine other active accounts in 
addition to her existing Everyday Lending loan. But as well as repaying Ms Ps earlier Everyday  
Lending loan, most of the rest of the proceeds  of this loan were used to clear the balances on 8 
of Ms Ps 9 accounts. 
I accept that the balances  on Ms Ps existing accounts were towards the maximum amount she 
had available on those  accounts.  But Everyday Lending appears to have  ensured  that the funds  
from this loan could only be used to repay Ms Ps existing debts by issuing cheques to repay  Ms 
Ps existing  creditors.  So Im satisfied that it took reasonable  steps  here to ensure that it wasnt 
increasing Ms Ps existing  indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful,  
as well as taking reasonable steps  to ensure Ms P was able to make the monthly  repayments.   
It's not in dispute that Ms P went on to experience  difficulty making her payments. And the 
reason why might have been because  she went  on to re-establish balances  on the accounts that 
had been cleared with the proceeds of this loan. But Everyday  Lending could only make a 
reasonable decision  based  on the information  it had available  at the time.  It wont have known 
Ms P would  do this  all it could  do was take reasonable  steps to ensure the balances would  be 
repaid, which  it did by issuing cheques.  It couldnt close the accounts  once  the balances  were 
cleared because they were  held with other providers,  only Ms P was able to request this.
Equally its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances  a lender
did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont think that Everyday Lending did anything wrong in 
deciding to lend to Ms P - it carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments 
were affordable and it took reasonable steps to avoid Ms Ps indebtedness  increasing 
unsustainably. 
So overall and having considered everything, I dont think that Everyday Lending treated     Ms P 
unfairly or unreasonably when  providing her with this loan.  And as this is the case, Im not 
intending to uphold Ms Ps complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for     Ms P. But 
I hope shell  understand the reasons  for my decision and that shell at least  feel his concerns 
have been listened to.
Although Im not intending  to uphold Ms Ps complaint, Id like to remind Everyday Lending of its 
ongoing obligation to continue to exercise  forbearance  (its decision  to reduce the total amount of 
interest and accept payments through a debt management plan thus far are reasonable) in light 
of Ms Ps apparent difficulty repaying this loan, should it choose to collect  payments from her.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not intending to uphold Ms Ps complaint.
If Everyday Lending or Ms P have anything  further  to add before I issue my final decision, they 
should ensure anything they send reaches me by 25 February 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3053946