K821x#15complaint
Miss M has complained about a short-term loan she took out with Instant Cash  Loans  
Limited (trading as The Money Shop) in January 2014. She says it was irresponsible  for 
The Money Shop to give her the loan.  
background
One of our investigators  looked at what the Money Shop and Miss M said. He thought  
The Money Shop hadnt carried out proportionate checks before giving Miss M her loan but 
he thought that the offer made by the business to write off all interest and charges was fair 
and reasonable.  And so didnt uphold  the complaint. Miss M disagreed  and said that the 
capital balance should be written off as she should never have been given the loan and she 
asked for an ombudsman to review  her complaint. 
I asked for some  further  information  from Miss M about her current  financial circumstances 
before deciding this complaint. I will deal with these matters later in my decision. In summary  
Miss M explained that she is in poor health, reliant  on benefits and has minimal income. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short-term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Miss Ms complaint. 
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did The Money Shop, each time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate 
checks to satisfy  itself that Miss M would be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss M would have been 
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Miss Ms indebtedness in a way that was otherwise 
unsustainable or harmful?
Did The Money Shop act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that The Money Shop  did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with 
Miss M and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair 
compensation.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable manner 
without it adversely impacting on their financial situation. 
A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. Although the guidance  and rules themselves didnt  set out compulsory  checks, 
they did list a number of things a lender could take into account  before agreeing  to lend. The 
Ref: DRN30410222key element was that any checks needed  to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different  things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being  
borrowed was due to be repaid. 
The Money Shop says Miss M was asked to confirm details of her income and expenditure  
when she applied for her loan but it cannot now locate  this paperwork so I cant  tell what  
Miss M was asked and what  details  she gave. The Money Shop says Miss M said she was 
earning £10,000 per year but there is no record of her outgoings so I agree with the 
investigator that the checks that The Money Shop  carried out werent  enough for it to 
determine that Miss M would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way.
The Money Shop has agreed that it is unable  to evidence proportionate checks. I now need  
to look at what I think proportionate checks might have shown.
Miss M says she wasnt working at the time and was in a difficult financial situation with a 
number of debts  and her relationship was breaking  down. I think that if The Money Shop had 
asked Miss M about her outgoings it is likely that it would have discovered that Miss M 
simply wasnt in a position to take on this loan because of her existing commitments.  
So overall, I think proportionate checks wouldve shown The Money Shop that Miss M was 
unlikely to be able to repay  what  she was borrowing let alone the interest  due in a 
sustainable manner   without undue difficulty. And so she wasnt in a position to be able to 
take on this loan. Miss M deferred the first repayment and paid only a small amount of 
interest and then was unable  to pay back what she had borrowed. This further demonstrates  
that Miss M wasnt able to repay  what she had borrowed. Miss M went on to incur interest 
and charges on a loan she shouldnt  have been given. 
fair compensation 
Ive given careful thought to what amounts to fair compensation in this case. In cases where 
we think a loan shouldnt have been  given to a consumer we usually tell a lender to refund 
all of the interest and charges the consumer paid on that loan. And wed normally expect a 
consumer to repay the amount they initially borrowed. 
But, in the particular circumstances of this case, Miss M says that the whole of the capital 
balance should  be written off because she cant afford to pay it back.
Ive thought about whether we should depart from our usual approach here. The information 
provided suggests that Miss M is currently experiencing  financial difficulty compounded by 
her health  problems. And The Money  Shop will be aware of its obligation to treat Miss M 
positively and sympathetically as shes experiencing financial difficulty. 
I can see that the lender froze interest soon  after Miss M fell into arrears and has offered  to 
refund interest  and charges  together with an additional 8% even though those sums werent  
actually paid. I cant say that even if the lender had done the level of checks  I would have 
expected this would have  fully revealed  the situation, which has also deteriorated since  the 
loan was given.  So I cant say that the decision was so reckless that the lender should not 
have any of the capital repaid. Miss M has had the benefit of the money  and, subject to an 
affordable plan, I think it is only fair that she pays it back.
I think that the offer made by The Money Shop is fair and reasonable and I cant ask it to do 
any more. I know this will come as disappointment  to Miss M and I dont doubt that she is in 
Ref: DRN30410223difficulty but I cant say that her current circumstances would  have been  obvious to The 
Money Shop even  if it had done further  checks.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I think the offer made by Instant Cash Loans Limited is fair 
and reasonable and I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February  2019.
 
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3041022