K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the administration of his Self-Invested  Personal  Pension (SIPP) by 
Hartley Pensions Limited (HPL) and some  of the information that it issued. He says that, 
following the takeover  of his SIPP by HPL, he received a letter which  he says breached FCA 
Principles  the requirements  for communications to be clear, fair and not misleading and act 
in the best interests of its customers and treat them fairly. This was particularly in respect of 
HPLs comment  in a letter  that there would be no change in location  of the office  he dealt 
with. Mr S says he had a great deal of difficulty in obtaining information from HPL or and it 
did not deal properly with his questions. 
Furthermore, he complained that HPL had failed  to put into effect an agreement to purchase  
the interest of another SIPP member  in property. This had caused  a financial loss.    
background
When HPL took over the administration of Mr Ss SIPP it sent him a letter notifying him of the 
change. Mr S says this letter  was misleading   given HPLs subsequent actions. 
Mr Ss SIPP  is held under a master trust with several other individuals  SIPPs. The overall  
SIPP portfolio  holds several properties  from which rent (into the SIPPs) is received. Due to a 
pre-existing agreement,  a transfer in the interest  of the property was to be made by one of 
the individuals in return for a payment from Mr S. So, from the date of the transfer  of the 
interest in the property,  Mr Ss SIPP was to receive  associated rent payments.  Mr S says 
that transfer was delayed   leading to a loss of rent. 
The complaint was referred  to this service and considered by an investigator. She thought 
that the complaint should be upheld. She said that the information  given to Mr S about the 
physical location  of the HPL office  that he could deal with had caused delays and 
inconvenience. And that there had been  a delay in the execution of deeds/transfer of a SIPP 
asset. She thought that the transfer  should  have completed in January 2019 but was not 
completed until September 2019.  She thought  that Mr S should  receive  compensation for the 
loss of rent and loss of growth  on his invested capital. 
In general Mr S said he agreed  with the investigators findings. However, he did still have 
concerns about  what HPL had said initially in its letter about taking over the administration  of 
his SIPP.  He said it should be held to account for the statements it had made. He also had 
concerns about  the suggested method of redress. Bearing in mind  that the completion date 
of the transfer  should have been  23 January 2019, he was not able to deal with money in his 
account allocated  for the transfer,  because  he expected HPL to pay the money to the 
selling member. The money  had been  earmarked for the selling member  and if the 
exchange had been completed in January 2019 then he would have received the applicable 
increase in rent from that point. HPL delayed that rent for 9 months  meaning a loss of that 
rent  whilst the capital  in respect of the exchange/sale was held in an account.  
The investigator issued  a further assessment. She clarified that in terms of the letter HPL 
had originally issued  to Mr S about the takeover of the SIPP administration,  HPL was entitled 
to take commercial decisions about how it operated. But she did believe that the 
ramifications of those  decisions could be considered. She amended the redress suggested 
in her original assessment  in light of Mr Ss comments. She agreed that Mr S should have 
started to receive rent from 23 January 2019 and that HPL had made an error in not 
amending a standing order after 23 September 2019. Essentially she said that Mr S should  
Ref: DRN36003152be compensated for the missed  rent, plus the interest he would have received on these 
amounts had the rent ben placed  in his SIPP cash account.  
Mr S acknowledged  the investigators assessment, but no response  has been received from 
HPL. Therefore the complaint has been referred to me for review and final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that when  HPL took over his SIPP provider it gave a reassurance  that this would 
have:
(a) No impact on my investments; and
(b) No impact on the day-to-day administration of my SIPP;  and
(c) No change to the location of Greyfriars  staff;  including those at the Leicester office
who were to continue  to be my single  point of contact.
Mr S received a letter from HPL dated  29 October  2018. This explained that HPL would be 
taking over Mr Ss Greyfriars SIPP. Amongst other  things this set out:
These changes will not have any impact  on the investments' day to day administration  and 
fees of your SIPP.
In the attached Your Questions  Answered document it was set out that:
Who completes the day to day administration?
The Greyfriars, Leicester  office is still open and there are no changes  to the contact details 
you have for the administration  of your SIPP or SSAS.  
And:
Will I still have  a single  point of contact?
Staff located at the Greyfriars Leicester office are now employed by Hartley  Pensions 
Limited. There is no change to the contact details relating to the day to day administration of 
your SIPP or SSAS.
With respect to Mr Ss points  a and b, I dont believe that HPLs statements were  
misleading because  I believe  its intention was to continue to administer Mr Ss SIPP 
competently and in the same way as he had been used to. In other  words,  that there  would 
no changes to his investments  or administration of his SIPP. That HPL may have 
subsequently made  mistakes or errors does not mean that what it said in October 2018 was 
incorrect at the time. In terms of the location  of Mr Ss point of contact, I note that HPL says 
that the Leicester office was closed shortly after receipt of the deeds  for property transfer  in 
January 2019.  So it seems  to me that, at the time of writing, the Leicester office was still 
open. 
I do not know what HPLs intentions were with respect to the Leicester office  when it sent the 
letter of October 2018 or what decisions had been taken in that respect.  But HPL is entitled  
Ref: DRN36003153to make commercial decisions of this nature and it is not for me to become involved in that. I 
should point out that the ombudsman  service  is not the industry  regulator   thats is the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Nor is it my role to punish or fine businesses for their actions.  
However, if HPL was to take an action that was at variance  to information it had previously 
given Mr S  in that his point of contact  would no longer be the Leicester  office- then it 
should have told him that. I have not seen evidence that it did so. I can consider what  effect 
that had. But that would  be best considered when looking  at the transfer  of property interest  
in the SIPP.     
In response to Mr Ss complaint, HPL said that the signed deeds  to allow the transfer of the 
interest in SIPP  property was received at Greyfriars  (previous pension  administrators) 
Leicester office  on 24 January 2019 (I have seen a copy of the letter  dated  23 January 2019 
which enclosed the deeds and Declaration of Trusts). It says that this office  was closed 
shortly afterwards and the deeds were received at its office in Bristol in March 2019. It said 
that the relevant documentation did not reach  the right department. It said that it would 
address the issue  of loss once the process  had been completed.  
Since that time it has reviewed the matter and stated that in its view the sale  or transfer  of 
property interest date should  be assumed  to be 23 January 2019 (being the assumed date 
the completed deeds could be acted upon). The actual date that the money for the purchase 
of the interest  was transferred  was 23 September 2019. This did not include an 
apportionment of rent. It said the rent due from this point which had not been correctly  
allocated to Mr S was about £950.  
I note that there was an intention to transfer  the interest in the SIPP property in 2018 and 
that actions had been undertaken  in this respect since  mid-2018. Deeds were being drawn 
up and it was confirmed  in December 2018 that these would be acceptable in respect of 
property interest transfer. As discussed, the relevant deeds to allow that to happen were 
received by HPL in January  2019.  
HPL has said that an appropriate  date for the (assumed )  transfer of the property interest  is 
23 January 2019.  That was the date the investigator  assumed when considering redress,  I 
do not believe Mr S has disputed it, and it also seems to me a reasonable date. For 
whatever reason HPL did not carry  out the transfer until September  2019 and this had the 
consequent effect that rent was not paid correctly for October  2019.  My understanding is that 
money was put aside  in Mr Ss SIPP as consideration for the transfer  of interest  in the 
property that should  have  taken place in January 2019. What  should have happened is that 
this money should  have  been paid to the party transferring the property interest  and Mr S 
would then have  been entitled to any additional rent generated by that interest from that 
point. So fair redress  would be for HPL to make good any rent his SIPP should have 
received but for its error.
fair compensation
HPL should  pay a sum into Mr Ss SIPP equivalent  to any rent the SIPP should have 
received after 23 January  2019 but did not. To that sum should be added  interest  at 
whatever rate was applicable to cash in the SIPP from the date the payments should have 
been made to the date of this final decision.  If the sum Mr S had set aside within the SIPP  
for the purchase  of the property share  earned any interest in the period 23 January to 23 
September 2019 then HPL can deduct  that from the total loss sum.
Ref: DRN36003154If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP (for example, if there will be 
allowance or contribution  issues), HPL should pay it as a cash sum to Mr S. But had it been 
possible to pay into the SIPP,  it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the total 
amount should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. 25% of the loss would  be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed according to 
his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional  
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately  reflects  this.
In addition, I have  noted the difficulties Mr S encountered in obtaining information and action 
from HPL after January 2019, and the inconvenience and upset caused because  he was 
unaware that the Leicester office  had closed. I note that he visited HPLs office to try and 
resolve matters. I can make awards  for nay inconvenience or upset caused and I believe an 
award his warranted  here. I therefore  order HPL to pay Mr S an additional £500, outside  his 
pension, for the upset  and inconvenience  caused.  
It seems  that the rent considered here was paid instead to another SIPP member. This 
award is not dependent on HPL recovering any rent from that member. That is not Mr Ss 
liability and has been caused by HPLs  actions. It is for HPL to decide what  steps  it wishes  to 
take to recover any rent from another individual. 
The compensation should be paid to Mr S within 28 days of the date HPL receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 28 days, that it takes HPL to pay Mr S this 
compensation.
my final decision
I do believe HPL caused  a delay in the transfer  of the property interest and also caused  him 
inconvenience and upset. I therefore  uphold  the complaint and order  Hartley Pensions  
Limited to calculate  and pay compensation to Mr S as detailed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3600315