complaint
Mr D complains about Monecor (London) Ltd, trading as ETX Capital. He complains that in
2018 ETX failed to execute his instructions to trade his Contracts for Differences (CFDs)  
causing him financial loss.
background
Mr D had a CFD trading  account with ETX. He was an elective professional  client  with 
extensive experience.
Mr D says he contacted  ETX in June  2018  with instructions to sell the CFD equivalent of
37,000 shares  in a company Ill call A. He specifically  said he wanted to trade at market in 
the opening auction and to achieve an uncrossing price. The trade  in company A was filled 
at $36.02 a share but Mr D said he was expecting  the uncrossed price  to be $37.20.
Later the same day, Mr D also instructed the sale of the CFD equivalent  of 50,000  shares in 
a company Ill call B. He specified he wanted to trade at market in the opening auction  to 
achieve an uncrossing price. The trade in company B was filled at the price  of $15.01 a 
share but Mr D said he was expecting the uncrossed price to be $15.50.
When he initially called, he was told the price theyd achieved for company A was $36.02,  and 
that he would get what ETX has filled at. ETX say the trade was correctly executed at a price  
of $36.02 for company  A and $15.01  for company  B. This is the price that they say was 
available to them. They explained that they use a smart order router via a third party  to 
achieve optimal results. They say the execution is in line with the Order Execution  Policy  
which outlines their commitment to providing the best possible outcome when executing  
clients orders and treating customers fairly.
Unhappy with ETXs response, Mr D brought his complaint  to this service. The investigator at 
this service said that ETX had accepted  Mr Ds instructions in advance of the auction  and so 
accepted the risk that the trade presented. He accepted the price  the trades filled at was the 
price ETX received from their broker. But the investigator also said that ETX had put their 
own interest ahead of that of the Mr D resulting in him getting  a worse price.  He said ETX 
should honour the level Mr Ds positions  should have filled at. Mr D accepted the 
investigators view but ETX didnt agree so this has come to me for a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 11 March 2020 explaining why I was intending to uphold this 
complaint. I include this below.
Ref: DRN3813812my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
order to trade
Mr D placed his CFD trade  to sell 37,000 shares  in company A and 50,000 shares in 
company B. He asked  for these to be sold at auction at an uncrossing price. These 
instructions were confirmed and accepted  by ETX ahead of the auction.  The execution 
process section of the terms and conditions of the policy outlines the factors  to consider in 
execution of instructions. ETX are obliged to provide the best execution taking into account a 
number of factors.
ETX went to their broker to execute  the trades in the market  on their behalf.  The broker uses 
a smart order router to find the best way of executing a trade, but the end result isnt always  
the best price  available at the open  market. The price they get isnt the uncrossed price,  its 
the market price of $36 and $15.01 and thats  what they give to Mr D. Here  ETX decided  to 
hedge their exposure and place  the same trades in the underlying  market.  Theyve given 
some reasons which are not unusual.
ETX acts on behalf of Mr D to trade via the third party as they do not have direct  access to 
the underlying  market,  so I understand  the third partys involvement. But ETXs terms do 
state:  we are the counterparty to all Trades  executed  using the Services. All Trades are on a 
principal-to-principal basis, i.e. directly between you and us, and we will inform you if we deal 
with you in any other capacity. Mr Ds instruction was for 37,000  shares in company A and
50,000 shares  in company B to be sold in the auction, to achieve the uncrossing price.  Im 
not satisfied that these  trades were executed on a principal to principal basis.
ETX accepted Mr Ds instruction in advance of the auction confirm that In instances where 
we use a broker, we will pass on the price that we received from our broker; the price  that 
the broker executes at is the price that we then give our client.  If no price is available  (for 
example the share is in an auction), the next available price  should be used.  I do 
acknowledge the actual price ETX received  from the broker was $36.02 and $15.01 but as 
Mr D has no direct arrangement with this third party, I dont  feel that any detriment from this 
separate arrangement should  be passed onto Mr D.
instructions to sell
Mr D says he specifically asked for the shares to be sold at the auction and so this is what 
should have happened.  I have asked ETX to clarify why the shares were not sold at the 
auction as the underlying trade is the way they derived the price  they gave to Mr D. EXT said 
the trades were too big for their risk limits; but they accepted  the trades and the risk they 
presented. So, the price obtained also takes into account the fact that the broker  has hedged  
the trades in the market in order to manage their own internal risk limits.
ETX also say Mr D didnt  instruct  them  as to the venue for the trades to be executed. This 
meant the trades  were filled at the next available price after the uncrossing,  so they werent  
traded at the opening auction. But their terms and conditions clearly  say that ETX is the sole 
execution venue  for trades  executed  by them  for their clients, so I dont think  Mr D had to 
direct them on the venue.
2
Ref: DRN3813812K821x#15Its clear that ETX waited to hedge the trades in the underlying before executing  them  but I 
dont feel that ETX have provided  a satisfactory  response as to why they didnt  place the 
trades in the auction in accordance with Mr Ds instructions. This resulted in Mr D getting  a 
worse price.  This was the reason why ETX accepted  the next available price in the open 
market at $36.02  for company A and $15.01 for company B and not the uncrossing price  
that was available at the time.
I can see that ETX did obtain  the price of $36.02 for company A and $15.01 for company 
B and these are the prices they gave to Mr D. But on the evidence Ive seen,  Mr Ds 
positions should have been  filled at $37.20 and $15.50 as these are the uncrossed prices 
that were  achieved. I am satisfied that the uncrossed price could have been achieved.  
ETX failed to act according to Mr Ds instructions for the trades to be executed at auction 
and are directly responsible for Mr D not being able to achieve  the uncrossed prices.  This 
caused him to suffer a financial loss. So, I think ETX should make good any losses  by 
giving Mr D the price he wouldve got for both company A and B.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given  above, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold  
this complaint. To put things right, I would suggest  Monecor (London)  Ltd 
should:-
    Honour the level Mr Ds position should  have been closed at
- $37.20 for company A
- $15.50 for company B
    Pay Mr D £150 for distress and inconvenience.
responses to my provisional  decision
ETX responded saying they had nothing further to add. Mr D responded to say he accepted 
my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent been provided any new information in response to my provisional decision by either 
ETX or Mr D. As there  is nothing  further for me to add, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings and make  the same findings here.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint. To put things right,  Monecor (London)
Ltd should:-
    Honour the level Mr Ds position should  have been closed at
- $37.20 for company A
- $15.50 for company B
    Pay Mr D £150 for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN38138124Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3813812