K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
 
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take the cover  and he chose to take it. 
Mr S took out the PPI when  he applied  for his credit card online.  He doesnt recall  the sale.  
And I dont  know exactly how the PPI was presented to him online. But he was sent a credit 
agreement afterwards. And this had a separate section for the PPI with a box for Mr S to tick 
if he wanted the cover. There was also a place  for Mr S to sign below  the tick to confirm he 
understood he was buying the cover. On Mr Ss agreement the box for the PPI is ticked  and 
he signed below it. 
Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S, so it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if the PPI 
was right for him.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take the cover - so it looks to me like he wanted this type of 
cover. For a successful claim the PPI would pay out for up to a year for disability or 
unemployment. Mr S has told us his pay would halve after three months and stop altogether 
after another three if he were too sick to work.  And he didnt have any savings to help pay 
his credit card if he lost his job or couldnt  work due to sickness.  Also from what Ive seen of 
his circumstances  at the time Mr S wasnt affected by any of the limits to or exclusions  on 
the cover   so it wouldve  been useful to him if something went wrong.
With all Ive said above in mind, taking everything into account I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr S off taking the cover.
What Ive said above means Halifax  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr S. But Halifax  has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Halifax  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about all Mr Ss points, including what hes said about not requiring the PPI and 
already having  PPI for his mortgage.  But Mr Ss mortgage PPI doesnt  make me think  Mr S 
didnt want the credit card PPI or change what  Ive said about it being  useful for him. With 
Ref: DRN38356472this in mind,  what Mr S has said doesnt  change my view that better  information  about the 
PPI wouldnt have  changed his decision to buy it. So for these reasons and the others  Ive 
given above, these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3835647