K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with how British  Gas Services Limited dealt with his claim following the 
breakdown of his boiler. 
background
Mr H has a HomeCare agreement with British Gas. 
In late 2018, Mr Hs boiler broke down and a leak caused damage to his home, including  the 
ceiling and light fittings. British Gas attended  and their engineer  said the leak was caused by 
the failure of a ball valve in the main  tank.  
British Gas fixed Mr Hs boiler,  including the ball valve. On Mr Hs request they also tested 
the overflow pipes  and fixed them  when  they found they werent working.  Initially, they told 
Mr H theyd also repair the water  damage the leak had caused to his property. But they later 
said this wouldnt be covered by his policy as the damage hadnt been  caused by them. 
Mr H is unhappy because  he feels the property damage was caused by the boilers overflow 
pipes not functioning properly, rather than simply because a ball valve failed. And he feels 
the failure of the overflows  was a result of British Gas not maintaining the heating system 
correctly over the years that preceded this claim.  
A ball valve was repaired  by British Gas in 2010  when there was another  leak from Mr Hs 
boiler. Mr H believes the overflows werent  working  at that point and that British Gas should 
have repaired them at the time.  He feels if this had been done, the leak in 2018 wouldnt 
have occurred, so the damage to his property  wouldnt  have followed. On this basis,  he feels 
British Gas should pay for the repairs. 
British Gas disagreed.  It said the property damage  isnt covered under Mr Hs HomeCare 
agreement. Mr H was still unhappy, so he brought his complaint to our service where it was 
looked into by an investigator. 
Our investigator didnt  think the case should  be upheld. She didnt think  British  Gas was 
responsible for the failure of the ball valve. And while she acknowledged that British  Gas 
hadnt provided Mr H with good customer service,  she felt the £250 compensation theyd 
offered him was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
Mr H disagreed, so the case has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Mr H believes  that if his boiler system had been properly maintained  under his HomeCare 
agreement, it wouldve  been able to withstand  the ball valve failing in 2018. It follows  that he 
feels British Gas is responsible for the damage caused by the leak after the ball valve failed. 
Ref: DRN33629042I can see from British Gas system  notes that they repaired the overflow in late 2018, after 
Mr Hs claim.  Mr H says he had to ask for the overflows to be tested and that once this was 
done, one of the engineers said they hadnt  been  functioning properly for some  time. 
Because of this, Mr H feels  that the overflows  not working was a longstanding problem which  
shouldve been  picked up in one of British Gas previous annual services. 
British Gas have  explained  that engineers  must adhere to strict  guidelines when carrying  out 
their annual inspections.  The overflows  are only visually inspected  and wont  be inspected  
in more detail  unless the engineer spots  something of concern, or the customer  raises an 
issue. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the engineers had any reason for concern about  the overflows 
at any point prior to when  Mr H asked  for them to be specifically tested  which was after the 
ball valve had failed.  Mr H does say that shortly before the boiler  broke down he noticed  a 
loud noise and thought  this indicated a problem, but that British Gas told him it was water 
hammer. I dont  find this unreasonable, as water hammer is a common occurrence  and 
having previously  visually inspected the overflows,  the engineers had found nothing wrong. 
Ive seen nothing  to show the noise  was more likely to be related to the boiler breaking 
rather than being  water hammer.  
Given the above, and the fact the overflows would only be inspected visually  unless a 
concern arose, I havent seen enough  to say its more likely than not that British  Gas are 
responsible for their failure. It follows that - taking everything into account  - I dont  think  
British Gas are responsible for the damage caused to Mr Hs property as a result of the 
boiler breakdown.    
Mr H feels that British  Gas first accepting responsibility for the property damage then 
changing their position  is not in line with the Financial Conduct Authoritys principles for 
treating customers fairly. British Gas say that the policy excludes cover for this damage. 
Ive looked at Mr Hs HomeCare policy wording. Under General Exclusions, it clearly states 
Were not responsible  for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of property,  furniture or 
fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or failing unless we caused 
it. For example damage caused by water leaks.
I appreciate it mustve been frustrating for Mr H to be told the damage would be covered and 
then later find out that it wouldnt be. And I can see a British Gas engineer  made a mistake  
by saying the damage would be covered. But theres no requirement  for a business  to pay 
for damage  if the policy terms  and conditions dont cover it, even if theyve initially  made a 
mistake by thinking they should cover it. 
Both parties  agree that the customer service provided by British  Gas during the course of 
Mr Hs claim was not what he should expect to receive. So whilst I considered  all of this as 
part of my decision, I see no reason to go into any further detail here,  since  it isnt in dispute. 
Having taken everything into account, I think the £250 compensation offered by British Gas 
is reasonable to recognise the trouble and upset  Mr H has been  caused - both for the 
mistake British Gas made in initially telling him the damage was covered, as well as the poor 
customer service  he received through the claim.  So I dont think  British Gas needs  to do 
anything more. 
Ref: DRN33629043my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Artemis Pantelides
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3362904