K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) unfairly declined  his home insurance claim.
background
In April 2015, Mr N took out a home  insurance policy with UKI. In June  2018,  following a 
burglary at his home,  he contacted UKI to make a contents claim for stolen items.   
UKI declined  the claim on the basis that Mr N didnt have a monitored alarm fitted and this 
was a compulsory  requirement of his policy. It said as Mr N had customised his policy by 
increasing the amount his contents  were insured for, the endorsement was added  to his 
policy. It said a message advising Mr N that he needed a monitored alarm in place before 
accepting the policy would have appeared during the online application process.
UKI also said the endorsement  would have been brought  to Mr Ns attention in his policy  
documents both at the time of sale and when it renewed each year. 
Mr N disagreed. He said he ticked the box to say he didnt  have  a monitored alarm at the 
time of taking out the policy. He also said hed never  been  made  aware of the endorsement 
and believed  UKI added it after hed agreed  to the policy. He said hed never received 
renewal documents  and so remained unware. 
Mr N asked UKI to refund  the premiums  hed paid for the policy  over the years  but UKI said it 
couldnt as the endorsement only applied to claims for theft or attempted theft. 
Mr N remained  unhappy and so brought his complaint to this service.  An investigator 
considered it and said UKI had acted fairly in the circumstances.  She was satisfied the 
endorsement had been brought to Mr Ns attention both at the time of taking  out the policy  at 
when he renewed  the policy. 
Mr N didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Mr N and his family  have been through a difficult time. The burglary would have been a 
stressful experience  for them and the loss of personal items  is understandably, very 
upsetting. So I empathise with the situation they find themselves in. 
Mr N applied for his policy  through a price comparison website  so UKI didnt provide 
advice or recommend that Mr N buy the policy. But even so, it did have  a duty, as the seller 
of the policy, to make sure Mr N was given enough  information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so he could make an informed choice  about whether the policy  was right for him. 
As the seller, UKI also has to make  clear any onerous part(s) of the policy where a 
consumer has to do something additional  to ensure  cover is provided. Im satisfied the 
requirement to have a monitored alarm is an onerous term and so I need to consider 
whether UKI did enough to bring  this to Mr Ns attention at the time of taking out the policy.
Ref: DRN39880122Theres no general rule as to how policy terms needs to be set out, its up to each business  
to decide how it does this. But I would expect  as a general rule that the more  significant the 
term, the more the seller  needs to do to make it clear to the consumer. 
UKI has provided details  of its online sale process  showing the information  which appears 
when a consumer  answers no to having a monitored alarm and increases their level of 
contents cover. On the webpage  where  consumers are asked to review their policy  
information, the alarm endorsement appears before the consumer has to agree to or decline 
cover. 
The endorsement reads:
Alarm endorsement
To enable  us to cover  your home contents for loss or damage caused by theft or 
attempted theft,  your home must  have  a monitored alarm system which is in 
operation whenever  your home is empty, and maintained under a contract with the 
alarm company. [.]
Because this appears on the main  page, isnt hidden  in small print, and appeared before      
Mr N had to accept or decline cover, Im satisfied  UKI did enough to draw the endorsement 
to his attention.  
The policy schedule and documents which were  sent to Mr N after he agreed  to the policy  
form part of his contract with UKI. So Ive looked  at these to see if UKI sufficiently brought  
the endorsement to his attention. 
Mr N has said he relied on the initial home  proposal  confirmation as his guide,  and because 
this document  didnt  mention the alarm endorsement he was unaware  it existed.  Ive looked 
at the home proposal document and agree the endorsement isnt specifically referred to. 
However, it does say:
Please refer to the Home  Insurance Schedule  which sets out sections of the policy,  
the sums  insured and any excesses, policy limits  or endorsements that apply.
So I think it made it clear Mr N needed  to look at the policy schedule which would have been 
sent at the same time.  
Ive looked at the policy schedule and can see that under  the heading endorsement  it says 
monitored alarm  compulsory requirement. Details are then provided as to whats  required 
in order for cover to be provided for attempted theft or theft of contents. So Im satisfied this 
was sufficiently brought to Mr Ns attention.  
And because the sending  of the home proposal  confirmation, policy  schedule  and policy 
document form part of the sales process,  I cant agree the endorsement  was added after         
Mr N agreed to the cover. 
Ref: DRN39880123Renewing the policy 
Mr N has said UKI didnt  make it clear when his policy renewed each year that the alarm 
endorsement was in place. So Ive looked  at the renewal  documents which wouldve have 
been sent to him.  
Its worth  explaining  that each renewal is a separate contract in its own right. While I wouldnt 
expect a seller to go through exactly the same process at each  renewal as it would when  the 
policy was first sold, it does need  to check the information it holds about the consumer is 
correct  and it does this by sending a renewal invitation which outlines the key details its 
relying on when  offering  cover. Its then the consumers responsibility  to correct any 
information. 
Ive looked at the renewal documents and can see the endorsement  appears  on each years 
renewal schedule. So Im satisfied it was brought to Mr Ns attention. 
Mr N disputes receiving  the renewal documents, but from the evidence  available to me I 
think its more likely  he did. I say this because  UKIs  records show it sent renewal documents  
every year. But more  persuasive is that Ive listened  to a call where Mr N refers to receiving 
his renewal schedule  and quote. 
Its not in dispute  that Mr N answered no to the question as to whether he had a monitored 
alarm, but that in itself doesnt preclude Mr N from having to make  sure the policy  met his 
needs. And Im satisfied  UKI presented the endorsement in a way which meant  it had been 
sufficiently drawn to his attention both when  the policy was initially  taken out and every  year 
it renewed. 
The endorsement made it clear what requirements needed to be in place for cover  to be 
provided and so I cant say UKI acted unfairly by declining Mr Ns claim because he didnt 
have a monitored alarm installed.  
I know Mr N is going to be disappointed  with my decision, but I hope he understands why 
Ive reached this outcome. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3988012