K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a store  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy sold in 1997. 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility for this sale. 
So, in my decision, Ill just refer to FICL  as the PPI seller. Mr L says FICL  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls case.
Having done so, I dont consider that the PPI was mis-sold because:
Its understandable  that, after all this time,  FICL hasnt been able to provide a copy  of 
Mr Ls store card application  form. From experience of how FICL sold PPI generally, Im 
satisfied Mr L would  have  been made aware  of it and would have had to tick or sign for it 
to be added. I can understand if he doesnt  remember that now.
I dont consider that FICL personally recommended the PPI to Mr L. So it didnt have  to 
check if the PPI was right for him. But FICL  should  have given  him the information  he 
needed to decide  for himself if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted  this type of 
cover. And I can see why as, despite his enhanced sick pay entitlement, the PPI benefits 
were considerable and would have paid out for a significant time.  They  covered him for 
unemployment too. I also think its likely Mr L realised  there  was a cost for the cover.
Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Ls circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
significantly affected by any of the exclusions to, or limits on, the PPI cover   so it would  
have been useful to him if something went wrong. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont believe Mr Ls lost out because of how FICL sold him the 
PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3103782