K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the premium Saga  Services  Limited charged for his car insurance 
when he had to change his car mid-term. He is also unhappy about  the amount it wanted  to 
charge him at his renewal date in 2017.  The premium increased  from £823.59  in 2016 to 
£2,262.79 in 2017.
background
In December 2016 Mr M renewed his existing car insurance policy  at a cost of £823.59. 
Unfortunately he was involved in an accident  approximately six months later.  His car was 
written-off and Saga  paid out on the claim.  This was recorded as a no-fault claim.
Two days after the accident, Mr M replaced his car and provided  Saga with the details of the 
new one. Mr M was charged an additional £454.61  at that point,  which included a £25 
administration fee. Effectively, had the policy been  in place for a full year,  the insurance 
would have cost £1,700.82.
The following  month Mr M again informed Saga of a change of vehicle. This caused an 
additional premium  of £18.17 to be charged. This would  have  equated to an annual  policy 
premium of £1,740.75.
In November and December 2017  Saga issued Mr M with renewal documentation. 
Ultimately, the annual premium quoted was £2,262.79. Mr M changed provider for his 
insurance and made a complaint about  the amount Saga  had proposed to charge him. His 
new policy cost him around £700 less than Saga wanted to renew its policy. 
Saga provided information about the premium calculation and reasons for the increase when 
asked. Much of this information was provided in confidence as it is commercially  sensitive. 
One of our adjudicators considered that information  alongside Mr Ms thoughts, concerns  
and information.  He didnt recommend the complaint  be upheld. He explained  how insurance 
works and that the risk the insurer perceived Mr Ms policy to be appeared to have increased 
because of the change of vehicle and the fact that an accident  had happened.
Mr M didnt  accept the adjudicators findings and asked,  as he is entitled,  for the complaint to 
be referred to an ombudsman. He summarised  his concerns in saying there is no logic, no 
common sense, and thus no justification for Sagas decision to triple  my premium, and 
therefore it is wrong that they can.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that this will disappoint Mr M, but I am not upholding his complaint. Whilst I know that 
he wants a breakdown of the various factors that led the underwriters to increase his 
premium so much at both the point his longstanding  car was written-off and at renewal, it 
isnt something that hes entitled to. 
An insurer/underwriter will determine what  risks it is willing to accept. It doesnt  have  to 
accept a risk its not willing to. Different  insurers will look at different situations in their own 
individual way. Exactly how an insurer/underwriter looks  at different risks will change at 
Ref: DRN35973922times and will alter to take advantage of opportunities within  the insurance market.  As such, 
an insurer knowing how another insurer assesses risk, what  risks it is willing  to take and how 
it prices those risks, could place the first insurer at an advantage over the other as it could 
alter its own underwriting  to gain advantage. Due to this, when an insurer provides this 
service with details of its underwriting and asks us to keep it confidential because its 
commercially sensitive,  we do so.
As I have detailed above, the increase to the premium effectively took place in two parts. 
The first when Mr M replaced his car after the accident. Different cars of different ages and 
with different features will represent different risks to an insurer. A simple example of this 
would be how much that car is worth in the event of a write-off.  However,  there are more  
complicated factors in that assessment. For example different insurers  may also consider 
many other issues including: the length of time a driver has owned a car, its engine  size, its 
safety features,  the costs of parts,  how difficult they are to steal etc. Not all insurers consider 
the same  factors and they will each reach their own assessment of how much  each factor  
affects their perception  of risk. So a change in car can make  a premium increase or 
decrease depending on the risk. And thats something that an insurer  is entitled to do. So we 
don't find that unfair.
There was then a further increase at the time of renewal. This again could be due to many 
factors. Examples of these may be changes in underwriting  criteria in general or more 
specific things to do with Mr M and his policy. Some changes may be very simple, like Mr M 
being a year older. Others will again  be more  complicated and factor in new statistics from 
the whole  motor insurance industry. 
Mr M has said that he thinks that the accident he reported to his insurer  must be the reason. 
It is likely  that it was a significant factor. I know that Mr M isnt happy  with this fact but, many 
issuers will say that their statistics show that someone who has suffered one motor  related 
loss, whether they were responsible or not, is more likely to suffer  another  in the near future. 
Insurers are allowed to factor things  like that in when deciding how much they will charge for 
insurance. Indeed,  they can decline to even offer cover if their perception  of the risk doesnt 
it with their underwriting criteria.
We dont interfere with how an insurer assesses risk or determines which  risks its willing to 
take. That would include how it decides to price  its policies  as long as there is no evidence  
that it is treating  a particular consumer or group of consumers unfairly or differently to the 
remainder of its customers. I havent seen anything in this case to say that Saga acted 
inappropriately toward Mr M when determining the price of his policy and renewal. Indeed,  
the information Mr M has provided shows that other insurers proposed  premiums  of the 
same order  as Saga.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 21 March  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3597392