K821x#15Complaint
Mr K complains,  in summary, that Lloyds Bank  PLC did not do enough  to help him recover 
money paid to a binary options  trading platform using his Lloyds VISA debit  card. 
Background
The details of the case have been clearly set out by our investigator when he wrote  to Lloyds  
upholding Mr Ks complaint. As such, the facts  are well-known to both parties,  so I dont 
need to repeat them at length here.  
In summary:
Mr K is disputing payments  that debited his Lloyds  VISA debit card between 6 April 
2017  19 April 2017. A total of 22 payments are disputed  and were taken by four 
different merchants (the disputed merchants).  
The total value  of the transactions  is £19,023.22. 
Mr K, who was over 80 years of age at the time of the transactions, was looking for 
investment options and was contacted by a broker hed had previous dealings with. 
The broker had previously represented  an investment  company that took payments 
without Mr Ks consent (merchant 1) a few months earlier. Lloyds were able to 
successfully recover payments to merchant  1 through  the VISA chargeback  scheme. 
The broker advised Mr K that she was working with a new company (merchant 2) 
and Mr K was persuaded to make a payment. Mr K called Lloyds on 13 April 2017 to 
explain he had only authorised one payment  to merchant 2 and had come  to realise 
that merchant 2 hadnt taken any payments and instead, the disputed  merchants had 
taken several payments, he says without  his consent. Lloyds applied  blocks to Mr Ks 
account, so that further payments wouldnt be attempted. 
The following day, Mr K called Lloyds and asked for blocks  on payments into the 
account to be lifted because he says he spoke with merchant 2 and it agreed to 
refund his money. But in order  to do so, he needed to lift the account blocks.  Lloyds 
agreed and further payments were  debited  from Mr Ks account  he says without his 
consent. 
Mr K asked  Lloyds to refund 22 payments to the disputed merchants. Lloyds declined 
and said it couldnt consider the payments  as fraudulent because they were  in part 
instigated by Mr K. Lloyds recognised that Mr K had received poor customer  service 
and paid him £200 by way of an apology. 
Lloyds went onto consider the evidence Mr K supplied to support a chargeback claim 
but declined to take his claim forward on the basis that the evidence  related to 
merchant 2 and not the disputed merchants.  
Mr K brought his complaint to our service as he wasnt happy with Lloyds decision. One of 
our investigators looked into it and suggested the complaint be upheld.  
Our investigator noted that Lloyds was aware  Mr K had fallen  victim  to a very similar fraud in 
the previous months and should have been aware  that the payments to the merchant were a 
repeat fraud  attempt.  After listening to the two key calls dated  13 April 2017  and 14 April 
2017, our investigator felt that Mr K only authorised  payments into his account, not back  out 
to the disputed  merchants. He suggested  that all the transactions  after 13 April 2017  ought  
to be refunded on the basis that Mr K had withdrawn his consent to them  being taken.  
Ref: DRN32982602Our investigator found that Lloyds unfairly declined Mr Ks chargeback  request and if it 
required further information to support its claim,  it ought to have asked him for this. He 
highlighted that this service had intervened  about  the fraudulent merchant  and asked that 
Lloyds review the matter  in November 2017. He felt the response  from Lloyds  fell well below 
the expectations this service would require. He said Lloyds ought  to have processed 
chargebacks for Mr K. 
Our investigators opinion  was that all the payments  to the disputed merchants, including  any 
transaction fees ought to be refunded,  together with interest  on the refund at the simple rate 
of 8% a year from the date he reported the fraud until the date of settlement.
Our investigators  opinion  was sent to both parties on 22 May 2020  with a deadline of 
responding by 5 June 2020. On 14 July 2020, Lloyds assured our investigator that a 
response would be issued at the earliest  convenience. Our investigator  informed Lloyds  that 
the case would  be passed to an ombudsman to make a final decision in September  2020 
and gave it a final deadline. The deadline for a response has now passed, and over six 
months after our investigators opinion,  Lloyds has still failed to respond.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im upholding it and Ill 
explain why. 
Our statutory rules  provide   at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct  Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision  on the basis of what has been supplied  and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information  requested;
And that.
If a respondent  fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:  (1) proceed 
with the consideration of the complaint;  and (2) include provision  for any material 
distress or material inconvenience  caused  by that failure in any award  which he 
decides to make. 
Ive therefore  concluded that, in the absence of a response from Lloyds to the investigators 
initial assessment, it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis of the evidence we 
already have and to take account of Lloyds failure to reply to our investigators opinion. 
Our investigator looked into the background of merchant 2 and determined, on balance, that 
it was operating as a scam  binary options trading platform. There  was credible evidence in 
the public domain at around the time Mr K complained to Lloyds that merchant 2 was 
unlicensed, and that several  of its apparent trading practices were indicators  of fraud. The 
investigator also concluded that this should  have been reasonably apparent to Lloyds when  
it received Mr Ks complaint. Not only because it had successfully processed chargeback  
claims for Mr K in very similar circumstances a few months earlier,  but that the disputed 
merchants appeared  to have been taking payments from Mr K without his consent  such 
that Lloyds ought to have identified that the merchant was more  than likely  operating 
fraudulently. Furthermore,  Lloyds  had told this service that it was aware there were several 
Ref: DRN32982603people in a similar situation  with merchant  2 and accepted what merchant 2 had been  doing 
may not have been fully understood by the customer and therefore felt unfair.
In all the circumstances,  therefore, I share  the investigators view that Lloyds should  have 
been more alert to the various adverse  indicators about merchant 2 at the time it received Mr 
Ks complaint than it apparently was, including when it was considering  his chargeback  
options. I take on board  that Mr Ks evidence  was around his agreement  with merchant 2 but 
Lloyds has not reasonably demonstrated  that merchant 2 and the disputed merchants were 
unconnected or that it would have made a material difference  to the outcome of his 
chargeback claims.  
The investigator suggested to Lloyds that it should have submitted a chargeback request 
under reason code  13.3 (services not as described) and that, if the bank had done so, it 
would have stood a greater chance of success. In my judgement, the core issue  which  
underpins this complaint is more about  whether if Lloyds  would have attempted a 
chargeback claim (under  any appropriate  reason code) the disputed merchants or merchant 
2 would have indeed defended the claim. There is evidence to suggest that it would not have 
happened because  Lloyds had attempted a chargeback under similar circumstances 
successfully, a few months  earlier and Mr K had produced similar evidence at that time.  
It follows  from this, therefore, that I consider Lloyds should have attempted  chargebacks  to 
assist Mr K. It is now too late for Lloyds to do so  but if it had done  so it seems  more likely 
than not, in all the circumstances  and on the balance  of probabilities, that he would have 
received a refund of those  payments. 
Unauthorised payments
Having listened to the calls referenced in this decision myself, I agree  with our investigators  
view on them, which remains consistent  with Mr Ks version of events.  It is my judgment that 
Mr K felt payments to the disputed  merchants would continue to be blocked and he would 
receive refund credits from merchant 2. The Lloyds adviser Mr K spoke with on 14 April 2017  
noted that Lloyds had already blocked  a series of payments attempted by the disputed 
merchants. Having checked the evidence  supplied by Lloyds, the disputed  merchants  
attempted to take 22 payments in just over 24 hours whilst blocks  were  in place. But Mr K 
understood this to mean that Lloyds  had blocked payments into, not out of, the account   
which matched what merchant 2 had told him. I dont think the call of 14 April 2017 changed 
Mr Ks intention from 13 April 2017,  which was to withdraw his consent from the disputed 
merchants taking any further payments from him. But I dont think  the Lloyds adviser 
recognised the real risk that the disputed merchants would attempt to take further  payments, 
so I think he ought to have taken more time to appropriately consider what it was Mr K was 
asking for. 
After Lloyds lifted the blocks, the merchant proceeded to debit a further £15,016.47  across 
18 separate transactions in quick succession.     
I find the payments taken after 13 April 2017, were taken because of Lloyds failure to 
continue to block transactions  to the disputed merchants, so, those payments  should be 
returned to Mr K.       
Lloyds has already paid £200  for poor customer service Mr K received prior to contacting  
this service, I think this was fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN32982604Although most of Mr Ks distress or inconvenience probably resulted from the criminal acts of 
the fraudulent merchants, I think Lloyds could have done more  to protect  him from the 
impact of its statutory duty to co-operate with our complaints process  (DISP Rule 1.4.4 of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority Handbook).  
I therefore consider £250  compensation  for distress  or inconvenience to be appropriate. Im 
aware that additional  compensation hasnt previously been awarded. But given where we 
are in the complaint  journey, and the fact compensation for distress and inconvenience is a 
matter of discretion,  I believe it should fairly  be paid in this case. 
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay Mr K:
The money he lost within 28 days of receiving notification of his acceptance of my 
final decision; plus
Interest at the simple  rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date Mr K reported  the fraud  to Lloyds; and
£250 compensation  for distress or inconvenience  also within 28 days  of receiving 
notification of his acceptance  of my final decision, failing which  interest will thereafter 
accrue at the same  rate until payment.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2021.
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3298260