K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold Mr and Mrs C payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000 and 
then with another mortgage in 2005.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr and Mrs Cs comments.  However, Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint. I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs C have said they were  in secure  employment, had good savings, and they were 
working for a close relative who would have continued to pay sick pay indefinitely. So they 
say this means they had no need of the PPI and would not have agreed to take it, if they had 
known that it was something other  than part of the mortgage. 
However Nationwide has pointed out that the PPI that was applied to their mortgage only 
gave cover for unemployment  it didnt include the usual elements of accident and 
sickness/disability. I agree with Nationwide this does suggest there was some discussion 
between Nationwide  and Mr and Mrs C, and it suggests they made  an active choice about  
the kind of PPI they wanted. Im also conscious  that this all first happened over 18 years 
ago, so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr and Mrs C didnt remember every  detail  of what 
happened. And in 2005 the mortgage offer refers to the PPI as optional and sets out the 
cost, which  should  have drawn Mr and Mrs Cs attention to the fact it was being  offered, and 
that they were  agreeing to it. 
So, overall, I accept  it is possible that Mr and Mrs Cs recollection of events is accurate. But I 
have to decide what is most likely  on the available evidence. And I dont have enough strong  
evidence to fairly say Nationwide acted  wrongly  in the way Mr and Mrs C believe. On the 
evidence available, I think it more  likely  Nationwide did fairly set out the PPI as a choice. 
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C, as being  particularly suited  to their 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted their circumstances. It 
would have been for Mr and Mrs C to decide whether it was suitable.
 Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy. But I 
dont anyway think full and clear information about  the costs  would  have affected  whether 
Mr and Mrs C took the PPI.
Ref: DRN33452442Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have been affected  by any of these.  Its likely  they were  eligible 
for the policy, and theyd  be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without 
further cost if their situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3345244