K822xcomplaint
Mr D complains about the quality of a van he has been financing through an agreement  with 
FCE Bank Plc (FCE).
background 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view of this complaint. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr D acquired  his van under a hire purchase agreement.  The hire purchase  agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the van should have been of satisfactory  
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then FCE, who are also the supplier of the van, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances  would likely  include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the van was supplied to Mr D. This was a 
brand-new van so I dont  think  a reasonable person would expect anything to be wrong with 
it.
And when  I consider whether the vehicle is of satisfactory quality the relevant legislation also 
asks me to consider whether the van has proven to be suitably durable. 
Mr D has explained that hes taken the van back to the dealership on many occasions  to 
have it checked  but that theyve consistently failed  to identify a problem. Ive not seen 
evidence of all of the visits to the dealership, but Im persuaded that its likely that the issue 
has been present  from the beginning as FCE and the dealership  dont appear to have  
contested that issue  and the RAC report doesnt  allude to the fault being  a new one.
And, regardless of whether the fault was present when the van was supplied, I dont think  a 
reasonable person would consider a brand-new van to be of satisfactory  quality if it 
Ref: DRN36267232developed an over revving  issue within  the first year. I think  a reasonable person would 
consider the van not to have proven suitably durable.
In those circumstances the relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair 
the van. But after the RAC corroborated the fault the dealership failed to rectify it. 
I dont accept FCEs suggestion that there isnt a fault or that it was remedied by the RAC. It 
would seem to make  no sense for Mr D to then take the van for a repair  if that were the 
case. I think its likely that this issue is difficult to diagnose but I dont think  its fair to expect 
Mr D to put up with it any longer. I think, as the repair hasnt  been  successful, Mr D should 
now be allowed to reject the van.
In May 2019, about 13 months  into the agreement, Mr D had managed  to complete about 
11,500 miles in the van. I think thats  in excess of the national average and its only fair that 
FCE are allowed to retain finance  instalments  to compensate them  for the fair use of the 
van. Im not therefore asking them to return any of the finance  instalments to Mr D.
The investigator suggested that FCE pay Mr D £750  to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of this issue. I can understand that having  to 
return the van frequently would have been  distressing  and it would have been even more  
upsetting to have the fault identified by an independent engineer only to find that a repair 
wasnt subsequently carried out. The compensation payment is a little higher than I would 
have awarded  based  on other similar cases. But I would  have  asked the business to provide 
some compensation for the time the van was in the garage and for the time Mr D was unable  
to drive a courtesy  car. All things told I think the £750 compensation covers that and the 
distress and inconvenience caused, so thats what Im awarding.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FCE Bank Plc to:
allow Mr D to reject the van and end the finance agreement,
collect the van at no cost to Mr D,
refund  Mr Ds deposit and add 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement,
pay Mr D £750 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced and for the lack of a courtesy  car and time the van was out of action  in 
the garage,
remove any adverse records they may have made to Mr Ds credit file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3626723