K821x#15Complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain HSBC UK Bank  Plc unfairly blocked access  to and then closed 
their joint current  account. They would like compensation for the distress and inconvenience  
this caused.
Background
Mr M and Mrs M were customers of HSBC for several years  and held a joint current account. 
This was in addition to several other accounts  Mr M held in his name only and accounts held 
in the names of limited companies, which  he had mandate over. 
In early March 2019 HSBC decided to review all the accounts Mr M held or had mandate  
over, including the joint account he held with Mrs M. It placed a block  on all the accounts  at 
the same  time, preventing  further  transactions and access to the funds  held in them.  Again, 
this included the joint account.
Mr M had complained to HSBC shortly after this. He said HSBCs actions and policy  were  
discriminatory and illegal, unfairly targeting him and his family because  of their nationality.  
HSBC said it had reviewed the accounts  in view of its sanctions policy, and it was entitled to 
restrict the accounts in line with its regulatory  and legal obligations and the account terms. 
Mr M and Mrs M brought their complaint to us in April 2019, so before  the review  of the joint 
account had been completed  and before it closed. They say HSBCs  actions  amount  to a 
serious crime and are not justifiable. 
While the complaint was with us, HSBC informed Mr M and Mrs M that it had completed its 
review of the joint account by letter, dated  15 August 2019. The letter  said the account would 
be closed and gave  two months  notice  to make alternative arrangements.  It also said         
Mr M and Mrs M could  transfer funds out of the account during this time.
HSBC closed the account on 21 October 2019. It transferred the balance to a savings 
account held by Mr M and then to a holding account. It has told our service  that on 
11 November 2019 it transferred the balance to an external account held by Mr M, who had 
been in contact to initiate  the transfer.
Mr M confirmed he eventually  received the balance from the joint account in April 2020 and 
not earlier.
Much of the financial loss Mr M has asked  us to consider is in relation to accounts  he held or 
had mandate  over in his name only. These  losses have been considered and answered  in 
the other complaints he brought to our service, so do not form part of my considerations in 
relation to deciding this complaint. So, Ive only considered  losses attributable  to the joint 
account. 
Mr M says Mrs M experienced embarrassment  having had a shopping transaction  refused in 
a supermarket in March  2019. And Mr M had to borrow money from his mother which  was 
deposited in a third-party banks account.  He says he and his family were also caused 
further embarrassment when his childrens  school told them  they were behind  on payments 
Ref: DRN39066722for their childrens lunches.  And generally,  theyve been unable to undertake the activities 
they normally wouldve  had the account not been blocked.
An investigator at our service considered Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint and thought it should 
be upheld in part. In summary they concluded the following:
-HSBC were entitled to review  activity on the account in relation to its sanctions  
policy. It has various legal  and regulatory obligations  it must meet  when providing 
accounts, which are ongoing, and it is generally understood a customers access to 
an account can be restricted  when  performing  a review.
-It wasnt clear  HSBC  were actively reviewing the joint account between  April 2019 
and June 2019. Although  HSBC had said reviews for different accounts may take 
different lengths  of time  an argument which had merit - it hadnt  provided  an 
adequate explanation  for apparently not doing much  about  the joint account until       
4 July 2019.
-Much  of the harm  Mr M and Mrs M had said theyd been caused was in relation to 
HSBCs initial decision to prevent access to the joint account.  As HSBCs actions 
were justified  in relation  to the obligations  it must  meet,  it wasnt reasonable to 
compensate Mr M and Mrs M for the trouble and upset this may have caused.
-Mr M revealed  they had access to money, albeit in the form of family borrowing. So, 
his family  did have some  funds during  this period. But its likely Mr M and Mrs M were  
caused inconvenience and distress for a three-month period which  was unnecessary  
and for which  they ought to be compensated. £100  was reasonable in these 
circumstances.
-HSBC had said the balance of the joint account was transferred to Mr M on             
11 November 2019. But considering  the three-month delay, its likely the transfer 
shouldve taken  place  earlier.  In view of this, eight percent interest per annum should 
be calculated on the account balance from 3 April 2019 until 4 July 2019. 
If, however,  the balance  wasnt  transferred  on the 11 November  2019,  then HSBC 
should also pay eight  percent simple  interest  on the balance up to the point  payment  
is made to Mr M and Mrs M.
Mr M and Mrs M strongly disagree  with the outcome reached by the investigator.  They  say 
HSBCs actions were illegal and a much  greater award of compensation is warranted. They  
also ask what laws and regulations enable HSBC to take the action it did.
HSBC did not provide  a response  to the investigators view.
Mr M and Mrs M have  asked for a final decision from an ombudsman  on this complaint.  As a 
result, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint in part, and for broadly similar reasons to those given by the 
investigator. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN39066723Our role
Mr M has said several times that HSBC have committed a crime and should be found 
criminally liable. I appreciate Mr M holds fast in his opinion  on this, so I think  its important to 
clarify what our role is in terms  of answering  the complaint he and Mrs M have brought to us.
Only a court of law can decide criminal  liability. We have no such  power; nor were  we set up 
to do so. We are set up as an informal alternative to the courts.  And as an ombudsman,  it is 
incumbent on me to decide on an outcome which Im satisfied is fair and reasonable in all 
the individual circumstances of a complaint. Part of this requires me to consider  relevant law, 
rules and regulations  and industry practice when reaching my decision. 
Its not possible for me to fine or penalise a business  for something  I consider its done 
wrong. This is the remit  of regulators,  who set many of the rules firms must follow  and who 
can monitor firms  conduct. The regulators  are the Financial Conduct Authority and the 
Prudential Regulation  Authority.
Instead, If I am upholding  a complaint,  I need to decide what represents fair and reasonable  
redress, which differs depending on what Ive decided a business shouldve  done differently 
and what losses their actions caused  to a complainant.
If Mr M would like to understand more  about  our role and remit, as opposed to the role of the 
courts, he may wish to review our website which details this further. He may also wish to 
consult the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP), which form part of the                             
Financial Conduct  Authoritys handbook. These  rules describe in detail the rules  our service 
must follow.
Could HSBC review  and restrict access to Mr M and Mrs Ms account?
HSBC has a wide variety of legal and regulatory  obligations it must  follow  when providing 
accounts to its customers. These obligations are ongoing and are not only relevant  to when 
an account is opened. In Mr M and Mrs Ms case,  HSBC informed them  they were reviewing 
the account in line with their sanctions policy.
Sanctions can be very broad  and relate  to countries,  individuals,  trade and transactions. 
HSBC is expected to take measures to comply  with current  sanctions, which  means it has 
extensive things  it needs to be aware of and monitor. Sanctions are also just one of the 
many things HSBC must take into account  to ensure its doing what it should.  And if it didnt 
review accounts and the activity taking place on them,  it could risk serious penalties. So, 
having a sanctions policy or other  policies  to mitigate against  potential risks isnt by itself 
wrong.
I understand Mr M and Mrs M want to know the exact reasons behind their account  being 
looked into. But I find that HSBC isnt under an obligation to disclose those reasons, so I 
wont be asking it to do so.
Mr M and Mrs M think HSBCs motives were discriminatory and based on their nationality. 
And I dont  doubt  they believe they were  targeted unfairly, or that they were  caused a great 
deal of upset and embarrassment.  And its true HSBC should ensure its reasons for taking  
any action arent discriminatory - the relevant legislation here being the Equality Act 2010, 
which HSBC should consider when  making decisions that affect  individual  customers. 
Ref: DRN39066724But, after considering the relevance  of the Equality Act 2010, alongside the importance of 
what HSBC needs  to do to ensure it complies with its obligations,  Im satisfied it restricting 
access to the account was for a legitimate purpose. And I dont find that purpose was based 
on Mr M and Mrs Ms nationality.
The length  of time the review took
Although HSBC is entitled to conduct a review, it should do so within  a reasonable period of 
time. Whats reasonable does depend on the individual circumstances of an account and the 
customer, but even  so, it should still ensure it doesnt cause unnecessary delays.
HSBC hasnt provided an explanation on what it was doing from the beginning of April 2019 
to the end of June  2019 when reviewing the joint account. And without an adequate 
explanation, Im left to conclude it ought  to have done more to review the account earlier  
than it did. Im satisfied had it acted earlier, the review wouldve  completed at an earlier  date 
and Mr M and Mrs M wouldve  had access to the balance  held in the account sooner.
When our investigator asked Mr M to detail the impact the delay had, his response centred 
more on the impact of the actual decision to restrict the account and the trouble and 
embarrassment this caused. But Im not awarding compensation based on a decision I find 
was legitimate, so I havent accounted for these losses.
I do however appreciate  that the length of time Mr M and Mrs M couldnt access their funds 
shouldve been  less, and to some  extent this wouldve avoided prolonging the inconvenience 
and worry they experienced.  So, on this basis, I direct HSBC to pay £100 in compensation - 
an amount I find reasonable given the circumstances Ive just discussed.
At the time of the investigators findings  HSBC had said the account balance  had been 
released to Mr M in November 2019.  But HSBC has now confirmed  the funds were only 
released more recently due to an administrative error on its part. 
The investigator accounted for the possibility that HSBC hadnt  paid Mr M when it said it had. 
In this case they found HSBC should continue to pay eight percent simple interest per 
annum on the balance  from 11 November 2019  until the time the funds  were  transferred. 
And, as its now clear the balance was transferred after 11 November  2019,  I also agree 
HSBC should  pay interest  up to the point the balance  was actually transferred.
The account  closure
HSBC gave notice  to Mr M and Mrs M that it would close their joint account  in August 2019. 
The letter gave them two months  to make alternative banking arrangements  in line with the 
account terms. I find this was an appropriate amount of time to open another account  if 
needed. 
I do note, however, that Mr M and Mrs M couldnt access  the account  during the notice  
period despite  what the letter said. In circumstances like this only certain account terms 
Ref: DRN39066725apply. But having  considered those  terms. I think they have been  reasonably  applied  when  
taking into account  the broader  circumstances of this complaint.
Putting things right
If it hasnt  already done so HSBC should pay Mr M and Mrs M:
- £100 for the inconvenience and upset it likely  caused by unnecessarily delaying the 
review of the joint account.
-8% simple interest per annum  on the account  balance between 3 April 2019 and 4 
July 2019
-8% simple interest per annum  on the balance from 11 November 2019 until the date 
the balance was actually transferred to Mr M and Mrs M.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided to uphold Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint. I direct  
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay redress in the form and manner Ive described in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 June  2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3906672