K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has turned down a claim he made on 
his home  emergency  policy.
Background
In October  2018, Mr P began to experience issues with the hot water in his home. So he got 
in touch with Aviva, which sent out one of its engineers. The engineer  replaced some  parts  
and said the issue  had been fixed.  A couple of weeks later,  Mr P experienced the same 
issue, so Aviva sent out another engineer. This time, the engineer  couldnt  find any problem.
A few days  later, Mr P called Aviva  again, as he said he didnt have any hot water.  An 
engineer came out and thought the water in the tank was too low. About a month on, another 
engineer looked at the heating system. This engineer thought the problems were down to 
the heating system not being  installed properly. A couple of days later,  a gas engineer came 
out and came to the same  conclusion. So Aviva  turned down Mr Ps claim.
Mr P wasnt  happy with Avivas decision and complained. Aviva suggested that Mr P could 
get his own independent  report about what was causing the issue and itd consider it. So Mr 
P asked  an independent  plumber to inspect his heating system. The plumbers report  said 
the pipework had been installed correctly.  Mr P sent this on to Aviva.
Aviva considered the report. It sent it on to one of its fieldwork specialists, who went  out and 
inspected Mr Ps heating  system.  He concluded that the issues were down to it not being  
installed correctly. So Aviva maintained its decision. But it agreed that the engineers whod 
first attended  Mr Ps home shouldve identified that the fault was down to faulty  installation  of 
the heating system. So it offered to pay Mr P compensation  of £120.
Mr P asked us to look into his complaint. He wasnt happy that Aviva had turned down his 
claim, given  what his independent  engineer  had said.  He said Aviva had agreed to pay him 
the cost of getting an independent report,  but had then refused to do so. And he said it 
hadnt paid him the compensation it had offered.
Our investigator didnt  think Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.  She acknowledged that Mr P 
did have a report from an independent engineer which contradicted  what  Aviva had said. But 
she noted that three separate  Aviva engineers had inspected Mr Ps boiler  and overall, she 
found its evidence  about the fault more persuasive. So she didnt think  the claim was 
covered by the policy terms.  She didnt think Aviva  had told Mr P the cost of the report  would 
be covered. And she felt £120 was fair compensation for the issues  Mr P had experienced. 
Mr P disagreed. He said his independent  plumber had stated the heating system was 
installed according to British Standards. He has a genuine problem with the pipework and 
cylinder. He said hed spoken to the company whichd installed the system and it said the 
problem was down  to wear and tear. He felt disappointed by Aviva.
So the complaints  been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN30306742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Aviva has handled  
Mr Ps claim fairly. Ill explain why.
Mr Ps policy  is a home emergency  policy, covering  emergency repairs if things break down. 
It isnt a contract of maintenance,  or designed  to cover general  wear and tear. So when Mr P 
called Aviva to tell it he was experiencing issues with his hot water,  Aviva  needed to look into 
what was happening and see if the fault was down to something covered by the policy. If it 
was, then Aviva would be responsible for putting the fault right.  
Two of Avivas engineers thought the issue was down  to the heating system not being 
installed properly. So Aviva decided  the claim wasnt covered  and Mr P would need to pay 
the costs of getting remedial works  done. But Mr P disagreed with Avivas  diagnosis. And I 
can understand why, given  other  Aviva engineers hadnt picked up on this potential fault 
when theyd been out to investigate the issues with his hot water. Aviva agreed at this point 
that Mr P could get an independent report to look into this issue. I think  this was a 
reasonable response.
Mr Ps independent plumber disagreed with Avivas  findings. I can see that Aviva 
reconsidered the claim based on this report and asked a specialist engineer to go and 
undertake a visit at Mr Ps home.  It appears that if the specialist had agreed  with the 
independent plumber, Aviva wouldve agreed to deal with the claim. But as the specialists 
findings supported  the previous finding that the installation had been faulty, it maintained  its 
position. So Ive looked at the evidence provided by both Aviva  and Mr Ps plumber.
Ive carefully considered  the information  Ive been  given about this claim, including Avivas  
notes and Mr Ps plumbers report. These  pieces of evidence  contradict each other,  so in 
making my decision, Ive had to weigh them up very carefully to see which I think is the most 
persuasive.
On the one hand, Mr Ps independent  plumber says: it was found  that the pipe work was 
installed correctly in accordance with appropriate  code of working practice I find the 
heating system has been installed  in a correct manor (sic) and find no issues with how the 
system has been installed. 
Based on this report, I can understand why Mr P thinks Aviva should pay his claim.  After all, 
he did what Aviva  suggested he should  do and paid for an inspection  of his heating system.
But I also have to consider the evidence Avivas provided. From the records, it looks  like Mr 
Ps heating  system was inspected by three separate engineers who all thought the fault was 
down to poor installation. The first of these engineers said: the only possible issue  I can see 
is that the vent pipe runs directly up from the hot water outlet on the cylinder, instead of 
being in a position where the hot feed drops to supply the taps. The second  engineer  said 
that the tank hadnt been correctly installed and would need to be moved.
The specialist engineers report says he removed the lagging  from the hot distribution pipe 
and found the pipe was running uphill in the wrong direction. He said this is incorrectly 
Ref: DRN30306743installed as air travels uphill and has nowhere  to go. He thought  that the vent pipe needed to 
be moved and the tank moved  up.
This report appears to tie-in with what Avivas other engineers found. And Ive also borne in 
mind that the specialist  engineers report said he took off the lagging to inspect the pipes. 
Given tape was on this lagging, the engineer didnt think any of the other engineers had 
taken the lagging off while inspecting the pipes, including  Mr Ps plumber. This suggests  to 
me that the specialist engineer undertook  a more detailed inspection of the heating  system 
than the other engineers.
Having considered the reports, overall,  Im more persuaded by Avivas  engineers  findings. I 
have to bear in mind  that three separate engineers identified  the same  issue. And it seems 
that Avivas specialist undertook detailed checks during his visit. So I think, on balance, its 
most likely that the fault with the hot water  was down to the heating system  being incorrectly  
installed.
So Ive carefully  looked at the terms of Mr Ps policy to see what it covers and what  it 
doesnt. The general exclusions of the policy lists things  that specifically arent covered. 
One of these says:
Systems/equipment/appliances that have not been  installedaccording to British  
standards.
Given the findings of Avivas  engineers,  I think it was fair for it to turn down Mr Ps claim. It 
seems the works needed to put the fault right arent emergency repair  works  and instead are 
remedial in nature.  So I dont think it needs  to pay for the works  to put things right.
Mr P says Aviva agreed to reimburse him for the cost of getting an independent report  and 
its now refused to pay this cost.  Ive thought carefully about this. But having looked  at 
Avivas records,  it seems  one of its agents  spoke to someone representing Mr P. The agent  
told the representative that Aviva  would refund the cost of an independent report  if it was 
found Aviva  had misdiagnosed the fault. 
Following receipt of the report and the engineers further inspection,  Aviva didnt think  it had 
made a misdiagnosis.  So it didnt agree to refund  the cost of the report. And as I agree Aviva  
most likely correctly identified the fault,  I dont think it needs to refund the cost of the 
independent report.
Aviva accepts the initial engineers who attended  Mr Ps home in October 2018 didnt pick up 
on the fact that the hot water problems were down to faulty  installation.  So it offered Mr P 
£120 as compensation for its service.  Ive thought about whether or not this was fair 
compensation for Mr Ps trouble and upset. 
Overall, I think it was. While I dont  doubt  that the issues  Mr Ps experienced have caused 
him inconvenience, I have to bear in mind  that he wasnt without hot water.  And theres  
nothing to suggest hes had the remedial works  done, so it seems hes able to put up with 
the hot water issues on a day to day basis. So I dont  think  Aviva needs  to increase its offer 
of compensation.
Mr P said Aviva hadnt paid the compensation to him. Its now open to him to get in touch 
with Aviva to accept it if he chooses  to.
Ref: DRN30306744my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Lisa Barham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3030674