K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  with their mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1993 Mr and Mrs W applied for a mortgage  during a branch meeting. At the same time 
they also took out PPI designed to protect their mortgage  payments in the event Mr W  the 
policy was in his sole name only  couldnt work because  of accident or sickness.
The policy cost £12 a month and it provided  a monthly benefit at the outset of £300.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  She said the information  indicated that 
Mr and Mrs W chose  to take out the cover and she didnt think the policy was mis-sold. But 
she did say that B&B had offered to pay back some of the cost of the policy  because  of the 
high commission it took.
Mr and Mrs W disagree with the adjudicator, so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided Mr and Mrs W havent lost out as a result of taking out PPI with their mortgage 
such that they should get back everything  they paid for the policy because:
I think B&B made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and that they 
chose to take it out  although I can understand, given how long ago the events in 
question happened, why they cant remember this.
B&B has provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage application  and I can see here 
there is a handwritten Yes in the section of the application which  asked if they wanted 
PPI. The application  didnt say or imply they had to have PPI. And Im also mindful that 
Mr and Mrs W chose  to take out accident  and sickness cover only and not 
unemployment as well, which suggests there  was a discussion  and a choice offered. 
Overall Ive not seen  enough to persuade me that PPI was presented  as anything other 
than optional.
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs W  Ive not seen enough evidence to 
suggest it did - so it didnt have  to check if it was right for Mr and Mrs W. But it did have 
to make sure they got the information  they needed to decide  if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. For example its not clear from what information  there  is available that 
the exact cost of the cover was disclosed before  they agreed  to take it out. But they 
chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover for Mr W. 
Ref: DRN38309282Based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time it doesnt look like Mr W was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put them off taking out the cover. 
This means B&B doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because : 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  it didnt tell Mr and 
Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, B&B has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs W and their representative have said - including  
what theyve said about Mr W being  in stable employment. But these points dont  change  my 
decision.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should pay back to Mr and Mrs W the extra  they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should also pay Mr and Mrs W 8%* simple interest on each payment 
(15% on payments before  April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  Ive decided that Mr and Mrs W havent lost out as a 
result of having PPI to the extent they should  get back  everything they paid for PPI.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  as Ive set out above.
I make  no other award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ref: DRN38309283ombudsman
Ref: DRN3830928