K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out at the end of 
2001 or the start of 2002. Mrs F and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) 
mis-sold the PPI.
background
The PPI was part of a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan, which can also include other types  of 
cover like critical illness and life cover.  Mrs F and Mrs Ms complaint is about the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Theres very little from the time of the sale to go on. But from what we know  of how Halifax  
normally sold PPI like Mrs F and Mrs Ms in meetings, I think  Halifax would normally  make  it 
clear PPI didnt have to be taken  and give customers like Mrs F and Mrs M a choice about  
taking it. Mrs F and Mrs M say this didnt happen in their case.  Theyve said they were  told 
they needed to take the PPI to get the mortgage.
Ive thought about this carefully.  But apart from Mrs F and Mrs Ms recollections,  I dont  have 
anything else to suggest that Halifax didnt  give a choice to Mrs F and Mrs M like I think it 
normally would. And Mrs F and Mrs Ms recollections are of an event that took place some 
years earlier.
Taking all this into account, on balance I havent seen enough to make  me think Halifax  
misled Mrs F and Mrs M about  having  to take the PPI. And I havent  enough to make me 
think that Halifax didnt  make it clear to Mrs F and Mrs M the PPI was optional or that 
Mrs F and Mrs M didnt  agree  to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs F and Mrs M, so it had to do more  and check the PPI 
was right for them. And based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time,  I think  
the PPI was right for them. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. And they seem  to have had a need  for the cover.
I say this taking into account  that the PPI was protection for Mrs F and Mrs Ms mortgage. 
The benefit  could  help at what could be a difficult  time if either Mrs F or Mrs M were too ill to 
work or unemployed.  And from what Mrs F and Mrs M have told us, they werent entitled to 
anything more than statutory pay if either  of them lost their job or was too sick to work. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs F and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But I cant  say they didnt  want this type of cover  because  I havent seen 
enough to make me think they didnt choose to take it out. And, for the reasons  Ive given 
above, it seems like the cover would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. 
Ref: DRN30222092Taking everything into account,  I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put 
Mrs F and Mrs M off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about all Mrs F and Mrs Ms points, including  what theyve said about  how they 
mightve still looked to buy PPI elsewhere  if Halifax hadnt misled  them.  But I havent seen 
enough to conclude that Halifax did mislead Mrs F and Mrs M. So, for the reasons Ive 
already given above, these points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mrs F and Mrs M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mrs F and Mrs M back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mrs F and Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3022209