K821x#15complaint
P, a limited  company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont  refund money  it lost as a 
result of fraud.
background
Ps director, Mr T, suspected  that someone  working  for P was fraudulently making  payments  
out of its account.  But as the suspected fraudster could monitor Fs emails, Mr T didnt want  
to email HSBC about the suspicions.  So he started calling and texting a mobile number the 
manager of a local branch had given him some years earlier.
After his suspicions about the fraud were confirmed,  Mr T sent a text message to the branch 
managers mobile number  on 26 March 2018,  asking that all online transfers from Ps 
account were stopped.  But HSBC  didnt respond  to the text or take any action as a result.  
And so the fraudster  was able to make  two further payments out of Ps account, for £3,000  
on 26 March 2018 and £4,000 on 27 March 2018. Mr T then went into a local HSBC branch  
on 28 March 2018 and a block was applied  to Ps account, stopping any further payments.
P complained that HSBC hadnt taken any action following Mr Ts text message and asked 
that HSBC refund the payments of £3,000 and £4,000.  HSBC  investigated but said P hadnt 
contacted it using one of its normal communication  channels and it hadnt agreed it would 
action any requests made by text. So it didnt agree to refund the payments. P wasnt  happy  
with HSBCs response, so referred its complaint to our service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  I recognise  that P didnt intend  for the fraudster to 
make payments in the way they did. But P had authorised the fraudster to make  payments 
from the account on its behalf. So I think both the payments  of £3,000  and £4,000 were 
authorised.
From the evidence Ive seen, its clear there was some communication  between  P and the 
branch manager  before  the text message Mr T sent asking that all online transfers  were  
stopped. Mr T sent text messages  to the branch managers mobile number about his 
suspicions of fraud.  And it appears the branch  manager called Mr T back  following a 
voicemail message  he left on that number, even  if they didnt reply  to any of the text 
messages directly. So I think HSBC gave  P the impression  this mobile number could  be 
used for communication, even if not to give instructions. And if it wanted to avoid giving this 
impression, it should have done  more  to explain to P that this wasnt  a reliable method  of 
communication and encouraged alternative  ones.
The text message asking that all online transfers  were stopped was sent early on the 
morning of 26 March  2018. But the branch  manager wasnt working  that day and it appears  
the mobile phone  Mr T had been  texting was turned  off. I dont think it was unreasonable  that 
HSBC hadnt told Mr T that the branch manager  wouldnt be working on that day. And as the 
phone was turned off, and so the text wasnt received, I dont think it would  be fair to say 
Ref: DRN36767822HSBC should  have been aware of Ps request or taken any action. So I dont think  it would  
be fair to ask HSBC  to refund  the first payment of £3,000, which  was taken on that day.
The branch  manager returned to work the following day, 27 March 2018. And I think  its likely 
the mobile phone  was turned on early  in that working day. So I think HSBC received the text 
and should have been aware of Ps request that all online transfers  were  stopped  from that 
point.
I accept there was no way for HSBC to verify  the identity  of the sender of the text message. 
And so I accept it couldnt have applied a block to Ps account solely on the basis of the text. 
But as I think it had given  P the impression the mobile number could be used for 
communication, and as the branch manager was aware of the possibility of fraud on the 
account, I dont  think  it was reasonable for HSBC to take no action after it received the text. I 
think its reasonable to expect HSBC to have contacted P in a way that would have allowed it 
to verify Mr T and then carry  out the instruction,  if necessary.  Or to tell P it would need to 
give the instruction  by another communication method. And as it didnt do this, I think its 
reasonable to hold HSBC partly responsible for the £4,000 payment that was made later that 
day.
However, the terms and conditions  of Ps account  say that HSBC can be contacted by one 
of several specific phone numbers, through its website and by post. And Mr T could also 
have gone into branch,  as he ultimately  did. So while I understand Mr Ts reluctance  to email 
HSBC about the issue,  and that hed had problems  with telephone banking in the past, there 
were a number of other ways P could have contacted HSBC to ask that all online transfers  
were stopped. And the mobile number of a branch  manager isnt one of the contact methods 
given. So I think P must bear some responsibility  for choosing to contact  HSBC  in this way, 
rather than by one of the given methods.
The text message Mr T sent to the branch  manager  also asked that the manager  let him 
know when online access had been stopped.  But the manager didnt respond.  And, despite  
not receiving a response, P didnt take any further  action for around two days. Given the 
seriousness of someone fraudulently making payments out of its account,  and the clear  risk 
that it could continue happening,  I think its reasonable to expect P to have  taken further 
steps to check the request had been  carried out or prevent the fraudster from accessing the 
account sooner  than it did. So I also think P must bear some  responsibility for not doing 
more to protect its account.
As I think  both Mr T and HSBC should  bear some responsibility, I think it would be fair for 
HSBC to refund 50% of the £4,000 payment,  so £2,000. And as F has now been without this 
money for some time, I also think HSBC should pay compensatory interest at the rate of 8% 
simple a year, from the time of the payment until the date it is refunded.
I also understand the person who made the payments has now been  found guilty of fraud  in 
court. And its possible any sentence they might receive could include an order to pay back  
some or all of the money that was taken from P. So I also think  it would be fair for HSBC, if it 
chooses, to require P to give an undertaking that it will return this redress to HSBC  if it is 
also recovered from the person who made  the payments.
Ref: DRN36767823my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct HSBC  UK Bank Plc to:
refund  £2,000 to F
pay 8% simple interest a year on that amount, calculated from the date of the original 
£4,000 payment to the date it is refunded
If it wishes, HSBC  UK Bank  Plc can also require F to give an undertaking that it will return 
this redress to HSBC  UK Bank Plc if the amount is also recovered from the person who 
made the payments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2021.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3676782