K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  that she didnt consent  to HSBC UK Bank Plc allowing her account  to go 
overdrawn after she bought something with her debit  card.  
background
Miss E has a basic  current account with HSBC. Theres no arranged overdraft on Miss Es 
account. Miss E placed an order with a retailer for £59 on 1 December 2018. Miss Es 
available balance reduced by £59 and she thought  that meant the retailer had collected the 
payment. A few days  later Miss Es available balance increased  by £59 and she assumed 
that meant  the order had been cancelled. Miss E transferred £30 to another account and 
spent some of the remaining funds  leaving  an available balance  of £6.67. 
The merchant collected the £59 payment and it left Miss Es account on 7 December 2018 
which put her account into an unarranged overdraft. 
Miss E complained but HSBC said that card payments  arent immediate and that it can 
approve an unarranged overdraft if there isnt enough money  available.  HSBC confirmed 
that Miss E hasnt been  charged for entering  an unarranged overdraft. 
Miss E referred her complaint to this service  and an adjudicator looked at what had 
happened. They thought  HSBC had correctly approved the payment and didnt ask it to do 
anything else to resolve Miss Es complaint. Miss E has asked  for her complaint to be 
appealed so its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss E has a basic  current account without an arranged overdraft and I understand why 
shes annoyed that shes now overdrawn.  But theres a difference between  an arranged  
overdraft and an unarranged overdraft. I agree that theres no arranged  overdraft facility in 
this case but the account terms do allow HSBC to approve an unarranged overdraft in 
certain situations, and thats whats happened  here. 
Section 21 of the account terms sets out how an unarranged overdraft works. It says;
Unarranged: where without you asking in advance we let you borrow  for a particular 
payment or to cover  an amount weve taken out of your account  (e.g. a charge).
Looking at the account terms, Im satisfied they allow HSBC to approve  a payment that 
creates an unarranged overdraft without  first getting the consent of the account  holder. 
Ref: DRN39037012HSBC has said that card payments arent immediate. In this case, it appears the retailer  
waited several days  before claiming the payment from HSBC. That meant  funds initially set 
aside to make the payment had been  released back to the account.  Given  the time between 
the purchase and the date the retailer claimed  the payment, Im satisfied thats fair. 
I agree  that the letter HSBC sent Miss E dated  11 December 2018 is confusing  as it refers to 
an arranged overdraft. But the letter explains that the account is overdrawn and asks Miss E 
to repay  the balance  which I think is reasonable. 
One of our key roles  is to ensure that consumers  dont lose out financially as a result of a 
mistake by a business. In this case, theres  been no financial  loss to Miss E. HSBC has 
confirmed no charges have been  applied for being  in an unarranged  overdraft  and Miss E 
appears to have received the item she purchased in December 2018. Given Miss E spent 
the £59 I think  its fair that HSBC ask her to repay it. I dont think  it would  be fair to tell HSBC 
to cover Miss Es payment of £59. 
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I havent  found HSBC made a mistake  when it approved 
the unarranged overdraft  for Miss E to make  the payment.  As I havent found any evidence 
of an error  by HSBC  and Im satisfied its dealt with Miss Es complaint fairly Im not telling it 
to take any further  action.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept  or reject my decision 
before 6 April 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3903701