K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance policy. They  are also concerned that Nationwide will not refund any 
commission it received from their premiums for the policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B bought the policy  when they took out a personal loan for home improvements 
in 2004. It was a single premium PPI policy, so the loan included  an amount to pay for the 
policy.
The policy would have paid Mr and Mrs Bs monthly loan repayments if Mr B was off sick 
from work until he returned to work or the loan was repaid in full. And if Mr B lost his job it 
would have paid the monthly loan repayments  for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
mis-sale
Nationwide had to let Mr and Mrs B know the policy was optional and it had to get their 
consent before it added PPI to their account. Nationwide  says it did this. But while 
Mr and Mrs B accept  that they agreed to take the policy, they say they were led to believe 
they had to have it in order to get the loan.
Nationwide has provided a copy of the loan agreement which sets out the cost of the PPI 
separately and describes  it as Optional Credit  Insurance.  Mr and Mrs B have confirmed that 
they agreed to take the policy and I think the wording on the agreement would have 
highlighted that it was an optional product. So I think Mr and Mrs B chose to take PPI at the 
time, although I appreciate that they might not remember  this given how long ago the sale 
took place.
Mr and Mrs B say that Nationwide recommended the policy to them, but Nationwide says it 
would not have. Mr and Mrs B havent given a detailed testimony  about  why they think  they 
were given advice  and based  on what I know about how Nationwide  sold PPI around this 
time  I dont think its likely Nationwide would have recommend  the policy.
Ref: DRN30259822That means it didnt  have to check whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, but it 
still had to give them enough information  so they could decide  whether or not it was right for 
them. Based on everything Ive seen, I dont think better information would have made  a 
difference to their decision to buy it. I say this because:
Mr B was eligible  for the policy.
It is possible Nationwide could have  given Mr and Mrs B clearer information about  
the terms and conditions of the policy, but Mr B doesnt appear  to have been affected 
by any of the things  that might have made it harder  for him to claim on the policy, 
such as having  a pre-existing medical  condition.
Mr B says he would  have received statutory sick pay and Mr and Mrs B both had 
some savings.  But I think the policy could have been  useful  to them  if Mr B was 
unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment because it would have 
paid out in addition to the statutory sick pay and potentially for longer.  And it would 
have meant that Mr and Mrs B would not need  to use their savings to make their 
repayments.
The policy was flexible, so Mr and Mrs B would have got back a pro rata refund of the 
PPI premium if they cancelled the policy early. I can see that they did cancel the 
policy early and a pro rata refund was applied to their new loan.
The cost of the policy was shown on the loan agreement  including  the amount of 
the premium, the interest payable on the premium  and the total cost. So I think  
Mr and Mrs B would have understood how much the PPI would cost if they kept the 
policy for its full term.
I havent seen  anything to show that the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B 
when they bought  it. And given how long the policy  could  have paid out for if Mr B 
made a successful claim  Mr and Mrs B could have got back quite a bit more  than 
they paid for it.
commission
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN30259823But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008.
Nationwide has given  me information  that shows Mr and Mrs Bs loan was taken out in 
April 2004 and ended in February 2007. So based on what  Ive said above, I dont think  the 
unfair relationship provisions in the Consumer  Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment,  or 
the rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission 
apply here.  So Nationwide  doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs B paid 
for the PPI they had with their loan.
I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed by the outcome. But for the reasons Ive explained,  
I dont think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because of anything Nationwide did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3025982