K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society allowed a payment of £952.21  to debit from 
his current account  without his authorisation. This left him without money to pay for food. 
background
On the 25 April 2018 a payment for £952.21  was debited from Mr Bs Nationwide  account  to 
a business Ill call A. Mr B authorised this payment.  
On the 28 April 2018 a second  payment for the same amount was debited  from Mr Bs 
Nationwide account  to A leaving  him in an unauthorised  overdraft of £939.25.  Mr B 
complained to Nationwide saying that he didnt consent to this payment  and why did they 
allow it to debit his account. 
On the 3 May 2018 Mr Bs account was credited with the £952.21  taking him out of the 
unauthorised overdraft. 
Mr B complained to Nationwide that theyd allowed the payment to be taken  when he had 
insufficient funds  and didnt consent to it. Nationwide explained that they hadnt made an 
error and the acquiring bank  acting  on behalf of A  had submitted the duplicate payment 
by mistake. 
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with Nationwides response  so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked at Mr Bs complaint and didnt think Nationwide  needed to do 
anymore. 
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion saying that Nationwides  actions affected him for 
over 6 days including difficulties with sleep, work and a lack of money. He further said that 
Nationwide didnt do anything  to get his money  back and it was only through  his actions  why 
the money was returned. 
As Mr B didnt agree  its been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons.
I understand Mr Bs frustration about being left without funds for 6 days   but I need  to 
consider whether Nationwide  were at fault in allowing  the duplicate  payment to be 
processed. And whether  they acted fairly in attempting to rectify the error. 
Ive seen a letter from A sent to Mr B which  explains there was a communication  error 
between their acquiring bank and Nationwide  which led to the payment being  requested  on 
two occasions.  Im satisfied that Mr B has made a number of payments to A in the past so I 
wouldnt expect Nationwide to find either  payment request suspicious. 
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide should  have blocked  the duplicate  payment but I 
dont think it would be fair for them to have done so. I think it might be reasonable  once the 
Ref: DRN39378132second payment  was requested  for Nationwide to have  been put on notice for any further  
requests from A within a short  timescale  for the same payment. But, I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable  to argue that at the point of the second duplicate request. Mr B has raised  
a separate point about Nationwide allowing the payment to be processed when he had 
insufficient funds   but Im not going to penalise Nationwide for this. Its for individual  banks 
to decide if they want  to provide consumers  with unauthorised overdrafts.  
So in conclusion I dont  think  Nationwide did anything wrong in allowing the payment to 
leave Mr Bs account. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Nationwide could have done more  in assisting Mr B to get 
his money back.  But I dont think  they could. The acquiring bank accepted responsibility for 
the error  and returned Mr Bs money  in 4 working days. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing  to Mr B but I wont  be asking Nationwide  to do 
anymore here. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3937813