K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)  refused to settle his claim for a theft of his 
vehicle after the keys to that vehicle had been  lost or stolen.
Background
Mr H had a motor insurance policy with AXA.
In March 2018 Mr H made a claim against his insurance policy  following the theft of his 
vehicle.
Mr H believed that he left his keys in the front door outside his home on the evening  before 
the theft. He kept his car key on the same bunch  of keys as his house key. He explained that 
he was disturbed in the early hours  of the morning by his vehicles hazard lights  going off on 
his driveway so he went to check it. He said it was at this point he realised he couldnt locate 
his keys.
When he went outside, he saw two males near his drive and phoned  the police to report  the 
fact that his keys were  missing. He said he was advised to block  his car with another vehicle 
to prevent it from being stolen. He didnt think this was practical because of the time of night 
though so he remained up for rest of the night watching it instead. 
In the early evening he drove his vehicle to the restaurant where  he worked and parked his 
car in the street immediately  outside. That evening his vehicle was stolen. Mr H explained 
that he saw the hazard lights of his car flash through the restaurant windows and went to 
check just as his car was being driven away. Mr H reported the theft to the police. The crime 
was recorded  and investigated  but the vehicle  wasnt recovered. The police told Mr H that 
nearby CCTV showed two unidentified  males  approach his car, get in it and drive  off.
AXA investigated the claim and refused to settle it. They explained  that his policy  document  
had an exclusion where the car keys were left unsecured or unattended. Also that the policy 
excluded claims where  a policyholder didnt take reasonable steps  to protect  their car from 
theft. AXA argued that both exclusions applied to Mr Hs claim.
Mr H didnt think that AXA had treated  his claim fairly and brought  the matter to us.
Our investigator looked into the circumstances of the complaint and formed  the view that 
AXA had applied the terms of Mr Hs policy in a fair way, so didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr H was unhappy with the outcome and the matter has been  referred  for an ombudsman  
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H provided  a comprehensive account  of the events leading  up to the theft of his vehicle. 
He reported the matter  to the police  who recorded  and investigated the crime. There  is clear  
evidence that Mr H was the unfortunate victim  of a theft.
Ref: DRN34415882Mr Hs insurance  policy  with AXA covered him for theft,  so he was justified in making a claim 
against his policy.  It was also fair of AXA to investigate the circumstances of his claim. 
Having provided  evidence that he was a victim of theft, AXA should have settled Mr Hs 
claim unless  they could show that one of the exclusions  in the policy  terms applied.
AXA relied on two exclusions in Mr Hs insurance  policy that both relate  to conditions 
designed to reduce the risk of loss:
The first was a condition that excluded a claim for loss or damage caused by theftif 
the keys to your car are left unsecured  or unattended, or are left in or on your car whilst  it 
is unattended.  The wording of this term is broader than just excluding keys that are left 
in a vehicle. It only requires keys being  left unsecure or unattended. Mr H was clear from 
the outset that he believed  hed lost his keys, believing he had accidentally  left them  in 
his front door lock. Therefore I think it was fair for AXA to accept that was probably what  
happened. This was a simple and innocent mistake on the part of Mr H, but Im satisfied 
that AXA could  reasonably say that Mr H had left his keys both unsecured and 
unattended prior to the theft.  
The second condition  said that You must take all reasonable steps to protect your car 
and its contents  from loss or damage. AXA argued  that he should have taken 
reasonable steps to secure his vehicle when he was aware that a key had been stolen. I 
think that this links in with the first exclusion as I will explain.
Insurers cant reject claims  in reliance on policy terms where  a breach of those terms is 
unrelated to the claim. Therefore Ive looked  closely at the circumstances of the theft of 
Mr Hs car.
I understand that cars can be stolen without  the use of keys,  but I think its reasonable to say 
that losing  or having car keys stolen increases the chances that a car itself may be stolen. 
Mr H was sufficiently aware  of the risk to his car to report  the loss of his keys to the police 
straight away. He explained  that he was advised  by the police to physically block the vehicle 
with another car. He explained why he didnt do that straight away  due to the unreasonable  
hour, but not why he didnt do it later in the day.
The car was stolen later the same day, less than a mile from where  the keys were lost. 
There are times when moving  a vehicle to a different or more secure location may be a 
reasonable way to reduce  the risk of theft where keys are lost. What  is important  is whether  
moving the car made  it unlikely that a person with the key would be able to find it. On 
balance though, I dont think that the location the vehicle was stolen from was sufficiently far 
from where the keys were  taken, nor was the location sufficiently unconnected  to Mr H. He 
had owned the vehicle  since  2010  and worked at the same  place for all that time. Also,  as a 
location, the place it was parked provided  no security or barrier to theft. 
Mr H didnt claim that he took the vehicle there  to make it safer, and it seems that he was at 
that location to work as normal. On balance,  I think it was reasonable for AXA to decide that 
the loss of the keys made the theft more likely  given  the way the theft occurred. I therefore 
think it was reasonable  of AXA to apply the first exclusion regarding leaving the keys 
unsecured. AXAs decision, that Mr H didnt  do enough to protect his car from theft,  was also 
reasonable in these  circumstances. So I think it was reasonable of AXA to apply the second  
exclusion too.
Ref: DRN34415883I know that this will not be the outcome that Mr H wanted. I am sorry that he has been the 
victim of a crime which has left him without his car in circumstances where he is unable  to 
claim for his loss. For the above reasons though, I believe  that AXAs decision to exclude  
this claim was in line with the exclusions  in the terms of the policy. I believe  that the terms of 
the policy were clear and the way that they have been applied were fair and reasonable 
given the facts of this case.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  my decision is not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3441588