K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains about PFPtime Ltd (PFP). She has concerns about advice PFP provided  
to her late husband Mr S in 2011  and 2012.  She doesnt think it was suitable.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 11 March 2019. Ive recapped  the background below:
Mr S had two pensions which Ill refer to as Pension  W and Pension F. These were
Personal Pension Plans (PPPs).
In December  2010 and January 2011  Mr S met with PFP. A Personal Financial 
Questionnaire was completed. On 17 January 2011 PFP sent Mr S its recommendation. 
The Questionnaire and PFPs recommendation captured the following:
Mr S was 63 years  old and married  with no dependent  children
Mr S suffered  from raised cholesterol and high blood pressure
Mr S was employed as an electrician earning £28,000 per annum
Mr S had £3,000  in savings and no loans. He also jointly owned a mortgage  free 
property worth £220,000 with his wife
Mr Ss total pension provision was worth £87,758 and his pensions were both 
paid up with no further contributions being  made to them
Mr S had been a member of an Occupational  Pension Scheme (OPS) but his 
employer had gone into liquidation and hed lost his job. Hed found temporary 
work but wasnt certain how long this would continue so he wanted to look at the 
retirement options available to him
although he had health problems Mr S wanted to continue to work in some capacity 
for as long as possible
hed choose  to retire  at age 70
Mr S wanted to take Tax Free Cash (TFC)  at the time and understood that to do so 
hes have to exercise the open  market  option (OMO)
Mr S did not need  pension income  at present so it was agreed that any new 
income should  be applied as a gross monthly  premium to a further  personal  
pension plan to age 70
Overall PFP advised Mr S to take the TFC available from Pension  W and Pension F and 
purchase an enhanced annuity on the open  market. Enhanced annuities werent available 
with Pension W or Pension  Fs Providers.
Mr S went  ahead with PFPs  recommendation. Delays  were experienced purchasing an 
annuity with Pension  Ws funds because the money was coming  from an OPS. The benefits 
that were purchased/ultimately secured were as follows:
Date Source of 
fundsFund value
Annuity purchase 
price TFC Annual annuity
Spouses annuity per 
annum
£16,026.72 (Protected Rights)
£4,622.04 £1,044.60 £552.30 28 January 
2011Pension F
£1,406.26 (Non 
Protected Rights)£405.56 £99.36 N/A
6 June 
2011Pension W £67,487.57(Non Protected Rights)
£16,461 £5,139.72 N/A
17 July 
2012Pension W £3,198.07(Protected Rights) 
N/A £148.56 N/A
Ref: DRN35620632The benefits  secured were  combined  and used  to purchase an enhanced annuity  with a 
pension provider Ill refer to as Provider J.
As Mr S didnt require  any income at the time it was agreed that a PPP would  be set up with 
a Pension Provider  Ill refer to as Provider A, to which his newly generated annuity income 
would be contributed to. The selected retirement age of this PPP was 70.
Mr S met with PFP again in September 2012. The report prepared at the time captured  
much of what was covered in the 2010/2011 meetings  with the addition  of the following 
information and slight changes:
Mr S intended to work fewer hours from his 65th birthday and wanted  to look at his 
options for drawing  pension benefits from his PPP with Provider A
Mr S wanted to activate all his pension arrangements whilst his health  enabled  him to 
still enjoy the benefits
Mr S would be turning  65 the  day after the meeting
Mr Ss wife hadnt been  present  at the meeting with PFP but Mr S was happy  to 
proceed in her absence  as hed explained  the options available to her
Mr S was still employed as an electrician  and expected his gross annual  earnings  to 
be £14,000 
Mr S was currently receiving an annuity  from Provider J that provided £6,432.24 per 
annum. And from his 65th birthday hed take his state pension 
Mr Ss total liabilities were £0 and didnt have anyone who was financially dependent  
on him. He had £5,000 set aside as an emergency fund
Mr S had no Will
Mr S required the maximum TFC and where possible and the maximum income from 
the residual fund
Mr S didnt  require a spouses pension for Mrs S as there was already sufficient 
provision in place  for her
Mr Ss pension  with Provider  A had a selected retirement age of 70 but as he was 
due to turn 65 the following day he wanted  to take the benefits available under his 
plan. Because  of Mr Ss health Provider  A (which was receiving Mr Ss Provider J 
annuity income) was prepared to offer him an enhanced annuity.  However  PFP 
recommended Mr S exercise the open market option and take an enhanced annuity 
with Provider J as it provided  an increase  of 5% over Provider A 
Mr S went  ahead with PFPs  recommendation and took out an enhanced annuity  with
Provider J. This annuity provided an annual annuity  of £348.48 and no provision for a
spouses pension.
Sadly Mr S passed away in 2016 at age 69. Following this Mrs S contacted Provider  J to 
enquire about the income shed be entitled  to under her late husbands pensions. Provider J 
confirmed what Mrs S would be receiving (£45.53 per month). Mrs S was shocked by what  
she was told so she contacted PFP as her late husbands advisers to complain. She said 
she felt the advice Mr S had been  given was misleading and explained shed expected  to 
receive 50% of all of Mr Ss pension provision. Mrs S said she didnt think  her late husband  
fully understood  what hed agreed to.
PFP sent its final response  to Mrs Ss complaint on 19 June 2017. In summary  it said:
Ref: DRN35620633based on the available documentation  it wasnt able to uphold her complaint
it was satisfied that in 2011 Mr S elected  to proceed with only the Protected Rights 
portion of one his pension funds securing a spouses benefit for Mrs S.
Provider J had confirmed the basis  of Mr Ss annuity directly  with him which gave him 
the opportunity  to query the matter if anything was wrong
the 2012 suitability report confirmed Mr S didnt choose to make provision for a 
spouses annuity as Mrs S already  had sufficient pension  provision in her own name
the illustration provided to Mr S in 2012   clearly stated there was no spouses  annuity
one of Mr Ss stated objectives in 2012 was to generate the maximum income. If hed 
chosen to include  a spouses  annuity  this would have reduced his annuity  income
the basis of the annuity Mr S selected  was clearly disclosed to him at the application 
stage and when  the annuity  commenced
Unhappy with PFPs response Mrs S referred  her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
he thought  the complaint should be upheld
he didnt think the advice PFP provided to Mr S in 2011  was suitable as there  was 
nothing to suggest he required any income at the time. He said this was supported  by 
the fact that the proceeds of the 2011 transaction were placed in savings  and 
reinvested back into a new pension with Provider A
at the time of the 2011 advice Mr S was around 63 years  old and didnt plan to retire  
until he was 70. The annuities Mr S purchased in January 2011 had guarantee 
periods for five years. If Mr S had planned  to retire at 70 as hed originally  intended, 
the guarantee of annuities he purchased wouldve  expired before he actually needed 
the income
he didnt think enough was done  to make Mr S aware of the fact that he was 
purchasing single life annuities or of what would happen to his annuity income in the 
event of his death
he couldnt see that there were any illustrations Mr S was shown to outline his 
different annuity  options
he thought  that in light of Mr Ss health it was likely that he would have taken the 
option to purchase  an annuity that offered a spouses benefit
he didnt think the advice provided to Mr S was suitable. There  was no need for him 
to take benefits  in 2011 and if the correct advice had been given he thought it was 
most likely that Mr S wouldve taken pension  advice in September  2012 when he 
planned to retire. The advice shouldve also included what wouldve happened in the 
event of his death
a loss calculation  would need  to be carried out to establish what  needed  to be done  
to put matters right. Once the required information had been gathered hed make  the 
involved parties aware
Mrs S agreed with our investigator.
PFP responded and said Mrs Ss complaint seemed to have changed from what  it 
addressed originally in its final response  letter. It asked for time to reconsider and respond to 
Mrs Ss complaint as it now stood.  This request was granted.
PFP later provided its full response  to Mrs Ss complaint. In summary it said:
Ref: DRN35620634it accepted  its file didnt show thered been research for a spouses annuity,  or 
contain notes  of all meetings  and conversations. But it did think a number of details 
suggested, on balance,  that Mr S wished to take his pension  benefits before he 
turned age 70 and that PFP did discuss the possibility of providing  a spouses benefit 
for Mrs S
only one of Mr Ss original pension arrangements  had a retirement  age of 70. The 
others had retirement ages of 65
as Mr S was a manual worker, working as an electrician and his state pension 
became available at age 65 it was felt it was likely hed originally been  planning  to 
retire at age 64
the 2011 fact find didnt  display  all the notes captured on its back office system. 
Unfortunately it couldnt access this system  anymore. However the notes visible on 
the fact find evidence that it wasnt  PFP that instigated  Mr S to access benefits at age 
63 but his uncertain employment situation.  Mr S had reasonable personal grounds  to 
access benefits before age 65
it wasnt unreasonable to conclude that Mr S wished to access  his tax free cash 
(TFC) because  of the uncertainty of his situation
the 2011 suitability report was clear  about  the basis on which the new plan had been 
set up
the 2012 suitability report said Mr S had said Mrs S had sufficient pension provision 
of her own  and there were no reason for PFP to doubt  Mr Ss assertions  regarding 
this
while the 2012 suitability report didnt specifically state  that the annuity would cease 
to be paid on death or the 5th anniversary,  whichever is later, it did state it was a 
single life annuity
it felt Mr S made  a conscious decision not to provide a spouses benefit  in the 
knowledge the annuity income  would cease on his death
Our investigator responded to PFP and said his view remained the same.  He said he still 
didnt think Mr S had been given appropriate advice in 2011  and 2012.  Having gathered  the 
information required to establish how redress needed to be calculated our investigator  wrote 
to Mrs S on 20 August  to outline this. Mrs S agreed  however  because  PFP didnt the matter 
was passed to me for a final decision.
Because no agreement could be reached the matter was passed to me for a decision.  
And my provisional findings were as follows:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to uphold  
Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while  Ive taken 
note of the extensive arguments and points raised, I have limited my response to the issue I 
consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say, whether the advice  PFP gave the late 
Mr S was suitable.
Ive carefully considered  the advice PFP gave Mr S. Mrs S is concerned with the advice her 
late husband received because the pension choices Mr S made  following this didnt include 
the spouses provision she expected would be in place for her upon Mr S passing  away. 
It doesnt automatically follow that just because Mr S was married, the single life annuity 
policies PFP advised Mr S to take out were unsuitable. There  are other factors I also have to 
consider to determine whether the advice was suitable.
Ref: DRN35620635Mrs Ss initial complaint was prompted by her financial position following Mr Ss death. 
However Ive looked at the suitability of the advice Mr S received as a whole and not just 
from the perspective of what provision  was made  for Mrs S.  
the advice in 2011
Overall Im not persuaded  there were sufficient grounds to justify  the advice PFP gave  Mr S 
in 2011 to take pension  benefits. I say this for a number  of reasons:
1.Mr S was 63 years old at the time of the advice and PFPs documentation confirms  
that from discussions with Mr S it was established that where possible he had no 
immediate plans  to formally or fully retire any time soon. Mr S was keen to continue  
working in some  capacity.  And although hed lost his job with his former employer he 
had found temporary work. 
PFPs notes  do say Mr S wanted to look at the retirement options available to him but 
not because he needed to take retirement benefits  immediately. Indeed under the 
heading At what age would you choose to retire? on the Personal Financial 
Questionnaire PFP completed Mr S at the time, the age noted down for this is 70 
years old. Its also worth  noting Mr S wasnt  due to begin receiving his State Pension 
until he reached age 65.
So on the basis of circumstances  surrounding  age I dont think  it can be said that it 
was appropriate  advice that Mr S take retirement benefits from his existing pensions 
in 2011. He had no need for any additional income as he had no intention  to stop 
working, he hadnt reached  state  retirement age and was also some years off the age 
at which  he personally  thought he wanted to retire
2.From  the information PFP gathered its clear Mr S had no loans or any other  
significant forms of debt in 2011. There was therefore nothing  in this respect which 
would have warranted a critical need  by Mr S for the tax free cash (TFC) or regular 
annuity that could be secured by taking  pension benefits at this time.
Mr S jointly owned the home he shared with his wife outright and was mortgage free. 
Mr S did have nominal savings. However  based on Mr Ss overall circumstances, 
including the fact he was still working, I cant see that there were any immediate 
financial needs or requirements  identified which wouldve meant  taking pension  
benefits in 2011 was a necessity. Indeed PFPs  own recommendation letter  said, 
you do not need  pension  income at present ()
 
3.Mr S acknowledged  he had health problems  in 2011-specifically raised cholesterol 
and high blood pressure. However  these health conditions werent so bad that he felt 
he needed to stop or reduce his work. This again  indicates  to me that Mr S had no 
burning need  because of his health to take pension benefits at that time
4.Mr S was a standard retail investor and his PPPs formed  a major part of his future 
retirement provision.  I havent seen anything to suggest Mr S had the knowledge or 
experience to assess or fully appreciate the impact of taking benefits from his PPPs  
Ref: DRN35620636in 2011. Especially not in the way PFP advised him to. Mr S was wholly  reliant on the 
financial advice PFP provided  him with.
As his advisers it was PFPs responsibility and duty at the time to ensure Mr S was 
adequately informed about  what all of his options at the time were  and what the 
effects of his choices  would  be if he went ahead  with any of these. From the available  
evidence Im not persuaded it did this. 
I dont think that Mr S wouldve agreed to take benefits from his PPPs  in accordance  
with PFPs 2011 advice  if hed sufficiently understood what  this meant. 
Im mindful that retirement plannings primary  focus  should be a consumers personal 
circumstances with a view to putting  them in the best possible position at retirement, 
with the appropriate provision in place long-term. I dont  think  PFP gave sufficient 
regard to this when it advised Mr S.
Taking all of the above into account I dont think PFPs advice  to Mr S to take pension 
benefits in 2011 was appropriate. In addition to this Im not satisfied PFPs recommendation 
regarding how Mr S should take benefits was reasonable  in the circumstances either. 
the options Mr S was presented with
Based on what Ive seen  and as Ive mentioned above I dont think  PFP did all it shouldve to 
ensure Mr S was fully aware of the retirement options available  to him. Specifically Im 
unable to conclude  PFP clearly outlined to Mr S what the differences would be if he 
purchased a single life annuity or as opposed to a joint life annuity.  Or even  what exactly 
would happen  in both circumstances to his benefits in the event of his death.
I havent seen  anything which shows or even  indicates that these things  were  discussed with 
Mr S. Theres nothing  in PFPs  notes,  research or illustrations which points to this.
PFP seems to accept  its failings in this respect when in its submissions to this service it says 
() we accept the file does not contain  research for a joint life annuity. However PFP has 
also sought to explain/defend the apparent omissions saying:
The record keeping standards of advisers today  is much better than it was in 2011/12 ().
I dont think PFPs reasoning is sound.  Given the passage of time I dont necessarily expect 
PFP to have copies/records of all meetings and conversations that took place with Mr S in 
2011. But I would expect PFPs  2011 recommendation letter at the very least  to have made  
reference to joint life annuities and death/spouses benefits if this was something  that was 
covered with Mr S at the time. And especially  if it was discounted  for certain  reasons. The 
absence of these  things from PFPs records suggests to me they werent  discussed  at all 
with Mr S. 
Whilst the 2011 application forms completed by Mr S had a section headed Dependant 
which included no details  underneath it, I dont think it necessarily follows that Mr S was 
aware what this was or that he could include this option. I accept it was possible that Mr S 
may have  seen the wording about a spouses  pension on the application form. He may or 
may not have known  its significance. But I dont think the onus was on Mr S to have spotted 
it may have  been  an option  he wasnt the expert  in the matter. It was PFP that was obliged 
Ref: DRN35620637to provide Mr S with sufficient and clear  information to enable  him to make  an informed 
decision. On the evidence  thats  been presented, I dont think PFP fulfilled its obligations.
I also think the illustrations/quotations  PFP generated couldve caused some confusion  as 
several of them list Mrs S as a Dependant but the quotes dont outline what  benefits Mr S 
would secure if provision was made for her under his pensions.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys view on annuity  sales practices is that the primary 
purpose of all customer communications  is to help the customer  understand the decisions he 
or she will make, and to support him or her through the retirement process. But PFPs letters 
and documentation  dont  in my view meet this standard. 
PFP feels it did enough to make  Mr S aware of the nature  of single life annuities and what 
would happen  to any income  from these  upon  his death. It also says that as Mr Ss objective 
was to access TFC and obtain the maximum  income  possible in 2011 his only way of doing 
this was to take an annuity without a spouses benefit or any guarantee period. But as Ive 
already said I dont think theres  anything to show Mr S wanted or needed income from his 
pensions at the time. And if as PFP says it was Mr Ss objective  to secure the largest  
possible income then its unclear  to me why it then advised him to take annuities  with 
guarantee periods. PFP seems to be contradicting itself here.
The annuities purchased in 2011 came with guarantee periods of five years,  however Mr S 
was 63 at the time and didnt intend to retire until age 70 (if not later)  so I cant see that he 
wouldve benefited from these. The guarantees wouldve expired before he needed the 
income. Nevertheless I dont think this is pertinent because  my view is that Mr S didnt need 
and shouldnt have  been advised  to purchase  an annuity (or take his TFC)  at the time in any 
event. 
Ultimately Mr S accepted  PFPs recommendation in 2011 and took benefits from his 
pensions. TFC was taken  and single life annuities were purchased. As PFPs documentation 
from the time confirms,  Mrs S has also said Mr S didnt need  any extra income  at the time so 
the TFC he received was simply  put into savings. I think the fact that PFP recommended  
Mr S put his regular annuity income into a new PPP with Provider A reinforces the fact that 
there was no need for Mr S to take pension benefits  at the time and that it was inappropriate 
advice to recommend  he do so.
I find it strange that while PFPs recommendation on the one hand says Mr S had no 
immediate requirement  for income at the time that it also says its advice is based on Mr Ss 
need for the maximum  pension available under the open market option.  This doesnt make 
sense to me. It seems  to me that PFP recognised  that the money generated from taking 
pension benefits  in 2011 wasnt needed  by Mr S. Especially given what  it recommended  
Mr S do with the proceeds. 
Mrs S has confirmed  that the TFC her husband  received  from following  PFPs advice was 
simply placed in a savings account as it wasnt needed. 
Turning now to what I think should have or would have happened if Mr S had been advised 
appropriately in 2011. 
Overall as Ive said I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr S had any intention or need to 
take benefits in 2011.  Indeed  the available evidence confirms that because of Mr Ss 
personal circumstances he had no need,  compelling  or otherwise to take benefits at the time 
Ref: DRN35620638at all. Because of this I cant reasonably say that the advice PFP gave Mr S in 2011 to take 
benefits was appropriate. And I dont think Mr S wouldve  taken benefits from his pensions at 
this time if hed been sufficiently aware  of his options and been given appropriate advice. I 
think Mr S would have kept his pensions invested where they were.
By late 2012 however Mr Ss circumstances had changed. He was due to turn 65 the day 
after he had his 2012 meeting with PFP and so would begin  receiving his state pension. 
PFPs documentation confirmed Mr S had decided to work less hours and wanted to take 
retirement benefits from his pension while  his health still enabled him to enjoy this. 
Its also worth noting that between 2011  and 2012  Mr Ss annual  income almost halved, 
presumably as a result of his declining health  and due to working  less. I think these 
circumstances wouldve meant Mr S wouldve more likely than not chosen to take retirement 
benefits from his pensions at this stage.  Indeed  he did elect to do this in 2012.  However  I 
think the benefits Mr S wouldve secured in 2012 wouldve been different to those he did 
were it not for the poor advice he received in 2011.
PFPs notes  confirm that at the time of its advice  in 2012 Mr S had no Will in place.  As there  
was no formal provision  in place in the event of Mr Ss death I think it wouldve been  
appropriate for PFP to have recommended Mr S purchase an enhanced annuity. And given 
that PFP did at the time recommend Mr S later purchase an enhanced annuity (albeit on a 
single life basis) I think its reasonable to expect PFP to have recommended he take out an 
enhanced annuity on a joint life basis in 2012.  
I acknowledge that PFPs  2012 recommendation makes reference  to Mrs S and says Mr S 
didnt require a spouses pension for his wife as there was already sufficient provision in 
place for her and that the options available had been explained  by him to her. However I 
dont think this is enough to say Mr S wouldnt have chosen to purchase a joint life annuity or 
that it wasnt reasonable to expect PFP to recommend one. I accept that PFP was entitled to 
rely on the information Mr S provided it with but I also think PFP had a duty given Mr Ss 
circumstances and lack of pensions knowledge  and experience to have  clearly  outlined the 
impact, pros and cons of single life annuities and joint life annuities.  And as Ive already said, 
I dont think PFP did this. Had PFP been  done  so I think Mr S wouldve selected  a joint life 
annuity on an enhanced basis which wouldve ensured his wife would  be taken care of in the 
event he passed  away. I dont think it was enough  for PFP to simply rely on Mr S having said 
he spoke to his wife. Im not persuaded sufficient weight of evidence  has been provided   to 
conclude Mr S was reasonably aware of his options (including a spouses pension) to such  
an extent that hed be in a position  to have an informed discussion with his wife about  it and 
make the decision not to make any provision for her under his pensions.
Given Mr Ss circumstances at the time that he took benefits in 2012, I think  its more likely 
than not that he would have opted to provide for his wife on his death. A fair and reasonable 
outcome would be for PFP to put Mrs S, as far as possible, into the position she would now 
be in but for the unsuitable  advice  her late husband Mr S received.
I also consider that PFP should pay Mrs S £300  compensation for trouble  and upset caused  
by whats happened. As a result of the inappropriate advice PFP provided  to Mr S husband, 
Mrs S has been caused avoidable concern and significant distress.  She was initially  led to 
believe the retirement provision available her under her late husbands pensions was 
significantly less than she expected. Understandably  she was very worried  about this. I think  
£300 in addition to redress Ive outlined  below fairly  reflects  appropriate compensation for 
what has happened.
Ref: DRN35620639what PFP must do to put things right
My aim is to put Mrs S in the position  shed  be in now if her husband, Mr S had been  given 
suitable advice  in 2010. As Ive explained, essentially I think  the right advice in 2010 
wouldve been for Mr S to do nothing  he didnt need his TFC and he didnt need to buy the 
annuity. But by 2012 things had changed  Mr S wasnt  working  as much and so he wanted 
to access his pension  benefits. He took an enhanced annuity due to his health conditions. 
So as a first step we need to compare  the TFC Mr S got in 2011 with what he would have  
got if hed left his pensions  where  they were until 2012. Where  theres  a loss this loss needs 
to be paid plus interest up to the date of payment. 
The income position is more complicated but again it means looking at the income Mr S 
received with what he would have received if hed waited a year and on the basis  that he 
then bought a joint life annuity on an enhanced basis  and not the single life enhanced  
annuity he did purchase.
To clarify further:
to establish what  if any loss of TFC PFP will need to
compare the sum of all TFC Mr S actually received from January 2011 to the date 
compensation is paid;
with
the sum of all TFC Mr S would have  received from September 2012 to the date 
compensation is paid had suitable advice been given.
From the information we have it appears  that Mr S would've received £6020.79 in TFC from 
Pension F and £23250.65 from Pension  W. Please note the Provider for Pension F hasnt 
been able to provide a notional fund value  for if Mr S hadnt done  anything until 2012 so in 
the absence of this weve  used a 50/50 benchmark.
Ive chosen this benchmark  because:
Mr S wanted capital growth  with a small risk to his capital. The average  rate for 
the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who wanted to achieve  
a reasonable return without  risk to his capital
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, 
the FTSE WMA  Stock  Market  Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government  bonds. 
Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a 
higher return
I consider that Mr S's risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives.  So, the 
50/50 combination  would  reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean 
that Mr S would have  invested 50% of his money  in a fixed  rate bond and 50% in 
some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
Ref: DRN356206310compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr S could have  obtained from 
investments suited to his objective and risk attitude. 
to establish what  if any loss of past income PFP will need to
compare the sum of all net of tax pension  income Mr S actually received from 
January 2011  to the date compensation  is paid
with
the sum of all net of tax pension income Mr and Mrs S would have received from 
September 2012 to the date compensation is paid had suitable  advice been given
When making the comparison of TFC and past income interest should be added to the 
amounts at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date each amount was or should have 
been made to the date compensation is actually paid.
to establish what  if any loss of future income PFP will need to
arrange an annuity (or annuities)  for Mrs S that reflects  the 50% spousal 
provision she should be receiving based  on everything being set up in September 
2012 (details below in italics). This is to start at the date any compensation is 
paid
Provider J have advised that a 50% spousal pension with a five year guarantee period using 
the pension pots of September  2012 of £69751.98 and £18062.39 would've  provided an 
annuity of £4507.92 gross per annum
If there is an overall gain after looking at past income and tax free cash then this can be 
used to offset the purchase price of the annuity  for redress  purchases
I hope the above has been helpful  in clarifying  the basis  on which I intend to direct  PFP to 
pay appropriate compensation  for what happened.
I invited Mrs S and PFP to comment on my provisional decision. 
Mrs S responded and in summary said:
she was grateful for the time and detail given  to the complaint
there was little more  for her to add other  than to reiterate that had the late Mr S 
been given all the relevant information  in 2010/2011 she was confident Mr S 
wouldnt have taken  the actions or made  the choices he did at the time
she was certain Mr S wouldnt have made a decision  which would lead to her 
being in a worse  situation
while she appreciated this was a complex matter, the last two years had been 
very distressing  so she looked  forward to this coming to an acceptable end
she agreed with my provisional decision
PFP responded but didnt  provide any further evidence  or submissions.
Ref: DRN356206311my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, my decision remains  
the same  as before (and as set out above).  That means Im upholding Mrs S complaint for 
the reasons Ive given. 
As PFP has not provided any further arguments,  despite a number of requests and 
extensions to deadlines for its response, I see no reason to alter the conclusions I 
reached in my provisional decision  on 11 March 2019.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve this matter  I order 
PFPtime Ltd to pay Mrs S the redress due as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019. 
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3562063