K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Provisional Marmalade Limited (Marmalade) gave him a letter 
confirming he had one years no claims discount,  but didnt tell him that this could  change  if a 
third party claimed for an incident that had happened during  that policy year.
background
Mr B had a motor insurance  policy which was underwritten  by Allianz Insurance (Allianz) and 
administered by Marmalade. The policy started  on 15 December 2015 and was in force for 
one year. 
In March 2016 Mr B was involved in an incident  where his car struck a lamp  post.  He 
reported this to the Highways agency and also Marmalade.  A claim was opened and then 
closed as notification  only, as the local council  had not claimed for the damage to the lamp  
post. 
At the end of the policy year Mr B decided not to renew his policy and informed  Marmalade 
of this. He asked Marmalade to provide  him with proof of his no claims discount. It did this by 
providing a letter. The letter confirmed  that Mr B had one years  no claims discount  and also 
confirmed there had been a no-fault claim during that year (the lamp post incident). Mr B 
used this to confirm his discount to his new insurer. 
After the policy  had finished, the local council did come forward  and make  a claim for the 
damage to the lamp  post. So Allianz  dealt with the claim and Mr Bs no claims discount was 
affected retrospectively.
Mr B complained to Marmalade as he feels the letter it provided  to him shouldve  explained  
that this could happen. Marmalade said that the information is provided to it by Allianz and it 
only passed it on to Mr B, so it wouldnt have  amended the information it was given.
Mr B was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to our service. The investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint; they felt that this wasnt something Marmalade needed to do. Mr B 
disagreed with the findings and so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
When Mr B asked  Marmalade to provide him with proof of his no claims discount, it passed  
this request to Allianz, who produced the letter, albeit on Marmalade branded stationary, 
which Mr B was sent.
Mr B knew  that he had been  involved  in the incident, and that the local council could claim 
against his policy.  He hasnt disputed that he was liable for the incident.  The information 
Ref: DRN36933852contained in the letter was accurate at the time it was provided to Mr B, and the incident was 
noted on the letter. As the claim was closed  at the time I wouldnt  expect  the letter to say 
anything more than it did, and even if it had I cant see that Mr B would be in a different 
position now, Ill explain.
Mr B has told us that his current insurer is now going to penalise  him for this change,  but has 
declined to tell us how or let us contact the insurer. So I will have to assume  that the insurer  
is intending to step back the no claims discount he is being  allowed and possibly amending  
the premiums he has to pay, it may be doing this retrospectively.
If the letter had contained a caveat  to say the no claims discount could change  if the claim 
was re-opened,  Mr B couldve notified  his new insurer  of this, although this is something it 
should reasonably be aware of anyway. The likelihood is the new insurer  wouldve allowed 
the one year no claims, as at the time that information was correct. Later on once the claim 
had been reopened  and Allianz  had retrospectively amended the no claims discount, Mr Bs 
new insurer wouldve taken the same action it is taking now. It follows that Mr B has not 
been prejudiced by either the information included or excluded in the letter. So I wont  be 
asking Marmalade to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3693385