K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains he wasnt given proper advice by The Prudential  Assurance Company 
Limited (Prudential) about the purchase of an annuity and other options for his two personal 
pension plans (PPPs).
background
Mr S says he asked the Prudential for a meeting to discuss his options on retirement but it 
didnt offer one. He felt he shouldve been  given  proper advice and as a result he didnt get 
the best outcome. He said he couldve deferred  taking the annuity and taken a lump  sum 
and considered draw  down. This has meant that his financial situation  was difficult.
The Prudential didnt  think  it had done  anything wrong. It set up annuities  around 2013. Mr S 
didnt take any financial advice at the time.  Prudential provided information and would not 
have been able to give advice. Their  records showed that information regarding options  was 
provided. Its records showed Mr S was offered the opportunity to speak to an adviser  from 
Prudential Financial Planning, but this was declined. Mr S couldve contacted  an IFA. Mr S 
signed to accept the annuities forms sent and there was a cooling off period when he 
couldve cancelled. Even if he had taken advice the view at the time was that drawdown was 
risky and the minimum pension fund needed  to be around £100,000. Given the size of Mr 
Ss fund it seemed  unlikely that the advice wouldve been to take drawdown. New pension  
freedoms werent introduced until 2015. 
The investigator thought Prudential had treated  him fairly. She noted Mr S was sent retirement 
papers and there were a number  of calls. The calls noted that Mr S intended to keep working,  
that he was aware  of the open  market option  and had read the various  booklets.  He was 
offered the option to be referred  for financial advice but this was declined.  He then returned 
the option forms and opted to take 25% tax free cash and a monthly  income. 
The investigator was satisfied that Prudential  sent a reminder at least four months before his 
selected retirement date and a further reminder  six weeks before. The supporting  papers 
were clear  that Mr S didnt have to take the income,  he could look around  and he had 30 
days to change his mind. The papers included a flow chart  confirming he could defer  taking 
income until he was 75 and other options  such as income drawdown are mentioned.  She felt 
the Prudential  had provided  the information  Mr S needed to make  an informed decision. The 
Prudential annuities staff werent authorised to give financial  advice. Based on the call note 
there was reasonable opportunity to speak with a financial adviser  and Mr S was aware of 
options to defer. While it is a pity the income  has affected his entitlement to benefits, Mr S 
was given the opportunity to speak to a financial adviser but declined. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said he lived near the Prudential  HQ and they shouldve  made  an 
effort to see him at the time. He said he specifically  asked to meet with a representative at 
the time to discuss their options and personal  circumstances.  Instead  there  were  a couple of 
conversations over the phone. He was told the alternative service would give the same 
advice. He felt that had they been able to have a meeting the advice  wouldve  been different 
and he wouldve considered either  drawdown or taken the lump sum and deferred taking 
income via an annuity. He said he felt let down and the Prudential didnt guide him in the 
right direction.
Ref: DRN32084072my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I need to consider whether Prudential  did anything wrong. I have considered  the papers Mr 
S was sent and internal  notes made  by Prudential of the various  calls.  Mr S needed  to be 
provided with information  to enable him to make an informed decision about his choices but 
Prudential wasnt required to give him advice about the best option for his specific  
circumstances. That would require  financial  advice  which would need to be provided by a 
separate person authorised for those  purposes. I have  therefore considered  whether I think 
the information provided was sufficient to make  an informed  choice.
I have seen the pension options selection  information. This confirmed that if he didnt wish to 
take his benefits at the selected  retirement  date there were other options that would defer his 
selected retirement date.  The key information pack also outlined the different annuity  
options. The acceptance forms signed by Mr S required him to confirm that the key features 
document and quote of retirement  options had been read and that he was aware of his 
cancelation rights. So it seems  reasonable to conclude that Mr S had read the information 
provided to him.
So from reviewing all the papers I think Mr S shouldve been clear  that he didnt have to take 
the annuity and other  options were  available, including that he could defer. It is also clear  he 
would have a right to cancel  and that he could seek financial advice if he felt he wanted this. 
I think Mr S was given all the information  he needed to make  an informed decision at the 
time. I appreciate that Mr S wouldve preferred to have had a meeting in person. But 
Prudential couldnt  give him financial advice and wasnt obliged to. Even  had he had a 
meeting Prudential couldnt have  given him advice but merely  answered questions on the 
information already  provided, so I dont think it wouldve  made any difference.
Had Mr S wanted advice he wouldve need  to appoint an adviser.  The call notes from the 
time confirm  Mr S was offered the option to be referred to the financial  planning  service.  I 
have also seen the guide to your income for life. It suggests speaking  to a financial  adviser.  
So it seems  that both in conversation and in the papers Mr S wouldve been  clear he could  
take advice. 
It isnt Prudentials fault that he declined  to take up the offer to take financial advice which 
wouldve allowed him to receive advice specific to his personal circumstances. Even  if he 
had taken financial advice  it might not have  made  any difference  because  the size of his 
fund meant  that at the time it was unlikely drawdown wouldve recommended.  
I cannot comment on the statement that he was told that if he took advice it would reach the 
same conclusion. There is no record of this conversation at the time. While I dont doubt Mr 
Ss memory  it seems  unlikely that the Prudential wouldve deterred him from taking financial 
advice. The notes  of conversations  and the papers issued are clear  that this option is open 
to him so I think he was given enough information  to consider this option at the time.
So I dont  think Prudential  treated Mr S unfairly and I cannot uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN32084073my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Colette Bewley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3208407