K821x#15complaint
Mr M complained that Kingsway Wealth Management Limited wrongly advised him to 
transfer his existing pensions into a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP). This allowed him 
to invest in high risk and unregulated investments. He is seeking  compensation for any 
consequent loss.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 17 June 2019. I explained that Mr M was introduced to 
Pension Transfers Ltd by another independent financial adviser (IFA). Pensions Transfers 
Ltd was an appointed representative of Kingsway; for convenience I will refer to Kingsway 
throughout. The other IFA was an appointed representative of a network.
A report was produced  and addressed to Mr M. This explained that the introduction had 
been from an unregulated firm. Kingsway agreed that the advice would focus solely  on the 
viability of the transfers to a SIPP. They were aware that the intended  investment  was in 
overseas property. 
The adviser recorded Mr Ms attitude to risk as medium. This was defined  as follows:
You accept the level of risk to capital generally  associated with Western  
stockmarkets
Examples of suitable funds were described as:
Managed, UK European  & US funds
Details of Mr Ms existing  personal pensions were  set out in the report. He was paying £100 
a month  into one plan.  The transfer  value was £31,389. It was invested in a with-profits plan.  
Mr M was also paying £40 a month into a retirement annuity contract invested in a managed 
fund. This had a transfer value of £36,601. Mr M was paying £70.71 into a third plan 
invested in a mixed  fund.  The transfer  value was £10,869 after a penalty  of £330.
Details of the charges  for the three  plans  were set out together  with a projection of the 
benefits available at age 65. This was compared  to the charges for the SIPP.  However, the 
report explained that there would be additional charges in the SIPP depending on the 
investments made. And there were likely to be charges for the investments themselves.
Kingsway used a generic fund charge of 1.5% a year to calculate a projected fund value for 
the SIPP. At age 65 this was £103,700. The total projected value for the three existing plans 
was £117,900.
Kingsway recommended  a transfer to the SIPP to meet  Mr Ms objectives. Total transfers  of 
£80,971 were made to the SIPP.
Mr M subsequently  invested £50,000  in Cyprus (two) and £27,000 in WRE 2. The application 
forms for these investments show the adviser as the IFA. And commission was to be paid to 
that IFA for these investments.
It appears that the investments  now have  no value.
Ref: DRN33411072Mr M complained to Kingsway. They investigated the complaint and concluded  that they 
were not responsible for any loss caused to Mr M. They  said that they were  only advising on 
the SIPP. Any complaint about the investments should be directed to the other IFA. 
The complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators, who concluded  that it should be 
upheld. The adjudicator thought that the overseas property  investments were unsuitable 
because Mr M had a relatively small pension  fund, and because of his attitude to risk.
Kingsway disagreed. It argued that the other IFA was responsible for the overseas property 
advice. Kingsway also said that Mr M had complained too late, because  his complaint had 
been raised more  than six years after the advice.   
I set out my provisional  findings. I said that I thought we could consider the complaint as 
Mr M complained within three  years  of being aware that he had cause for complaint.
I also set out my findings about the complaint.  I explained  these  as follows:
What did Kingsway do?
Kingsway gave advice to Mr M. They tried to limit that advice to assessing whether a transfer 
of his personal pensions to a SIPP was viable. Any advice about  the assets to be held within  
the SIPP was to be given by a different firm.
In my view, the advice  to transfer  to the SIPP was unsuitable. The funds being  transferred 
were a large  part of his overall wealth. The charges on the SIPP were higher than the 
existing plan. Kingsway knew  that unregulated investments were  to be made.  They should 
have known that these were  unsuitable  for Mr M.
What should Kingsway  have done?
Kingsway was required to give Mr M suitable advice. I think  that the advice to start the SIPP 
was unsuitable  for the reasons given above.  I accept that the other  adviser instigated the 
review and contacted  Kingsway to arrange  the transfer to the SIPP. But, I think that the 
charges were significant. The performance  of the SIPP needed to be much better than the 
existing pension plans.  And it should also have been apparent  that Mr M was not a client  for 
whom unregulated investments were suitable.
I think Kingsway should have  questioned  why the other adviser  thought unregulated 
investments using a SIPP  were  suitable  for Mr M. Given that the other adviser  was not 
allowed to advise on a full range of SIPPs by their network, this should  have  given further 
cause for concern. In my view, suitable advice would have been to either retain the existing 
plans; or move to a lower charging  plan with a range of standard investments.
What loss did Kingsway  cause?
Mr M transferred to a SIPP. He then invested  in unregulated investments. In my view, the 
SIPP and unregulated funds were unsuitable.  These could not have happened unless Mr M 
received advice. Kingsway gave that advice and so I think they caused that loss.
Kingsway says that its role was to assess  whether that SIPP  was suitable  for Mr M. I have 
already concluded that the SIPP was not suitable.  Kingsway  should  therefore have given 
advice to Mr M not to transfer to the SIPP. I would normally  expect  a consumer to follow the 
Ref: DRN33411073advice there  were given  from a regulated  adviser.  The transfer to the SIPP  and subsequent 
investments were made  to provide greater returns for Mr M. I think if he had been  given a 
balanced assessment  and advised against  doing  this it is likely he would not have 
transferred to the SIPP or made the investments.
What about the role of other  parties?
I accept that the role of the other adviser is crucial. He had two businesses  one of which  was 
unregulated and the other regulated as an appointed representative of a network.  It is 
possible that either of those businesses could have some liability. But, I also remain  of the 
view that Kingsway gave  advice  for which it is liable. This service is not able to deal with a 
complaint about  the unregulated business.  
The SIPP provider did accept the investments. There were some responsibilities on that 
business before accepting  and dealing with Mr M as its client.  But, that does not relieve  
Kingsway of its obligation to give suitable  advice.
In this case, there was advice given by Kingsway,  as the regulated  adviser. Its possible that 
the other adviser  acting as an appointed representative of a network  could have some 
liability. But in my view the actions of Kingsway allowed the SIPP to be established  and 
unregulated investments to be made.  So I think its fair in this case that Kingsways liability  
should include all of the losses from the transfer  to the SIPP.
I think what I have set out below represents fair compensation. But I recognise that other  
parties may have some liability. If Kingsway wishes to take an assignment of any rights from 
Mr M so that they may take action to recover any losses caused by the other parties I am 
happy for them to do so. Mr Ms should cooperate with Kingsway to recover  any losses  from 
other parties, if full compensation  is paid by Kingsway.
I also set out how Kingsway should  compensate Mr M.
Kingsway replied and said that the WRE  2 and Cyprus 2 could  be removed from the SIPP.  
The payment of five years  of SIPP fees was therefore excessive.
We asked the SIPP  provider to confirm the current position with the investments. They 
confirmed that they could  be removed.  I therefore wrote to both Kingsway  and Mr Ms 
representative amending the compensation to be paid by Kingsway.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered all of the evidence I 
have reached the same  conclusion as set out in my provisional  decision.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr M in the position he would probably now be in if he had been  given 
suitable advice.  I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. It is not possible to 
say precisely what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr M's circumstances  and objectives  when  he invested. 
what should  Kingsway do?
Ref: DRN33411074To compensate Mr M fairly, Kingsway must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If there is a loss, Kingsway should pay a sum into Mr M's pension plan, 
allowing for any available tax relief and/or costs, to increase the pension  plan value 
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. 
If Kingsway is unable to pay the total amount into Mr M's pension plan, it should  pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr M's marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. Mr M is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The notional  
allowance should  equate  to a reduction in the total amount  equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. However, Mr M would have  been  able to take a tax free lump  sum. 
So, the notional  allowance  should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Pay Mr M £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to him by Kingsways 
unsuitable advice.
I understand the SIPP still exists. We have received information about the current  
status of the SIPP  and the investments. Mr M will continue  to be charged fees for the 
SIPP until the SIPP can be closed.  Had Kingsway acted in Mr Ms best interests  I 
dont think there  would be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr M continues  to pay the annual  
SIPP fees if it cannot be closed.
Kingsway could take over the investments  to allow the SIPP  to be closed. This is 
the fairest way of putting Mr M back in the position he would have been in. Mr M will 
need to co-operate with Kingsway to remove the Cyprus Two investment from the 
SIPP. That should  not take long.  Any fees paid will be taken into account for the 
value of the SIPP at the date of my final decision.  Kingsway should pay any 
additional fees incurred until the SIPP is closed. I anticipate  that will be for a period 
of no more than six months.
Kingsway should  also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable  on 
any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  a 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement  
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
Ref: DRN33411075My aim is to return Mr M to the position  he would have been in if he had received suitable 
advice. This is complicated  where an investment is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily 
sold on the open market) as in this case. It would be difficult  to know the actual  value of the 
investment. In such a case the actual value should  be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Kingsway should  take ownership  of the illiquid investments by paying a 
commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from 
the total payable to Mr M and the balance  be paid as I set out above.
If Kingsway is unable to buy the investment the actual value should be assumed  to be nil for 
the purpose of calculation. Kingsway  may wish to require Mr M to provide an undertaking to 
pay Kingsway any amount he may receive  from the investment  in the future.  
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the 
date it was paid in.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Kingsway Wealth Management Limited  should  now calculate fair 
compensation and pay redress to Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3341107