K822xcomplaint
Mrs D complained that her home insurer Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  plc (RSA) misled 
her during  a call she made to it after her boiler broke  and, as a result, she incurred costs.
background 
Mrs Ds boiler  suffered an internal leak and her plumber said it needed replacing. It was an oil 
fuelled boiler. Gas had recently been installed  in Mrs Ds area and she had the option of 
changing to a new gas boiler,  at a cost of £2,480  on a three-year interest free basis.  She called 
RSA to see if the boiler would be replaced,  like-for-like, under her policy. She was asked to 
send a cause  of damage report which  she did. RSA then said this showed her boiler  had failed 
due to an escape of water and if she provided  an invoice for replacement itd look to pay that.
Mrs D got the boiler replaced, like-for-like, at a cost of £2,180.  She had to pay this on a 
credit card. She provided the invoice to RSA and then called it a couple of days  later to see 
when shed be reimbursed. RSA told Mrs D it had made  a mistake  she wasnt covered 
because the escape of water hadnt  resulted from freezing. RSA said it wouldnt reimburse 
her costs and noted, regardless of its mistake,  shed  have had to replace the boiler  anyway. 
It sent her £100 compensation  for the upset its error  had caused.
Mrs D complained to this service. Our investigator, having noted that Mrs D had paid for her 
new boiler on a credit  card, with a high APR, which she wouldnt have done but for RSA 
saying it would reimburse her, felt RSA should cover Mrs Ds interest costs. But he said it 
could deduct £300 from any interest  costs due to be paid to Mrs D to account for the extra 
£300 she would have paid for the gas boiler,  if RSA hadnt misled  her. He felt the 
compensation offered was fair.
RSA initially objected to the findings  but following some further points  being  made  by our 
investigator, it accepted what hed said. Although it pointed out Mrs D would need  to prove 
she was incurring interest on the cost of the boiler.
Mrs D wasnt prepared to accept the findings. She felt RSA had really let her down and 
treated her very badly. She said she was still trying to pay off her credit  card and that RSA 
fairly needed to reimburse her cost for replacing the boiler, as it had said it would do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, and with regret for any disappointment 
this may cause Mrs D, Im not minded to find any differently to our investigator.
RSA did fail Mrs D. That is not in doubt. RSA has to make up for that. But at this service we 
dont fine or punish  insurers.  Rather we say that, when a failure occurs, the insurer  must  act 
to put the policyholder back into the position  they would have been in, but for the failure.
In this case RSAs failure was misleading Mrs D about the fact it would cover the cost of the 
replacement boiler.  If it had acted correctly,  and told Mrs D it wouldnt cover  this cost, Mrs D, 
as she herself has said, would have arranged for a new gas boiler to be installed. The 
overall cost would have been similar but shed have been able to pay for the gas boiler over 
a few years  on an interest free basis. RSAs  failure though prevented  her from doing  that. 
Furthermore, RSAs advice caused Mrs D to pay for the new oil boiler on a credit card. So 
instead of the cost being interest  free, it is attracting  interest. It isnt fair that Mrs D incurs that 
cost. RSA must cover that, subject to proof  it is being incurred. 
Ref: DRN38425252I also think it is fair for RSA to be allowed to deduct  £300 from any interest it is due to pay 
Mrs D. Again, if RSA had given Mrs D the correct advice, she would always have paid £300 
more for the new gas boiler than she did pay for the replacement oil boiler. 
I understand how frustrated Mrs D is. And as I said above, RSA did fail her. But I cant 
reasonably make it pay her the full replacement cost of the boiler.  This was never covered 
by her policy and she would always have needed  to replace the boiler. So RSAs  advice  
didnt cause her to undertake an installation that otherwise wouldnt have occurred. As I said 
above, RSAs  failure  caused Mrs D to incur interest.  And that is what  it must make up for.
RSA also caused  upset, frustration and worry. Its offered £100 compensation in this respect. 
Im satisfied that is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  plc to:
Upon sight of proof  of costs being incurred, which attracts interest and the applicable 
APR, calculate  the interest Mrs D will incur on the replacement cost of the boiler (£2,180) 
over the next three years, deduct £300 from that figure  and pay the remainder to Mrs D.
Pay Mrs D £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3842525