K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC,  trading as Barclaycard, has 
dealt with her credit  card accounts.
background
Mrs M had three credit card accounts with Barclaycard  in 2011. She was suffering financial 
difficulties so entered into a debt management  plan in September 2011. She complained to 
Barclaycard in 2015 that it had charged  her interest  on two of her accounts when she was on 
a debt management plan. It paid her £100  because of issues with its response to her 
complaint. Mrs M wasnt satisfied with its response  so she complained to this service later 
that year - but she was told that her complaint couldnt be considered because shed 
complained to this service  more than six months  after the date of Barclaycards final 
response letter.
As part of a remediation programme Barclaycard paid her compensation of £730.79 on one 
of those accounts in November  2018. Mrs M then made a further complaint to this service. 
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Ms complaint about the interest thats  been  charged 
on her account since September 2011  could  be considered and Barclaycard has agreed that 
this service can look into her complaint.
But the adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said that 
Barclaycard hadnt  charged interest  on one account, had refunded  interest from 2013 on 
another account and had said that it would also be refunding interest on the third account 
from 2013. And she didnt  feel that Barclaycard was treating her unfairly by not refunding 
interest charged in accordance with its policy on the accounts from March  2012 on one 
account, and from May 2012 on the other account, to October 2013.
Mrs M has asked  for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says, in 
summary, that Barclaycard has followed the letter  but not the spirit  - of the law and that it 
hasnt recognised her as an individual or her specific circumstances. She says that shes 
been penalised for sticking to such a stringent budget for such a long time and shes had no 
confirmation of how much Barclaycard has added to her debts over the course of her debt 
management plan or if it has removed or re-dated  the default  on her account as it said it 
would.
Barclaycard paid compensation of £507.23 to Mrs M in June 2019 as part of the remediation  
programme on the other  of her affected accounts. Mrs M says that she accepted the refunds  
but that she considers them to be completely separate from the issues  that shes  raised  in 
her complaint. And she says that at no time has Barclaycard  ever acknowledged the 
distress, upset and financial  hardship  that its refusal to freeze interest on her accounts 
caused her during her debt management  plan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M had two credit card accounts  with Barclaycard in September  2011 when she entered 
into a debt management plan. Mrs M says that Barclaycard didnt agree to that debt 
management plan.  Barclaycard says that due to the time that has elapsed  since then, it no 
longer has letters from when the plan was set up. But it has provided evidence  to show that 
Ref: DRN34994922it suspended interest  on her accounts in October 2011. On one of the accounts interest has 
remained suspended  and that account doesnt  form part of Mrs Ms complaint.
It says that the account statements for the other account show  that interest was suspended 
between October 2011 and February 2012 and was then charged  at a reduced  annual rate 
of 3% from March 2012 to December 2014  when it was increased  to 12.9% (which it has 
since said was a significantly reduced rate and in line with the repayment arrangement) . It 
says that the statements also show that Mrs M was on a reduced  repayment plan of £52.68 
each month  from September 2011  to September 2013 when the monthly payment was 
increased to £56.04 and then £80.91. The monthly payments increased again in October 
2015 to £92.31 and then to £101.52 in September 2016. And it says that the account was 
passed to its recoveries team in January 2017, that no further interest  or charges have been 
applied since then and that Mrs M repaid the outstanding balance in August 2018.
Barclaycard then wrote to Mrs M in November 2018  and said that it had reviewed its 
operating procedures and had identified  that for customers who had fallen behind on their 
payments, it didnt always meet its expected standards for assessing  customers 
circumstances or engaging  with them. It apologised for that and said that it may not have 
offered Mrs M the support  most appropriate  to her financial situation since  October  2013  so 
it refunded the interest and default fees which were applied to the account  during the period 
in which  it may not have  provided the service that it shouldve  and it refunded £730.79 to 
her.
Barclaycard says that the third account  was transferred to it from another  credit card 
provider in November  2011 and that interest was suspended and then charged at a reduced 
rate until September 2016 when  the account  was passed to its recoveries team  and all 
interest and charges were then suspended. And it says that the outstanding balance on the 
account of £1,950.75 was sold to a third party  in September 2016 and it understands that the 
third party has recorded a default  on the account. 
And Barclaycard wrote to Mrs M in June  2019  about  this account and paid her compensation 
of £507.23 for the same  issues identified in the November 2018  letter  referred to above. Its 
provided the statements for all of the accounts  to Mrs M.
A credit card provider  is required to respond  to a customers  financial difficulties positively  
and sympathetically. That doesnt mean that its obliged to refund interest or charges, or to 
take any other particular  action, as whats appropriate in each case will depend on the 
customers individual circumstances. 
Mrs M entered into her debt management  plan in September 2011. Barclaycard suspended  
interest on both of her accounts and suspended interest on the account that was transferred 
to it in November  2011. Mrs M then made  reduced repayments to Barclaycard which  were  
agreed with it. Barclaycard reinstated interest on one of her accounts in March 2012 and in 
May 2012 on the other account   but at significantly reduced rates. And it has since  
refunded £730.79 and £507.23 to Mrs M. Barclaycard also paid £100  compensation to 
Mrs M in June  2015 because of issues  with its response to her complaint.
Its clear that these have  been difficult times  for Mrs M  and I sympathise with her for the 
financial and other difficulties with which shes had to deal. And I can understand her 
frustration with Barclaycards response  to her financial difficulties. But there  was no 
requirement for it to suspend all interest on her accounts. And I consider that the steps that it 
has taken show that it has responded to her financial difficulties positively and 
Ref: DRN34994923sympathetically  as it was required to do. And shes received a substantial  refund of the 
interest that shed been charged under the remediation programme that Barclaycard has 
agreed with the Financial  Conduct Authority. So Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Barclaycard to refund any other  interest to Mrs M, to pay her 
any more compensation  or to take any other  action  in response to her complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3499492