K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that she was mis-sold an insurance policy in conjunction with a hire 
purchase (HP) agreement. 
St Andrews  Insurance Plc (St Andrews) was the insurer  of Miss Js policy  and it has taken 
responsibility for this sale. So to keep things simple, Ill refer to St Andrews as the seller  
throughout the rest of this decision.
This insurance policy was paid for by a regular premium and included  life and guaranteed 
asset protection (GAP) cover.
background
Miss J entered into a HP agreement when she bought a car in 2004. At the same time, 
St Andrews  sold her the insurance policy.
The policy cost £17.19 a month. The life cover would have paid off the outstanding balance  
on her loan agreement  in the event  of her death. And the GAP covered Miss J for any 
shortfall between her motor insurers settlement and the outstanding balance  on her HP 
agreement if her car was written off.
The policy was designed to provide this cover for the three years that her HP agreement was 
due to last. But St Andrews has told us that Miss J only made  three monthly payments for 
her policy,  totalling  £51.57,  before  cancelling it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Miss Js complaint should be upheld. Miss J disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss J has said that she was told she had to take the insurance policy with her HP loan. In 
responding to our adjudicators view,  shes also said that the policy  wasnt mentioned  or 
brought to her attention  at all, so she didnt know anything about it and it wasnt made clear 
to her that the policy was optional.
Unfortunately, St Andrews doesnt still have any copies of the paperwork from the time of 
this sale. And theres no record  of what was said to Miss J by the representative who sold 
her the policy, or the questions she was asked  about her personal  circumstances.  But this 
isnt that surprising given that this sale took place  a long time ago  businesses arent 
required to keep such information over these lengths of time.
Miss J doesnt appear to have kept any records from the sale either.  And she doesnt  seem 
to have a particularly good recall  of what happened  then. Again, this isnt that surprising as 
memories of such meetings do tend to fade with time.  But, in these circumstances, I need to 
decide what I think is most likely to have happened, based on the very limited information  
available to me.
Ref: DRN34342972St Andrews  has been able to provide a copy of the policy document  in use at the time of this 
sale. This document describes  the five levels of cover  that could be taken under the policy.  
These ranged from Life and GAP  cover only, to Life, GAP, Critical Illness,  Accident  & 
Sickness and Unemployment. 
I accept that Miss J might either have been  told she had to have the lowest  level of cover 
available under the policy or, alternatively, that this cover was arranged without her 
knowledge. But, on balance,  I think  its more likely  that the cover options were  discussed 
with her and that she actively  agreed  to take the one that only provided life and GAP cover.
The fact that the policy  was cancelled  only three  months after it was taken  also seems to 
suggest that Miss J was likely to have been aware  that it had been sold to her and that she 
wasnt required to keep  it in force for the full term of her loan. And as this was a monthly  
premium policy,  paid for separately from her HP loan instalments, this also makes me think 
that its more likely than not that Miss J would have  been given the monthly cost of the policy 
at the time of the sale. 
So it seems  to me most  likely  that Miss J agreed  to take the policy knowing that she could 
choose not to. But I can understand why she might not remember  this now.
As theres  so little information now available about this sale,  I cant  be sure whether the 
policy was recommended to Miss J. But I think its probably most likely that it was, and Ive 
taken this to be the case  because  this means St Andrews needed to ensure that it was 
suitable for her. I dont know  how it did this, but I cant see any reason why it wouldnt  have  
been suitable. I say this because:
It appears that Miss J was eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for her and as the premiums  were 
paid monthly she could have cancelled it if it no longer met her needs.
Ive no real reason  to think that Miss J didnt have any need for the cover  provided by the 
policy and wouldnt have  thought  it gave her a useful benefit  if things went wrong.
St Andrews  also needed  to give Miss J enough information for her to decide if she wanted to 
take it. I think its possible that she could have been  given better information than she was. 
But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable for Miss J, I dont 
think that better information would have changed her mind about  taking it. I still think she 
would have thought the policy  gave her useful benefits at an affordable cost.
So I dont  think that Miss J has lost out by anything that St Andrews may have done wrong 
when it sold her this policy.
Ref: DRN34342973my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint against St Andrews Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3434297