K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL wasnt the direct seller in this case,  but it has taken responsibility for the complaint. So 
to avoid confusion  I shall refer to it as the seller.
background
Ms W took out a store card in 1999. At the time she didnt buy the PPI offered. But in 2002, 
following a call from FICL, the PPI was added to her account.
Ms W says she wasnt able to make a fully informed decision and that the policy offered her 
no foreseeable benefit.
The adjudicator thought  that Ms Ws complaint shouldnt be upheld. Ms W disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complains about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Ws 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
As already explained, Ms W didnt take the PPI out until several years  after the card itself. It 
seem likely that the sale took place during a sales call. This service has seen scripts  used  by 
FICL from around this time. I think its likely these scripts were used in the sale.  It seems  
likely that Ms W wouldve been told that the policy was optional and that it would  have 
obtained her consent  to add the PPI to her card. Indeed, Ms W doesnt claim that she didnt 
agree to it, only that she didnt have enough information about it. Had Ms W not agreed to 
the PPI I think shed have said something when she saw it on her card statements.
So, on balance, I think Ms W bought the PPI knowing she had a choice about it.
FICL didnt  give Ms W a personal  recommendation about the PPI, so it didnt need to check 
it was right for her. But it did have to give her enough information  about the policy  so Ms W 
could make up her own mind about it. I think its likely FICL didnt give Ms W all the 
information she needed. For example, its not clear  how the full costs  were explained to her. 
But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold Ms Ws complaint. I have to think about 
whether if Ms W had all the information  she needed, shed have made  a different decision 
about buy the PPI. I dont  think that she would have. I say this because:
Ms W was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have been affected  by any terms which  
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim, such  as those 
related to existing  medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances;
Ms W didnt have  any contractual sick pay. The policy couldve potentially paid off her 
outstanding balance within a few months.  So I think it offered a useful benefit if Ms W 
was too ill to work;
Ref: DRN38719932Ms W didnt have  any other means to make her card repayments  if she was made  
redundant. Again, the policy wouldve potentially paid off her outstanding  balance  in a 
few months, so I think it offered a useful  benefit  if Ms W was out of work;
The cost of the policy was greater than other  PPI policies on the market around the 
same time. But it offered a significantly greater benefit. I havent seen any evidence  
to suggest the cost was unaffordable for Ms W. So I dont think better information 
about the costs  wouldve stopped Ms W from buying  it.
So, on balance, I dont  think Ms W lost out as a result of anything FICL did wrong. 
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms Ws complaint so it follows that Financial  Insurance  Company Limited 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3871993