K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained about advice she received from Marks & Spencer Financial Services 
Plc to consolidate existing  debts into a personal loan and about information  relating to the 
personal loan it has reported to credit  reference agencies (CRAs).
background
Mrs K took out a chargecard with M&S Bank  in 1993 which  was converted to a credit card in 
2003. She also took out an M&S Bank  personal  reserve account. In 2010 she was having 
difficulty making the payments due to M&S Bank and she consolidated her indebtedness into 
a single personal loan.
Mrs K then had difficulty making the monthly payments on the personal loan and M&S Bank  
agreed to an arrangement  so she could pay a reduced amount.
In 2018 Mrs K complained to M&S Bank  that she shouldnt have been offered the personal 
loan. M&S  Bank didnt  uphold her complaint and she referred it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He thought  it was 
reasonable for M&S  Bank to offer Mrs K a personal  loan to avoid  a default being registered  
against her and it had acted reasonably  when shed been unable to afford  the repayments 
on the personal loan.
Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators  conclusions. She also said the action  taken by 
M&S Bank meant she would have adverse data on her credit file for thirteen years whereas, 
if a default had been applied in 2010, it would  only have remained on her credit file for six 
years.
Our investigator asked  M&S Bank to respond to Mrs Ks above comments. It said her main 
concern had been to avoid a default being  registered against her and it had explained how it 
would report the arrangement on her personal loan to CRAs. Our investigator  thought  this 
was reasonable  in the circumstances.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
M&S Bank has said the personal loan was beneficial to Mrs K because the interest rate was 
considerably lower than on her existing accounts, the monthly  payment was less than the 
combined payments  on the existing accounts  and she would have been able to repay the 
debt earlier  than if she had kept the existing accounts. I havent  seen  any evidence to 
suggest that the above information  is in any way incorrect. Im, therefore, satisfied it was 
reasonable for M&S  Bank to offer the personal loan to Mrs K.
Ive seen a copy  of the loan agreement that Mrs K signed. It sets out the monthly payment 
she would  have to make and the length of time she would have to make the payments. I 
think Mrs K should have been  able to decide  if she could afford  to make the payments on the 
loan before she signed the agreement.
Ref: DRN39991212When it became apparent  Mrs K couldnt  afford  the monthly payments on the loan M&S 
Bank had a responsibility to treat her fairly and sympathetically. Im satisfied  it fulfilled its 
responsibility by agreeing  to an arrangement for her to pay a reduced  amount. I dont think  it 
was reasonable  for Mrs K to think M&S  Bank wouldnt report the fact she wasnt  paying the 
full amount due in respect of the personal  loan to CRAs.
I can understand why, with the benefit of hindsight, Mrs K is now saying she would have  
been better off allowing the existing accounts  to be defaulted instead of taking  out the 
personal loan.  But, if she had made  the payments she agreed to make when she took out 
the personal loan,  M&S Bank wouldnt  have  reported anything adverse about  it to CRAs and 
her credit file wouldnt have been affected.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied M&S Bank has treated Mrs K fairly and reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3999121