K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out on two loans, in 
2009 and 2010. Mr W says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI policies. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why. 
Mr W initially complained that the policies were  added  without  his knowledge or consent. But 
following our initial assessment of the complaint we sent Mr W a copy of the credit 
agreement he saw and signed from 2009,  and in the absence of Mr Ws credit agreement 
from 2010, a sample which Lloyds say wouldve been used at the time.  In response to this 
Mr W now says it wasnt  clear he could say no to PPI as the agreements dont include a no 
option. And that the presence  of a black arrow pointing to the PPI sections in each of these 
forms gave him the impression he had to have the cover. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr W has said and the evidence  available from both sales.  
Both Lloyds  and Mr W agree that in 2009 the loan and PPI were discussed  over the phone.  
However due to the length of time thats  passed,  there is no longer a call recording for me to 
listen to. But Lloyds has provided a copy of a call script which it says wouldve been used for 
this type of sale in 2009. And Ive not seen any reason to doubt  this. This script show  the 
sales advisor wouldve  been instructed to present the PPI as optional. This call was then 
followed by the credit agreement where  Mr W was required to tick confirm that he wanted  to 
take out the policy, and signed for it separately  to his signature to agree to the credit.  
Looking at the sale of the policy  in 2010,  both parties agree that this was discussed  in 
person. And neither  party  has provided any reason for me to doubt  that Mr W wouldve then 
been required to complete  and sign a credit agreement similar to the sample provided. And 
looking at the sample,  which is the same or very similar to the 2009 agreement, I think its 
likely Mr W ticked for PPI in this form and signed  in the box separately to his signature to 
agree to the credit. 
I have seen that there is a black arrow on both of these forms which  points to the PPI 
section. But I think this was included to draw the applicants attention to the separate  PPI 
section for them  to complete, had they wished to add the cover.  Ive also seen that there  isnt 
a no box on either of these forms. But the second  line of the text in the PPI box reads This 
insurance is optional . 
So overall I think Lloyds  made it clear  that Mr W didnt  have  to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out in both 2009 and 2010   although I can understand why if he cant 
remember this now.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr W on both occasions, so it had to check  the policies 
were right for him in 2009 and in 2010. And based on what  Ive seen  of his circumstances 
from these times, I think that it was. Mr W says the PPI policies werent suitable for him 
Ref: DRN38073632because he was self-employed.  But Ive looked at the policy terms and conditions  which  
applied. These state that Mr W wouldve been able to make  a claim if he was unable to find 
enough work to meet  all of his reasonable business and living  expenses  and had declared 
this to HM Revenue & Customs.  But Ive not seen  anything  to suggest that Mr W had to 
permanently cease trading, or had to declare his business insolvent. So I dont think  what  
Lloyds was asking  him to do was unreasonable or onerous. And I havent  seen that he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover   so I think  the policies  were  
suitable for him. 
Mr W says he didnt have any other savings or insurance which he couldve  used  to make 
his loan repayments. So I think he had a need  for this type of cover.  
The cost of the policy Mr W took out in 2009 was set out on the credit agreement. And based  
on the sample provided for the sale in 2010,  I think  the cost wouldve been set out in the 
same way. But its possible  some  of the other  information Lloyds gave  Mr W about the PPI 
policies wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. But it looks like he wanted this type of cover 
and it seems like it would have been  useful for him if something went wrong. So I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.  
So overall I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold  in 2009 or 2010. Which  means  Lloyds doesnt  
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But Lloyds will pay back  some  of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr W because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt  tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr W any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr W the extra he paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should  also pay Mr W 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Ref: DRN38073633Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 May 2019.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3807363