K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Legal & General  Partnership Services Limited (L&G) mis-sold him a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr C took out the PPI in 2007 during a meeting with L&Gs representative when he also took 
out a mortgage.  It gave  him protection for his mortgage repayments if he couldnt  work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C didnt agree  so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr C says he was told he had to have PPI for his mortgage application to be successful. 
I cant be certain exactly what  was discussed  during the meeting but L&G has provided 
some paperwork  which was completed  at the time of the sale. This shows  a number of 
different insurance  policies were discussed and recommended and theres nothing to 
indicate that any of these  were compulsory. The mortgage paperwork says that the only 
insurance Mr C had to have for his mortgage application to be successful was buildings  and 
contents insurance. Mr C wouldve signed,  separately from the mortgage  application,  to say 
that he wanted PPI.  So, overall, I think L&G made  it clear the PPI was optional and Mr C 
chose to take it out.
L&G recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to make sure it was suitable for him. Mr C told 
us different things about how much sick pay he wouldve received. And I can see he was 
also unsure when he met with the adviser in 2007.  From what hes told us, it seems  most 
likely that he wouldve received six months full pay followed by six months  half pay. The PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to his work  benefits  for up to 12 months. The policy also had an 
excess period when  benefit wouldnt be paid  which was 180 days for accident and 
sickness. So the policy would kick in after the time Mr C told the adviser his full sick pay 
would end, and would  then continue to pay out for up to a year.  It also covered him if hed 
become unemployed. The mortgage was a significant long term financial commitment and 
Mr Cs home  was at risk if he didnt keep  up with the repayments. So, overall,  I dont think  
his existing arrangements  made the PPI unsuitable.
The cost of the policy was set out in the paperwork.  So Mr C wouldve known that it would 
cost him £22.13  each month  before he applied for it.
Ref: DRN35717162Its possible the information L&G gave Mr C about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. But, for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think L&Gs recommendation was 
unsuitable and I dont think Mr C would have made a different decision about taking out the 
policy if better information had been  provided to him  overall, I think he would  still have 
taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3571716