K821x#15complaint
Ms F complains she was advised by a representative of a predecessor business  to Sun Life 
Assurance Company  of Canada (UK) Limited  (Sun Life) to make Free Standing  Additional 
Voluntary Contributions  (FSAVCs), instead of purchasing added  years  in her occupational 
scheme.
Ms F is represented in bringing her complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
background
Ms F had two FSAVC  plans with Sun Life (plan  numbers ending  01 and 53). She is a retired 
medical doctor and joined the NHS  occupational pension scheme in 1989, when she was 38. 
She became a general practitioner  (GP) in 1993.
In 1991 Ms F was concerned 20 years wasnt enough time to achieve her desired  pension at 
retirement of 66% of her salary. At the time she was single with no dependents, although in 
the future  she hoped  to marry and have a family.  She also hoped to retire early.  She was 
advised by a representative of Lincoln National  (now Sun Life) to start making FSAVC 
contributions to enhance her pension. The plan ending 01 was set up with initial monthly 
contributions of £40. Monthly contributions rose each year until 1995, following  annual 
reviews with the same advisor. 
At the 1996 review meeting, instead of increasing  the contributions to plan 01, a second plan 
ending 53 was set up. This is because an enhanced FSAVC plan was now available, which 
all clients were automatically issued with. Ms F contributed to this plan until 2011 when she 
reached age 60. At this point the funds in both plans were transferred to another  provider. 
Ms F retired in 2013 aged 62.
Ms Fs CMC thinks she should  have been advised to purchase added years of service in her 
occupational scheme,  rather  than FSAVCs.  Sun Life initially said Ms F had complained too 
late, as the 1997 review meeting was when she had enough information to complain. But I 
issued a decision on that point in July 2018.  I didnt think the further  regulatory  guidance  
relevant at the time would necessarily  mean  even  a well-educated professional like Ms F 
would question the advice shed been given previously.
Sun Life then considered  the complaint, and made a charges only  offer of redress  to Ms F 
for the sale and ongoing advice in relation to plan 01, and the sale of plan 53. This reflects  
that charges for FSAVCs  tend to be higher than money  purchase AVCs to an occupational 
scheme. Ms Fs CMC  thought this wasnt sufficient, as they thought  purchasing added years  
in the NHS scheme would have been better  for her. So they asked us to look into this. 
Our investigator thought Sun Lifes offer was fair, as he didnt think Ms F would have 
committed to added years even if shed known she could. So its come  to me to make  a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree the offer of 
redress made by Sun Life is fair. To come to my decision  Ive thought about whether Ms F 
Ref: DRN34199382would have been better off with in-house  money purchase  AVCs  than FSAVCs. And if 
shed have opted to purchase  added years if she could. 
Ms Fs advisor  was tied so was only authorised to provide  advice on Lincolns own 
products. She had to make Ms F aware  of the options available  in her occupational scheme, 
but couldnt advise her on added years or in-house AVCs. From the 1991 fact find it looks as 
though the advisor recommended the Balanced Retirement Fund,  although no attitude to 
risk (ATR) was recorded at the initial meeting.  But in 1992 her ATR was recorded as 
realistic which suggests Ms F was prepared to take some  risk to achieve a higher return, 
given she was also accumulating benefits in her employers secure  public sector scheme. 
Ms Fs initial  contribution to the FSAVC  plan was £40 per month  (2.5%  of her salary at the 
time), and increased every year. By 1995  it had risen to £215 (7% of her salary).  
The additional monthly contribution to the new plan (53) was £40, rising  each year in line 
with the Retail Prices Index (RPI).  So in 1996 Ms Fs total premiums  amounted  to 8.5%  of 
her salary,  close  to the maximum shed have been  permitted to contribute. 
In May 1996  the regulator clarified  in more detail  how financial advisors  should  bring  the 
options available from the in-house  occupational  scheme to the clients attention, before 
recommending their own companys products. And they were required to set out their 
recommendations in a reasons why  letter. In the Solving your Objectives  section it refers  
to those options as follows  Having obtained the scheme booklet  I fully explained the 
differences between  the in-house and FSAVCs. It goes on to list what  the adviser thought  
were the benefits  of FSAVCs (no policy fee, wider investment choice, confidentiality of plans 
to retire early.)  Point 1 of the Lincoln National fact sheet  A comparison of in house  AVCs 
and free standing  AVCs   given to Ms F states  charges on in-house AVCs  are often 
significantly lower than FSAVCs as the employer may meet  all of the set up costs.  
At this meeting Ms F also wanted a savings product. The advisor recommended  saving £120 
in a Personal  Equity Plan but Ms F could only commit to £55 a month, so a ten year 
savings plan was opened. The funds are recorded as Balanced  Managed  fund and UK 
Equity Growth in line with a balanced  ATR. Ive no reason  to think  the advisor didnt fulfil the 
regulatory obligation to bring the in-house options  to Ms Fs attention, and she understood 
achieving her goals  would  have required her to take an element  of risk. But I also think Ms F 
would be unlikely to have questioned the recommendation for FSAVCs at this point, given 
the relationship  with the advisor and shed been contributing for five years  by then.
I dont think the perceived benefits  of FSAVCs over in-house AVCs (confidentiality,  flexibility,  
and portability) were  relevant  to Ms Fs circumstances as shes  been consistent in her 
intention to remain in the medical profession  and was unlikely to change jobs.  And as 
providers have to notify an occupational scheme  that their member  has an FSAVC 
confidentially isnt really a key issue for most people. 
Ms F didnt actually retire  early, but at 62. I dont know if this was for financial reasons, or if 
she simply chose to keep working.  At the time Ms F started her plan, a realistic  set of 
assumptions would have suggested the returns from making FSAVCs would have exceeded 
the benefits from added years, for someone  like Ms F who seemed to be prepared to take 
some risk. Of course the actual investment performance has been  disappointing, but I cant 
make my decision  based on hindsight. After  all, Ms Fs aspirations have changed over time, 
and not all have  come about. Shes  been consistent  about her career  plans,  but she also 
variously expressed her intention to marry, have  lots of holidays,  have a family and provide 
for a future childs education. Shes  also been consistent about  hoping to retire  early, with a 
Ref: DRN34199383comfortable pension.  I think the financial commitment necessary to achieve all these goals 
supports the recommendation towards  an element of risk. But comparing the likely charges, I 
think the in-house money purchase AVC option would have been better for Ms F than 
FSAVCs.  I say this particularly considering the relatively low rate of contribution she was 
willing to commit to when  starting in 1991.
The reasons why letter in 1997 confirms  the in-house AVC option was discussed, but is 
silent on added years. But Im not persuaded Ms F would  have  chosen  to commit to them at 
the time.  I think theyd  have looked  relatively expensive  compared to the projected benefits 
from the FSAVCs. 
Added years are generally  recommended for someone relatively young, at the early  stage of 
a career where their income  is expected  to increase significantly over time, for instance  
through promotion. And the spouses  benefits  are attractive if relevant. Ms F was 38 when 
she started topping up her pension, which in this context isnt relatively young. She was well 
into her medical career, and her marital status was recorded as single. At the time forms 
didnt include cohabiting as an option, so although unmarried, at some  point Ms F was 
actually living with her future husband.  But she may not have  been  sure shed marry when 
she started her retirement planning. 
Added years arent flexible, as the percentage contribution remains fixed.  So Ms F couldnt  
have reduced her contribution if her circumstances changed, for example if shed had 
children. And according to the fact finds, she had a mortgage which was due to be repaid 
after her stated retirement date so she may have preferred  to prioritise  that. 
 
Added years tend to be a more expensive  way to top up pension benefits, than AVCs,  as the 
costs were expected  to be met by the members own contributions,  not subsidised by the 
scheme. Because of this actuaries generally used conservative assumptions  when  working 
out the cost of an added years arrangement. Ms F was on track  to have accrued 22 years  
in her occupational  scheme. So in 1991 she couldve  purchased a maximum of 18 added  
years (to achieve the maximum 40 years). But this would have been subject to any 
restrictions that might have applied if shed linked  the nine years  she was a member of a 
previous public sector scheme  to her NHS membership.
Shed have had to commit to the number  of years she wanted  to purchase at the outset, 
regardless of any future  changes of circumstances. And Ms F always  hoped  to retire early  
which would have reduced the number  of added years she could purchase,  and fewer years  
of contributing would  have  reduced her pension  benefits further. Even  a few added  years 
may not have seemed a cost effective option for the level of contribution  she was prepared 
to make,  when compared to the projected  performance of her FSAVCs.  I dont think  she 
wouldve been confident enough  of her future earnings to commit to added years  in 1991. 
And in 1996 I think shed  have been unlikely to change  her chosen retirement strategy, if 
shed already started down the route of contributing to the in-house money purchase AVC in 
1991.
Ms Fs income  did increase significantly in the period between  1996 (around £36,000) and 
her retirement date (approximately £102,000). But as shed already become a GP, she may 
not have been able to foresee  such a significant  uplift, even though she hoped  to make 
partner. 
So Im not persuaded Ms F wouldve opted for added  years,  but I do think  she should  have 
been advised to pursue the in-house money  purchase AVC option,  So I think the charges 
Ref: DRN34199384only offer made by Sun Life is fair. Such redress isnt intended to compensate for losses 
arising from poor investment returns, but to reflect the higher charges paid on FSAVCs  
compared to AVCs. And to return Ms F as far as possible to the position  of having made in-
house money purchase AVCs. 
Sun Life has confirmed the redress will be calculated  following the regulators FSAVCs  
review guidance,  which is what wed expect. 
my final decision
To resolve  this complaint  Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.)  Ltd should pay 
Ms F compensation in line with its charges only  offer. 
For the avoidance of doubt, it should  undertake a redress calculation in accordance  with the 
FSAVC review guidance, but with reference to the clarification to this on our online technical  
resource webpage  which can be found  at https://www.financial-
ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical_notes/FSAVC.html
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3419938