K821x#15complaint
Mrs W complains about poor service from Ald Automotive Limited in relation to a consumer 
hire agreement. She wants compensation and an apology.
background
Mrs W tells us that in April 2018  she took out a hire agreement  for a new vehicle. She said 
that the initial payment wasnt collected because of Ald failing to properly set up the 
agreement. She said this led to the dealers threatening to repossess the vehicle. She feels 
that Ald misled the dealers  to believe that the delay in payment was due to her (Mrs W) not 
having paid the instalments. And that this implied  shed been  lying when shed explained to 
the dealers why the payment hadnt  been  made.
Ald told us it had issued a final response letter on 1 August 2018. It said it accepted that the 
level of service had been  poor and felt it shouldve offered more assistance to Mrs W in 
explaining both how the agreement had been  set up and back  dated rental should be paid.  It 
offered an apology and £150 credit by way of compensation.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said that Ald had 
acknowledged errors and had tried to explain in email communications that it accepted that 
Mrs W was not at fault. But he said he hadnt seen  any formal  apology. He felt Ald should 
issue a formal letter of apology.
Mrs W confirmed  that following the adjudicators  view she had not received anything from 
Ald. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make 
the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs W has experienced considerable upset about this matter. I accept its not 
pleasant for anyone to be left with the impression that theyre being held responsible  for 
payments on an agreement not being  made - particularly when theyve been actively  trying 
to ensure that payments  were taken from their account. And to be threatened with the 
possible repossession  of the vehicle  only serves to make the matter more  distressing.
As Ald has accepted  it was in error in the way it dealt with this matter and has credited  Mrs 
Ws account with £150, I neednt go into detail about how the error  occurred.  Its a fact of life 
that errors  to happen from time.
I can also see that Ald, in emails in mid-August 2018,  has  explained to Mrs W that it has 
clarified with the dealer that the delay in payment was due to documents not having been 
completed  and not due to non - payment.
However, I also see that Mrs W was sent a letter dated 20 August  2018 which  referred to an 
overdue balance.  Whilst I accept this was probably  generated automatically  I can see how it 
added to Mrs Ws overall sense of upset. And it wouldve potentially undermined the 
contents of the earlier  correspondence and assurances given.
Ref: DRN38772312And Im aware that in January 2019  Mrs W informed us that Ald had failed to take two 
monthly direct debit payments. So shes again  concerned that it may be thought shes failed 
to make these payments.
Whilst I accept  Ald offered  an apology  in its final response letter - and sought later to clarify  
the position in emails  - I think it should  have  recognised that this hadnt wholly addressed  
Mrs Ws concerns.  Whilst emails are - by and large - a helpful means of communication 
some people may feel they lack the formality  of more traditional  postal correspondence.
I can see Mrs W feels strongly about  these matters. Out of respect  to her feelings I think Ald 
should send a formal letter, by post,  confirming it accepts that the delays in payment were 
not due to her not paying and apologising if any other impression was given.  
my final decision
In order to settle this complaint I require Ald Automotive Limited to send a formal  written 
apology, by post, to Mrs W - in the terms outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3877231