K821x#15complaint
Mr J has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  (UKI) handling of a claim against his 
motor insurance policy.
Reference to UKI includes its agents.
background
UKI contacted Mr J to say that it had received a claim from another  driver who said that 
Mr Js wife, whos a named driver on his policy, had reversed Mr Js car into the other 
drivers car causing damage. Mr J said that no such accident had happened.  UKI paid the 
other drivers  claim. Mr J didn't think that was fair and brought  his complaint to us. 
Our investigator didn't think UKI had handled the matter fairly. So she said it should:
Remove the claim made against  Mr J from the shared insurance database.
Remove the strike  against Mr Js protected no claims bonus.
Refund Mr J the additional  premium he paid as a result of this claim when he 
renewed his policy  together  with 8% interest (simple) from the date the premium  was 
originally paid until the date of settlement.
UKI didn't agree so the complaint's  been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, or to 
say whether or not that accident  took place, as ultimately thats a matter  for the courts.  And, 
like all motor policies, Mr Js policy allows  UKI to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it 
doesnt require  Mr Js consent to decide  how to settle a claim and it may make a decision 
that Mr J doesnt agree  with. But Ill look to see that its done so reasonably.
The alleged accident happened in a car park when  the other driver claimed Mrs J had 
reversed Mr Js car into the other drivers  car. Mr J said that no contact took place between 
the cars.  He provided photos of his car to show that it hadnt  suffered any damage and 
invited UKI to have  an engineer inspect it. UKI didn't inspect  the car. It said it had received 
witness evidence that the incident  happened as the other driver said and so had little choice 
but to pay the claim. But I don't think that decision was reasonable.
The damage to the other drivers car was fairly significant, with damage to several  areas and 
a large crack in the bodywork. So if Mr Js car had caused that damage I would have 
expected there to be some evidence of the collision  on Mr Js car. Mr J says the fact that 
theres no such damage is evidence that the two cars didn't come  together. I have some 
sympathy with Mr Js argument. At the very least I would have expected there to be scuff 
marks in the paintwork of Mr Js car at the points it allegedly hit the other car. So I would 
have expected UKI to ask an engineer to look at Mr Js car to see if it had any signs  of the 
incident. But it didn't do that.
Ref: DRN36289882UKI says it didn't  need  to ask an engineer to look at Mr Js car as it could tell from photos    
Mr J provided  that it hadn't suffered any damage. But I think that supports Mr Js argument, 
because, as I've said above,  given  the significant damage to the other  car, if Mr Js car didn't 
show any damage, I think its unlikely it caused the damage to the other car.
UKI said it had considered the lack of damage to Mr Js car but decided this was because of 
the robust nature of Mr Js car compared to the other drivers car. But while  that might 
explain why Mr Js car didn't sustain  more significant damage,  it doesn't explain why the 
paintwork shows no sign of any impact whatsoever. So I think  that UKI should  have  
inspected Mr Js car to satisfy itself whether or not it had actually been in an accident. But it 
didn't do so and the photos Mr Js provided  supports  his argument that the car wasn't in an 
accident.
I accept its usually the case that a driver  who has a witness to support their version of 
events is more likely to be successful  than a driver who doesn't  have  supporting witness 
evidence should  a liability dispute be decided in court. But if UKI had provided  evidence that 
Mr Js car wasn't in an accident  at all its certainly possible that the claim wouldnt have 
made it to court or the witness evidence could have been successfully  challenged in court.  
While witness  evidence may add weight to a claim, its not the only evidence a court  would 
consider and I think evidence that Mr Js car wasn't in an accident at all would have carried 
significant weight.  But because UKI didn't inspect Mr Js car and instead paid the claim, Mr J 
didn't have the opportunity to present that argument.  And I don't think thats fair.
So to put things right I think  UKI should take the required action to return Mr J to the position 
he would  have been in if the claim against his policy hadn't been  made,  as detailed below.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited  to:
Remove the record of the claim against  Mr J from the shared insurance database.
Reinstate Mr Js NCD as if the claim had not been made.
Recalculate the premium Mr J paid at renewal  as if no claim against him had been  
made. It should refund Mr J the difference between that premium and the amount he 
actually paid. To that sum it should add simple interest at a rate of 8% a year from 
the date Mr J renewed his policy to the date it refunds  him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3628988