K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
2004. Mr S says Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr S took out a mortgage with YBS in 1990  and didnt take PPI at this time. In was in 2004  
when Mr S took a further advance that he was sold PPI. 
Mr S says that PPI wasnt mentioned or discussed at this time and he unknowingly took it 
out. But YBS have  provided me with the separate PPI application form that Mr S completed  
and signed at the time. This contained  Mr Ss details including  his monthly mortgage 
repayment, how much he wanted his PPI benefit to be set at and that he wanted full 
accident, sickness and redundancy  cover. This suggests to me that PPI was discussed at 
the time and that Mr S chose to take it out  even if he doesnt remember  that now,  which  is 
understandable considering the sale was a long time ago. 
Ive also got a copy of his further advance offer which  refers  to the PPI he has chosen to 
take and refers to it being free for the first six months as well as the letter sent in January 
2005 letting him know the free period was ending. Furthermore, YBS have given me a letter  
sent by Mr S in July 2005 asking for the PPI to be cancelled and their confirmation letter  that 
this had happened (also from July 2005). So Im satisfied  Mr S was aware  of the PPI. 
I dont think YBS recommended the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI knowing his existing employee  benefits - and it looks 
like he still wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  
- so it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong, paying out on top of anything 
he would  have got from his employer and for longer than he would have got his full rate of 
pay. And while I dont  doubt Mr Ss family network would have wanted to help, this depended  
on them  being  able to when he needed it most - which  couldnt  be guaranteed. It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable for him once the free period ended.  So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Im really  sorry  to hear that Mr S has been  diagnosed with a serious medical condition and 
that it resulted  in him getting into arrears with his mortgage. But this diagnosis  was a long 
time after he took the PPI and subsequently cancelled  it. So I cant  find YBS at fault for not 
informing him he had insurance  on his mortgage, as at that time he no longer did. 
Ref: DRN31884952Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But YBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  YBS didnt tell Mr S, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr S any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3188495