K821x#15complaint
Miss A has complained  that Hastings Insurance Services  Limited  didnt tell her shed lose a 
years No Claims Discount (NCD) by cancelling and replacing her car insurance policy  with 
it.
background
Miss A bought  a car insurance policy through a broker, Hastings in December  2017.  In July 
2018 Miss A called Hastings to check if she was insured to drive  other  cars. Hastings told 
her she wasnt.  It said Miss A could  replace  her policy with one that provided her with cover 
to drive other cars.  Miss A cancelled her existing  policy and set up a new one. 
In December 2018 Miss A cancelled her policy. Hastings wrote to Miss A to say that her 
NCD had remained at three years. This was the number of years Miss A had when she 
bought a policy in December 2017. Miss A was unhappy about this. She believed shed 
accrued a further year, bringing the total number of NCD years to four.
Hastings said this wasnt correct because Miss A cancelled  her policy  which started in 
December 2017  in July 2018. So she didnt accrue a further years NCD. 
It calculated the difference  in premium between  three and four years NCD at £32. So it paid 
Miss A compensation of £50 for failing to explain that by cancelling her policy  in July 2018, 
her NCD  would begin again at three  years  from this date.
Miss A asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator listened  to the key call from July 
2018 between  Miss A and Hastings. She felt that Hastings should have explained the impact 
the cancellation would have on Miss As NCD. And she believed that if Hastings had, Miss A 
would have most likely decided not to cancel her policy  to replace it with another one that 
insured her to drive other cars. 
So the investigator thought Hastings should  allow Miss A four years  NCD instead of three. 
This is because she cancelled the policy she set up in July 2018 in December  2018.  If shed 
continued with the policy she bought in December 2017, Miss A would have accrued four 
years NCD.  The investigator thought this was a fairer outcome  as the compensation 
Hastings paid Miss A didnt allow her to use four years NCD in the future when she may look 
for insurance.
Miss A accepted  the investigators findings. Hastings didnt agree. It said it was under no 
obligation to tell Miss A that if she cancelled  her policy and bought a new one with it she 
wouldnt earn a years NCD. It said it made it clear it was setting up a new policy  and that its 
general knowledge that a policy  must  be completed  in order  to earn NCD. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it. Ill 
explain why. 
Ref: DRN36833902When Miss A bought  her car insurance policy in December 2017 she received  her policy  
documents. Her policy was called a Hastings  Essential policy.  Miss A wasnt insured to 
drive other cars. 
When Miss A called Hastings in July 2018,  she explained that her car was in a garage and 
needed repair. So she wasnt driving  it. She wanted  to know  if she was insured to drive other 
cars. 
I appreciate that Miss A didnt ask if her NCD would be affected  by the cancellation  and 
replacement policy from a Hastings  Essential  policy to a Hastings  Direct policy. But I think  
the onus was on the agent to explain. In the call the agent explained the cancellation 
process. Because Miss A was buying a replacement policy  through Hastings,  it didnt charge 
her a cancellation fee. The agent explained what Miss A would pay if she cancelled  her 
replacement policy. At one point, the agent pointed out that Miss A hadnt protected  her 
NCD. So although Hastings says it was under no obligation to explain the impact on her 
NCD by cancelling  her policy  mid term, I think it was fair and reasonable of the agent to do 
so. 
Miss A said that if Hastings had explained that by cancelling her policy  in July 2018 shed 
lose a years NCD, she wouldnt have  cancelled it. Miss A sold her car in December 2018  
and was added to her brothers  car insurance  policy as she didnt replace her car. She 
explained that she changed her policy as she wanted to be able to drive a relatives  car if 
she needed to while she wasnt using her car. 
I think Hastings failed  to provide  Miss A with sufficient information to enable her to make an 
informed decision when  she cancelled her existing policy in July 2018  and replaced  it with 
another policy through Hastings. So I dont  think  the compensation Hastings paid Miss A of 
£50 is enough  to put things right. 
I therefore agree with the investigators  recommendation. Miss A had accrued three  years  
NCD when she bought her policy in December  2017. She paid for a further  years  insurance 
until December 2018. So I think a fairer outcome is for Hastings to provide Miss A with a 
letter confirming her NCD allowance at four years.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  this complaint and I require Hastings Insurance  
Services Limited to provide Miss A with a letter confirming that in December 2018 her NCD 
allowance was four years.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3683390