K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc are holding  him liable for transactions  that he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise. 
background
On 25 July 2018 Mr T opened  an account  with HSBC. The following day he credited the 
account with around  £3,000 cash in branch. 
HSBC say they sent Mr T a debit card and PIN number. They say these were sent 
separately and on different days.  Mr T says he didnt receive  the card or PIN. 
On 31 July 2018 the debit  card was activated via telebanking. Mr T says this wasnt him. 
HSBC point out that whoever activated the card would have needed to have known Mr Ts 
date of birth.
HSBC say that the daily cash  point (ATM) withdrawal limit was increased in branch and that 
their policy is that identification  is required to action  such a request. Due to the passage  of 
time, they say the audit notes for when exactly this happened are no longer available. They 
also say they wouldnt  have recorded what form of ID was used. 
Between 31 July and 3 August 2018 most of the £3,000 was withdrawn from Mr Ts account  
by ATM  withdrawals. On 3 August 2018 Mr T says he noticed  the withdrawals and reported 
this to HSBC. 
HSBC investigated  but declined to refund  the money to Mr T. They didnt  think the evidence 
supported that a third party had made the transactions without Mr Ts knowledge  or consent. 
Mr T referred the matter  to our service.
One of our investigators  thought it was more likely than not that Mr T had made or otherwise 
authorised the transactions. So he didnt  recommend that HSBC needed to take any action 
to resolve the complaint. As he still disagrees, Mr T has asked for an ombudsman  to review 
his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for largely the same reasons. Let me explain why.
Generally speaking, HSBC can only hold Mr T liable for the disputed transactions  if the 
evidence suggests  its more likely than not that he made or otherwise authorised them  
himself. 
Im satisfied by the technical evidence provided  by HSBC that Mr Ts genuine  card and PIN 
were used in the disputed  transactions. But Mr T says that he never  received  either  the card 
or the PIN. 
I think there are three main options as to what could have happened here:
Ref: DRN32171872An unknown third party made the transactions;
Someone known  to Mr T made  the transactions without his consent;
Mr T made  or authorised the transactions he disputes;
So, Ill consider  each option and will explain which I think is most likely. 
I dont think it is most  likely that an unknown third party made the transactions.  For this to 
have happened, a fraudster would have had to intercept the post on two occasions to obtain 
both the card and PIN  most likely aware  that Mr T was expecting a new card.
Mr T lives in a house with his family and the letterbox isnt shared with another  property.  And 
even if the post had been intercepted twice, the fraudster would have needed to have known 
Mr Ts date of birth to activate the debit card. And whilst I appreciate that Mr T says this 
could have been obtained through social media.  For the reasons Ive explained  below, I 
dont think this is most likely what happened. 
Ive also thought about whether someone with access to Mr Ts home  address  made  the 
transactions. This could include family  and friends  who might attend the address. Again this 
would have meant that post was intercepted on more than one occasion. Mr T said in a call 
to HSBC that he doesnt discuss his finances  with friends  or family. So again  the person 
responsible wouldnt  have known Mr T was expecting  a new card and PIN. Although I would  
expect close family  and friends to know Mr Ts date of birth and so in this scenario they 
would have been able to activate the card. 
But one of the main  reasons Im not persuaded either of the two above options is likely is 
because the daily ATM withdrawal limit was increased in branch on Mr Ts account. HSBC  
have evidenced  that their policy is that ID is required to authorise  such  a request.  I think its 
more likely than not that the staff would have followed the usual  procedures  and would have 
insisted on ID being provided. 
Due to the passage of time, HSBC cant evidence exactly when this took place. But the 
evidence from the statements  supports  that it did happen as there  are days when up to £970 
was withdrawn. This is considerably above  the standard daily limit on this type of account. 
As HSBC cant evidence when this increase  took place or what  ID was provided, Ive thought 
carefully about this point.  But even  if I accepted  (which I dont)  that the additional ID provided 
was the presentation of the card and PIN in branch, this still wouldnt make  sense if it were 
someone other than Mr T (or another with his authority). If it were  a fraudster increasing the 
daily withdrawal limit through  use of the card and PIN, then they could have requested a 
withdrawal over the counter. So I dont think this is likely  to be what happened. And overall, I 
think its more likely  that other ID was provided and checked to authorise the increase in 
daily ATM  withdrawal limit. 
There was also no further use or attempted use of the card after Mr T reported the matter to 
HSBC. This is despite the account still having a credit balance of around £160. If a third 
party were  responsible for the transactions, I think its likely  they would have tried to 
withdraw the remaining £160. 
This leaves  us with the option that Mr T made or authorised  the transactions  himself, which 
overall, I think is most likely. The only other  way this could have happened is if a known or 
unknown third party:
Ref: DRN32171873intercepted the post on more than one occasion;
knew or obtained Mr Ts date of birth;
attended a branch  and provided  false ID to persuade staff they were Mr T (or HSBC 
failed to follow procedures) to enable an increase  in the ATM  withdrawal limit, but 
decided not to withdraw cash  over the counter at the time;
decided not to attempt to withdraw  the remaining  £160  in the account at the time.
And looking at all the circumstances of this complaint, I think  this is less likely than Mr T 
making or authorising the transactions  himself. It follows  that I think  it is fair for HSBC to hold 
him liable for them.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3217187