K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Legal and General Insurance Limited (L&G) has unfairly declined  a 
building insurance  claim hes made  following an escape of water at a property he owns.
background
I issued a provisional decision o 28 January 2019, part of which  is copied below.
Mr P took out a buildings insurance policy underwritten by L&G. The policy  is branded with 
a third party companys  name but as L&G is ultimately responsible for the complaint, Ill refer 
to it throughout.  References I make to L&G also apply to its agents and the third party  
company.
Mr P purchased a property he intended to rent out. Shortly after he purchased it, there  was 
an escape of water caused  by a burst water pipe.  He made  a claim on his policy  but L&G 
declined it. It said, in summary, the property had been unoccupied at the time of the event 
and because of this, an endorsement  applied  that meant escape of water was not covered 
and so it wasnt going to pay the claim.
Mr P didnt think this was right so he brought his complaint to us. He additionally said he 
hadnt been able to rent the property out because the claim hadnt been paid and therefore 
hed experienced a loss of rental income.  He thought  L&G should pay this as part of the 
claim. 
Our investigator said, in summary, she didnt agree the property was unoccupied (under the 
policy requirement of 30 days) as the previous owner had been in residence  up to 28 days  
before the claim was made. She said that meant the endorsement didnt apply. She also 
didnt think it was fair for the endorsement  to apply from December when the policy was 
incepted as Mr P didnt have an insurable interest in the property until the purchase 
completed in February. 
Because of this she said L&G should reconsider the claim for the escape of water  in line with 
the remaining  terms of the policy. 
She didnt  think however  L&G needed  to cover  the rental income  Mr P said hed lost 
because there was nothing to say he would have had tenants in the property paying rent had 
the event not occurred.  
L&G accepted the investigators conclusions on the loss of rent but asked an ombudsman  to 
make a decision on the claim for the escape of water. Mr P asked an ombudsman  to make a 
decision on the issue of the rent he said hed missed  out on.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached a 
different decision than the investigator. Ill explain my reasoning.
L&G is free to decide what it will and wont cover under the policy  and the terms and 
conditions of the policy will define what those things are. So what I need to decide here is 
Ref: DRN39963472whether L&G has acted within these terms, and what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances
When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them  to show that, on the balance  of 
probabilities, an insured  event caused  the damage. But, when an insurer  wants to apply an 
exclusion or say a condition has not been met and so decline a claim, the onus is on it to 
show, on the balance  of probabilities, that the exclusion  or condition applies.
Ill deal with each  part of Mr Ps claim in turn. 
the claim for the escape  of water
In this case, L&G added an endorsement  to the policy  limiting  cover if the property was 
unoccupied. This is fairly common practice across  the buildings  insurance industry. The 
endorsement forms part of the policy terms and conditions and states;
We will not pay for loss or damage to the buildings under this policy whilst  the 
buildings are unoccupied other than loss or damage  caused by
1. fire
2. lightning
3. earthquake
4. explosion
i. aircraft
ii. other aerial devices  or articles dropped from them
The policy defines  unoccupied as 
not lived in or occupied  overnight by the resident for 30 consecutive  working  days
And it defines resident as 
owner or tenant  legally  occupying any home as shown in the schedule
L&G's approach  has been  to take the start date as when the policy came into effect in 
December 2017.  And as the escape of water wasnt discovered until 6 March 2018 it says 
the policy endorsement applies.  I dont  think this strikes a fair approach  though in this case. 
Mr P didn't  exchange  contracts and complete  the purchase of the property until 9 February 
2018. Before this period I think it's unlikely  that L&G would have considered a claim as Mr P 
didn't have an insurable interest in the property - he didn't own it as legal title remained with 
the vendor until completion. And the vendor (and previous occupier) has provided  written 
confirmation that he was still in the property until the day before completion. So, taking  that 
all into account I think the fair approach is to take the start point for this case as the 
completion date of 9 February 2018. 
The endorsement is 30 working days and so takes the period to around 22 March 2018.  The 
escape of water was discovered within that period so I'm not satisfied it's fair to apply the 
endorsement. 
Because Mr Ps claim was rejected due to the occupancy endorsement, L&G hasnt 
undertaken a full investigation into the claim. Having concluded that this endorsement 
Ref: DRN39963473shouldnt apply in these circumstances, I will be instructing L&G to consider the claim in line 
with the remaining terms and conditions.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys rules covering insurance - set out in ICOBS  (the 
insurance conduct of business sourcebook)  detail the responsibilities  of insurers and 
insurance intermediaries. These rules were in force  when Mr P took out his policy in 
December 2017.
ICOBS 8.1.1 says an insurer must  handle  claims promptly  and fairly. In this case Mr P 
originally made his claim in March  2018 and has experienced considerable delays because  
L&G unfairly rejected  it as Ive explained above. This has undoubtedly caused him some 
inconvenience and Im planning to instruct L&G to pay him £250  to reflect the impact  of the 
delays its caused.
the claim for loss of rent
Mr P planned to rent out the property and it seems likely that he would have done  so if it 
wasnt for the damage caused by the escape  of water. He says hes lost out on rental 
income and this is covered by the policy.
The terms of the policy state 
If the home is damaged by any cause covered under Section 1  Buildings and, as a 
result, cannot be lived in, we will pay for
(a)Loss of rent due to you which you are unable to recover
For reasons Ive explained above,  L&G will be assessing the claim in line with the rest of the 
policy terms and conditions. This may result in it deciding that the claim is covered under 
section 1. If that happens, L&G should  also consider Mr Ps claim for loss of rent in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. 
If Mr P isnt happy with the decision L&G reaches having fully assessed his claim,  he may 
have cause to make a further complaint about this.
the responses to my decision.
L&G said,  in summary, 
it still didnt understand why Mr P had taken out the policy before he had an insurable 
interest in the house
they had no evidence to substantiate  the rent Mr P says hes lost out on
the £250 wasnt justified 
Mr P said,  in summary, the £250 Id said L&G should pay him wasnt enough to reflect the 
trouble and upset  L&G it had caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN39963474Ill deal with each  of the parties points in turn.
Our investigator already responded to L&Gs comments about the start date of the policy. 
She pointed  out Mr P had done nothing  wrong in taking the policy  out before he had an 
insurable interest in the property. I also note, completion of the property purchase was 
delayed unexpectedly so this seems  to me to be a reasonable explanation  as to why the 
policy started before completion. Im not persuaded L&G has said anything here that alters  
my decision.
In my decision Ive said, if when reviewing Mr Ps claim  in the light of this decision, L&G 
decides his claim is covered under  section  1 then it should also consider Mr Ps claim for 
loss of rent. And as I explained, it will be Mr Ps responsibility to prove, on the balance of 
probabilities, the loss of rent should be covered. L&G will, most likely, require supporting 
evidence of his claim.
Ive concluded  above that L&G didnt reach  a fair and reasonable outcome on Mr Ps claim. 
In my opinion, hes therefore  experienced a delay in the matter being settled. Its for this 
reason Ive said it needs to pay Mr P £250 to reflect the delays hes experienced.
Ive listened to the calls Mr P had with our investigators. Without  anything  going wrong, the 
nature of the incident and Mr Ps claim in itself would have caused distress and 
inconvenience that L&G is not either contractually, or fairly responsible  for. But I do accept 
Mr P has experienced additional trouble and upset because of the delays L&G has caused.  
Overall though, I remain of the opinion that £250 fairly reflects  the impact  of these delays 
although I accept  its less than Mr P wants and more than L&G thinks  is right.
In summary,  Im not persuaded by either partys arguments, to change my decision.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  Mr Ps complaint and tell Legal  and General 
Insurance Limited to 
assess Mr Ps claim for the escape  of water  and loss of rent in line with the rest of the 
policy terms and conditions
pay Mr P £250 for the trouble and upset its caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3996347