K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the interest rate on his e-saver account with Sainsburys Bank Plc. He 
says he noticed  the same account was advertised as having  a higher rate of interest than he 
was receiving. 
He wants to be compensated  for the difference.
background
Mr H says the terms and conditions of his account say that the interest rate is variable and 
that he will be notified of any changes.  But he noticed a higher interest rate was being 
advertised and he hadnt  been told. He says that, if hed been  notified, hed have opened  a 
new account to obtain the higher rate. Although he thinks  the new rate should be 
automatically applied  to his account.  
Mr H also says he isnt happy  with the way he was spoken to when he phoned Sainsburys 
about this.
Sainsburys said the rate of interest on his account hadnt changed. It offered an increased 
rate to new customers and it wasnt its policy to tell its existing  customers  about these rates. 
It said its member  of staff had spoken  to Mr H in an appropriate manner.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H opened an e-saver special account  at the end of May 2018. A few weeks  later, he 
noticed the same account was advertised with a higher rate of interest. So he phoned  
Sainsburys to find out why he hadnt been notified  that the rate had changed, in accordance 
with the account terms and conditions.
Sainsburys told him the higher rate was only available to new account  holders. 
Mr H told us the account has the same name  so the same rate should be payable. Ive 
considered what  hes said - that it wouldve  been clear if the accounts were  named, for 
example, e-saver special account 1, e-saver special account 2, and so on. But I find its clear  
from Sainsburys website that the higher rate only applies to those accounts opened on or 
after a particular date.  
The rate on Mr Hs existing account  did not change.  So there was no obligation on 
Sainsburys to notify him of the higher rates.
Mr H complained about the way he was spoken to when he phoned  Sainsburys to discuss  
this. Ive listened to a recording of the phone call. Im sorry, but I dont agree with Mr H. I 
conclude that he was spoken  to in an appropriate  manner. He clearly wasnt  happy  with 
speaking to that individual and he decided to re-dial to speak to another  member of staff.  
That member of staff offered him £15 to compensate him for the inconvenience of having  to 
call again. Whilst at the time Mr H said he felt insulted by this offer if he now decides,  on 
reflection, he would like to accept it, he can contact Sainsburys to arrange payment.
Ref: DRN30548182my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3054818