K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  National House-Building  Council  (NHBC). It provided 
a warranty for their home  (theyve since moved) and handled a claim in relation to that 
property under the warranty. Mr and Mrs W believe that NHBC handled the claim poorly 
causing them various financial losses.
background
The warranty began in 2000. Mr and Mrs W made a claim in 2005  when  they noticed their 
concrete floor was cracked. The claim was declined at that time as it was felt the crack 
wasnt structurally significant  (so not covered  by the policy). However,  into 2011 NHBC had 
further reports of issues  with the floors in other properties on the same development and it 
got back in touch with Mr and Mrs W. Following further investigations being carried  out it was 
decided that the floor slab needed  replacing.
Mr and Mrs W moved out of their home in November 2013 to allow for the repairs. It was felt 
these would complete  by May 2014.  The alternative  accommodation was arranged by the 
developer (rather than NHBC) and NHBC agreed to cover the cost of a years  lease, from 
November 2013  to November 2014.
In May 2014  NHBC felt the repairs were  complete  and a meeting took place at the property 
with Mr W. Some  snagging issues were noted  primarily some  finishing on the kitchen 
cabinet corners and tiling in the bathroom.  NHBC said it would arrange for the garden to be 
tidied, to re-lay the carpets and to fix the agreed snagging issues.  It said,  in an email dated 
25 June 2014,  that the home  was ready  to be re-occupied and it wouldnt pay council tax 
beyond 31 July 2014.
Into July the garden was done  and it was reported that the fixtures  of the home had been 
re-fitted. In August it became  apparent  the fixtures hadnt been  re-fitted.  Mr and Mrs W 
identified other snagging  issues too, such as radiators needing painting. They said their 
lease on the alternative accommodation was nearly  up and reminded NHBC it had always 
been their intention to sell their current house  once it was fully reinstated. They  said they 
needed it in show  home condition  complete with all fixtures   in order  to market and sell it 
at the optimum price.  Mr and Mrs W said it was highly unlikely it could now be sold before the 
lease was up and theyd have to extend the lease  for six-months.  They said they expected 
NHBC to reimburse this to them, as well as cover their additional bills (the alternative  
accommodation was bigger and more costly to run than their home), and council tax on their 
home (the exemption period for unoccupied  properties had expired).
Mr W also asked  NHBC  what it was going to do about dampness in the kitchen. He said this 
had been caused by the contractors breaching the damp proof course and it was meant to 
have been rectified.  NHBC said it had been  rectified and it had seen proof of this. Mr W didnt 
challenge NHBC on this point again.
In November 2014 NHBC issued a final response  letter to Mr and Mrs W. In the letter NHBC 
noted that discussions were on-going regarding settlement  for replacing the carpets  (that it 
hadnt been able to satisfactorily re-lay),  as well as costs for other work such as re-fitting a 
light and painting the radiators. NHBC said it would pay £1,500 compensation as it felt there  
had been some delay in resolving matters. NHBC also said that it would pay for an additional 
two months rent, but not the full six-months of the lease. It said the home had been habitable 
since September 2014.
Ref: DRN38176882Following this letter the parties continued to correspond over matters. In January 2015 
agreement was reached on settlement for the outstanding repair/reinstatement issues.  Into 
February and March 2015 agreement was reached on payment for extra usage costs and the 
council tax costs  (the latter  of which NHBC covered until the end of March  2015). Mr W 
notified NHBC that the house was under offer with its sale due to complete in April 2015.
On 9 April NHBC  noted that the house appeared to have sold as it seemed to have new 
occupants. Later that month  it settled costs in relation  to a further snagging issue raised by 
Mr and Mrs W. Mr and Mrs W then did a subject  access  request (SAR) regarding data held 
on NHBCs files. Following receipt  of that they contacted NHBC. They said the content 
showed lies and mistreatment. They said these lies had contributed to the complexity  and 
length of their claim, and this had caused  them a loss of earnings. They felt the data also 
raised concerns  about how NHBC deals and communicates with developers and the like.
Mr W then issued court proceedings regarding his lost earnings. In the claim submission to 
the court he said his business had turned away work it would otherwise have done because 
he had been dealing with NHBCs claim. He said the business  lost around ten days of work 
with its average earnings being £4,000 per week. The court claim was later dismissed 
because the court felt the rightful claimant should  have been  Mr Ws business (a limited  
company) not himself.
Mr and Mrs W remained unhappy with NHBC. In December 2016  they wrote  to it and said 
they felt it was responsible for the additional rent theyd had to pay on the rental property, 
earnings theyd  lost and for compensation to account for upset caused to them.  Some 
correspondence then occurred via NHBCs solicitors.
In October  2017 Mr and Mrs W wrote to NHBC  again. They said NHBC had shown no regard 
to them  for the cost of its failures. They  stated  that whilst their home had sold in
April 2015 that had been at a loss against  the value they would likely have achieved if theyd 
been able to market it earlier (which the necessity for a repair  and/or  NHBCs delays  in 
carrying that out had prevented them from doing).
A further  final response was issued by NHBC in December  2017. In short the letter denied 
liability for any further rental costs, any lost earnings and any diminution in value of the sold 
property. Mr and Mrs W then complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  feel that NHBC needed  to pay anything  more. Mr and Mrs W were 
unhappy about this. They asked for an ombudsmans consideration. I issued a provisional 
decision. My findings were:
what I can and cant look at
I will consider  Mr and Mrs Ws claim regarding loss of earnings. But, as I set out above, it 
seems that it isnt necessarily Mr and Mrs Ws earnings that are being  complained  about (or 
not only theirs).  The limited company owned by Mr and Mrs W is not a customer or potential 
customer of NHBCs,  or a person for whose benefit the policy  was arranged.  Not in relation 
to the warranty at the heart of this complaint. This means the limited company isnt eligible to 
complain to us and I cant consider any complaint about any loss it allegedly incurred; such 
as not being  able to take on projects and thereby losing the benefit of any income from them.
I also cant look at whether NHBCs handling of the claim caused Mr and Mrs W any distress  
and inconvenience  (separate to any concerns they have about financial losses).  NHBC 
Ref: DRN38176883addressed the issue of distress and inconvenience in its final response issued in 2014. It 
didnt ever re-open that issue or comment on it again in its subsequent final responses. 
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  to us, made  in 2018, was made more than six months after the 
2014 letter  and our rules say we cant consider complaints addressed  in a final response 
more than six months after that final response was issued. Not unless the business  
consented to us doing so, or exceptional circumstances prevailed which prevented  the 
complaint being  made within the required timeframe.
NHBC hasnt consented  to us looking at any complaint  about  compensation. And it didnt, 
unlike some other subjects in the 2014 letter, re-set the referral clock  at any time by issuing 
further final responses. Nor have I seen  that any exceptional circumstances prevented  this 
part of the complaint being made to us before 2018. In fact as so much  other  activity  
continued, I think Mr and Mrs W could easily have referred this part of their complaint to us in 
good time but didnt do so. Therefore, I cant look at anything to do with compensation for 
upset caused  by delays in the claim up to November 2014.
But I can consider  upset caused  by activity that occurred  after the 2014 final response letter.
However, I also need to separate  the claim upset (pre-November 2014) from any distress  
and inconvenience  that Mr and Mr W may have been caused in relation to the detail about 
their claim they found following the SAR. The activity that detail related to occurred during 
the period I cant consider, so I wont consider upset  generated by the activity  itself. But part 
of the complaint about the SAR is that the detail provided showed unprofessional  conduct 
(my summary  term). So Ill look at upset caused by Mr and Mrs Ws discovery of that. Plus Ill 
consider whether the detail found did likely lead to any loss of earnings for Mr and Mrs W 
(not the limited  company). Because that is a financial loss that may or may not need 
compensating for and NHBC didnt give a final response on this issue  until December 2017.
Ill also look at the rental costs and lost value. Whilst the rental costs were considered in the 
2014 response, NHBC accepts that it re-opened this issue by continuing  to discuss  it. It then 
issued further  referral rights for Mr and Mrs W to come to this service in respect of this issue 
in its letter of December  2017. The same letter also gave NHBCs first final response on the 
loss of value issue.
Whilst this service often issues separate decisions to deal with jurisdictional and merits 
points separately,  Im mindful of the age of the original claim at the heart of this matter.  Im 
also mindful that I am satisfied I can consider the main issues  that Mr and Mrs W have 
complained about to us in 2018  rental  costs,  misconduct leading to lost earnings and 
diminution in the value  of the property  they sold. Therefore, I will continue  now to consider 
those matters.
rental costs
Looking at the detail of what  issues remained outstanding in May 2014, I think the house was 
habitable at that time,  I understand that Mr and Mrs W didnt want to move  back   and had 
no intention of doing so as theyd  settled in the area theyd chosen to go and live in in 2013. 
But, with only minor  snagging  issues outstanding, and fitment required  of the fixtures,  the 
home wasnt uninhabitable. I also dont think it was in such a poor state that it wouldnt have 
been possible to start marketing it for sale. Its possible  that marketing at that point would 
have meant  interest  in it was limited and/or that the best price wouldnt have been achieved  
but I dont think  its fair to say it couldnt  reasonably be marketed.
Ref: DRN38176884It was because the property hadnt  been sold (and only put on the market in October 2014) 
that Mr and Mrs W took on a further six-month lease for the rental property. Given  what Ive 
said above, I dont  think its fair to blame  NHBCs delays in resolving the snagging issues for 
Mr and Mrs Ws perceived need  to delay the marketing of the home for sale.  As such  I dont 
think its fair to say that NHBC reasonably has to reimburse them for the cost of the extra 
rental period. NHBC has paid them an amount  which reflects the cost of their rent for two of 
the six-months. I think thats more than reasonable. If NHBC had refused to meet any of this 
cost Id likely  have  said that was reasonable. And I say that even knowing that NHBC 
accepts it could have  handled the snagging issues more efficiently and with better 
communication.
SAR information
I see Mr and Mrs Ws points in this respect  as broadly fitting into two areas.  The first being 
that NHBC lied and/or mis-spoke about them (unprofessional conduct), which  they feel 
caused issues/delays with their claim and/or a claim they had/have with the developer. The 
second being that the evidence brings into question the business relationship NHBC has with 
other companies and the way this operates.
business relationship  Dealing with the second  point  first; Im not going to comment on 
these concerns. My role here is to look at how NHBCs  actions  affected  Mr and Mrs W and/or 
their claim. It isnt this services role to consider how businesses operate or change the way 
they do business, that is more the role of the regulator.
unprofessional conduct  Mr and Mrs W had asked that their claim handler  was changed. 
This occurred but the SAR showed that the original claim handler  had remained involved with 
their claim.
I appreciate that this may have  been upsetting and/or frustrating for Mr and Mrs W to find 
out. But I havent seen that this materially and negatively affected  their claim. I understand 
they felt they couldnt trust this person and I know theyre unhappy with some of the 
comments and opinions  theyre now aware he shared  and made with colleagues. However, 
I dont see that anything he did caused delays  or meant they received less than they were  
entitled to.
I know that in respect of the second  claim handler, Mr and Mrs W felt he lied about when the 
property was handed back to them following the works.  They said this affected the claim they 
have/had with the developer.
This person told NHBC that the property had been  handed back to Mr and Mrs W on
31 July 2014.  At this time they were out of the country.  In fact a formal handover of keys 
didnt occur until February 2015.  So I think, strictly speaking, that person was wrong to say 
the handover  occurred  in July 2014.
However, I havent seen  that this comment had any negative affect either with
Mr and Mrs Ws claim or with anything  that was or is on-going against the developer.  
Regarding their claim, I know correspondence continued over the summer of 2014  and even  
beyond the final response NHBC issued in November 2014. The snagging issues were the 
main focus  of that correspondence but extending the rental  period  and sale of the home were 
discussed at points too. All in all I dont think the existence of this misinformation generated 
much, if any, correspondence that wouldnt have occurred anyway.
Ref: DRN38176885Further, whilst the statement wasnt strictly true, Im not persuaded it was an unreasonable 
assessment of the situation. I say that because the house was deemed  habitable  and
Mr and Mrs W had been told it was in state that NHBC  felt was ready to move  into, with 
some snagging  issues  having recently  been completed.
I do accept that opinions being shared by NHBC staff that werent entirely kind and were 
largely subjective were  upsetting for Mr and Mrs W to see. I think  these comments  do show  a 
lack of professionalism  although  I accept  that NHBC, when being asked to make 
essentially compensatory payments for claimed  financial losses,  does have to make some  
judgement calls about the necessity of those losses/payments.
loss of earnings
As I said above, I dont  see that the comments that have caused Mr and Mrs W concern led 
to much extra correspondence of their own.  So I cant reasonably  conclude,  at this stage,  
that the comments caused Mr and Mrs W to spend  time  possibly as much  as ten days   
researching and replying  to NHBC.
Furthermore, even if I was persuaded regarding the above, Im mindful that I havent seen 
evidence that Mr and Mrs W actually lost earnings.  For example, I havent  seen that they 
draw a wage from the company and that they werent  paid for certain  days  because they 
didnt work.
In addition, this service doesnt  routinely  make  awards for lost earnings.  And Im mindful that 
a complainant, in this sort of situation,  is making a conscious choice to pursue the claim over 
and above the alternative  of earning  money.  Im not persuaded that in the circumstances 
here, if Mr and Mrs W did make that choice, that its then fair or reasonable to place the 
resultant, and clearly  foreseeable  loss, at NHBCs door.
diminution in value
Mr and Mrs W say that before the repair the house was valued at around £40,000 more  than 
what it sold for in 2015. The house  was sold for the asking price,  but they argue they could 
have asked for more  if the property had been marketed earlier (at a more premium  time of 
year).
Ive said above  that I think  the property could reasonably have  been  marketed in May 2014. 
Im not persuaded its reasonable to blame  NHBC for Mr and Mrs Ws belief that the property 
needed to be in show-home condition before marketing or their decision not to do so 
because they didnt think it was. They seem to have been aware that putting it on the market  
at the right time of year would maximise  the sale price, but they didnt do so because  they felt 
it needed to be in better condition to achieve the best value. I think  they took a greater 
financial risk by waiting  than by marketing the property earlier,  even given the snagging 
issues outstanding.  I dont think its fair to say NHBC has to pick up any financial loss that 
resulted.
In saying that Id add that I havent seen evidence that persuades me there was an actual 
financial loss/diminution  in value. Knowing what an estate agent valued  it at some years  
before it was sold, and the sale price achieved doesnt prove that the higher sale price 
couldve been achieved.  To be able to reasonably  say, notwithstanding what  Ive said above,  
that a loss occurred,  Id have to be satisfied when it was likely the property  would have sold if 
put on the market  in 2014, what the price would likely have been  in both the state it was in 
Ref: DRN38176886in 2014 and the fully repaired  state  it should  have been in.  Only  then could I see if the sale 
price that should  have  been achieved was likely less than what  was obtained.
compensation (including claim handling post November  2014)
A lot of correspondence  occurred after November 2014, and various  further claims for the 
reimbursement of loss payments were  made.  I think NHBC  generally  handled  things 
reasonably during this period. It responded to correspondence in good time and answered  
questions asked. It did, at times, ask for further  evidence but it explained why this was 
necessary. In my view its correspondence  was clear, reasonable and timely.
I appreciate, as I said above,  that when Mr and Mrs W saw the content of the SAR data 
some upset was caused by some of the comments they discovered had been made about 
them. But Im not minded  to make NHBC compensate them for this. As is I said above, the 
comments werent ideal but the considerations behind them were necessary for the claim.
Overall, whilst I appreciate that this has been a long,  and at times,  frustrating situation  for 
Mr and Mrs W to be in, Im not persuaded I can reasonably require NHBC  to pay them any 
compensation. I say that in light of the constraints Ive explained above,  and which I have to 
abide by, and because I dont think it did anything  wrong after November 2014  to cause any 
additional upset,  such that would warrant an award  of compensation.
In response, NHBC said it had no comment to make. Mr and Mrs W said they didnt agree 
with my decision. They made several  points in reply, including  that NHBC had broken an 
agreement made with them, when they agreed to it carrying out repair, to return their house 
to them  in nothing  less than immaculate condition.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party objected  to what I said provisionally  about what I felt I can and cant consider. 
Ive reviewed those findings  and Im satisfied by what I said. They now form part of the 
findings of this final decision.
Mr and Mrs W said they only allowed NHBC to carry out a repair to their home upon 
agreement of a number of conditions. They said it was well aware from the outset what  it 
needed to do and it was easy to foresee consequences that would likely occur if it didnt 
meet those conditions.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W wanted  their repair to go smoothly, particularly as they seem 
to have been aware of other  repairs in the area that had been  problematic. But even if NHBC 
did fail them by not meeting an agreement made,  for me to make an award against it in that 
respect, Id still have to be satisfied  that Mr and Mrs W acted reasonably to mitigate their 
situation even  in light of that failure. I remain of the view that they could reasonably have  
marketed the house  in May 2014.  If they had and thered then been delays in it selling due to 
the outstanding repairs, NHBC may have had to compensate them for that. But choosing  not 
to market it and instead  await  the consequences, which Mr and Mrs W have said were  
always and clearly likely to occur  as a result  of any delay, isnt acting reasonably  to mitigate  
any failure by NHBC. 
Ref: DRN38176887Whilst NHBC agreed to cover an extra two months rent, Mr and Mrs W have argued that it 
was four months  after the original end date for the lease that NHBC gave them  the keys back 
for their home. Im aware, and was aware  when I issued my provisional  decision, that NHBC  
didnt pass its set of keys for the home back to them until February 2015. But that doesnt  
change the fact that Mr and Mrs W could have asked for the keys at any time, including 
around May 2014  to allow them to place the house  on the market. And Im mindful that 
regardless of any initial agreement that may have  existed,  or any expectation that created for 
Mr and Mrs W, in July 2014 NHBC  clearly told them its liability for additional costs would end 
as the house was, in its view, habitable.  I remain  of the view that their extended rental costs 
and the point at which  they sold their home, along with the price they achieved  for it, resulted 
from their choice not to market the property in May 2014. 
Mr and Mrs W said they assisted with repairs wherever possible, I dont doubt that is the 
case. But it doesnt change or impact on anything Ive said.
Mr and Mrs W dispute that NHBC answered all correspondence in good time. They said 
around the time they see as the crucial period, during which they had to decide whether or 
not to extend their lease, NHBC was taking around six weeks to reply. I explained 
provisionally that I could  only look at NHBCs  general claim handling from November 2014 
onwards. I remain of the view that after this time NHBCs correspondence was clear,  
reasonable and timely.
Whilst I appreciate this will be disappointing  for Mr and Mrs W, their comments  havent  
caused me to change  my provisional  findings.  My provisional findings now form part of this 
final decision. I dont  uphold their complaint.
my final decision
There are some aspects of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, as explained  above,  that Im satisfied 
I cant consider. Therefore, I havent considered their merits.
For the parts of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint that Im satisfied I can and, therefore,  have  
considered; for the reasons stated provisionally  and finally, I dont uphold them. I dont make 
any award against National House-Building Council.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3817688