K821x#15complaint
Mr E complains that Stagemount Limited trading as QuidMarket was irresponsible by lending  
to him in 2014  and 2015 without carrying  out the checks  which  would have shown he was 
not able to afford these loans.
background
The background is set out in detail in my second  provisional decision a copy  of which  is 
attached to this final determination and forms part of it. That has been  amended  by insertion 
of one word for Loan 3. QuidMarket had been  emailed about  this word omission separately.  
It makes  sense  to make  that amendment here for clarity. 
My second  provisional  decision  replaced  entirely  my first and both parties  were  given time to 
consider it. Both were invited to respond  and to make comment  or send in additional 
evidence by 22 January 2019.  This was extended and the new deadline was 
1 February 2019.  
Mr E telephoned one of our adjudicators  to say that he had nothing  further  to add.
QuidMarket sent a detailed response. I could  have summarised all of QuidMarkets 
additional points,  but I have chosen  not to. QuidMarket  needs to be aware  that I have taken 
all its points into account. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
There are also other considerations which this Service is required  to take into account when 
making determinations on complaints. The Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) Dispute 
Resolution Rule DISP  3.6.1R augments the statutory authority within the Financial  Service 
and Markets Act 2000 (as amended), The Ombudsman will determine a complaint by 
reference to what  is, in his opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case.  
So the remit I have  is wide.  
And DISP  3.6.4R goes  on to explain  that In considering what  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case,  the Ombudsman  will take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators' rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate)  what  he considers  to have been good industry practice  at the 
relevant time.
The Office  of Fair Trading  Irresponsible Lending  Guide (ILG) had been published and 
many of its guidance on creditworthiness assessments  were  referred to in the subsequent 
FCA Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC).  An example is where the extent and scope of 
the required creditworthiness assessment  required in CONC 5.2.1R is expanded upon in 
CONC 5.2.3G and refers  back  to the ILG paragraph 4.10. So the ILG remained valid and 
pertinent after April 2014 when the FCA rules were  introduced. I clarify this point. 
Ref: DRN30555202Mr Es response 
I am content  that Mr E has received my second  provisional decision. He has not sent me 
anything further  or made any comment other  than to enquire on timelines.  
QuidMarkets response
QuidMarket has referred  me to earlier determinations published on our website and referred 
to by the FCA in open correspondence  to businesses. I do wish QuidMarket to know that 
I am very aware of those  decisions  and this correspondence but I thank it for the referral  in 
any event. 
Each complaint is looked at on its own merits. Mr Es circumstances and his complaint are 
being considered by me as an individual case.  So it is not necessarily the case that the 
outcome will be an uphold  from Loan  5 or Loan  7 to mirror those published  decisions.  And it 
is not the case that for me to uphold Mr Es complaint from Loan 3 means that my 
provisional decision was out of line with our approach  to these cases.
In response to QuidMarkets other points then I have  considered them  all and I do not intend 
to alter the provisional  findings in the attached provisional decision. 
  
Some of the reasons for this are set out below but I am conscious  that most  of these points 
have been dealt with in my provisional decision and reasons have been given already. 
Therefore these additional explanations by me are relatively brief and are to be read in 
conjunction with my provisional findings.  
expenditure
QuidMarkets letter to Mr E after he had complained to it says:
We specifically asked  you for details of your disposable income after expenditure for 
your first loans. You advised that it was roughly £900 for each of these applications. 
For your final loan,  we asked detailed questions about your expenditure, you again 
failed to inform  us of these expenses.
I asked QuidMarket about these details and if it could  send  me that expenditure information  
given by Mr E at the time he applied. It was not able to due to lack of records following a 
change in its internal  processes. So I was no clearer. 
QuidMarket explained  that Mr S monthly disposable income  after expenditure was £900  
and made  reference  to an underwriters note to demonstrate  this. It relies on this one note 
from April 2014, but I do not think that this is clear at all. QuidMarket says that I have 
chosen to ignore its underwriters note and so I set out a large part of that note from the first 
loan application  in April 2014. In later notes there  are no references to £900.  
DOB Confirmed- £0o/s,  £2500 stated income, £900 - customer  has no red matching , 
Customer not advised is in financial hardship -checked PDDB  confirmed paydays are 
the 27th off each  month -Funding approved - customer  also has work email address 
customer used to do app
Ref: DRN30555203And due to the lack of historic information QuidMarket is able to supply me  which  
I appreciate may be frustrating for it but remains the factual situation  I do not see how this 
underwriters note shows me that Mr Es disposable income was £900. It does not do that. 
And so it remains unclear  to me whether  Mr E gave QuidMarket this figure or QuidMarket 
calculated this figure, and if so how it did so. I have seen the application  forms and for all but 
the last loan no figures were given for the expenditure  categories  listed  in those forms. 
I explained my views on this in my second provisional decision.  
And QuidMarkets  comment in the letter  to Mr E that he again failed to inform  us of these  
expenses suggests  that it may not have  had any details  to share with me even if it had 
access to those older records. 
QuidMarket has no other  details to explain or expand  further  and so I have made my 
provisional decision, and this decision, based  on what  has been presented to me. 
credit bureau searches 
I changed my view from my first provisional  decision to my second provisional decision in 
relation to the actual credit bureau  search  results  QuidMarket  had at the time it received 
Mr Es applications. This makes a difference on the outcome to Loan 2 but not for Loan 3.
I have explained  this in my second  provisional  decision and my view remains  the same.  So 
I have not chosen to discount the information  in relation to the credit bureau searches as 
QuidMarket suggests.  
proportionate checks 
By Loan 5 I would have expected a full financial review to have been carried out by 
QuidMarket before approving it and the loans taken after Loan 5. It was the fifth application  
in four months  and for a larger sum - £450 with about £591  to repay. 
So I think that QuidMarket  ought to have  known about Mr Es income and verified  it, checked  
his regular expenditure and his regular financial commitments and any STL liabilities  Mr E 
may have  had at the time. I do not think that these proportionate checks  were  carried out. 
I have expanded on this in my provisional  findings  and my views remain the same.  
citation
QuidMarket has expressed  concern that I have cited in my second provisional  decision its 
own submissions sent to this service  to defend the complaint. The highlighted  sentence 
related to QuidMarkets  explanation that it lends to consumers where other lenders will not 
and it services this sector. 
QuidMarket suggests  that by doing  this I have implied  that enhanced levels of checks should 
have been made. QuidMarkets view of my provisional decision findings  have been made  
clear but it does not put forward anything additional for me to consider or explain why it takes  
objection to me using  its own submissions  made  to us. So I make  no additional comment. 
Ref: DRN30555204my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my second  provisional decision dated 8 January  2019, 
I uphold Mr Es complaint  in part. 
Stagemount Limited, trading as QuidMarket, should put things right for Mr E in the way 
I have set out in that provisional  decision which is attached and forms part of this final 
determination.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  on or before 14 March 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30555205second provisional decision  dated 8 January 2019  
(amended for Loan 3 by insertion  of one word  in bold)
background
Mr E had explained  that he had to get loans to repay loans. He says that proper checks  would have 
shown he had lots of other  payday loans at the time and by lending to him he become more trapped 
in a place of crippling debt. 
Information from QuidMarket and Mr E has been used to create  this table and I plan to refer to the 
loans by the corresponding  numbers in it. 
Loan Date approved Amount Amount repaid 
(rounded)Date repaid  (as seen 
debiting Mr Es 
account) 
1 15 April 2014 £150 £193 28 April 2014
2 28 April 2014 £225 £295 28 May 2014
3 30 May 2014 £300 £390 27 June 2014
4 27 June 2014 £375 £488 25 July 2014
5 1 August 2014 £450 £591 28 August 2014
6 29 August 2014 £500 £650 29 September 2014
7 29 September 2014 £550 £715 28 October 2014
8 27 October 2014 £550 £736 28 November 2014
9 1 December 2014 £550 £707 29 December 2014
10 24 December 2014 £550 £757 27 January 2015 - from 
QuidMarket information
11 16 July 2015 £299 £452 repayable over 
4 monthsQuidMarket has said 
there is some still 
outstanding
The highlighted loans 9 and 10 are those which  QuidMarket  have accepted  it needs  to put things right 
for Mr E. So I do not plan to review them other than endorsing the complaint uphold for those two 
loans.
Our adjudicator considered  the complaint and he thought that all of the loans should be upheld.
QuidMarket did not agree and the complaint remained unresolved and so it was allocated  to me for a 
decision. 
my first set of provisional findings
I considered the available evidence, and the submissions and documents  from Mr E, together with the 
documents sent from QuidMarket. I made provisional findings to decide whats fair and reasonable  in 
the circumstances of this complaint.  
My findings  led to me making a provisional decision  that I was planning  to uphold Loans 2 to 8 plus 
I endorsed the offer from QuidMarket to uphold Loans 9 and 10. 
But the QuidMarket credit  reference reports results I have read and having seen and carefully 
considered the information  QuidMarket did have at the time, I have decided to alter some of the 
provisional findings  for some of the loans in these particular circumstances. I will explain in the next 
section. The change is likely  to make a difference in relation to the outcome for Loan 2 only,  as still I 
think that loans 3 to 8 were  unaffordable. QuidMarkets offer for Loans 9 and 10 still stand. 
Ref: DRN30555206Mr Es responses
Mr Es responses to the provisional decision  mainly related to Loan  11. I emailed  QuidMarket about 
Loan 11 to get additional information and it has clarified  the situation.  It seems  that some money is 
outstanding and I will leave  it to the parties  to finalise  how this is rectified. 
Loans 1 to 10 Mr E did not seem to take particular  issue. 
QuidMarkets responses
1.QuidMarket has pointed out that some  credit reference  searches I said we had not received 
was incorrect.  I have  emailed QuidMarket about that separately. 
QuidMarket goes on to say: It is not reasonable  for QuidMarket  to be held responsible for 
decisions it made  in good faith based upon  the information available to it at the time of the 
applications. (QuidMarkets emphasis  not mine). 
QuidMarket challenges my provisional findings in my provisional decision that the information 
regarding Mr Es County Court Judgments (CCJs) would have  been revealed by its own credit 
searches. It refers to the specific credit  searches it carried  out to demonstrate that those  CCJs I 
referred to in my provisional decision were  not revealed. 
2.QuidMarket has used  a figure of £900 which it described as being  Mr Es disposable income  
after expenditure had been  deducted.  I have asked it about this and so QuidMarket has sent 
me some  account notes to show where  the reference  to £900  has come from.  
3.QuidMarket points  out that the nature  of the loans  it offered were designed for persons  
usually not able to obtain credit  from the mainstream  lending institutions. The Banks will not 
provide a service to these consumers, and therefore  companies such  as ours service this 
sector, helping where other lenders  will not.  From  this it seems clear  that QuidMarket knew 
the market in which it was dealing and this, in my view, is important when  considering Loan 3 
as I will explain below. 
I have reviewed the complaint with all this information in addition to what I had before
this set of provisional findings
I have reconsidered all the available evidence  and arguments  to decide what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the loans were offered.
Before lending  money  to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand whether  
the consumer will be able to repay what they are borrowing in a sustainable manner without it 
adversely impacting on their financial  situation.  
A lender  should gather  enough information for it to be able to make an informed decision on the 
lending. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did not set out compulsory checks, they did list 
a number of things  a lender could take into account before agreeing  to lend. 
The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take into account a 
number of different things,  including how much was being lent and when  the sum being borrowed was 
due to be repaid.
I looked  at Mr Es personal credit file and Mr Es bank statements. From these  I can see that prior to 
the approval  of the first loan Mr E had a County  Court  Judgment (CCJ)  (judgment date was 5 
September 2013 for £5,500) and had arrangements with six debt collection agencies and had 
numerous repayment plans  set up. In addition  he had an earlier CCJ (Judgment date 27 July 2012 for 
£3,240). 
Ref: DRN30555207As I know that public information of that nature is easily available and easily found  when credit 
searches are carried out and remain on a persons  record for six years, then I do anticipate that any 
searches carried out in April 2014 would have revealed  both of these CCJs. 
I remain of the view that public  information such as CCJs  are likely  to be revealed  on credit searches  
if it is carried out within  six years  of that judgment. The credit bureau search  results QuidMarket 
carried out in April 2014 (and afterwards) do not reveal them. Whilst I think that this is very unusual,  
I have had to consider  whether the checks QuidMarket carried out for each loan were proportionate 
and to try to reconstruct,  so far as I am able,  the information it had at the time the lending decisions 
were made, and come to my provisional  decision  being fair to both parties. 
This has not been an easy  decision for me and I do realise that the alteration in relation to the 
outcome for Loan  2 will be a disappointment to Mr E. I have had to consider the information Mr E told 
QuidMarket, the possibility that Mr E may not have told QuidMarket some information and the lack of 
records surrounding those  contemporaneous application  records.  I have also had to consider the very 
different picture  presented  by QuidMarkets credit bureau searches to the picture presented by Mr Es 
personal credit file. I have had to assimilate  this information and look at the proportionate checks  we 
would have expected QuidMarket to have carried  out at the time. So overall I have decided  to 
proceed on the basis that QuidMarket  did not have information  about  Mr Es CCJs.  
Proportionate checks do not necessarily mean that there ought to have been a full and 
comprehensive review  of an applicants financial  situation  in the early days of any lending relationship 
unless particular circumstances suggest that ought to have taken place. 
Loan 1
This was Mr Es first loan application to QuidMarket. It was for £150 with a repayment  sum of around 
£193 two weeks later. Mr E had told QuidMarket that his net monthly income was £2,500 and I have 
seen account notes making reference  to a £900 figure. It is unclear what  that figure  relates to. It is 
more relevant for Loan 2 which I will come  on to. 
For Loan  1, I consider that the proportionate check for this first loan for a relatively low repayment 
sum when compared to a £2,500 income  bracket was that QuidMarket ought to have known Mr Es 
income. It did have that. 
I am planning  not to uphold Mr Es complaint in relation to Loan 1. 
Loan 2
This loan was applied for very soon after repaying Loan 1 in late April 2014.  It looks  like the 
repayment for Loan 1 debited Mr Es bank account on the day that Loan 2 credited  his account. Loan 
2 was for a larger amount  and the repayment  sum due at the end of May 2014 was £295.  With the 
declared income Mr E had given to QuidMarket of £2,500 then in proportion to the repayment  sum of 
£295, I would have expected  it to have known about his normal monthly  living costs and regular 
financial commitments and not any more than that. At this stage of the lending relationship and in 
view of what  QuidMarket had, then I would not have expected it to have made any additional  
enquiries beyond knowing Mr Es income  and regular outgoings. 
In relation to the information QuidMarket had about Mr Es regular financial commitments  then this is 
very unclear.  
QuidMarket has given me the account notes from earlier in the month (15 April 2014) which  show that 
there is reference to £900. The application records for Mr E show  individual sections  for items such as 
Monthly Credit Commitment,  Monthly Mortgage / Rent Payment, Monthly  Utilities  and Other  Monthly  
Outgoings were left blank.  And the account notes dated 15 April 2014 are too brief for me to be clear 
whether the reference to the £900  was an indication of one of these items, all of them, or Mr Es 
disposable income.  I do not have any additional  details  to show how this was calculated.
Ref: DRN30555208QuidMarket has explained  to me that 
a) it has no other details due to a change in its internal processes  it has explained that these 
expenditure records have not been kept and so it seems that it has no specific details  on which to 
clarify these points; and 
b) it has said that this £900 represented its own calculation of Mr Es monthly disposable  income after 
expenditure.
The account  notes for 28 April 2014  (which  are for this Loan 2) refer to Repeat customer, all details 
remain the same, last loan repaid on time £0 showing in CRA
Other sections on the two forms  recording Mr Es details  for early and late April 2014 
(Loans 1 and 2) were left blank as well. And in a different section on the forms Mr Es income after tax 
was inputted as £2,500 and then his disposable income was inputted as being £2,500.  As its the 
same figure,  then this gives  me the impression  that Mr Es expenditure details  were either not given or 
if they were given, they were  not taken into account when  assessing the loan.
So I have decided to look at Mr Es bank statements for the period leading  up to the 28 April 2014 
loan application, to see what QuidMarket may have found out had it asked  for details. I note that Mr E 
has explained  that this was a joint bank account with his wife and I can see that his wifes  salary 
credits the account each  month at the same time as Mr Es. 
I can see from these statements and Mr Es personal credit file that the expenditure and regular  
financial commitments shown on those statements were high. I cannot  ignore the fact that some of 
these expenses  would have been borne by Mr Es wife and so I have  adjusted that expenditure  in 
proportion to their respective  incomes  about 70:30. This seems appropriate in respective of the 
information I have on this case. The amount I have apportioned to Mr E for regular expenditure  and 
regular financial commitments was about £1,933.
I have to explain  to Mr E that I am not including at this stage any other types of financial commitment  
he had  for example other  short term loans. 
So with a declared income of £2,500 less what I consider  to have been a fair apportioned expenditure  
sum of £1,933,  plus the Loan 2 repayment of £295,  then in principle,  if QuidMarket had got this 
information then it likely would have calculated that Mr E could  have repaid  this loan. This is a slightly 
different expenditure figure to that used for Loan 2 in my first provisional decision as I have  looked 
again at some  of the figures and Mr Es credit file. 
I am planning  not to uphold Mr Es complaint about Loan  2.  
Loan 3
This was applied  for on 30 May 2014 and it was for a larger  sum of £300 with a repayment  sum due 
to be £390. This would  have been the third loan in 6 weeks and for amounts that had risen from £150 
to £300. 
So I would have expected QuidMarket to have asked additional questions. And one such question 
may have included an obvious one which would have been why was a person with an apparently 
clear credit record, plus a high income  and  according  to QuidMarkets submissions to me  had a 
disposable income  of £900, continuing to approach a payday lender for high-cost short term credit?  
And in posing this as an example of the type of query which could have been done, I take into 
account QuidMarkets  own point about  it being very aware of the market in which it was dealing  and 
the situation of the types of customers approaching it for short-term loans. Knowledge of its own 
customer base likely  contributed to any assessments upon receipt of applications for loans. 
Ref: DRN30555209But this does  not appear to have taken place for Loan 3. QuidMarkets record of the application 
process was as before   large  parts were left blank.  His net income  and disposable  income were 
entered as the same figure of £2,500. The account notes reveal that they contacted  his work  to verify 
his employment and the same notes  appear about  him being a repeat customer  - details are the 
same, he repaid the previous loan on time and had £0 o/s amount showing on CRA.  The credit 
bureau search QuidMarket did showed no loans outstanding  and it approved the loan.
But at this stage I would have expected that the proportionate checks ought to have included whether 
Mr E had any other short term loan liabilities. I say this because of the frequency  with which  Mr E was 
returning to QuidMarket  and the fact that the amount he was asking for had doubled in 6 weeks.  I am 
aware that the creditworthiness  assessments expected by the Guide from the Office of Fair Trading  
applicable at the time - did make it clear that these  were  to have been borrower focussed  
assessments. 
I do not think  that QuidMarket  asked  these fundamental questions of Mr E or carried  out the 
proportionate checks I would have expected it to have done at this stage of the lending  relationship. 
The credit  bureau  checks it relies on do not reveal  whether the results included short  term loans  or 
the more mainstream variety of loans. 
So I have looked at what Mr Es financial situation was by relying on his bank statements  and his 
personal credit file. I have used the figures for the month before (outlined above) as I do not think that 
his financial situation in relation to his regular expenditure was likely  to have altered  significantly from 
the previous month.  I have apportioned the expenditure as I have done before  about  £1,933.  I have 
seen that Mr E owed at least two other short  term lenders (STL) a total of at least  £153 which was 
due at the time he applied for Loan 3. And on the day he received Loan 3 into his bank account he 
had to repay a different STL about £183. So, these  combined  with the £390 repayment due on the 
QuidMarket Loan 3, lead me to think that Mr E was not able to afford this loan.  
I am planning  to uphold Mr Es complaint about Loan 3. 
Loan 4
Mr E applied on 27 June 2014 for an even  larger loan of £375 about the same time that he repaid 
Loan 3. Continuous lending without any gaps for ever increasing sums does suggest  that additional  
queries should have  been  made.  And I think that QuidMarket should have assessed Mr Es ability  to 
repay these  loans before  lending. 
I would have  expected the same sort of checks to have been  carried out for Loan 4 as those  outlined 
as being proportionate checks for Loan 3. I do not think that QuidMarket did that. 
The credit  check on which it relies does not identify which  type of loans  had been searched for to 
produce the results  it had. And as I would have expected it to have searched or found  out about 
whether Mr E had any outstanding  STL liability, then that leads me to think that these results have not 
assisted. 
And when  I have used the information provided by Mr E to me then I can see that he had to repay 
four other  short  term lenders  at least £1,480 days after receiving Loan 4 from QuidMarket. And I think  
that if QuidMarket  had carried out the proportionate checks  I think  it ought to have carried  out then I 
doubt that it would have decided to make the lending  decision it did. 
I am planning  to uphold Mr Es complaint about Loan 4.
Ref: DRN305552010Loans 5 to 8
For each  loan application from Loan 5 I would have expected that QuidMarket carried out a full review  
of Mr Es finances. By this I think that it ought to have known about  Mr Es income and verified it, 
checked his regular expenditure and his regular financial commitments and any STL liabilities Mr E 
may have had at the time.  I do not think that these proportionate checks were carried  out. And if 
QuidMarket had I think its highly likely that the public information held about Mr E such  as his CCJs  
would have come to light upon carrying out a full financial review, and these would have added  to the 
picture at the time. 
I can see that Mr Es financial situation  did not improve. His outgoings remained high. His STL 
liabilities continued. He was permanently in overdraft  on that bank account and often had direct debits 
or standing  orders returned and incurred  bank charges. 
It is noticeable that the loans Mr E applied  for increased  in amount and often within  a day or so of the 
previous one. An example  is where Mr E repaid Loan  5 (about £591)  and then took a £500 loan (Loan 
6) which was credited to his account within a day of repaying  Loan 5. 
Loan 6 was repaid and £650 debited his account the same day that the new Loan 7 of £550 credited. 
The same  took place with Loan 7 and Loan 8. In each instance Mr E had insufficient funds to cover 
the repayments.
Examples of Mr Es STL liability are that in late September 2014 he had about £1,250 to repay  to two 
other lenders. And he had 15 direct debits returned unpaid to his bank account at the end of 
September and early October 2014. 
In my view had QuidMarket carried  out the checks I would have considered to have been 
proportionate in Mr Es circumstances then I do not think the credit  would have been extended to him. 
I am planning  to uphold Mr Es complaint in relation to Loans 5 to 8.
Loans 9 and 10
QuidMarket has offered  to put things right for Mr E in relation  to Loans 9 and 10 and I endorse that 
offer. I am planning  to uphold  Mr Es complaint in relation to Loans 9 and 10.
Loan 11. 
For Loan  11, QuidMarket has made it clear since our adjudicators view that this was a different loan 
product (instalment) and was approved after a significant gap in the lending.
I do think that the gap between  Loan  10 and Loan  11 was enough for me to think  it was reasonable  
for QuidMarket to have treated Mr E as a new customer. And the loan applied for was to be repayable  
with the instalment being  about £113 each month. This figure is what QuidMarket has put in its final 
response letter to Mr E. I have not seen the loan agreement.
So I would have expected that a proportionate check for this new loan chain in July 2015 would have 
been for QuidMarket to have known  of Mr Es income  and his regular  expenditure  and regular 
financial commitments.
QuidMarket had details of the income Mr E had declared as £2,500 and had records in its application 
process to show that Mr Es outgoings were £1,030 and so I think its likely that these checks were  
proportionate. So on balance, at this stage  in the new chain of lending,  I think  that QuidMarket would 
have reached  the same conclusion   that Mr E was likely  to have been able to afford  the £113 
instalment loan repayments.
I do not plan to uphold Mr Es complaint in relation  to loan 11.
Ref: DRN305552011putting things  right 
Because I am planning  to decide that QuidMarket  should not have given Mr E some  of the loans, its 
not right that Mr E should have to pay interest or charges  on these, or have them affect  his credit file 
in a negative way. 
I am planning  to direct  that QuidMarket should do as follows:
refund any interest and charges already  paid by Mr E in respect Loans 3 to 10 inclusive; and
apply 8% simple  interest  per year to any interest and charges refunded from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse  payment information about loans 3 to 10 from Mr Es credit file.
QuidMarket has said that Mr E still owes it money from Loan 11. As Loan 11 is in a separate loan 
chain QuidMarket and as such it is usually the case that we do not recommend that QuidMarket  is 
able to set off any of the monies arising from the redress against any monies Mr E may owe it. It 
needs to enter  into a suitably structured repayment plan for Loan 11 if those  monies remain  
outstanding. 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires QuidMarket  to take off tax from this interest  and it must give Mr E a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
end of extract dated  8 January 2019
Ref: DRN3055520