K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Intrum UK Limited  is chasing her for a debt which was settled. She 
wants the record removed  from her credit file and confirmation she does not owe the debt.
background
Mrs R is represented by Mr R, a relative,  and as he has been actively involved in issues 
which are directly relevant  to the complaint Ill mostly refer to him.
Mr R tells us that the debt originally belonged  to a company Ill call B. And that some  years 
ago it had been the subject of complaint, against  B, to this service.  Subsequently, Mr R tells 
us that he believed the debt to be settled as a result of a conversation hed had - when 
acting as Mrs Rs representative  - with a director  from B. In that conversation Mr R says he 
was told the debt was settled. And he says B has since  admitted making  mistakes  and had 
agreed to pay £300 compensation  for poor service. On behalf of Mrs R he wants  Intrum  to 
cease collection activity  and accept the debt has been settled.
Intrum told us it had been  assigned the debt, by B, in September 2015. In October 2015 it 
said Mrs R had informed it she believed the debt was settled. Following enquiries, it said B 
had confirmed that the debt was not settled and that a balance  of £3,461.52 remained. 
Intrum said that in September 2018  it had offered Mrs R the chance to settle  the debt with a 
discount of 50% but this had been  rejected. It said the default, first recorded by B in 2013, 
would remain until November 2019. But that if the debt was settled the entry would  be 
updated to reflect this.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said the debt had 
been subject of a complaint to this service. And that a final decision had been  issued,  in 
2014, which had meant the debt would still need to repaid. She saw the debt had been sold 
to Intrum in September 2015. In her view, B had always stated the debt was still payable.  
She accepted B had paid £300 for service failures - but said thered been no mention of the 
debt being marked  as settled. So she wouldnt be asking Intrum  to do anything else.
Mr R, on behalf of Mrs R, didnt  accept  this and insisted hed been told by the director that 
the debt was settled.  And he later queried  that if the debt (still) exists if it would be statute 
barred. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsman  has been asked to 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs R is still having  to deal with the issues surrounding this debt and I can 
understand her concern that - even after several years - the matter remains unresolved.
In order to fully explain  my decision I need to give a brief summary  of the historical  
background. And I also need to explain the limitations to which  my decision is subject. I 
accept some of this will come as a disappointment to Mrs R.
Ref: DRN30622532The debt was originally  owned by B and in 2014 was the subject of a complaint, by Mrs R, to 
this service. The complaint was not upheld and as far as this service was concerned  the 
debt remained repayable. Subsequently the debt was passed on to collection agents but 
was recalled by B later in 2015. The debt was subsequently sold,  in September  2015, to 
Intrum (which was then known by another name).
Ive seen a letter sent by this service in March  2015 - addressed  to B - which  asks it to 
inform Mrs R of the status of the debt - that is whether  it was settled or if there still remained 
an outstanding  balance. Unfortunately that request was not actioned and B has 
subsequently agreed to pay £300  compensation to Mrs R for its error. But it has not 
accepted there was any agreement to treat the debt as settled.
Im also aware that Mr R states he had a conversation  with a director of B, in April 2015. And 
its during that phone call that he says it was confirmed the debt was settled. Unfortunately,  
there does  not appear to be any recording of this call - so Im unable to say what exactly was 
said or agreed. 
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some 
of it is here - I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities.
The origins of this debt are not in dispute  and the main  issue  in this complaint is whether the 
debt has been  settled (or deemed to be) and whether  Intrum  is entitled to continue  to seek  
repayment.
Ill deal briefly with the issue of whether  the debt has been  settled. Thats  a matter  which  is 
not within my jurisdiction to determine.  I dont apply the law - directly - although I do take it 
into account. So the validity of a debt and whether it is or is not enforceable is a matter  for a 
court to decide.  
What I have to determine in this complaint is if Intrum has acted  reasonably in trying  to 
collect the debt.  And that obviously touches on the issue of whether I think it has reasonable 
grounds to believe  that the debt exists and its entitled  to collect it. And Ill make it clear  that I 
do believe  it has such grounds. Ill explain why.
The key issue is whether the debt was settled or was to be treated as settled prior to it being 
sold and assigned to Intrum. And Mrs Rs case is that Mr R had been assured, in his 
conversation with Bs director,  that the debt was settled. Its my understanding  that the basis  
of this was that the amount that had already been  paid exceeded  the cost price  of the item 
that had been acquired  through a finance agreement. So I infer that interest and/or charges 
accounted for the additional amount owed.
Im aware Mr R thinks that if his account of the contents of the telephone  conversation  is not 
completely accepted it amounts to accusing  him of lying. But thats not the case. 
Its quite a common feature of complaints  dealt  with by this service  that issues  turn on 
conversations which  are not evidenced by any other means  than what the parties recall.
And I entirely accept  that - following the conversation with the director - Mr Rs 
understanding was that the debt had been  settled.  What  Im not able to accept is that this 
was a correct understanding. 
Ref: DRN30622533Unfortunately the recollection of the other  party to the conversation is not known. But as a 
director I wouldnt expect the individual concerned to have  direct  knowledge of - or to make  
decisions relating  to - specific details  of a case. So Id expect theyd have to rely on business 
records and system notes - rather than personal knowledge - whenever they discussed  an 
individual case. And theres evidence that Bs system notes might have been misleading.
B offered £300 compensation, in 2017, to Mrs R following errors relating to this account. One 
of the errors it accepted was failing  to properly process the recall of the debt from its 
collection agents prior to selling the debt to Intrum. And it said this might have led to 
confusion about  the status of the debt. But in the same letter acknowledging that mistake,  it 
also confirmed that the debt remained repayable. Im not finding as a fact that Mr R might 
have been inadvertently given incorrect information  - but it remains  a possibility. But even if 
he was misled - and Im not saying he was - that would not be the fault of Intrum.
Im sure that when Intrum  acquired  the debt it did so reasonably  believing  it was able to 
properly seek repayment. And in my view, nothing thats happened since alters that. When 
Mr R complained, Intrum made  enquiries  with B. And it was told that as far as B was 
concerned the debt was still repayable. As its not suggested the debt has been repaid I 
dont think that Intrum is being unfair when it still seeks to collect the debt.
Ill briefly deal with an issue  raised  by Mr R when he sought a final decision. That is the issue 
of whether the debt is now statute barred. 
Ive already explained thats not something that I can decide. But it may assist  Mr R to be 
aware that the Limitation  Act, 1980  is relevant  legislation. And that it is not simply the date at 
which debt is incurred  which determines if a debt is statute barred. Time limits are usually 
calculated from either  the date the debt was incurred;  the last payment or the last 
acknowledgement of the existence of the debt. And it is normally the latest of any of these 
occurrences from which calculations run. Given there seems to be an acknowledgement  of 
the debt in 2015 - possibly later - Ive no reason to believe the debt is statute barred. Id also 
add that a statute  barred  debt does not mean  a debt is not open to collection. It simply 
means it cant be enforced through the courts. 
In summary,  I dont find that Intrum has done anything wrong in seeking  to collect this debt. 
And whilst I know  it will be a disappointment to Mrs R Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN30622534my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3062253