K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) has continued 
to apply interest to her loan after she advised it that she was experiencing financial  
difficulties and was working within a debt management plan. 
background
In 2017 Miss D took a loan from Satsuma for £650 repayable  by monthly  instalments  over 
12 months. 
Shortly after borrowing the loan,  and before any repayments had been  made,  Miss D 
advised Satsuma  that she was experiencing financial difficulties and had entered into a debt 
management plan arranged by a third-party  charity.
Miss D did complain to Satsuma in 2017 that she felt itd been irresponsible  to provide this 
loan to her because she had multiple loans with other short-term lenders  at the time. 
Satsuma disputed this in its final response to Miss Ds complaint, in which it set out the 
checks that it had undertaken. It appears  that Miss D accepted  Satsumas response,  and I 
cant see that this initial  complaint was subsequently  referred to this service.
This complaint relates to Miss Ds concern that Satsuma still expects her to repay all the 
interest that originally attached to her loan. Shes happy to repay in full the original principal 
loan borrowed,  but feels that its unfair  for Satsuma to add additional interest to this.
Satsuma feels that its been  supportive  of, and sympathetic to, Miss D in acknowledging  her 
changed circumstances and making  adjustments  to its loan repayments. It believes its 
appropriate that the interest attaching to the original loan should  stand.
Our adjudicator considered that Satsuma had acted appropriately in a sympathetic and 
positive manner, and that it was fair for the lender to seek  to recover the interest that was 
applied to the loan.
Miss D doesnt agree  and so shes asked, as shes perfectly entitled  to do, that her complaint 
be considered  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice.
Ive reviewed Satsumas  business  files and can see that the loan agreement that Miss D 
signed states clearly  what the interest  payable  on the loan will be, and that this would be 
applied, in full, to her loan at the outset.
I note that Miss D took the loan of £650  from Satsuma on 5 September  2017 and that the 
specified interest of £645 was applied to the loan balance on that date. The combined  loan 
and interest was to be repaid by 12 monthly  instalments of £108. However, Miss D contacted  
Satsuma just two weeks  after taking the loan to advise it that she was experiencing financial 
difficulties and wished  to add the loan to her debt management plan.
Ref: DRN35714212I can see that Satsuma acknowledged that debt management plan and agreed for its loan to 
be included. I also note that it subsequently invited Miss D to let it know  if the scheduled loan 
repayments werent affordable and it would consider a reduced repayment arrangement.  But 
I cant see anything in its files that suggests it offered to remove  interest from the loan.
The loan is regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA), whose regulations  for 
lenders are set out in its consumer credit  sourcebook (commonly referred to as CONC). 
These regulations  and provide guidance to lenders as to how they are expected  to respond 
to customers who are in arrears through financial difficulties. In addition  the Lending 
Standards Board has set out, in its Standards of Lending Practice, a voluntary benchmark  
for good lending  practice which also includes situations where financial difficulties arise.
Its clear from the regulations and industry  standards that lenders  are expected  to 
demonstrate a sympathetic and positive approach to borrowers who are experiencing 
financial difficulties. CONC 7.3 states  that lenders should  treat such  customers  with 
forbearance and due consideration. This can be exemplified by actions such as reducing or 
waiving future interest, allowing deferment  of payment of arrears  or accepting token 
repayments. Where a borrower  is in arrears a lender should allow the borrower reasonable 
time and opportunity to repay the debt.
The above  are only examples  they are not mandatory  and the regulations state that a 
lender may well only do one or more of the suggested actions, as may be relevant in the 
circumstances.
I can see that Satsuma took immediate actions  when it was advised  by Miss D that she was 
in financial difficulty.  It agreed to provide  some  breathing space and also agreed to its future  
repayments being made within the debt management plan. Its confirmed that no additional 
interest will be added to the loan (beyond  that set out in the original  loan agreement),  despite 
the loan now being repaid over a considerably  longer period than was originally agreed.
Im sorry  to see that Miss D has found herself  in financial difficulty  and its clear that she is 
responsibly working to clear her commitments. However, having  considered  all the 
circumstances here,  I think that Satsuma  has demonstrated sympathetic and positive 
support for her. Its not under any obligation to waive interest,  but it has confirmed that it 
would never  look to add any additional  interest  to the loan. As such,  and whilst I know  itll 
disappoint Miss D, I dont think its unreasonable for Satsuma  to continue to seek payment of 
the interest that was agreed when  the loan was taken  out. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 June 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3571421