K821x#15complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Mr B says FICL mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
In May 2004, Mr B took out a PPI policy on a store card account when he applied  for the 
card in the store.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should  be upheld  because Mr B was in 
temporary employment and it wouldve been harder for him to make a successful 
unemployment claim on the policy because of this.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so Mr Bs complaint comes  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B says he was a temporary worker  at the time of the sale. He cant now remember how 
long hed been working for his employer,  but says it wouldve  been  for no more  than six to 
twelve months.  
Ive looked at the terms and conditions that wouldve applied when Mr B took out this policy. 
I can see that unemployment claims were excluded if unemployment is a regular feature of 
your work,   if you work  on a fixed term contract which  ends. or, in summary, if you had 
reason to believe you were likely to be made unemployed at the start date of the policy.
So, I think Mr B wouldve been excluded from making a claim for unemployment benefit 
because he was in temporary employment.  I think the terms and conditions of the policy 
made it more difficult for him to make  a successful claim, than if hed been a permanent  
employee. 
I dont think FICL gave Mr B clear enough  information about this. I think Mr B was expecting 
to be covered fully for the main benefits of the policy.  I dont think Mr B wouldve bought  the 
policy if FICL had given him clearer information  about the policy exclusions. So, I think  hes 
lost out because of what  FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mr B in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr B would have owed when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
Ref: DRN36305332So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr B owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr B would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr B would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr B 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr B paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr B 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mr B what  its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mr B that relates to this PPI sale,  
that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Financial Insurance  Company Limited to put things right by 
paying Mr B compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3630533