K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs unhappy with the way Calpe Insurance Company Limited  handled and settled a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr B was involved  in an accident  and he made a claim on his Calpe policy.  Hes unhappy 
with the way it investigated  the claim particularly that it didnt contact a witness. He also feels 
it was too quick  to accept  liability.  He also says he was wrongly  told he would have to pay 
the full excess  regardless  of the spilt of liability.
our investigators view
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be upheld. In summary he said:
Mr Bs testimony has remained consistent  and he mentioned  there was a witness.  
Based on this and what he says happened  Calpe shouldve conducted further  
investigations. And it didnt act fairly  when accepting liability on behalf  of Mr B. This 
caused him inconvenience as he had to contact it to pursue the investigation further.
It isnt fair for Mr B to be liable for the full excess regardless of the liability split. Its 
common practice for the excess to be apportioned in line with the liability split. The 
excess should also form party  of the claim Calpe makes from the third party.
Calpe  should  now pay Mr B £150  compensation for the service  its provided  and the 
inconvenience its caused him. And it should  reduce the excess in line with the 
proportion of liability spilt once  that has been agreed.
Calpe didnt agree.  It said its policy contains an all sections  excess which  applies to all 
parts of the policy regardless of fault.  This means Mr B is liable for the first £3,000  of any 
claim including his own costs and this was explained to him at the start of the policy.  Mr B 
said hed emerged  from aside road onto a main road and it concluded it was best to admit 
liability rather than go to court and argue  a case which it didnt think would be successful  and 
would incur more costs. Its policy makes clear  it can settle  claims as it sees fit without 
agreement from the policyholder. It has retracted its admission of liability and is now arguing  
for a split liability decision. It isnt Calpes job to recover  Mr Bs uninsured losses  if there is a 
split liability agreement. But if there  is one it will ask for a proportion  of the excess to be 
repaid to Mr B by the third partys insurer.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 30 December 2019.  In summary, subject 
to any further evidence and submissions from the parties, I was minded to uphold the 
complaint. 
Taking everything into account  I felt on balance that Calpe  didnt investigate  matters 
appropriately at the start of the claim and was rather too quick  to admit liability.  To put things 
right I thought Calpe  should pay Mr B £150  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience 
this had caused him.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN37266772my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident. But we can look into whether Calpe 
has conducted a reasonable  investigation  into a claim, when  making its own decision on 
liability.
In this case Mr B was emerging from a side road into a main road but he said the other 
vehicle was overtaking another car and that there was a witness  to the incident. I think  as 
result Calpe shouldve  done more to investigate what had happened  before admitting liability  
on Mr Bs behalf. I think as there was a witness it wouldve  been  reasonable for it to have 
tried to contact the witness before coming  to its original decision to accept liability.
Calpe has recently  said it has retracted its admission of liability and is now arguing with the 
other partys insurer for a split liability decision.  That seems fair.
It will ultimately be up to Calpe  to decide  how it will deal with the claim. And as it says under 
the terms of the policy it is entitled  to defend and settle a claim as it sees  fit. It also doesnt 
need Mr Bs approval  of any decision to admit liability,  settle a claim or make a payment to a 
third party. 
In this case I dont think  Calpe investigated  matters  appropriately at the start and it was 
rather too quick to admit liability. But it has now withdrawn that admission and is seeking to 
settle the claim on split liability basis. Even so Mr B was caused some understandable 
distress and inconvenience by what Calpe initially did and as he had to chase it up to reopen 
its investigation. I agree with the investigator that this warrants  an award of some  
compensation. I agree that £150 is fair for this.
Mr B says his excess should  be apportioned and payable on the same basis as any agreed 
liability split. But Im afraid that isnt what his policy says and he agreed to.
Mr Bs policy  says Excess means  the amount  You must  pay towards  any claim 
including  costs. You are responsible  for the excess even if the incident is not Your 
fault.  The Excess applies to all Sections of this insurance .
As such I think  if Mr B makes a claim on his policy he must pay the full amount of his policy 
excess which in this case is £3,000. That is effectively the amount he has agreed to pay 
towards any claim he makes on the policy regardless of blame.
I note that Calpe has agreed to not ask for any payment  of the excess  until its discussions 
with the other partys  insurer  are concluded. That is fair. And if liability  is subsequently 
agreed on split liability  basis it may well be that he will be able to claim back  part of his 
excess as an uninsured loss. But I dont agree with the investigator that Calpe is or should 
be obliged  to only ask Mr B to pay a proportion of the policy  excess.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Calpe Insurance Company Limited should pay 
£150 compensation to Mr B.
Ref: DRN37266773Calpe must  pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr B accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
If Calpe considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3726677