K821x#15complaint
Mrs K complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance plc is responsible for poor service 
under her home emergency  insurance  policy.
background
The Financial Ombudsman  Service deals with consumer complaints about  regulated  
activities and ancillary activities  carried on by insurers and other regulated financial firms.
Mrs K had a policy branded with the name of an insurance intermediary. RSA was the 
insurer responsible  for dealing  with claims.  Where  I refer to RSA I include the intermediary,  
its engineers and others for whose actions  I hold RSA responsible.
The policy covered Mrs Ks central  heating boiler for repairs. The policy schedule said that 
she had paid £60.00 for an annual service not covered by insurance. But I dont think Mrs K 
had any choice to pay for the insurance  without  the annual service.  So I think  the service  
was a regulated  activity  or ancillary  to a regulated activity.
Mrs K had a baby who suffers from asthma.  Mrs K complained that the day after a visit from 
RSA, her boiler broke  down. And RSA left her and her baby with no central  heating  or hot 
water for six days. 
In its final response letter,  RSA offered Mrs K £60.00.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that RSA 
couldve fully repaired the boiler during the call out scheduled on 23 April 2018. The boiler 
wasnt fixed as soon  as it shouldve been,  leading to frustration, upset and the heating  
issues. He recommended that RSA should offer  in addition  to its original offer of £60.00   
a further £200.00, a total of £260.00.
Mrs K agreed with the investigators opinion.
RSA disagreed with the investigators  opinion.  It asked  for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that further  faults showed up after the repair on 20 April.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From RSAs records,  I find that an engineer visited on 27 March 2018 to do an annual 
service. And Mrs K called for help on 16 April 2018. I think  an engineer visited  on 17 April 
and found a problem with the expansion  vessel.
An engineer  visited  on 20 April. He pressurised the expansion vessel. I find it likely that he 
left the boiler working. 
But I think it stopped  working the next day Saturday  21 April.  That mustve been  frustrating. 
But I dont think that its evidence that RSA was responsible for poor service on 20 April.  Mrs 
K hasnt  provided  enough technical  evidence to persuade me that RSA caused the 
breakdown on 21 April.
Ref: DRN32446612When an engineer  visited on Monday  23 April he said the boiler needed a new printed circuit 
board (PCB). In any event, RSA decided it was time to involve  the boiler manufacturer.
The boiler manufacturers engineer visited on Wednesday  25th April.  He diagnosed 
problems with the casing seal, pump and AAV (which I think  means automatic air vent).
RSA supplied two heaters.  But I dont  doubt that Mrs K was suffering inconvenience and that 
she was worried about the health  of her baby.
I think it was Thursday 26 April by the time the manufacturers engineer  fixed the boiler.  I 
accept that this involved attending to the casing seal,  pump and AAV.  But the records dont 
show a replacement of the PCB.
So I find that RSA shouldve done more  on and after 21 April to fix Mrs Ks boiler as soon as 
possible and in the meantime to communicate  better  with her and to mitigate her 
inconvenience and distress. 
In the circumstances  and particularly as she was concerned for her baby   I find it fair and 
reasonable to direct  RSA to pay Mrs K £260.00  for distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance plc to pay Mrs K (insofar  as it hasnt already paid her) £260.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3244661