K820x#14complaint
Miss K is unhappy Skyfire  Insurance Company Limited accepted liability  for an accident  she 
was in and settled the claim on her car insurance  policy. 
background
Miss K was involved in a car accident  in April 2018.  She saw a pedestrian  in the right hand 
lane she was driving along. She moved into the left hand lane to avoid hitting the pedestrian  
and a third party, who was travelling in the same direction  as Miss K in left hand lane, drove  
into the back of her car. 
The third party claimed on Miss Ks car insurance. Skyfire ultimately accepted liability on a 
fault basis and settled the claim. Miss K was unhappy with Skyfires  decision and 
complained to us.
The investigator who looked at Miss Ks complaint didnt uphold it. He thought  Skyfire  had 
enough information to settle the claim and didnt think it had treated Miss K unfairly. Miss K 
has asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ks complaint. I know this will disappoint  her 
but I hope the reasons  Im about to give help her to understand why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
I should say at the outset my role isnt to decide who was liable for the accident.  This is 
something its better for the courts to deal with. Instead I must decide  whether Skyfire 
reached its decision to accept liability and settle  the claim fairly  and reasonably and in line 
with Miss Ks car insurance policy.
My starting point is Miss Ks policy. This says Skyfire is entitled to defend or settle any claim  
on Miss Ks behalf. This means  Skyfire can decide how it will settle the claim on Miss Ks car 
insurance, even if she doesnt agree with it. And this is a standard term youll find in most car 
insurance policies.
Ive gone on to look at the facts and evidence in this case to see if, in making its decision to 
accept liability for the damage caused to the third partys  car, Skyfire acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
I can see Skyfire reviewed  an email  Miss K sent shortly after the accident  in which she said: 
As my car  swerved to the left lane, in the process, the [third  partys]  car  hit my car 
from behind. I can Skyfire also reviewed the third partys statement. In it, he said he became 
aware of a pedestrian walking in the right hand  lane. He says Miss K then suddenly  swerved  
from the right hand lane into the left hand lane directly into his path, coming to an immediate 
stop. This,  he says,  made a collision  unavoidable, despite him trying  to take avoiding action. 
I can also see Skyfire reviewed the police accident  report. This said Miss K collided with the 
pedestrian and the third party collided with her.
Ref: DRN37690852I can also see from internal records Skyfire noted from this evidence  it looks  bleak for our 
insured since all parties appear  to blame her for changing lanes unsafely and both the police 
and the third party driver allege  she collided  with the pedestrian. 
After an in-depth internal  discussion, Skyfire decided to accept  liability  for the collision with 
the third party  on a fault basis. The claim is treated as a fault claim because Skyfire  was 
unable to get its costs  for the claim back  from the pedestrian. Skyfires internal notes of this 
discussion say Miss K changed lanes to avoid a collision with the pedestrian  which ultimately  
caused the collision with the third party. They go on to say the third party behind Miss K was 
unable to avoid  the collision through no fault of his own, since Miss K had to take evasive  
action. They also note Miss K said herself in her email (which Ive already quoted) that she 
was in the process of changing  lanes  when the collision happened.
From all the evidence Ive seen, I think it was fair and reasonable and in line with Miss Ks 
policy terms for Skyfire to accept liability on a fault basis for the damage the collision caused 
to the third partys car.
As our investigator has already mentioned to Miss K, Skyfire  settled her claim on a without  
prejudice  basis. This means Miss K can take separate legal action about this if she wishes.  
But shed need to get separate  legal advice about  that first.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3769085