K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complained that she and her late husband, Mr O, were mis-sold a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy by Abbey National in 1995. Although they had a joint 
mortgage, it seems only the late Mr O was covered by the MPPI. Mrs O wasnt named on 
the policy.
Santander UK Plc is now responsible for all these types of sale so Ill refer to Santander  
throughout this decision  for consistency.
I should add that Im specifically addressing the issue of whether or not the MPPI was mis-
sold in the first place.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said they thought the complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  
Mrs O disagreed with this and asked  for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  when  deciding  this 
case.
Having done this, Im afraid Im not upholding this complaint.
Mrs O says she and the late Mr O didnt need  this type of cover.  However neither Santander 
nor Mrs O can give us much information about what happened during the sale back in 1995  
and weve  got no original sales information  or documents to refer to.
Mrs O says she wasnt even aware  of the policy until several  years  later and because of the 
benefits she knows Mr O enjoyed with his work  at the time,  she doesnt think MPPI was 
something that was necessary.
I need to acknowledge this sale was 24 years  ago. And whilst Im certain Mrs O genuinely  
and honestly now feels the MPPI was mis-sold, we just dont have any evidence of that. Its 
obviously also possible that Mrs Os recollections of the sale are affected by the passage  of 
time. This would be completely understandable.
What Santander  can say is the policy only covered Mr O. To me this suggests there must 
have been some level of engagement or discussion about this aspect  and that Mrs O and 
her late husband  must have decided to set up the policy in this particular way. I also think  
she and / or her late husband would have been  sent a copy of the MPPI policy schedule 
explaining the cover. Theres no doubt  that such a policy was sold, so I see no reason why 
the third-party insurer wouldnt have issued a comprehensive policy document.  And if the 
late Mr O had never agreed to it, Im sure he would have wanted to know why it had been 
set up for him. I see the sum of £17 went on to be collected for several years thereafter.
Santander also sent me an example of the type of application form that would have been 
used to get such an MPPI policy in 1995  and looking  at the wording I think it would have 
been easy to see there  was a choice and that the MPPI was a different product to the 
Ref: DRN30903652mortgage. Santander also showed me the direct debit form Mr O would  have used to 
authorise the MPPI monthly premiums  to be transferred from his (or their)  bank account.
I accept we no longer  have all the original documents from the time of this sale still available,  
but after 24 years  I dont think thats either  unreasonable  or surprising. All the above  
information shows, in my view, that its more likely the late Mr O specifically applied  for MPPI 
and would have  known such a policy had been set up in his name.  I accept this isnt 
absolutely definitive  but its where the evidence does point Im afraid.
I therefore think that on balance Santander is more likely to have properly obtained the late 
Mr Os consent and that he would have known  the policy was set up for him.
Another central point  of Mrs Os complaint is that she and the late Mr O just didnt need this 
type of cover. I fully understand the point being made and I also agree that the job the late 
Mr O had probably came with good  sickness protection  and other  forms of protection.
Nevertheless, this was a mortgage secured against their home, so the consequences of not 
being able to keep up payments on it could have been serious.  The mortgage would have 
been a long-term  and important financial commitment  and so the policy was, in my view, of 
use. I also note the MPPI could have paid out a monthly benefit of £250 in the event  of a 
successful claim. This would have been  in addition to any other means  Mrs O and her late 
husband already had in place.
I also note the benefits  of this policy do seem to have been relatively good when 
benchmarked against other  MPPI policies from that time. The monthly benefit, for example, 
could have continued to have been paid for up to 36 months  for accident  or illness,  longer 
than Mr Os employer would have  supported  full pay for him.  
I cant say why the decision was made to buy the MPPI. But some  consumers attitude to 
risk differs from others and overall  I think the policy was suitable for Mr O, given what  Ive 
said above.
Its possible that Santander could have done  more to ensure Mrs O and the late Mr O 
understood things  during the sale. But I think Mr O would have been sent or given a 
schedule explaining who the policy was set up to protect and what eventualities it covered. 
Santander also sent me a copy of an MPPI leaflet from that time period which explained  to 
consumers a little bit more about  the policy. Overall  I think  Mr O would have had enough to 
think about what he and Mrs O ought  to do.
Im really  sorry  that Mrs O clearly feels we havent been able to uphold this complaint and 
that the circumstances  will mean  she feels strongly  about it. Id like to say that Ive looked 
very carefully at everything shes said. But Im afraid her not knowing about the cover - or Mr 
Os good work-benefits  doesnt necessarily mean the policy was mis-sold.
The evidence weve been supplied by both parties is understandably  sparse.  And theres just 
not enough for me to say the MPPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs O and the late Mr Os complaint or direct Santander UK Plc to pay any 
compensation. 
Ref: DRN30903653Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3090365