K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained about the way a claim under his home  insurance  policy  was handled
by Acromas Insurance Company  Limited.
background 
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint in February. A copy  is attached and forms 
part of this decision. I said in summary,  that Acromas hadnt handled this claim well and 
should pay Mr M some extra compensation and repair  Mr Ms patio doors.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Acromas has responded asking me to clarify the amount of compensation  but also saying 
it thinks its paid enough already. I said I thought Acromas should pay an additional £400 for 
the way it dealt with Mr Ms claim. I explained why in my provisional  decision and Acromas 
hasnt provided  any evidence to support its assertion that this is too much.
I also said I was going to ask Acromas  to pay a further £200 on top of this. That was to 
reflect the months it took Acromas to provide a report. Again that was explained in my 
provisional decision, and Acromas  has sent no new information that would cause me to 
change that. I do apologise  for the error in the provisional decision  it should  have  read 
£600 additional compensation, not £400.
Mr M has raised two main  points.  He pointed out that the new survey was actually a desk 
review of the first one, and he remains unhappy that the foundations of his home might have 
been damaged  by the leak.
I agree  with Mr M  it did appear from the report that a visit had been made to the house,  
although I now see it was a desk report. But Im not convinced it makes  a difference  the 
photos of the cracking were clear  and I think it reasonable to use these to assess the 
damage. 
I appreciate Mr M remains unconvinced that the report is enough  to quell his concerns about 
possible damage to the foundations. And I understand his concern that the cracking around 
the patio door is a symptom of such damage. But I also think it likely that, if there was 
damage, by this time there would likely be other  signs  maybe cracking elsewhere in 
mortar. Mr M hasnt said this has happened. 
Overall I think  Acromas  has done enough  to show its considered  this potential damage and 
doesnt think there is any. If, in the unlikely  event Mr M notices  problems in the near future, 
Id expect Acromas to consider this as part of his original claim.
Mr M could  commission  his own report.  If that showed there was further  damage  connected  
to the leak, Id expect  Acromas to repair this (and pay for the report). Im going to leave  that 
option with Mr M. 
Ref: DRN35780932my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Acromas Insurance  Company Limited to
Repair (or pay for repairs) to Mr Ms patio doors.
Pay £600 compensation for the way its handled this claim and the delays in 
producing reports.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35780933copy of provisional  decision February 2018
complaint
Mr M has complained about the way a claim under his home  insurance  policy  was handled
by Acromas Insurance Company  Limited.
background
In June 2016 Mr M contacted Acromas after discovering a water leak under his kitchen floor.
He said his floor was wet near the mains  water pipe. He said Acromas  sent someone  to
inspect the property almost six weeks later but they didnt attend with the right equipment.
The leak was eventually  repaired in December  2016.
In September  Acromas  found that a void underneath Mr Ms property which  had water in it.
So it arranged to get rid of the water  by carrying out work in the ground floor wc. Mr M said
they caused additional damage and left the wc leaking.
Mr M says that Acromas  left him and his wife for many  months  without the use of their dining
room, a mess in their kitchen and damage  to their ground floor wc. He says this spoilt
important family celebrations, Christmas  and New Year. Acromas paid a disturbance
allowance of £500 a month for October and November. It arranged for Mr and Mrs M to stay
in a hotel when their water pressure had dropped.
Mr M asked  Acromas to give him confirmation from an expert that neither his foundations  nor
any other part of his property had been  damaged by the water  leak.
In April 2017 Acromas sent a surveyor to inspect the property. The surveyor  said there was
some cracking in the brickwork above  the patio  doors but she thought that was because
there wasnt a lintel in place to support  the brickwork. She said there was rot and damage to
the door cill of the patio doors but she thought that was due to a lack of maintenance. She
didnt think there was any evidence to suggest that the foundations  had been undermined as
a result of the leak.
Mr M complained to Acromas. It said there had been  some  delays and poor communication
on its part. It sent Mr M £300 compensation for this. It later sent a further £300 compensation
for the delay  in providing Mr M with a copy of its surveyors report  on possible damage to the
foundations of his property.
Mr M brought his complaint to this service. He said there was an error in the surveyors
report because there  was a steel lintel in place  above the patio doors  behind  a row of bricks.
He said this error undermined  his belief in the rest of the report.
Our investigator thought Acromas had done  enough  to assist Mr M. She thought the
compensation it had paid for the handling  of the complaint was appropriate, and that the
report it had commissioned from a surveyor confirmed that there was no damage to the
foundations.
Mr M said the whole  reliability  of the report was undermined by a mistake the surveyor  had
made about whether or not there was a lintel above his patio  doors. We asked Acromas to
reconsider this point  and a second surveyor visited and confirmed there  is no damage 
other than cosmetic  around the doors.
Ref: DRN35780934Mr M hasnt  said hes unhappy with this report but does want  Acromas to fix his patio  doors
as they remain  unusable.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there are several parts to this complaint so Ill deal with them separately.
handling of the claim
Acromas acknowledged  that it didnt handle  this claim well, and has paid Mr M £600
compensation for the trouble and distress  its caused.
Ive thought carefully about whether this is a sufficient amount, and I dont  think it is. The
very fact that there was such a substantial leak, an associated insurance claim and the work
required to rectify it are all stressful things to have to deal with. Acromas  isnt responsible for
those things. It is responsible for any extra inconvenience its caused. To take six months to
repair a major leak is a very long time, and I cant see any reason why it couldnt have been
done much  more quickly than it was. I think Acromas  should pay Mr M a further £400,
bringing the compensation for delays to a total of £1,000.
Acromas did pay Mr M a disturbance allowance  whilst work  was ongoing, and moved  him
and his wife into alternate  accommodation  at one point.  Those  are reasonable things  for it to
do and pay for. So I think  it has done some  things to help Mr M and his wife, and Ive taken
that into account when concluding that £1,000 overall compensation for these delays is fair.
the surveyors report
Mr M asked  Acromas for a report that said the foundations of his house hadnt been affected
by the leak, as it ran unchecked for about  6 months.  The report said there was no damage.  I
understand why Mr M wasnt  much  comforted by this conclusion,  when he said the report
contained an error about whether a lintel was present or not. It took Acromas nearly four
months to send a surveyor out to re-check the damage around  the doors. And although
thats come  back saying the damage  is cosmetic, I think  Acromas  left Mr M with unresolved
concerns for longer  than was necessary. I think Acromas  should  pay some  additional
compensation for this, and Im intending to order it to pay an additional £200.
Mr M has seen  the latest report and not said anything about  it. Now the point about  the lintel
has been resolved,  Im persuaded  the rest of the original  report,  which said in summary that
the foundations werent  affected, gives Mr M the confirmation he wanted  about the
foundations. I think this draws this point to a conclusion.
the patio doors
Mr M says his patio doors worked  well before the leak. And hes described how the water
affected them as it collected in the areas around  the doors. He also says Acromas sent
someone out to repair the doors  after they were damaged by workmen  and/or the water. He
says that hasnt been successful and wants Acromas to pay for a new set of doors.
Acromas says the doors were never part of the original claim and the reports provided say
they were showing  signs  of age and a lack of maintenance. So it doesnt  want to more than it
has about these.
Ref: DRN35780935I currently think Acromas  has accepted that the doors were damaged  either by its
workmen or the water  because I cant otherwise see why it should send someone out to fix
them in December 2016. That failed, and Mr M told Acromas about this. Im intending to ask
Acromas to pay for them to be repaired  or agree a cash settlement with Mr M. I dont think
its fair to ask Acromas  to pay for replacement  doors   unless they cant  be repaired  as
they werent new when  the leak occurred.
my provisional decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint  and order Acromas  Insurance  Company Limited
to pay an additional  £400 compensation and repair (or pay for a repair  to) Mr Ms patio
doors.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3578093