K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a cheque he issued  from his HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) account was 
returned unpaid.  
background
Mr M was acting  as the executor for the estate  of his late brother in law. After money was 
transferred into his account, he wrote a cheque for just over £186,500 to his nephew, being 
one of the main  beneficiaries.
Mr M says his nephew paid the cheque into his building society  account.  Two days later he 
phoned Mr M as itd been returned unpaid because there was suspected fraud.
Mr M phoned HSBC to find out what had happened. After a long time waiting, Mr M says he 
was told HSBC couldnt give him a reason why the cheque was returned or why he hadnt 
been contacted about this. Also, Mr M says he was told HSBC  couldnt guarantee this 
wouldnt happen if the cheque was reissued. Instead  it suggested  he called telephone 
banking to transfer the money. The next morning, Mr M phoned  HSBC  to make the transfer. 
He was called later that day to confirm this was his instruction and the transfer was 
completed.
Mr M complained to HSBC. HSBC  said the crediting building society processed  the cheque  
using a new cheque  clearing service called Cheque  Imaging. This process significantly 
speeds up the clearing process, but it also means that decisions are now made  real time. 
HSBC explained  this means  its an automated process. As a result,  if there are any 
concerns with a cheque, no contact is made with customers  to check  the authenticity. 
Instead, the payment is immediately returned. HSBC  said it hadnt made a mistake   the 
decision to return the cheque was correct and in line with its policy. HSBC  also said it 
wasnt responsible  for what Mr Ms nephew  was told - this would need to be raised with his 
building society.
Mr M has told us this matter caused him huge  embarrassment and that a telephone call, text 
message or an e-mail couldve resolved any concerns the bank had. Mr M also feels  hes 
been treated very badly, especially taking into account how long hes banked with HSBC and 
that he had worked  there for a long period of time.
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred  his complaint  to our service.  To put things right,  hed like 
HSBC to:
1.admit  there was an error;
2.confirm no adverse entries  were put on his record; and
3.pay him compensation  for the time wasted  on the phone and writing  letters.
HSBC has told our service:
-this hasnt left any negative entries in Mr Ms name. 
-on several occasions, that it holds Mr M in high regard as a customer; and
-this was a precaution  as its out of character for him to have such  a large  amount 
leave his account. The actions were taken  with the best intention of protecting  
customers against fraud and scams.
Ref: DRN37515032Our investigator looked into matters. She didnt recommend that the complaint should be 
upheld. She explained that the terms and conditions for the account allow  HSBC  to refuse to 
make a payment,  including by cheque, where there are concerns about fraud or misuse of 
the account. And, based on everything  shed seen, she didnt think  the bank made an error 
on this occasion.
Mr M disagrees with the investigators view. Mr M says that any additional checks conducted 
by HSBC wouldve  shown  the money had come from his savings specifically to cover the 
cheque. And that the money had come  into his account from the HSBC Bereavement  
Department after his brother in laws account had been closed. He feels  that he couldve 
been saved a considerable amount of embarrassment and wasted time if hed simply been 
contacted to confirm  the cheque was genuine.  
Our investigator and Mr M communicated about  this matter further but, ultimately,  Mr M 
didnt agree with the recommendation not to uphold his complaint. This matter  has now been 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
I should say first of all that I have some sympathy  for Mr M. It must have been frustrating, 
and embarrassing,  to find out that the cheque to his nephew had been returned unpaid.  The 
problems here were not of Mr Ms making. However, what I have to consider is whether the 
problem is as a result of HSBC doing something wrong and, if so, what it should do to put 
things right, if anything. 
Having considered this, I have  to tell Mr M that I think the investigator has reached the right 
outcome here. So I dont  uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
The cheque was for a significant amount, so its unsurprising that this was noted  in the 
Cheque Imaging process. HSBC didnt call Mr M to discuss this before his nephew had been 
told that the cheque had been returned unpaid.  However, when Mr M later made  a transfer  
using telephone banking, he was phoned that day to check if it was genuine.  So I can see 
then why Mr M says HSBC couldve avoided these issues by calling him to verify the 
cheque. 
However, what the bank  was doing  here was managing the risk that cheque  had not been  
drawn in accordance with the mandate.  In fact it had but, if that hadnt  been the case,  HSBC  
might have been responsible for reimbursing  Mr M. It was primarily for HSBC to decide how 
to manage that risk. It did so here by carrying out a check  albeit  an automated one  and 
following the process it has in place when  that check reveals concerns. Banks are expected 
to have in place appropriate  security  arrangements in order to try to prevent fraud.  And these 
are a matter  for each  bank to implement. HSBC  does  have  fraud detection systems and 
procedures in place  which take account of what it knows about actual and potential risks and 
these are factored  into account in the cheque imaging process. 
I note that Mr M says if the bank had looked into this, it wouldve spotted that hed moved the 
money from his savings account to cover the cheque. Fraud  and scams are increasingly 
Ref: DRN37515033common, including where money has been moved over from other accounts to cover  a 
fraudulent transfer.  So, whilst I wouldnt necessarily expect the bank  to look into this, even if 
it had I dont think this wouldve  ruled  out the possibility of fraud or a scam.  
Its difficult to know  what wouldve happened  in this case  if Mr Ms nephew hadnt  got in 
touch with Mr M to let him know about  the problem he was having with the cheque. But its 
not for me to tell HSBC  that it shouldve made attempts to contact Mr M before the cheque  
was returned.  As I say, it was primarily for the bank to decide how to manage the risk that 
the cheques might not be genuine and it does this using  an automated process.  I dont 
believe that the steps it took were unreasonable in the circumstances. As Ive said,  its 
unfortunate that the cheque was returned  unpaid, and that happened  through  no fault of Mr 
M and without there actually being  any fraud on his account. But I dont believe HSBC  acted 
unfairly either, for the reasons Ive explained.
HSBC cant be responsible for what Mr Ms nephew was told by his building society.  
However, it seems to me that HSBC  was concerned that there had been fraud on Mr Ms 
account and this is why the cheque was stopped. So I cant  see that it was incorrect  for it to 
tell the building society that the reason it was stopped was due to concerns about  fraud.  
I realise Mr M will be disappointed by this decision but it brings to an end what we can do as 
an informal dispute resolution service to resolve the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint against 
HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3751503