K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) wont  pay the full cost of his 
alternative accommodation costs following a claim under his home insurance policy.  
background
Mr H notified esure  of his claim  on 10 November  2017. On the same day he signed a three-
month tenancy agreement  for alterative accommodation at £450 per week.  Under the 
tenancy agreement  he needed to give one month  notice to end the contact thereafter. esure 
says that Mr H arranged  alternative accommodation without gaining its permission. 
Mr H made  esure aware of his alternative  accommodation  arrangements  later that month. 
This was not picked  up when it should have been. So, esure  agreed to pay Mr H for the 
period it deemed  his property to be inhabitable during  the drying out period. It paid Mr H 
£2,250 for his accommodation costs over a five-week period. 
esures final response letter was sent to Mr H on 2 March 2018.  At this point it declined to 
cover the full cost of his accommodation.  esure accepted that it could have told Mr H this 
sooner, to avoid him incurring any further  costs after the three-month period ended.  So, it 
paid Mr H a further  £3,150  to cover the cost of his notice period from 11 February 2018 to 
the end of March.
Mr H complained to our service. He feels that esure should cover all his costs totalling 
£7,200, equating to 16 weeks rent. An investigator looked into things and felt esures offer 
was fair. Mr H did not agree so the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy  covers him for alternative accommodation and rent if his home  cannot  be lived 
in as a direct result of an insured  loss or damage  caused. He is covered for the reasonable 
cost of alternative accommodation  if necessary.  His policy  states that the insurer will not pay 
for any costs  he agrees  to pay without its permission.
It is not in dispute  that Mr H signed his tenancy  agreement before gaining  esures  
permission. This means the parties couldnt  agree the terms of the alternative  
accommodation beforehand. However, in any event, Mr Hs property was deemed  
inhabitable for a period of five weeks during the drying out process  so the need for 
alternative accommodation was necessary. Ive considered  esures settlement to decide 
whether its payment of £5,400 to Mr H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Alternative accommodation during the five-week  drying out period 
Despite esures opinion that the cost and term of Mr Hs tenancy were excessive, it still 
agreed to cover the cost of his pre-arranged  accommodation for five weeks  to the value of 
£2,250.  
Based on what Ive seen  on the market, I dont think it would have cost more  than £2,250  for 
alternative accommodation for five weeks. So I think esure has acted fairly by reimbursing 
Mr H the amount that he did pay for this period,  to ensure that he was not out of pocket 
during this time. 
Ref: DRN39839212During our investigation, esure told us that once repairs had started further damage was 
noted  requiring Mr H to vacate his property for longer than anticipated. esure  says it 
arranged a six-month tenancy agreement (March 2018 to August 2018) with its preferred 
accommodation supplier   this was at a rate of £850  per calendar month, so less than half 
what Mr H was paying originally. Mr H has not complained about how this part of his claim 
was settled, so I have not commented on this in my decision.
 
delays caused  in terminating the tenancy agreement  
esures final response letter was issued on 2 March 2018. It accepted  that it could have told 
Mr H sooner that it would  not be covering the entire cost of the alternative accommodation. If 
it had done so, Mr H could have given notice  to leave the property at the end of the three-
month fixed term. So, I think esure  acted fairly by paying a further £3,150 to cover the cost of 
his accommodation  until the end of March, which represented the required notice period. 
To summarise, I dont think esure is liable to pay Mr H anything more.  I say this because 
esure has done what it needed to by covering the pre-arranged costs incurred 
by Mr H during the five week  drying  out period plus any additional expenses for the delays 
caused.
I appreciate Mr H has incurred further  expenses because he was tied in to a three-month  
fixed tenancy agreement. However, because this exceeded the initial drying out period and 
was arranged without  esures involvement,  I cannot hold it responsible  for any further costs 
incurred. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above I am not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Arazu Eid
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3983921