K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Lloyds Bank PLC told him it would allow him a month to bring his 
account within its overdraft limit. But he says Lloyds closed the account  within  that time 
period.
background
Mr L says he contacted Lloyds on 21 June 2018  as his overdraft was about £1,080  over the 
agreed limit. He says he was told the account would be put on hold for a month and told 
Lloyds that he had enough money  to bring  the account back to the agreed overdraft amount 
of £2,000. Mr L says he wouldve paid that money into the account  that day if Lloyds hadnt 
told him he could pay it in within a month.  But Lloyds then closed the account on 26 June 
2018.
Lloyds accepts it made a mistake and says it shouldnt have agreed to hold the account for a 
month. Its paid Mr L £250 compensation and offered to remove  the default  it registered if Mr 
L paid it the full balance  within 60 days.  Lloyds says it wrote to Mr L on 10 April 2018 and 17 
May 2018 giving  him notice that his account would  close.
Mr L says that offer is unfair as he now has to find the full balance  to avoid a default  being 
registered and has brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  offer put Mr L back in the position he was in before its 
mistake. She thought Lloyds  should allow Mr L to repay £1,080  to avoid a default which was 
what was agreed in the call between the parties on 21 June 2018. The investigator spoke to 
Lloyds and was under the impression Lloyds would  allow Mr L to repay  the full amount within 
three months- by December 2018.  Mr L was told this but the position  was cleared up and 
Lloyds confirmed it hadnt agreed  to that extension. The investigator told Mr L on 4 October 
2018 what the correct position was.
Mr L has asked for an ombudsmans review and says the default is unfair and has affected 
his job prospects.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this case and said as follows.
I considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so Ive came to the provisional view that 
Lloyds had dealt  with this complaint fairly.
I said that there wasnt any doubt here that Lloyds made a mistake by telling Mr L that his 
account would be placed on hold for 30 days. I accepted  that Mr L was misled  and that he 
spent time trying to sort matters out. But I was satisfied that Lloyds  had paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation of £250 which I thought  fairly reflects the level of its 
mistake and the impact  it had on Mr L.
The key question here is about  the amount Mr L should repay to avoid a default being 
registered. Lloyds  said if Mr L paid back the full amount within 60 days  then it would remove 
the default. And I understood  why the investigator reached her view that if Mr L had repaid 
the £1,080 when he called it on 21 June 2018 he wouldnt have had to find the additional 
Ref: DRN32957802£2,000 to avoid the default. But I looked  at what took place before that call and what if 
anything Mr L had done to repay any of the debt.
I could see that Lloyds wrote to Mr L on 10 April 2018 and again on 17 May 2018 about the 
account and gave him notice that it intended  to close it  in line with the account  terms and 
conditions unless sufficient money was paid in. I was satisfied those letters  also told Mr L 
that adverse information may be recorded on his credit file. So I thought on balance  that it 
was unlikely Mr L was in a position  to pay any money into his account. I also listened  to the 
call between  the parties and I was satisfied Mr L told Lloyds that he didnt have any income. 
And I looked at Mr Ls savings account  statements and could see that there  was little or no 
money in that account from February 2018.
I accepted there was some confusion about  Lloyds accepting a full repayment within three  
months. But I couldnt see that Mr L had made  any repayments towards the balance since  
Lloyds asked him to in early 2018.  I appreciated Mr L may say that he wanted an agreement 
first but I wouldve expected him to at least have repaid some of the balance by now if he 
was able to do so. And I could see Mr L was regularly at the upper end of his agreed 
overdraft facility for many months before this. I asked Lloyds if Mr L had made  it aware of 
any financial  difficulties he may have been  in. But it said Mr L applied for the overdraft 
increase and it wasnt aware of any such difficulties. So I didnt think  Lloyds acted unfairly by 
approving that overdraft  increase. 
Overall whilst I accepted Lloyds had made a mistake here I said I couldnt  fairly order  it to 
agree a repayment plan so that a default  is avoided.  And I was satisfied its offer that Mr L 
repay the full balance  within 60 days was fair and reasonable.
Lloyds has relied  to my provisional decision and says it agrees with it.
Mr L has given me a four page letter in which he says he is willing  to repay  the full balance  
immediately if Lloyds  removes  the default  from his credit file. He also says that a payment 
was taken out of his account which meant he exceeded  his overdraft limit which  Lloyds 
should have declined. Mr L says he wasnt prepared to make a repayment  earlier  without 
Lloyds giving him a written confirmation of an agreement.
I asked Lloyds if it would be prepared as a gesture of goodwill to allow Mr L one final 
opportunity to repay the full balance  and remove the default.  Lloyds  has said if Mr L repays 
the full balance then it would remove the default within  60 days. Mr L has said he would be 
prepared to repay the full amount immediately.
Ref: DRN32957803my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusion  that I reached in my provisional  decision. I realise  Mr L will be 
disappointed by my decision and I appreciate the affect that having a default on his credit file 
will have on his ability to obtain  credit.  I also accept  how strongly Mr L feels  about  whats  
happened and I confirm I have read in detail his letter  to me.
I appreciate Mr L says a payment was taken  out of his account that shouldnt  have  been,  
that meant  he exceeded his overdraft limit. Mr L hasnt told me why that payment  should 
have been stopped or if it was refunded to him. But having looked  at his account  statements 
from the start of 2018 I can see that Mr L exceeded his overdraft limit in January  and again  
in February 2018.  I can also see that a series of gambling transactions led to him being  
about £3,000 overdrawn by the middle of February before the balance was reduced.  And by 
April 2018 the account was again overdrawn by about £3,000.  So in those circumstances I 
dont think it was one payment  that meant the overdraft was exceeded and I dont think 
Lloyds made  a mistake  by deciding to close the account. I also think  that by the time Mr L 
spoke to Lloyds  in June 2018  he had about  3 months to bring  the account back  to the 
agreed overdraft level.
I appreciate Mr L says he wanted  an agreement in place before repaying Lloyds any money.  
But Im satisfied that Mr L has owed Lloyds over £3,000 since  early 2018 and hasnt made 
any attempt to repay the money that would have at least  brought the overdraft  below the 
agreed amount.  I have  also set out in my provisional decision why I thought  Lloyds offer that 
Mr L repay the full balance within  60 days was fair and reasonable.
Overall I accept Lloyds made  a mistake about what it told Mr L in the phone call but I dont 
think it would  have  made a significant  difference in any event. I say that as Im satisfied 
Lloyds had already made the decision to close Mr Ls account  as he had exceeded the 
overdraft limit for some time. And even if Mr L had paid enough money  into the account,  
when he called Lloyds,  to bring  the account  balance  below  £2,000  I still think the account  
wouldve later been closed. 
I think Lloyds has made  a fair and reasonable gesture of goodwill  here in circumstances 
where I dont think it acted unfairly.  I can see that its agreed  to remove the default  if Mr L 
repays the full balance  immediately. I can also see that Mr L has agreed to that offer so I 
hope Mr L does  repay  the balance as he said he would.
I will leave that matter  to the parties  to sort out and Im not going  to make it part of my 
decision for the reasons Ive explained.
Ref: DRN32957804my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3295780