K820x#14complaint
Ms C has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold  her a fee-paying 
Graduate Additions packaged account.
Ms C says that she was led to believe that if she wanted to keep  her student overdraft, shed 
have to upgrade  her account to a fee-paying  packaged account. Ms C says that she couldve 
kept her account  as a student  account  and received a £3,000 interest  free overdraft facility 
without having  to pay a monthly fee.
background
Ms Cs account history is as follows:
account opened - 24 June  1996  
changed to a fee-free Higher Education account - 22 August 2000;
changed to a fee-free Barclays current account  - 1 July 2002;
changed to a fee-free Higher Education account - 16 February 2005 
changed to a fee-free Student Additions account  - 18 February  2005;
changed to a fee-free Higher Education account - 5 September  2006;
upgraded to a fee-paying Graduate Additions account - 15 December  2006;
downgraded  to a fee-free current  account  - 1 December  2016.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and he concluded  that even if Barclays had 
got things wrong  when  it sold the Graduate Additions account, Ms C has not lost out as the 
amounts she saved in overdraft interest  as a result of having the Graduate Additions  account 
outweighed the amounts, she was charged in account fees.
Ms C disagreed and so the complaint was referred  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive used that to help me to 
decide this case.
I think it might help to explain that where  matters are in dispute and evidence is lacking, as is 
the case here, I must  decide  what I think was likely to have happened based  on everything 
that is available.
Ms C says that she was told she had to upgrade so that she keep her overdraft and that she 
was told she was not eligible for free-free  accounts.  So its clear  from what Ms C has said 
that having her overdraft  was important to her. 
However, I can see that shed held various fee-free accounts (including a Student Additions 
and Higher Education account) since 1996. And I can see that her agreed overdraft limit of 
£2,980 had been in place since at least June 2003.  Therefore, I think Ms C was aware she 
didnt have to have the Graduate Additions  account  if she didnt want  it.
Ref: DRN36837782Looking at the student account options  that wouldve been available  to Ms C at the time, the 
Higher Education  account - which she held at the time of the sale  provided an interest free 
overdraft facility of up to £1,500 in the first year of having it and up to £1,000  in the second.  
But, if she kept this account this wouldve meant that shed continue  to be charged  overdraft 
interest. And as Ms Cs account was consistently  overdrawn, often near to her limit, the bank  
statements indicate that she wouldve continued  to be charged  more than £5 each month in 
interest, had she kept this account.
Alternatively, Ms C couldve had a Student Additions account  which  shed held briefly in 
2005. But this only provided an interest free overdraft  facility of £1,000 in the first year of 
having it, which increased by up to £250  each year until the fifth year of having the account, 
by which  time the interest free facility would still have only been up to a maximum of £2,000.  
So again,  had Ms C changed  her account to this type of account, whilst she would not have 
been charged £5 per month, its likely she still would have  been  charged more in overdraft 
interest  given the extent of Ms Cs overdraft usage. 
Conversely, the Graduate Additions  account which  was sold to her provided an interest  free 
overdraft facility of up to £3,000 in the first year; which decreased to £2,000 in the second 
year; then £1,000 in the third;  £500 in the fourth; and finally, £200  in the fifth year.
Looking at Ms Cs statements, she was regularly going overdrawn up to and occasionally  
over her £2,980 overdraft  limit in the months prior to the sale of the Graduate Additions 
account. And as pointed  out by the adjudicator, Ms C was regularly paying  much more than 
£5 per month in overdraft  interest before the Graduate Additions account was sold to her.
So based  on what I know about Barclayss student  accounts at the time, as well as Ms Cs 
circumstances, I think  its more likely that Ms C agreed to the Graduate Additions account  
because its interest-free overdraft benefit  meant  shed be paying less each month to use her 
overdraft, then if shed  kept her account as a Higher  Education account or opted  for the 
Student Additions  account.
As it happens, whilst  Ms C held the Graduate Additions account, she avoided paying  a 
considerable amount of overdraft interest as it looks as though Barclays  essentially 
continued to treat her entire overdraft facility as being interest  free, rather  than gradually 
decreasing the interest free portion of the overdraft,  as the product literature said it would. 
Therefore, I have to agree  with the adjudicator that, even if I were to find that the Graduate  
Additions had been  mis-sold, as Ms C has saved substantially  more in overdraft interest as a 
result of having the account, than the account cost her, no redress  would be due to her.
In her response to the adjudicator, Ms C refers to Barclayss website and says that she 
would still have been eligible for a student account, without having to pay a monthly  fee. 
However, the link refers to the current student account terms and conditions. And I have to 
consider what Barclays  provided  at the point of sale to determine if it was mis-sold - not what 
it offers now. 
As such I cant  reasonably conclude  that Barclays mis-sold the Graduate  Additions account 
to Ms C. 
Ref: DRN36837783my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3683778