K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund  him £1,000 for four cash machine 
withdrawals he didnt  make.
background
On 27 May 2018 Mr A noticed  he no longer had his debit card.  He logged onto his bank 
account and reported his card lost. At this stage Mr A also noticed four withdrawals made 
with his card which hed not done.  He reported these as fraud to Lloyds.
Lloyds noted Mr A had had a similar incidence of fraud in March 2017 (although they stated 
2018 in their final response). Theyd  then given  him information on how to keep his card and 
PIN safe.  They didnt  think hed done this so wouldnt be refunding him. Mr A was unhappy 
with this outcome  and brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. She came to a slightly different conclusion. She 
noted the previous fraud case  had taken place at exactly the same cash  machine as the four 
withdrawals Mr A was disputing. She found  this a coincidence too far and thought  Mr A had 
either made or authorised  these himself.
Mr A didnt understand why hed have done that as he was already having difficulty with his 
finances. Losing £1,000  has made  things worse  for him. Hes asked an ombudsman to 
consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent in looking after their card 
and PIN  but nothing thats  had a marked impact on the decision Im making.  So when we 
look at whether a bank  has acted fairly  in rejecting  someones fraud complaint, one of the 
things we consider  is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or allowed 
them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Lloyds  and Mr A have  told us. Our investigator also got hold of Mr As bank 
statements for both of his Lloyds  accounts. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transactions were made were 
comprehensively covered in our investigators view of 23 October 2019. I dont intend to 
repeat everything  that was said there. Except  to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint 
thoroughly.
The facts  I think that are pertinent to this complaint include:
Mr A isnt completely  sure when he lost his card.  We do know  when it was last used. 
This was on 25 May at 22:23.  He noticed it was missing more than 24 hours later.
Ref: DRN39895272The four disputed transactions take place within a 20 minute period either side of 
midnight 26-27 May 2018.
This cash  machine  is exactly  the same machine used when £750  (3 x £250) was 
withdrawn from Mr As account in March  2017. Lloyds refunded  this money  and gave 
Mr A some additional  advice about keeping his card and PIN secure.
Mr A has confirmed  he keeps his PIN secure and nobody knows  it.
There are different scenarios about  what  could  have happened here. But I think  its fair to 
say that one of the issues that I cant figure out is how someone else knew  Mr As PIN. It 
hasnt been suggested that his PIN was something someone could have guessed.  Mr A 
hasnt told us he noted his PIN on his phone or that someone else had access to his phone.
If Mr A had lost his card just after using it in the evening of 25 May, Id have expected any 
person finding  his card to use it immediately. That didnt happen. If itd been  lying around for 
24 hours and picked up by a complete  stranger,  theres no way that person would have  
known the PIN (unless Mr A had written it on the back  of his card which nobody has 
suggested is the case).
Its difficult not to find it unusual that two different unknown third parties would find Mr As 
card and then use the same cash machine  to take cash out. Ive checked the location of this 
cash machine and its not the only one in the area. Theres  a cluster of cash machines quite 
close by within easy walking distance. 
That leaves me with one potential scenario. For example  Mr A knows  the person who used 
his card (and allowed them to do so by giving them the PIN). Perhaps he owed  that person 
money and felt that as he hadnt made the transaction, his bank may refund him as theyd 
done before.
Ive thought about what Mr A has said that this fraud  has left him out of pocket  when he was 
already in financial difficulties. I agree his actions  dont  make much sense but I cant see 
what else could have  happened.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I think its more than likely that Mr A authorised or 
made these  withdrawals. That means  I wont be asking  Lloyds to refund him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr As complaint against 
Lloyds Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3989527