K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe)  Limited has handled his claim 
unfairly.
background
Mr Gs dog needed an operation and in February  2019 he made a claim through  his 
pet insurance policy with Red Sands. Mr Gs vet contacted Red Sands to ask it to authorise 
two treatments  an MRI scan and an operation.
Red Sands  provided  two pre-authorisations to Mr G and the MRI scan and operation took 
place a couple of weeks later.
After the operation Red Sands contacted Mr G and said the total theyd paid for his claim 
was around £1,900 (after deducting  his excess)   and he would need to pay the remaining 
balance to the vet.  
When Mr G queried  this with Red Sands they said this was because his policy only covered 
up to a maximum amount  of £2,000  per condition.
Mr G was unhappy with this. He said he wasnt told there would be an amount he needed to 
pay until after the MRI scan and operation had taken place. Because  Red Sands approved  
the pre-authorisations  for the amounts requested Mr G said he believed  there  would be 
nothing additional  to pay  so he didnt  feel he needed to check  any small print. Mr G said if 
hed known there was an additional amount  to pay he wouldnt have gone ahead with the 
MRI scan  and wouldve  asked the vet to operate without it.  So  he thinks Red Sands should 
pay the remaining  balance.
Red Sands  said the pre-authorisations were each  approved on the basis  no other claim had 
been received.  They  said they made  the claimable policy limit clear to Mr G when they sent 
him a policy schedule in March 2018  and in the pre-authorisation confirmations.  They  said 
they also contacted the vets to say theyd received two pre-authorisations for the same 
condition, but had approved both of them  and the policy limit was £2,000. 
Our investigator upheld  Mr Gs claim. She said Red Sands  hadnt  provided Mr G with 
reasonable guidance to help him make a claim. She said this wouldve affected Mr Gs 
decision to go ahead  with the MRI scan  and, if he hadnt, he wouldnt have exceeded the 
policy limit.
She said Red Sands should cover the full amount they pre authorised  and pay Mr G £150  for 
the inconvenience caused.
Red Sands  didnt respond to our investigator  so the complaint has passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN38927552Red Sands  sent confirmation of the two pre-authorisations to Mr G on the same  date.  
Red Sands  said each pre-authorisation doesnt  take into consideration any cost incurred 
which has yet to be claimed for.  At  the bottom of each confirmation it also says Mr Gs 
policy offers  a maximum benefit  of up to £2,000 per condition. 
But I can also see from looking at the first page  of each  of Mr Gs confirmation  letters  it says 
the total amounts approved, after deductions  and excesses were  around £1,790  and £1,555.  
So although  a maximum benefit was mentioned, I dont think it wouldve been  clear to Mr G 
this meant  he would need to pay a remaining balance. The letters showed Red Sands had 
approved the amounts requested and didnt mention any specific additional costs. I can also 
see the letters are titled First part of Pre-authorisation and Second Part of Authorisation 
and Mr G was only to pay one excess.  So I think its reasonable Mr G wouldve believed the 
policy was covering the whole cost - and that what the letter  said about the maximum benefit 
and other  costs incurred  wasnt  significant  to him.
Red Sands  said the pre-authorisations were each  approved on the basis  no other claim had 
been received.  But they approved both requests together  and they contacted Mr Gs vet to 
confirm theyd made two approvals. They also sent Mr G two separate  authorisations titled 
First part of Pre-authorisation and Second  Part of Authorisation. So they knew  there were 
two separate pre-authorisation requests - and this meant Mr G would need  to pay something  
towards the costs.  
But the information Red Sands gave didnt  make it clear to Mr G there would be a balance to 
pay before  the MRI scan and operation  this didnt become clear until after theyd taken 
place when he was sent a letter with a balance to pay. As the operation  was completed  a 
couple of weeks  after the pre-authorisations  were approved I think they had time to do this.  
Red Sands  said they also made Mr Gs vet aware of Mr Gs policy  limit  but they didnt 
mention Mr G would  have to pay any additional  costs.  As Red Sands confirmed to the vet 
they made two approvals, confirming the full amounts, I dont think its reasonable this 
wouldve prompted the vet to believe Mr G would pay additional costs.
Mr G said he went ahead  with the MRI scan because Red Sands provided the 
pre-authorisation and he believed there would be nothing additional to pay. The vet 
confirmed he could  have  performed the operation without  the MRI scan.  And  I can see from 
the vets internal notes a conversation took place  with Mr G about his options  before the 
pre-authorisation requests  were made. So Im persuaded  if Red Sands had made him aware 
he would  need  to pay additional  costs  he wouldnt  have gone ahead  with the MRI scan.  
So I think Mr G has lost out as a result of something Red Sands  did wrong. The amount 
Red Sands  said is not claimable under  Mr Gs policy is still owed to the vet, so I think  they 
should pay this.  Red Sands  said in March 2019  this was £1076.96.
 
Mr G has also said hes been stressed  about having to pay additional costs he wasnt 
expecting.  For the reasons above  I think its reasonable Mr G wouldve believed Red Sands 
had fully covered  his claim  so later being  told there  was an outstanding amount he hadnt  
account for, would be stressful.   So taking everything into consideration I think  its fair 
Red Sands  pay Mr G £150 to recognise  the unnecessary distress caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Ref: DRN38927553To put things right Red Sands  Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited should pay the amount 
they said wasnt claimable, £1076.96,  to the vet and pay Mr G £150  for the distress  caused.
Red Sands  should  do this within  28 days of us telling them  Mr G has accepted  my 
final decision. If they pay later than this they should  add interest at a rate of 8% simple  
per year from the date of my final decision to the date it makes payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3892755