K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Lloyds Bank Plc trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G):
Switched her mortgage  to interest  only when she experienced a period of financial  
difficulty and ill health 
Declined her application to switch back to repayment and take out a new interest rate 
product, even though her salary was higher than it was when she originally took out the 
mortgage. 
Unfairly used data from the Office  for National Statistics (ONS) in its affordability 
assessment, as it wasnt relevant to her circumstances.
background
An ombudsman colleague decided  that we didnt  have jurisdiction to consider the complaint 
about the switch to interest only and being able to switch back to a repayment mortgage.  
She said that those  complaints were out of time as C&G had issued final responses  to those 
complaints in 2014. But she found we could look at the complaint about the use of ONS 
data.
The investigator thought it was reasonable for C&G to use ONS data in its affordability  
assessment. Miss W didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Ws complaint is really about the switch  to interest only and declined applications. But 
another ombudsman  has already found  that we cant  look at those complaints. I would 
encourage Miss W to make a new application for a new interest rate and/or a switch to 
repayment. C&G should consider that application  fairly. And Miss W would be entitled to 
make a complaint  if the applications  were  declined and she felt the decision wasnt fair.
One of the things I must take into account  when making my decision is the relevant rules 
and regulations. In this case, that is the Mortgages  and Home Finance Conduct of Business 
sourcebook issued by the Financial Conduct  Authority.  This allows  lenders to use statistical  
data appropriate  to the composition of a household  when considering  expenditure as part of 
an affordability assessment. So C&G is entitled to use ONS data to assess affordability. And 
it says that its system  automatically adjusts it to the composition of the household making 
the application  so for example, if Miss W has no children, it will not include any costs  
relating to bringing up children. I dont  consider  this is unfair.  It is reasonable for a lender to 
use ONS data on average expenditure on basic living expenses to assess  affordability. 
The lender  is entitled to use statistical data.  Its unlikely that anyones actual expenditure will 
be exactly the same as the statistical model  used in every area. But for the reasons Ive 
already set out, I consider  it is a fair and reasonable way to assess affordability, that is in line 
with the relevant rules. 
Ref: DRN39056232Ive already said I cant look at the decision made  by C&G in 2014. But there  are provisions  
within the mortgage rules  where in certain  circumstances, lenders must consider what is in a 
consumers best interests.  So even if Miss W does not pass its standard affordability checks  
in a future application,  that should not in itself rule out a product switch  and/or a switch to 
repayment. But it will depend  on a number of different factors. As Ive said if Miss W makes 
another application and considers  it hasnt been  dealt with fairly, she can refer that to us.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 June 2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3905623