K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mrs T says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mrs T didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mrs Ts credit card application. The option for 
PPI has been  pre-populated with an X. I think this is likely  to have been added 
following a discussion between Mrs T and the adviser. Ive also noted that some of    
Mr Ts personal  details have been  typed on the form.
Ive considered what Mrs T has said about there  being no requirement to sign 
separately for the PPI. But Mrs T was required to sign the overall application to agree 
to everything she was taking out. 
And although Mrs T initially complained that she didnt know shed taken PPI, Ive 
seen a copy of an insurance schedule sent to her after the sale.  As PPI also would  
have appeared  on Mrs Ts monthly  credit card statements, I think  if it was something 
she hadnt agreed to, she would  have  questioned  this with Halifax much sooner  than 
she did. But the evidence  is that Mrs T continued  to pay for PPI for some  time after 
taking it out. Its possible  given the time thats passed that Mrs T may not remember 
everything clearly.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs T so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time  including  her 
employment circumstances, I think that it was. For example  she wasnt  affected by 
any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and she seems  to have had a need 
for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs T has said, but these  points  dont change  my decision.
But Halifax  has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T. 
Ref: DRN36181962If Halifax expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) it should have told Mrs T about that. If that didnt happen, it might mean 
Halifax has to give her some of that commission back. Halifax  says it didnt do anything  
wrong in relation to the commission and profit  share  for Mrs Ts PPI. But it has offered to pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI anyway. Halifax will make arrangements to pay Mrs T now 
Ive issued my final decision  if it hasnt already done so
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3618196