K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains about the service she received from National Westminster  Bank Plc (Nat 
West) in relation to her bank account.
background
Mrs N says Nat West sent her a replacement  debit card with the contactless payment 
feature, which she hadnt requested and didnt  want.  The covering letter sent with her 
replacement card had the card number imprinted on it, which Mrs N says breached  her data 
security. And Nat Wests letter responding to her complaint contained wording referring  to 
her loss, when she hadnt experienced or reported  a loss.
Nat West apologised  that it didnt include information about the contactless feature  when  it 
sent Mrs N the replacement card and it paid her £50 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shed  been caused.  It also paid her a further £25 compensation for the 
inaccurate information in the letter responding to her complaint.
Our investigator thought this was reasonable and that Nat West had dealt with Mrs Ns 
complaint fairly, in the circumstances.
Mrs N disagreed with the investigators conclusions. She said she wasnt  at all happy with 
the level of compensation Nat West had offered her. And she said it in no way reflected  the 
time shed  had to spend dealing with this matter  or the extent of inconvenience  shed  been  
caused.
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ns complaint and Ill explain why.
I see Nat West  has explained that Mrs N previously held a basic  bank account and that this 
was migrated to a select account in 2016  when it discontinued  basic  accounts. 
I also see Nat West has given us a copy of a letter it says it sent to all holders of basic  
accounts in 2016, notifying them of the change  to their accounts. And I see the letter 
confirmed that the account comes with the contactless feature. It enclosed  a copy of the 
account terms and conditions and went on to tell customers  that they could close or change 
the account if it was not right for them.
I note Mrs N has explained she didnt  receive the letter Ive referred  to.  And  as it was a letter 
sent in bulk to customers with basic bank accounts,  Nat West hasnt been able to show us a 
copy of the actual letter it sent to her. But I have to make decisions on the balance  of 
probabilities and based on the available information,  I think its most likely  it sent a letter  
about the change from a basic  to a select account to Mrs N. So, I think  Nat West took 
reasonable steps to notify her of this change.
I see Nat West  has acknowledged it didnt include information about the contactless feature 
when it sent Mrs N the replacement card. I also see it has apologised for this omission and it 
Ref: DRN31817832has paid her £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shed been caused. I 
acknowledge Mrs N thinks the compensation should be higher, but I think  £50 was 
reasonable, in the circumstances. Im also pleased  to note Mrs N has now been able to opt 
out of the contactless feature on her debit card.
Mrs N is also unhappy that her debit card number was imprinted on the covering letter  and 
shes concerned  that this breached her data security.  But  I see the letter was in the same  
envelope as the card and it wasnt sent by Nat West to anyone  other than Mrs N. So, I cant  
uphold this aspect  of her complaint. 
I see Nat West  wrongly included wording about Mrs Ns loss in its letter responding to her 
complaint. But I also see it has acknowledged  this error and it has paid Mrs N £25 
compensation. I think this is reasonable and I dont think it would be fair for me to require it 
to pay her any more compensation, in the circumstances.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mrs Ns complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mrs Ns complaint against National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3181783