K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Blue Motor  Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
background 
A used  car was supplied to Mr W under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor  Finance 
that he electronically signed in April 2018.  The car broke-down later that day and Mr W 
called out a roadside assistance service. He says that the car continued to break-down  and 
had issues and he took it to a garage  for repairs. He complained  to Blue Motor  Finance in 
July 2018 that the alternator  wasnt charging the battery and it arranged  for the car to be 
inspected by an independent expert.  Mr W wasnt satisfied with its response so complained 
to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Mr W had 
experienced many issues with the car including continuous break-downs.  So he thought  that 
it would  be fair for the car to be rejected. And he recommended  that Blue Motor Finance 
should: end and unwind the agreement  and collect the car; remove adverse data from 
Mr Ws credit file; reimburse  the cost of the sunroof repairs of £29; pay £500 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused;  and refund three  monthly payments (£765.81)  for 
the impaired use that Mr W has had with the car. 
Blue Motor  Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It 
says, in summary, that:
the digital motor electronics control unit shouldve been replaced;
its fully cognisant with its obligation to get a repair right first time due to the single 
opportunity to repair under the Consumer  Credit Act;
its sorry that Mr W has lost faith in the car due to the continuous break-downs - but if 
it had been given an opportunity to repair its likely that the car wouldve been 
repaired properly; and
it wasnt made aware of any fault with the car until after the car had been mis-
diagnosed and the wrong repair had been carried out - so it should be given its first 
opportunity to carry out a proper repair.
my provisional decisions
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to Blue Motor  Finance on 5 August 2019.  In my provisional decision I said that it would 
be fair and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to arrange and pay for the repair  identified  in 
the inspection  report to be carried out to refund to Mr W three monthly  payments under the 
agreement to compensate  him for the distress and inconvenience that hes been  caused. 
Mr W responded to my provisional  decision and said, in summary,  that:
the car broke  down on the motorway on his way home from the dealer and a 
recovery service  made a temporary  repair;
he contacted  the dealer which sent a mechanic to repair the car but it broke down 
again and the mechanic couldnt  diagnose the fault so recommended that it should 
be seen by a manufacturers specialist but the dealer said that the warranty wouldnt 
cover that;
Mr W found another garage to repair the car and the dealer agreed by e-mail to pay 
£270 for that repair  but Mr W didnt receive  the payment so the car wasnt repaired;
Ref: DRN39566832the dealer  has arranged  other repairs but Mr W hasnt paid for any repairs  (other  than 
to the sun-roof);
Blue Motor Finance  hasnt contacted him since its final response letter and hasnt  
offered to make the repair recommended by the independent expert;
hes stopped  making  payments for the car, the cars MOT has expired, hes made  a 
statutory off-road notification for the car and its mileage is 72,716;
Blue Motor Finance  has affected his credit  history; and
he wants to reject the car but if its to be repaired  he should receive an extended 
warranty of at least six months  for the repair and the car should be repaired  at a 
manufacturers dealer  and a full diagnosis report should be carried  out to make  sure 
that its up to standard.
Blue Motor  Finance agreed with my provisional decision but asked  to offset the refund 
against the arrears  on Mr Ws account  as he hasnt made any payments since December 
2018.
I issued a second provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W and to Blue Motor  Finance 
on 13 December 2019. In my second  provisional decision I said:
Mr W has provided  evidence to show that the car broke down when he was driving it 
home from the dealer and that the dealer arranged for the car to be repaired  but 
those repairs were  unsuccessful. The car has been repaired under the warranty  and 
Mr W says that hes only paid for a repair to the sun-roof. He also says that the 
dealer hasnt paid the garage for the warranty  repairs  but thats a matter between  
the dealer and the garage. Mr W also says that the dealer agreed by e-mail (a copy 
of which  hes provided) to pay him £270 for him to arrange a repair  but that he 
didnt receive the payment so the repair wasnt made.
He says that because of the issues with the dealer he contacted Blue Motor Finance. 
It arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert in September 2018. 
Mr W says that the report is wrong  and that the inspector didnt seem to know what 
he was doing.  He says that Blue Motor  Finance  has never offered to make  the 
repairs recommended  in the independent report and that hes taken  another  car on 
finance so had to stop making  payments to Blue Motor Finance in December 2018 
which has affected his credit report and that hes made a statutory off-road 
notification for the car. Hes provided evidence to show that the cars mileage is 
72,716.
I still consider it to be more likely than not that there was a fault present or developing 
with the car when  it was supplied to Mr W - and that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Blue Motor Finance  to arrange and pay for the repair identified in the inspection  
report to be carried out. The independent report was prepared by a company that 
specialises in inspecting  cars and is generally accepted as being an expert in that 
area. Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence to show  that the report is 
wrong or that its unfair or unreasonable to take account of the reports  conclusions. 
And Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Blue 
Motor Finance to allow Mr W to reject the car. But I dont  consider that my provisional 
decision properly took into account  whats happened  since then.
The inspection report was made in September 2018   about 14 months  ago  and 
Mr W has only been able to use the car to drive about 2,000 miles since  then. He 
says that hes had to take another car on a finance  agreement so he couldnt afford 
Ref: DRN39566833to make the payments to Blue Motor Finance after December 2018  and the cars  
been declared off-road. 
Its clear that Mr W has had issues with the car  and the car hasnt been repaired so 
his use of the car has been significantly affected. I now consider that it would  be fair 
and reasonable for Blue Motor Finance to refund to Mr W 50% of the monthly 
payments that he made under the agreement  to compensate him for that. I also 
consider that it should write  off any arrears on his account and waive  any payments 
that become due until the car is repaired.  I also consider that it should remove any 
adverse information  that it has recorded on his credit file. These events will have 
caused considerable distress and inconvenience to Mr W and I find that it should  also 
pay him £250 to compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
Mr W says that the repair should be carried out by a manufacturers dealer and that a 
full diagnosis report should be carried out. But Mr W bought the car from the dealer   
and not from a manufacturers dealer.  So Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require that the car is repaired by a manufacturers dealer.  
Ive said that Blue Motor  Finance should arrange  and pay for the repair  identified  in 
the inspection  report to be carried out. If that repair doesnt deal with the fault then 
Mr W can complain again  to Blue Motor Finance. And if hes not satisfied with its 
response, he may be able to make  another complaint to this service. But Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Blue Motor Finance to 
provide Mr W with an extended warranty of at least  six months  for the repair.
So subject to any further representations by Mr W or Blue Motor Finance, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr W has accepted my provisional decision but says that he should be given at least  a three  
month warranty for the repairs.  Blue Motor  Finance  has received my provisional decision  
and asked for the deadline for its response to be extended but then hasnt responded within 
the period that it said it would.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that I 
should change  my provisional  decision. 
Blue Motor  Finance hasnt responded to my provisional decision and Mr W has again asked 
for a warranty for the repairs. But for the reasons set out in my second  provisional decision, I 
dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Blue Motor Finance to 
provide Mr W with a warranty for the repairs.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. And I 
order Blue Motor Finance  Limited to:
1.Arrange and pay for the cars digital motor electronics control unit to be replaced.
2.Refund to Mr W 50% of the monthly  payments that hes made  under the agreement.
Ref: DRN395668343.Write  off any arrears on his account.
4.Waive any payments that become  due until the cars digital motor electronics control 
unit is replaced and the car returned to Mr W.
5.Pay him £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes been 
caused.
6.Remove any adverse  information about the agreement that its recorded on Mr Ws 
credit file up to when the cars  digital motor  electronics control  unit is replaced and 
the car returned  to Mr W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3956683