K821x#15Complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited has declined his claim under his legal 
expenses insurance  policy.
Where I refer to Amtrust,  this includes its agents and claims handlers.
Background
Mr W used an architect  and a building firm to extend  his home.  There were some  issues  
throughout the build  and snagging  works were undertaken. But after a completion certificate 
for the extension had been produced Mr W later uncovered that some work hadnt  been 
done. At this point  Mr W made a claim on his policy to cover the legal costs of a dispute with 
an architect and building firm that hed hired  to extend his property.
Amtrust declined the claim. It said the issues were  linked  to the extension work that had 
been done prior to the start of the policy. It said a policy exclusion applied. Mr W didnt 
accept this. He said the problems  didnt  arise until after the policy  was in place and this was 
after the practical completion date of the extension work. Mr W brought  his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She was satisfied  that Mr W wasnt  aware of the 
problem giving rise to his claim  prior to the start of his policy. And she said the legal advice 
Amtrust had obtained supported that view. Our investigator said Amtrust  needed  to 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Amtrust didnt accept this and asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman  for a 
final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Amtrust policy terms say that in order for a claim to be covered, the insured  incident 
must take place within the period of insurance. The policy specifically excludes claims that 
started before cover applied:
There is no cover where:
a) The insured  incident began to start or had started before you bought this insurance;
b) You should  reasonably  have known when buying  this insurance that the circumstances 
leading to a claim  under  this insurance already existed.
The policy defines  the insured incident  as the incident or the first of a series of incidents, 
which may lead to a claim under this insurance. Any actions,  incidents  or events that are 
linked by cause  or time shall be classed as one insured incident. Only one insured incident  
shall be deemed to have arisen from all causes of action,  incidents  or events that are related 
by cause or time".
Its clear that there were plenty of issues during the building works. Mr W made  Amtrust 
aware of this as when  he claimed he provided  a lot of detail. Amtrust concluded that the 
issues pre-dated the policy  and declined the claim.
Ref: DRN37077312Mr W said the architect confirmed all the issues during the build would be resolved by the 
time the practical  completion certificate  was issued. It was only after the certificate was 
issued that Mr W became aware  that the contract had been breached and a dispute arose.
In view of this Amtrust did pass the details to solicitors to review the case. The solicitor 
accepted there were  various issues and snagging  works during the build.  But it went  on to 
confirm the issues  were dealt with at the time they were  discovered. The solicitor  noted that 
Mr W only found out about the works  that hadnt been done and the breach of contract  after 
the certificate was issued  and the policy set up. In conclusion, the solicitors  decided the poor 
work carried out prior to the practical  completion  certificate being  issued was the insured 
incident. This backed up Amtrusts decision that the claim pre-dates the policy  and isnt 
covered.
I dont think this is a fair outcome. Its accepted that any areas of snagging that cropped up 
during the build were dealt with. But its also accepted that Mr W wasnt  aware  some  work 
hadnt been done and that the contract was breached after the certificate was issued. So by 
the time Mr W was aware something was wrong  the legal expenses  cover was in place.
I think Mr Ws dispute is his extension was not completed as agreed  in the contract. The key 
point for me to consider  is what Mr W knew when he took out the policy, or what he could 
reasonably have known. At the point  when the policy  started, as far as Mr W was aware,  the 
snagging issues had all been resolved and there  was nothing else outstanding. The practical 
completion certificate was issued  without all works  being done and he wasnt  aware of that. 
Only after this point  did Mr W realise  that he needed  to make a claim. The solicitor  said that 
although there were  issues  throughout the building work these were dealt with and Mr W 
didnt know there were further problems until after the policy  had started. Mr W previously 
had a policy with another  insurer. He couldnt have  made a claim about this issue on that 
policy because,  up to the point when that policy ended,  he wasnt aware the works hadnt 
been done.
I dont think its fair or reasonable  for Amtrust to exclude cover on this basis.  This isnt one 
series of events - theres  no connection  between the work that wasnt  done, the breach of 
contract and the earlier resolved snagging  incidents. If Amtrust had shown the snagging  
hadnt been done and this was what Mr W was claiming for after the contract  began, I could 
understand that. But the issues are separate and didnt come to light until the policy  was 
running.
Its clear to me that Mr W had a policy in place at the time he found out he needed to make  a 
claim. I dont  think Amtrust  has made a fair decision due to the different times and issues 
that cropped up before compared the issues after the certificate was issued and the policy  
began. I think  Amtrust  needs to reconsider the claim.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to:
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy  terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN37077313Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3707731