K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  that HDI Global Specialty SE wouldnt pay a claim under their 
home insurance policy in full due to their being under-insured.
background
In December 2014 Mr and Mrs R obtained  a quote for home insurance through  a price 
comparison website. That referred them to a brokers website where they took out a home 
insurance policy underwritten by HDI but branded in the name of the broker.  They insured 
their contents for £40,000 and didnt increase this amount on renewal.
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs R made  a claim to HDI following a burglary. 
HDI appointed  a loss adjuster to validate  the claim. The loss adjuster  visited Mr and Mrs R 
at home.  He asked them  to provide  a list showing the value of all their contents (a value  at 
risk list or VAR list).  They calculated that their contents were worth  £67,745.  
HDI said because they hadnt insured their contents  for their full value, the claim settlement 
would be subject to averaging. That means  it would reduce  the claim settlement for contents  
proportionately according to the amount by which they were  under-insured  a reduction of 
47 per cent in their case. That meant  the contents settlement was £4,794.
After Mr and Mrs R complained, HDI reviewed the claim  settlement. It noted that the loss 
adjuster had worked on the basis of the contents being worth £75,000 as opposed  to the 
value of £67,745 set out in the VAR list. So it said the settlement would be reduced by 
41 per cent instead  of 47 per cent. It also said it wouldnt charge the policy  excess  on the 
contents settlement.  That meant the contents  settlement would be £7,172.
Mr and Mrs R said the VAR list might  not be correct.  They  also said some  items had been 
bought after the policy had last renewed. They wanted HDI to pay a settlem ent of £8,522,  
being the amount of their claim  with the two valuable items limited to £1,500  each and after 
deduction of the excess.  Mr R said there were a number  of things he was unsure about 
when he completed  the VAR list and hed felt under pressure to complete it.
Mr and Mrs R brought  their complaint to this service. Our investigator thought HDI should 
pay the claim without any deduction  for under-insurance and also pay £250 compensation to 
Mr and Mrs R for the way it had handled their claim. 
As HDI didnt agree,  the matter  has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R might well have been under the impression  that their broker  was the actual 
insurer under their policy. Thats because their policy was branded  with the brokers  name as 
opposed to HDIs.  In fact their policy was sold to them and entered  into with them  by the broker  
acting as an agent for HDI. References  to HDI from now on in these findings include the broker.
Firstly Ill look at how the sum insured for contents  was arrived  at. Mr and Mrs R chose the 
estimated value of their contents from three options - £40,000,  £50,000 and £75,000. 
Ref: DRN31041912Before renewal in 2017  HDI wrote  to them as follows:
You must take reasonable care to ensure that the information provided by you or on your 
behalf in relation to your [branded] Home Insurance is provided honestly, fully and to the 
best of your knowledge.  If any of the insurance or personal details are incorrect  or 
incomplete, or if you need to make a change (e.g. change  of address), please call the 
Customer Services Helpline as soon as possible. Failure  to do so may result  in your 
insurance being cancelled or in your claim  being rejected or not fully paid.
It also said:
For your information - Please take some  time to carefully read your Policy Booklet for 
the terms and conditions which apply to your policy and the terms and conditions for your 
optional policy enhancement.  Again you should  check these to ensure that they provide  
the level of cover you require .
It described  their contents  cover  as follows:
This provides cover  for the replacement of contents  as new (see your policy  leaflet for 
exceptions) for the specific  perils within the home based upon  the present day replacement 
value of all Standard Contents Cover (Section  1):
Your contents up to £40,000. This includes valuables and personal belongings up to a total 
of £7,500 which is inclusive of any specified  items  below. A single article limit of £1,500 
applies for valuables  and personal belongings  other  than the items listed  below.
HDI said a specimen copy of the policy was available on request.
Similar wording  was included in the documentation sent out after renewal. Again a copy  of 
the policy wasnt included  in the pack sent to Mr and Mrs R but was said to be available  on 
request. So far as Im aware,  Mr and Mrs R never requested a copy  of the policy.
This service takes the view that policyholders must  be clearly told about the consequences 
of not insuring their belongings for the full amount that theyre worth.  I dont  think that 
happened here. There is no mention of it in the information sent to Mr and Mrs R before or 
after renewal. Only if theyd asked for a copy of their policy  and read it carefully,  on page 17 
theyd have come across the clause entitling  HDI to reduce their claim proportionately if they 
hadnt insured  their contents for their full reinstatement  value. Im not persuaded HDI did 
enough when  Mr and Mrs R bought  the policy to highlight the importance  of insuring their 
contents for the full reinstatement value and the potential implications of getting it wrong. So 
I dont think it was fair for HDI to apply the averaging" clause to reduce the claim.
In order to treat Mr and Mrs R fairly I think HDI should pay the claim up to the policy  limits 
without any deduction  for under-insurance (but including  a deduction for the excess).
HDI has caused a certain  amount of trouble and upset to Mr and Mrs R by the way it handled 
their claim, calculated the reduction using an incorrect figure for the value of their contents and 
unfairly reduced their settlement. Taking into account the disappointment and stress theyve 
had, overall I think £250 is appropriate to compensate them for the poor claim handling.
Ref: DRN31041913my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require HDI Global Specialty SE to pay the claim without  any 
deduction for under-insurance and also pay £250  compensation  to Mr and Mrs R for the way 
it had handled  their claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3104191