K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  through  their claims management company (CMC) that they were  
mis-sold a mortgage in 2006 by AWD  Home Finance Limited a broker and the appointed 
representative of Legal & General Partnership Services  Limited. Mr and Mrs F would like to 
be returned to the position  they would have  been in had the mortgage, will and estate 
planning package  and legal administration service not been  sold to them  by AWD.  
background 
Mr and Mrs F got mortgage advice from AWD  in 2006 as a result of which  they remortgaged 
to raise money for home improvements  and to consolidate a credit card. In addition to the 
mortgage, on AWDs recommendation Mr and Mrs F bought  a wills package, were referred 
to a conveyancer  and were sold an accident, sickness and unemployment policy (ASU)  
policy. Mr and Mrs F complain that:
They didnt need  a new mortgage and should have stayed with their existing lender
The wills package was mis-sold.
AWD  didnt  tell them  that their lender  offered a free legal service as part of the re-
mortgage.
Undue pressure  was put on them to take out the ASU policy.
They paid £8,545.00 for the new mortgage  and related products.
Debt consolidation was unsuitable  for them.
The sale of the legal  service was unsuitable  and charging a separate legal  
administration fee was unfair.
L&G said that it believed  that the advice was suitable as the advice resulted in Mr and Mrs F 
getting a reduction  in the interest  rate from rates  of 6.5% and 5.5%  to a fixed  rate of 4.74% 
for three years and allowing them to access £15,000  for home  improvements. Although L&G 
said that it believed  that the sale of the wills package was correct,  it felt that Mr and Mrs F 
shouldnt have been advised to pay for it through the term of the mortgage and offered to 
refund the interest paid of £103 and pay compensation  of £150 for Mr and Mrs Fs 
inconvenience.
Our adjudicator felt that L&G had made a reasonable offer to correct  any mistakes it had 
made and so didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Our adjudicator noted 
that the ASU package  came to £5,512.50 but that the policy was cancelled  during the 
cooling-off period.  Our adjudicator assumed that either the money allocated for this would 
have been returned to the lender or sent to Mr and Mrs F. Our adjudicator said that if that 
was not the case  to contact this service and we would ask for confirmation from the 
insurance company  or the lender.  The CMC  made  no further comment on this so Ive not 
dealt with its further in my decision. The CMC disagreed  with our adjudicators 
recommendation saying in summary:
There was a clear conflict of interest in the recommendation  of the wills provider.
The legal administration fee charged by AWD was a deceptive attempt to 
unreasonably enhance their fee income.
It didnt make financial sense to consolidate  the credit card so that it was paid over 
the term of the mortgage.
The clients had a surplus monthly income  and should have been recommended to 
stay with their existing lender.
Ref: DRN35847612my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mortgage advice
Mr and Mrs F had an existing mortgage  and wanted  to raise £15,000 for home 
improvements. On top of this AWD  recommended  that they consolidate one of the debts  on 
their credit card. Mr and Mrs F had a debt on this card of about £2000  which  they were 
paying off at £50 per month. The interest rate was about 16% pa. I see that Mr and Mrs F 
were told about the implications and cost of consolidating this debt and that a couple  of 
similar cards  werent consolidated. This suggests  that Mr and Mrs F had an informed 
discussion about that and were content  to tidy up this debt at the same time that they were 
borrowing more money. Although  they werent obviously under a deal of financial pressure to 
do so, its not unreasonable for them to have made  that choice  or for AWD to have facilitated 
it.
The other issue is whether AWDs  advice to go with the new lender was a better 
recommendation than staying  with their existing lender.  The evidence would indicate  that 
AWD sourced a mortgage at a lesser interest  rate than the one that Mr and Mrs F were then 
repaying and got them  the extra money  they wanted. Ive seen no evidence  that Mr and Mrs 
F could have achieved a better deal elsewhere and so I cant fairly say that AWD provided 
them with unsuitable  mortgage advice. There were  certainly fees associated  with this 
mortgage but the extent of those fees is fairly  set out in the documentation Mr and Mrs F 
received before taking out the mortgage to allow them to make an informed decision.  
Wills package
AWD recommended  that Mr and Mrs F review they will arrangements. I noted that they had 
a dependent daughter and not yet made wills. The Mortgage Record of Suitability recorded 
that they would be contacted by a will drafting company to discuss  their requirements.  I 
understand that AWD and the will drafting company had common  directors. 
AWD also included in the new mortgage  amount a sum of £464 to cover  payment for the will 
service Mr and Mrs F were to select.  This was added to the mortgage. I believe that the wills 
company had a range  of wills packages which Mr and Mrs F could choose  from. I consider 
that it was reasonable that AWD  recommend that Mr and Mrs F consider a wills package 
given their circumstances.  Although a wills drafting company was to contact Mr and Mrs F, 
theres no recommendation by AWD to Mr and Mrs F for a particular package. Whilst there  is 
an introduction and a provision for payment it seems to me that Mr and Mrs F retained their 
ability to choose  wills packages and the right not to take out one at all. I dont believe that the 
fact of the common directors impeded  Mr and Mrs Fs freedom of choice. But I accept that it 
was a cost that shouldnt  have been  added to the mortgage and I agree that Mr and Mrs F 
should be refunded the extra interest  they had to pay as a result of that advice and receive 
£150 for their trouble  and upset.
Ref: DRN35847613Legal administration fee
Legal costs were added to the mortgage  which  often  happens. Part of the legal costs  was 
paid to AWD  as a legal administration fee. Although the CMC says that free legals would  
have been available from their existing lender Ive seen no evidence of that. In its letter  to 
L&G of June 2016 the CMC says that the legal costs  and disbursements  were £680.73. 
I note that the Key Facts  document refers to legal costs estimated  of £750 made up of £522 
plus vat and outlay.  There is a letter from the conveyancers dated  May 2006 which says that 
AWD got a legal and administration fee of £293.75. As I understand it, this was part of the 
legal costs and a reimbursement for some legal administration  performed by AWD rather 
than the solicitors. The completion  statement  would  indicate that the legal costs  came to 
£522 plus outlay  which was the amount Mr and Mrs F were  told that they would be charged. 
The CMC doubts  that AWD did any legal administration work. L&G in its letter  of April 2016 
refers to a number of tasks covered  by its fee. Its not clear from the paperwork what  tasks  
were in fact done  but this complaint relates to what happened many  years ago and I wouldnt 
expect the file to contain all that information. From  Mr and Mrs Fs perspective I would have 
thought that if they were made aware of what the likely legal costs would be and they were 
charged in accordance with those charges, I dont believe  that they would be unfairly treated 
if the fees related to the legal work done are apportioned  between  the solicitors and AWD.I 
dont consider that to be unfair.  
Although the CMC  says that AWD for their own purposes pressurised Mr and Mrs F to use a 
particular solicitors firm, there is no evidence of this pressure and there is no suggestion that 
Mr and Mrs F couldnt use a legal firm of their choice. My attention has been drawn to an 
issue of the payment of a referral fee to the broker by the legal firm involved. But Im told that 
whilst the complaint has been with us the CMC has confirmed acceptance of L&Gs  offer to 
resolve that issue and so its something  that Ive not considered further here.
Summary
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint but approve L&Gs  suggested 
settlement of £103 for the mortgage interest  paid on the wills package  during the course  of 
the mortgage and £150 for Mr and Mrs Fs trouble and upset.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint but approve  the settlement suggested  by Legal & General 
Partnership Services Limited of payment of £103  to Mr and Mrs F for the mortgage interest 
paid on the wills package  during the course of the mortgage and £150 for their trouble and 
upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3584761