K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains George  Banco Limited  lent him money he couldnt  afford  to repay.  He says it 
didnt carry out adequate  affordability checks. He wants  a refund of interest and the balance 
of the debt written  off. And he wants his guarantor to be released from her obligation.
background
Mr A tells us he took out a fixed sum loan agreement, with a guarantor, in early 2017. The 
loan was for £7,500. With interest and charges the amount repayable  was almost £17,000.
He says at the time he was taking out payday and other guarantor  loans to pay off debts. 
And he was also borrowing heavily from friends. He says he has a gambling addiction.  He 
doesnt think George  Banco carried out sufficient checks. And feels if it had done it would 
have seen he couldnt afford  to make repayments.
George Banco told us it had carried out checks with a credit  reference agency (CRA) and 
saw Mr A was under  the limit for all lines of credit. And as it had been informed by Mr A that 
the loan was for consolidation purposes  it had removed these from the affordability checks. It 
said it had no reason to believe  the information  it received  from the CRA would be incorrect.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 4 February 2019 indicating  my intention 
to uphold the complaint. Both parties have since replied accepting  my provisional  view. Mr A 
also asked me to consider ordering the refund of the £900 document fee. I thank both parties 
for their replies. In the light of these I see no need  to change my provisional decision - but Ill 
deal with Mr As request  in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  Mr A is experiencing financial difficulties - I appreciate that hes been frank in 
admitting that part of his situation  is caused  by his gambling habit.  This cant be easy  - 
having to confront dual problems which must appear  extremely difficult to resolve. As even if 
he is able to overcome  - or at least control - the gambling, hes still left with the debt.
As this complaint  is about unaffordable/irresponsible  lending I should explain our approach  
to such cases. In summary, this is a two-part process. We look to see if a business has 
made sufficient checks about  a customers income and expenditure. And then,  based  on 
those checks and any other criteria it uses,  whether the business has reached a correct 
decision on the customers ability to repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.
Ive seen the affordability checks  carried  out by George  Banco.  These included  an income 
and expenditure  statement from Mr A along with information it obtained  from a CRA. This led 
to it assessing  Mr A had disposable income in excess  of the amount needed to repay the 
loan. 
Its now apparent that the affordability check was based on erroneous  and/or incomplete 
information. But the test of whether or not a loan was affordable  or if it was made 
irresponsibly is not judged  with the benefit  of hindsight. Its based  on what a business knew 
or ought to have  known at the time.
Ref: DRN39809442The two areas  where the discrepancies arose  seem  to be in Mr As own statement of 
expenditure - which was understated.  This led to his disposable income appearing larger  
than was in fact the case. And unfortunately, the CRA report used  by George Banco did not 
disclose all the accounts Mr A was liable to repay. This seems  particularly unfortunate as 
Mr A has supplied  a copy of a recent credit file which appears  to be from the same CRA  as 
used by George  Banco. Why such a discrepancy  has occurred I cant  say.
The result was that over £450 per month of payments werent taken into account. Its 
probable if they had been the loan would not have  been made. Mr A did not have sufficient  
disposable income to sustainably  repay it.
Theres no set list of checks  a business is required to carry out before granting credit. But it 
is necessary for checks to be sufficient and proportionate having regard to factors including, 
but not limited  to, the size of the loan and amount of repayments. Looking at the information  
George Banco had obtained Ive concluded its checks  didnt go quite far enough. Ill explain 
why.
In his application Mr As income and expenditure is recorded as comprising  three main  
components. His income, his rent and his other monthly outgoings. This appeared to result  
in disposable  income of over £1,500 per month.
But George  Bancos checks revealed  that Mr As outgoings were around double  that 
disclosed. And taking  into account other  adjustments it made,  based  on its criteria for 
assessing affordability, it reached a disposable income figure of just over £450 - from which  
repayments of £282  were  to be paid.
But given the information it obtained showed  clear and substantial differences to that 
disclosed by Mr A, Im of the view further checks and verification by the business were 
required at that stage. The difference of over £1,000  in disposable income  assessment 
requires an explanation. Its an inevitable inference  there must  have  been  either  errors  or 
omissions in what Mr A had disclosed.  Particularly  when someone with such an apparently  
high disposable  income is seeking  a long term loan - and other  lines of credit - which the 
CRA did show - were close to their limits.
Im aware George Banco  has told the investigator  it had no reason to believe  the CRA report  
was incorrect and Im aware  it has tried to seek an explanation. Ive not seen the result  of its 
enquiry. But its up to a business what sources  of information it relies upon.  And in this case I 
think there was enough  from the information  it did have to require additional checks and 
verification.
If these had been undertaken it seems to me on a balance of probabilities the likelihood is a 
more accurate picture of Mr As precarious financial state would have been revealed. And it 
is more likely than not the proposed loan would have been deemed  unaffordable. And whilst 
Ive not taken this into account in reaching  my findings - Mr A was around the time of the 
George Banco loan also accessing other credit. So its possible this would also have been  
identified. Whilst it may have been  an influencing factor, I dont  think  the missing information 
on the CRA can fairly be seen to have excused the need for further checks.
Ref: DRN39809443I know Mr A thinks the loan agreement should be cancelled and the debt written off. But I 
dont think that would  be fair and reasonable. Hes had the benefit  of the capital sum and I 
see no reason why that should not be repaid.  So Ill only be requiring George  Banco to 
remove the interest from the loan. As far as the document fee is concerned I shant be 
asking George Banco to do anything about  that. I think Mr A bears  some  responsibility in not 
providing a complete record of his outgoings.  This led - in part at least  - to the approval of 
the loan. And the administration costs - including the document fee - related to the capital 
sum as well as the interest charges.
As the guarantor is not a direct party to this complaint I cant  make any findings  about her 
situation. It is of course entirely possible that my final decision will have a consequential  
effect on the amount of her liability  - but thats  entirely incidental.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
Im ordering  George Banco Limited  to:
1.Remove the interest charge  from this loan and recalculate the sum outstanding.
2.Arrange for any adverse information recorded  on Mr As credit file as a result of this loan 
to be removed.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3980944