K820x#14complaint
Miss T complains that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest)  acted unfairly and 
unreasonably when arranging for a survey to be carried out on a property she bought.  She 
wants compensation to repair the extension and to cover the upheaval.
background
Miss T applied for a mortgage from NatWest  to buy a property. She was given three options 
for a survey/valuation and said she chose the middle option of a HomeBuyer survey,  but 
NatWest only arranged  for a standard mortgage  valuation to be carried  out. Miss T said that 
upon buying the property,  it hadnt  been  left in the expected condition by the sellers  and she 
found out that the extension wasnt constructed to the standard  required by building 
regulations. Miss T said the solicitors didnt  give her the energy rating information which 
wouldve warned  her that there was a problem until months after completion,  and said that 
the extension  needed to be rebuilt.  Miss T felt both her solicitor and NatWest were  at fault.
Miss T complained to NatWest. It said all Miss T paid for was a standard valuation  for 
mortgage purposes, and her solicitor had been  sent a copy of the valuation.  NatWest 
pointed out that the surveyor commented  that the solicitor should check  that the extension  
had been approved by the local council and do a mining search  and that Miss T had only 
chosen a standard mortgage  valuation. It noted that Miss T had said that she hadnt seen 
the valuation,  but said if so, she couldve asked  to see it before completion. It noted  her 
solicitors did the mining search but chose  not to check the position regarding  the extension.
Miss T complained to us, and said that shed paid more than NatWest  had said for the 
survey. The adjudicators view was that the evidence available showed that the fee Miss T 
paid covered more  than just the survey   it included a product fee as well. And she said that 
the evidence also showed that the survey  fee paid by Miss T was for just for a standard 
mortgage valuation  and this was confirmed  in the mortgage offer,  which Miss T accepted. 
The adjudicator pointed out that Miss Ts solicitor was sent a copy of the valuation  too. She 
didnt uphold  the complaint.
Miss T disagreed. She said NatWest had arranged the wrong type of survey,  but also said 
that its staff had referred to the valuation  as a standard thingy. Miss T said that she had 
been risk adverse and that was why she went to a bank. She also set out a number of 
alleged failures  by her solicitors and the sellers.  Miss T said the use of the word survey 
implied more than a valuation  was undertaken.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im only able to consider whether  
NatWest is at fault, not Miss Ts solicitors.
Ref: DRN36119772I dont think NatWest is at fault. Miss T was not a first time buyer and was aware of the 
difference between  the various  types of surveys/valuations.  She accepted when writing to 
this service that she knew NatWests staff couldnt  advise her about the type of survey to 
get. Miss T only paid the fee for a mortgage valuation, not the significantly higher fee for a 
HomeBuyer report,  and this was set out in the mortgage offer,  which she accepted.  If Miss T 
thought she was getting a HomeBuyers report,  the mortgage offer gave her the information  
to challenge the fact that only a standard valuation  report had been obtained before 
accepting the offer.
Further, the valuation  was sent to Miss Ts solicitors.  As only NatWest could rely on the 
valuation, this isnt unfair  or unreasonable. NatWest isnt responsible for the actions of 
Miss Ts solicitors at all, nor in relation to the valuation, the requirement to check  that the 
extension had the approval  of the local council, or the provision of the energy certificate.  
Miss T has said that she was risk adverse, but also that she knew the valuation was a 
standard thingy. 
I dont agree with Miss T that the word survey means more than a valuation  was carried  
out. The word survey and valuation  is used interchangeably by lenders, surveyors and 
the public. In order to value  a property, its condition must be surveyed. A survey  can be 
more in depth than a valuation, but the terms arent  mutually exclusive.
Its fair and reasonable for lenders  to expect consumers to see a copy  of the valuation   if 
Miss T had done so, it wouldve been  clear that only a basic valuation had been obtained. 
But I think its probable  that her solicitors sent her a copy of the valuation  which  wouldve 
been the usual procedure  and Miss T refers  to a letter  sent to her which  encloses  the 
valuation; if they didnt, it isnt NatWests fault.  And I note that the solicitors did carry part of 
the work  recommended by the valuer  in the valuation report, so its fair and reasonable to 
believe that Miss Ts solicitors read the report. Indeed, according to Miss T, the solicitors  
specifically told her that they were going to check the extension  and report  back. Again, 
NatWest isnt responsible  for the failure of a third party to check the status of the extension.
In any event, its isnt clear from the evidence whether Miss T wouldve proceeded in any 
event with the purchase of the property  as its location was very important to her for family 
reasons. But as I havent found NatWest to be at fault, I dont need to decide  this issue.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or reject  my decision before 
28 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3611977