K820x#14complaint
Ms A1 and Ms A2 complain that Nationwide Building Society acted  unfairly and 
unreasonably by giving them misleading information  about  their mortgage. They want 
matters put right.
background
Ms A1 and Ms A2 had a mortgage with Nationwide. They  said that it gave them  misleading 
information about their mortgage in the key facts illustration (KFI)   the KFI said that the 
interest rate of 1.39%  was available for loans of up to 75% of the propertys  valuation.  But 
Ms A1 and Ms A2 said that the KFI didnt tell them that if the valuation figure was reduced,  
the purchase price  would be used to decide how much would be lent to them. 
Ms A1 and Ms A2 said that this led to them having to pay a higher interest rate for their 
mortgage product  of 1.89% in order to complete the purchase.  They believed that this policy 
was an internal policy and it wasnt a defence to say the policy was industry-wise.
Ms A1 and Ms A2 complained to Nationwide. It said it was standard  industry practice to use 
the lower figure of either  the valuation or purchase  price when calculating the loan to value 
ratio (LTV) of a mortgage. This was to guard against mortgage fraud for example. 
Nationwide said that it was working on a project  to make the position clearer to consumers, 
but it wouldnt make an exception to its policy. It noted that Ms A1 and Ms A2 chose to apply 
for the mortgage  with the higher interest rate and that the KFI made it clear that the 
mortgage offer might  be varied due to the value  of the property.
Ms A1 and Ms A2 complained to us. The adjudicators view was that Nationwide wasnt  at 
fault. He said it was common for lenders  to use the lower figure  of the valuation or purchase 
price, and it was fair and reasonable  for Nationwide to have used the lower purchase  price 
figure to work out the LTV. The adjudicator also thought  it was reasonable for Nationwide to 
say that it would look at its wording  in future, but said this service couldnt force it to change.
Ms A1 and Ms A2 disagreed. They  said the KFI for the 1.39% product said that it was 
available for up to 75% of the valuation  of the property, and this was misleading.  They  also 
didnt accept that standard industry  practice  was a basis to support Nationwides position  as 
consumers should  be treated fairly.  The adjudicator didnt change his view and said that the 
KFI was correct when it was issued, but the situation  changed  after the valuation and the 
change to the purchase price. This meant  the original  product wasnt available  as the LTV 
was too high. The adjudicator also said that the policy was fair and reasonable as it was 
designed to prevent mortgage fraud. Ms A1 and Ms A2 said that their core complaint was 
that the KFI didnt  say that the valuation could be over-ruled by the purchase price.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37227412Lenders are able to use their commercial judgement about what  products to offer to 
consumers and the policies which will be applied  to applications, provided those policies are 
applied fairly  and reasonably. The rate of 1.39% was only available  to those consumers 
making an application with a LTV of 75% or less. At the time the first KFI was produced,  
Ms A1 and Ms A2s application (before valuation)  met the 75% LTV policy and were eligible 
to apply. The change  of the purchase  rendered them ineligible for that product unless they 
increased their deposit.
But KFIs arent binding  on lenders  and its made  clear that any offer made might be 
different; theres no guarantee that the application  will be successful. In Ms A1 and Ms A2s 
case, the application wasnt successful.  This is the core of the complaint  Ms A1 and Ms A2 
say that the KFI shouldve  warned  them that the definition of valuation didnt necessarily 
mean just the formal  mortgage valuation, but could refer to the ultimate purchase price. But 
KFIs are meant to give details of the product to consumers, not to set out all of the lending 
policies which might affect the application. The contents of KFIs have to also comply with 
the rules of the regulator.
While I can understand Ms A1 and Ms A2s point of view,  I dont think the KFI is misleading 
as its purpose is to set out the details  of the product, such as the interest rate. And in any 
event, Ms A1 and Ms A2 chose to make a second  application to get a different product once 
the position about the purchase price and its effect of its reduction was known; it was their 
choice to take out the 1.89% product, rather than increase the deposit and try to get the 
1.39% product.
I also dont think the policy  itself (which is one this service cant  change and wouldnt 
interfere with as lenders  can use their commercial judgement) is unfair or unreasonable.  The 
goal is to prevent  mortgage fraud  through  inflated valuations that arent supported  by the 
actual purchase price.  The LTV is meant to relate to the value of the property, and the best 
way to know the value is to look at the purchase price; this reflects  the market position.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A1 and Ms A2 to accept or reject  my decision 
before 24 October  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3722741