K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the service he received from Hub Financial Solutions Limited (Hub) 
when providing  him with annuity quotes. 
background
Mr C was looking to purchase  an enhanced  annuity  and engaged  Hub,  which provided a 
whole of market  broker service to help find him the secure best annuity available. He 
provided Hub with his personal  details, including his medical conditions.  But when 
processing his application  Hub mistakenly  recorded a less serious  health  condition, resulting 
in lower enhanced annuity quotes.  
Mr C told Hub of this mistake  and Hub agreed  to provide him with new quotations. But the 
new quote  using the correct medical information  was lower even though the health  
condition was more  serious. Hub said the annuity provider (Firm A) explained this was 
because its annuity  rates had changed. And even though Hub explained  its mistake, Firm A 
was unable to honour the earlier, higher, annuity rate. 
To ensure Mr C wasnt financial worse off as a result  of its mistake, Hub offered to make up 
the difference between the annuity  he shouldve received and the new one quoted.  It said if 
Mr Cs medical  details  had been  recorded  correctly at the outset, the highest annuity he 
couldve secured  wouldve  been  £2,180.16 per year, from Firm A. The new highest annuity  
available was only £2,036.40; again  from Firm A. 
Hub proposed  to pay the difference, £143.76 per year, as a lump sum. It calculated the 
number of years this would need to be paid using the life expectancy of 82  the average life 
expectancy of a healthy  man living in the U.K. So Hub offered Mr C £2,300.16. This was 
later increased to £2,987.61 to account  for the fact Mr C wanted an RPI-indexed  annuity. 
Hub also offered Mr C £150 in recognition of the trouble and upset it may have caused him. 
Unhappy with this, Mr C brought his complaint to our service.  
On 2 August  2018 Hub sent Mr C a cheque  for £3,137.61  the calculated  loss plus £150.  By 
email on 6 August  2018 Mr C let Hub know he was banking the cheque but did not accept it 
as full and final settlement  of his complaint. 
Hub offered to review  Mr Cs concerns and consider additional compensation. But it 
explained in order  to do so Mr Cs annuity application needed  to complete. Following that, 
Hub agreed to review his journey as a whole and consider how much additional 
compensation and redress  would be owed  to Mr C. Mr C did not complete his annuity 
application with Hub. And Hub subsequently terminated its arrangement with Mr C. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Cs concerns. During her investigation Mr C told the 
investigator he wanted compensation for the time spent trying to sort things out with Hub, the 
annuity rate he wouldve gotten  had no mistakes been made  and he wanted Hubs 
conducted thoroughly examined  and for them to be publically reprimanded. 
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint.  She thought Hub did all that we would 
expect in terms of putting things  right. In summary she explained:
The role of this service is to resolve disputes,  not punish businesses.
Ref: DRN38104812If a business accepts it made errors,  we can look at whether whats  been offered to 
make up for this is fair.
We expect a business to put a consumer into the position they wouldve been in had 
a mistake not been made.
In this case, Hub accepted that it made mistakes and paid Mr C a lump sum to cover 
any financial loss that might occur as a result, along with an additional £150 for the 
trouble caused.
And since the complaint was brought to us, Firm As annuity rates have increased, so 
if hed gone ahead with his application, he wouldnt have lost out in the way originally 
thought. 
Hubs paid Mr C for a loss that ultimately  he would never have  suffered.
Unlike an annuity payment, Mr C hasnt had to pay tax on the payment from Hub, 
and has had access to this money sooner  than he wouldve  through  his annuity 
income. 
Mr C didnt agree, so the matter has now been  referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr C, but I also have very little to add to what the 
investigator has already  said.  Specifically, the investigator clearly  explained our role and so I 
wont be commenting on the things Mr C says require a public reprimand  or are otherwise 
within the sole purview of the regulator. 
Hub accepts it made  a mistake. And it has tried to put this right. I appreciate  Mr C wanted 
Hub to secure him the annuity he shouldve  gotten if the mistake hadnt been  made.  But that 
wasnt possible. So Hub paid Mr C a lump  sum equal to the difference between  the annuity  
hed have been entitled to and the annuity  offered after the mistake had been corrected.
When trying  to put things  right, the aim should  be to put the consumer in as close  as 
possible to the position they wouldve been  in but for the mistake.  Having reviewed 
everything thats been provided in this case, Im persuaded Hub did all it could to put Mr C 
as close to the position he wouldve been  he might even be better  off  so Im not going to 
ask it do to anything  more. Let me explain. 
Even though  Mr C has a medical condition which impacts on life expectancy,  Hub didnt take 
this into account  when calculating what was owed  to him. Instead Hub used  the average life 
expectancy of a healthy  man. This meant Hub included 16 years worth of additional  income 
in its compensation,  even  though the average life expectancy for someone with Mr Cs 
health condition  might not provide  for 16 years of annuity payments.
Mr C also didnt have to pay tax on this payment; whereas annuity income is taxable. And if 
hed received this amount through an annuity,  it would  have  taken years  for him to get what 
Hub paid him as a lump  sum, so hes benefitted  from having access  to these funds  early.
Hub also offered to revisit the compensation paid once Mr C finalised his annuity application 
to ensure he didnt  suffer  a financial loss. Having looked at all of the correspondence 
between the parties  and everything else Ive been provided, it seems  Hub did everything it 
could to help Mr C secure an annuity  income, but ultimately had to terminate the relationship 
as Mr C never completed the application  or provided the documents necessary to finalise the 
Ref: DRN38104813annuity. So I cant say that hes suffered a financial loss, since  its unknown  what annuity he 
will ultimately take up. 
Hub also paid Mr C £150 for the trouble  and inconvenience caused. I consider this fair in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3810481