K820x#14complaint
Mr L says Nationwide  Building Society  (NBS)  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr L bought the policy  in 2004 at the same time as taking out a loan. NBS says he applied 
for the loan and PPI policy over the phone.  
The policys  one-off upfront  premium of £668.82  was paid in advance  by being added  to the 
loan (a single premium)  where it attracted interest  over the term of the loan. The loan was 
repayable over a 48-month term and the policy term matched that of the loan.  The monthly 
loan repayment  was £142.30  with the PPI costing  an additional £15.86 making  the total 
monthly repayment £158.16.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr L for accident, sickness, unemployment and life  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  Mr Ls monthly  loan repayment  for up to the 
remaining term in the event of a successful  disability claim and 12 months in the event of 
unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr L was employed  as a project manager. He has told us he was entitled to sick 
pay, death in service  benefit and redundancy pay provided by his employer. He also had 
some savings he couldve used  to repay his loan should he be unable  to work. Mr L has said 
he suffered an injury some time in 2004.   
NBS has sent us Mr Ls loan transaction list to show that the loan account closed in 2007. 
Mr Ls representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ls representative says:
NBS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr L wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ls representatives  
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means NBS should  have told 
Mr L about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means NBS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr L and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN36704602The information Mr L received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ls. I dont  intend  to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ls complaint
This sale took place  in 2004 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2007. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
NBS, selling insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN36704603The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like NBS at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ls case.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so NBS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ls complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If NBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr L with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether NBS gave Mr L sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr L, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr L suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr L and NBS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ls complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr L know he had a choice?
Ref: DRN36704604NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr L say he applied for a loan and PPI in a meeting  but NBS says it sold him the PPI over 
the phone  followed  by a paper agreement. Ive seen NBSs diary  notes  of the initial  contact 
and discussion about the loan which took place in the middle of June. The credit agreement 
was signed a few weeks later and the loan was subsequently set up. From what Ive seen of 
sales made in branch,  the credit  agreement is usually completed and signed on the day of 
the meeting. So, I think NBS is likely  to be right and the loan and PPI were  sold during a 
phone call, and the loan was set up after his paper loan agreement  was signed  and returned  
a few weeks later. 
 
There isnt a recording of the telephone call which isnt surprising given  how long ago the 
policy was sold. But this means I have to decide  what I think is more likely based on the 
evidence that is still available   such as the loan agreement that NBS sent to Mr L following 
the call. 
I can see the PPI is set out under  a heading  Optional  Credit Insurance. As explained 
above, I dont  know what Mr L was told on the phone, but had he been led to believe the PPI 
was compulsory, I wouldve expected him to have questioned this on receipt of the loan 
agreement which clearly  labelled  it as optional. 
Mr L signed the agreement  so he agreed to take the PPI. 
I also note that Mr L took another  loan with NBS in 2001 and didnt take PPI at this time. So, 
I think he wouldve been aware that he could  have a loan without PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr L knew the policy  was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale and Mr L hasnt said if he agrees. Looking  
at what happened  when NBS sold Mr L the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided  advice.  I 
say this because  I havent seen anything  to suggest  NBS sought details of Mr Ls wider  
circumstances to assess the suitability of the policy or that it provided him with a tailored 
recommendation to take the PPI. 
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr L. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr L to make  an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr L was given a broad description  of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr L was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  I have reached this 
conclusion because I think  its unlikely  Mr L would have taken out the policy without any 
sense of what the policy was. His paper agreement also said hed bought  insurance  for 
disability (i.e. accident and sickness), unemployment and life. 
Ref: DRN36704605I also think its likely Mr L was given cost details  during the phone call when he agreed  to 
take the PPI as I think its unlikely hed agree to take the PPI without an idea of what the 
premium might be. I would add that I think he knew that the single premium being added  to 
the loan was £668.82, the interest added to the premium was £92.46, the total cost was 
£761.28 and the monthly  cost was £15.86 as this information was, in my view, sufficiently 
clear on the loan agreement Mr L signed before the loan was set up.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  NBS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mr 
L agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think NBS gave  Mr L sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ls representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ls. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ls representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr L about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ls representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr L has suggested. And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that NBS ought to have done  either. 
What effect did NBSs shortcomings  have on Mr L? To what extent did Mr L suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that NBS didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Mr L. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr L suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr L would have still 
taken out the policy,  had NBS done  things properly.  
Ref: DRN36704606Mr L says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr L had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr L chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr L thought  he was getting  is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr L has suffered any loss or detriment. 
As I explained above, Im not persuaded  Mr L found the cost unacceptable as he had been 
given all of the cost information, at least in the loan agreement he signed before the policy  
started. But the information about  other  aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations 
and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should have  been. 
Im not persuaded NBS made clear exactly what Mr L would get back  in return  in the event 
he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Ls expectations  about  what the policy  
would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet  his loan payments)  were  
significantly different to what the policy  actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr L thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition  or disease which Mr L 
knew of or should reasonably have known  of on the start date of the policy.  It also 
excluded claims relating to any medical condition  or disease for which Mr L received 
treatment, advice  or was referred for investigation during the 12 months before the 
start date and which recurs within 12 months  of the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr L 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr L be unable to 
do any work as certified by a doctor.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr L pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr L from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr Ls circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover  that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the insured 
risks have become  a reality. 
Mr L says he suffered an injury before the PPI was taken out. But he told NBS that he wasnt  
sure when in 2004 he suffered the injury. This policy was sold a long time ago now,  so I can 
understand if Mr L doesnt recall the exact details of his circumstances at the time. But if it 
happened after the sale, then claims related to this injury wouldnt have been excluded  at all. 
Ref: DRN36704607However, if it had happened prior to the sale of the policy,  the policy might not have  provided  
cover had he needed time off work because of the injury. But I still dont think  better 
information about this exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to it. I say this because he 
told us the injury was managed with medication  after he took some  time off initially  when it 
happened, and hes also not had any ongoing  issues with it since. So, I dont think  he 
envisaged this would  be the main  reason hed need to make  a claim. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr L would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr L needed to not be doing any work. I dont think  this is likely to 
be too different  to what he would have expected to make a claim. He bought  cover  to protect 
his payments if he was unable  to work  due to accident, sickness  or unemployment.  So, it 
seems unlikely he would have thought hed be able to make a successful  claim if he was still 
working, whether  that be in his normal job or any other job. 
The policy did provide  a pro-rata refund if it was cancelled  early, so the policy provided 
flexibility if Mr L decided to repay the loan early and cancel the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr L would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences were  Mr L made redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr L would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ls representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr L would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ls 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr L 
Ref: DRN36704608found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr L believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr L in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
NBS should pay Mr L compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  than he would 
have been in if everything had happened as it should have  done.  
Im also aware that Mr L thinks  NBS misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
NBSs statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion the reason why NBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  NBS gave Mr L, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2004 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ls representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find NBS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr L and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that NBS had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr L in a better  position  than if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2021.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3670460