K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva):
failed to notify him of a change in procedure by his finance company in regard  to 
accepting a replacement car under his finance agreement;
provided misleading or ambiguous  wording  in its motor insurance policy about the 
circumstances in which a replacement car would  be available  under his policy; and
undervalued  his car when it was stolen and he claimed under his motor  insurance 
policy.
background
Mr B acquired a new car in September 2017. He paid an advance payment of £576.20 and 
the balance of £42,553.80, plus finance charges, was provided through  a hire purchase 
agreement by his finance company, which Ill call F Co. The total amount payable  under 
the hire purchase  agreement at the outset  was £47,607.33.
New cars tend to lose value more quickly in the first year or two of their lives than later on. 
Because of this, when a new car is bought  under a hire purchase agreement,  there is a risk 
that if it is stolen or written off during the early  part of the agreement  the market  value paid 
by the cars insurer will be significantly less than the balance  still owed  under  the hire 
purchase agreement.
This gap in value is a well recognised risk, and consumers can buy a separate gap  
insurance policy to cover  it so they know they will have enough insurance  to cover what  they 
owe under  a finance agreement if the car is stolen or written off. 
Many insurers also include a provision  in their motor  insurance policies which  addresses  the 
particularly steep fall in value of cars during the first 12 months. This typically  says that if a 
car is stolen  or written off during the first 12 months, the insurer will provide a like for like 
replacement new car rather than just paying the much lower  market value of the stolen or 
written off car.
This is straightforward if the consumer owns the car outright. However  if the car is being 
financed, and is still legally owned,  by a finance  company, it will have  an interest in the 
process. In particular it will wish to ensure that the value of the replacement car isnt likely to 
be less than the value of the original car during the remaining  life of the finance agreement. 
Recognising this, the insurer will normally  provide that the consent  of any finance  company 
with an interest in the car must be obtained.
Mr B was aware of both gap  insurance, and new car replacement  provisions in motor 
policies. When he acquired the car, he took out gap insurance for the period beginning one 
year after he acquired  the car. He also made sure his motor insurance policy contained a 
provision as described above  so that it would  supply a new replacement car if his car was 
stolen or written off during  the first year. With this in place,  he didnt think he needed gap  
insurance to cover the first year.
In July 2018, Mr Bs car was stolen.  He contacted Aviva  who initially  said it would arrange a 
new replacement in accordance with the terms of the policy.  A suitable replacement  was 
found through the dealer who supplied the original car.
Ref: DRN37355982However when Aviva  approached F Co for its consent, F Co refused to agree. It said it had 
changed its policy in April 2018, when it had circulated insurers, including  Aviva,  to tell them 
it would  no longer consent to the supply of any replacement vehicles for its finance 
agreements.
Mr B complained both to Aviva and to F Co. He said this was a significant  change in F Cos 
previous practice  in respect of replacement cars.  Either or both of them  should  have  told him 
about this change, when  he could have arranged gap  insurance  to cover the remainder of 
the first year.  But neither  of them had.
F Co didnt  accept his complaint. It said it wasnt legally required to accept any new 
replacement car offered  by an insurer. So when it changed its procedure  by deciding it would 
in future  never accept  a replacement car, it wasnt required to notify  its customers. The 
actions of F Co are the subject of a separate complaint to us. So I wont  say any more  about 
this in this decision.
Aviva didnt accept Mr Bs complaint. As F Co wouldnt consent  to it providing a replacement 
car, it was unable to do so. It didnt think it had any obligation to pass on the notification it 
received from F Co in April 2018. It didnt agree that the wording of its policy  in relation to the 
provision of replacement  cars was misleading  or ambiguous. It had increased the valuation 
of Mr Bs car from £26,500 to £29,500  when  he asked  it to look at this again, which it thought 
was a fair value.
Mr B complained to us. He said that ideally  he wanted to be supplied  with a replacement  car 
in accordance with the policy terms. But if that was no longer possible because a suitable 
replacement car was no longer available, he wanted the balance of his outstanding finance 
debt to F Co to be settled.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She commented on 
the three aspects of Mr Bs complaint as follows.
Aviva didnt tell Mr B when it received notification from F Co in April 2018  that it would no 
longer consent  to a replacement car being put into its finance agreements
The adjudicator thought  Aviva had reasonably taken the view that the provisions of its policy 
hadnt been changed. It had always been the case that a replacement  car couldnt be 
provided unless  any interested finance  company consented. F Co had now said it would 
never provide any consent. The adjudicator thought  it was F Cos responsibility to advise its 
own customers of changes in relation  to its own agreements.
The wording  of Avivas policy in relation to the provision of replacement  cars was misleading  
or ambiguous
The wording  of the relevant part of the policy  was as follows:
New car replacement
We will replace your car with a new car of the same make, model and specification  (if one is 
available in the UK) if, within 12 months  of you or your partner buying your car from new:
1.The cost of repairing  any damage covered by the policy is more than 60% of the 
cars UK list price  (including car tax and VAT) when  you bought  your car; or
Ref: DRN373559832.Your car is stolen and not recovered.
We will only replace your car if:
1.You or your partner own your car or are buying it under a hire purchase agreement or 
other type of agreement where ownership passes to you and the financing company 
agrees; and
2.You or your partner are the first registered keeper of your car, or you or your partner 
are the second  registered keepers of your car, if your car has been pre registered in 
the name of the manufacturer or supplying dealer, providing  at the time of purchase 
by you or your partner,  the mileage of your car was less than 250 miles.
Cars sold as ex demonstrators  and nearly  new do not qualify for replacement  under this 
section.
Mr B argued that the words in the policy and the financing company agrees referred to the 
finance company  agreeing to ownership  passing, not agreeing  to the car being  replaced. At 
best the wording  was unclear and ambiguous,  and so should be construed  in his favour  as a 
consumer.
The adjudicator didnt agree with the interpretation Mr B was suggesting. She thought  the 
wording meant that the finance  company had to agree to Aviva replacing  the car. She said 
that wording such as this was to be found  in similar car insurance policies. So Avivas  
wording wasnt unusual  in this respect.
The valuation Aviva had applied to the stolen car
The adjudicator said she had checked  the revised valuation of £29,500  on the basis  of this 
services established  approach  to such valuations and was satisfied that this figure was 
reasonable.
Mr B didnt accept the adjudicators recommendation. He responded to say, in summary:
he still didnt think the policy  wording was fair or easy to interpret. He said there were 
some types of car finance arrangement where a customer wouldnt become owner of 
the car at the end of the finance  arrangement, and the owner wouldnt agree to this 
happening; and
he thought  Aviva could easily have notified him of F Cos policy  change when it was 
told about it. It could  have written to all customers who owned  cars manufactured by 
the group  to which  F Co was connected. He said the Financial Conduct Authority, 
under its Treating  Customers  Fairly  policy expected that "Consumers are provided 
with clear information and are kept appropriately  informed  before, during and after 
the point of sale".
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37355984I asked the adjudicator to make some  further enquiries of Aviva,  as a result of which  it 
confirmed:
F Co was the only finance company which had made it aware of a point blank  refusal 
to accept new vehicle  replacements on to its agreements;
when it quoted for a motor insurance  policy prior to inception or a new vehicle being 
added, it didnt ask for details of the customers finance arrangements in respect of 
the car. It would  only become aware of this at the time a vehicle was stolen or written 
off. 
I sympathise with the situation Mr B has found himself in. However  in relation to this 
complaint against  Aviva,  I have come  to the same conclusions as the adjudicator, and for 
broadly the same reasons.  My views of the three aspects of Mr Bs complaint are as follows:
Should Aviva have told Mr B when  it received notification from F Co in April 2018 that it 
would no longer consent to a replacement car being  put into its finance agreements?
I think it was primarily  the duty of F Co to notify its own finance  customers  of this change in 
how it would  deal with its finance agreements. I dont think it was reasonable to expect Aviva 
to find out which of its insurance  customers might be affected by this change and notify 
them. For one thing  it didnt know which  of its customers had finance arrangements with      
F Co.
Was the wording of Avivas policy in relation  to the provision of replacement cars misleading 
or ambiguous?
I dont think the meaning Mr B suggests  for this wording is the natural meaning. In any type 
of finance arrangement where ownership passes to the customer, this is all set out in the 
finance agreement  at the outset. No further agreement by the finance  company is required. 
So I think the natural  meaning of the financing company agrees  refers  to it agreeing to the 
insurer replacing the car into the finance agreement.
Although different motor insurance  policies  word this provision differently, the principle  is not 
uncommon. I explained at the beginning of this decision why its important to the finance 
company that its consent is required to the process.
Was the valuation  Aviva applied to the stolen car fair?
Its not clear why Aviva initially  came  to a lower  valuation for the car. It looked again  at the 
valuation when Mr B said it was too low and came  up with a revised valuation of £29,500. 
The adjudicator carefully considered the valuation based on our established principles,  and I 
agree with her that its a fair valuation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and 
make no order  against  Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Ref: DRN37355985Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3735598