K822xcomplaint
Mrs L has complained  that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G)  overcharged her for 
her landlords insurance policy.
background 
In 2013, Mrs L moved out of her home  and started letting it out. She took out a landlords 
insurance policy with L&G which had been  the insurer of the property when it was her home. 
The rebuild  cost was recorded as £400,000 and the annual premium was £366. Mrs L 
continued to renew  the policy each year.
In 2017, L&G invited renewal for a premium of £619.  Mrs L queried  the cost.  L&G told her if 
she increased the rebuild  cost to its standard rebuild figure of £800,000  the premium  would 
reduce to £207.
Mrs L agreed to this change but complained that L&G should have told her this when she 
first took out the policy. She asked for a refund of the excess  premiums  she had paid.
L&G wouldnt agree  to this. It said Mrs L had chosen the specific  rebuild cost rather than the 
standard rebuild  cost when she took out the policy. It said the resulting premium would 
therefore always be more  expensive as the policy required bespoke underwriting.
Mrs L was unhappy  at L&Gs response. She referred her complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I was minded to uphold the complaint. My 
findings were as follows:
The recording of the sales conversation in 2013  is no longer available. However, while I 
recognise the sale was non-advised, I still dont  understand why Mrs L was put on a bespoke 
policy. If she was asked  for the rebuild cost of her property and this was less than £800,000 
I would have expected L&G to offer her the standard rebuild cost by default given that this 
was the cheaper  option. And if Mrs L had queried  the standard rebuild  cost at the time, I 
would have expected L&G to explain this would be cheaper, as it did when she queried the 
increase in premium  in 2017.
I cant imagine  that Mrs L would voluntarily have  chosen to take out a bespoke  policy  in 2013 
if things had been spelled out to her as above. I dont think L&G treated Mrs L fairly by 
putting her without her knowledge on a bespoke policy  rather than on a cheaper, standard  
policy offering equal  cover. 
I therefore think the fair outcome in this case would be for L&G to refund  Mrs L the difference  
between what she has paid for her policy since 2013  and what she would  have paid for a 
policy with a standard rebuild cost, plus interest. 
In its response to this provisional decision, I should like L&G to confirm  what the cost of the 
cheaper policy would have been in each of the years  since  2013.
I invited both parties to make further submissions in response to my provisional decision.
Mrs L accepted  my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN35788562L&G didnt accept  my provisional decision.  It said that although it didnt have  a recording of 
the 2013 sales call, its advisers  routinely offered  policy  applicants  a choice between a 
bespoke sum insured  or a notional (standard) sum insured and gave them  details of the cost 
of each. It considered  it likely that Mrs L, having been made aware of the relative  costs  of the 
two options, had chosen to take out a policy with a bespoke  sum insured even though  this 
was more expensive.  It considered it had offered a fair and reasonable premium and pointed  
out that Mrs L would  have  been  given 14 days to review and decide whether to accept the 
policy. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that the complaint should be upheld.
L&G thinks  that Mrs L probably agreed to take out a policy with a bespoke sum assured 
even after being  made aware that it would be significantly  cheaper  to take out a policy  with a 
higher, notional sum insured. I cant  rule out that this was the case.  But I think it unlikely that 
this is what happened. I think that if Mrs L had been given clear information that she could  
obtain significantly cheaper cover by taking out a policy with a higher  sum assured, she 
would likely  have chosen this option. It would  be the rational thing for a consumer to do. So 
in the absence of the telephone  recording, I can only reasonably conclude that L&G failed to 
explain this option  to Mrs L at the time of sale.
I accept that Mrs L has agreed  to pay the offered premiums since  2013. However, I think  that 
if L&G had conducted  the sales process properly she would  have been  paying a lower  
amount for her cover  since that time.  I therefore  remain of the view that the fair outcome is 
that L&G refund her the extra amount she has paid.
L&G has confirmed the amount which Mrs L would  have paid if she had opted  for a notional  
sum assured from the outset. The figures are shown below:
Year Premium paid Premium with 
notional sum assuredSaving
2013 £366.59 £219.01 £147.58
2014 £403.25 £229.27 £173.98
2015 £443.57 £243.93 £199.64
2016 £526.94 £183.09 £343.85
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require Legal  & General Insurance Limited  to refund Mrs L the difference between  the 
amount she has paid each year for her policy since  2013 and the amount she would have 
paid for a policy with a notional rebuild cost. Legal  & General Insurance  Limited must add 
interest to this refund at the annual simple rate of 8%, calculated from the date each 
premium was paid until the date of settlement.* 
Ref: DRN35788563Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If Legal & General Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mrs L how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs L 
a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3578856