K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society 
surrounding an account switch.
background
I sent Mr H and Nationwide  a provisional  decision on 3 September 2019 to explain why I wasnt  
intending to uphold the complaint. An extract from my provisional  decision is set out below:
Nationwides Recommend  a Friend promotion  meant that if a customer  recommended  
someone else, a friend, for an account  with Nationwide, both recommender and friend 
would receive £100.  A recommendation form had to be completed and there were various 
criteria about the switch that had to be satisfied.
Nationwide has confirmed  that, if Mr H and his partner had both switched their current 
accounts to Nationwide, had both recommended each other and had met all the criteria, then 
Mr H could have been eligible  for £100 for each  switch   one as recommender and one as 
friend, for a total of £200.
Mr H says that all the necessary forms were completed for both switches.  And Nationwides 
records show that Mr H completed  an account  switch in September  2018 and that a 
Recommend a Friend form was completed  in relation to that switch, where Mr H was the 
friend. The £100  payment  to Mr H for this switch was made in October  2018.
But Nationwide has also sent us a copy of a search  of its Recommend a Friend  records,  
which only shows one record for a recommendation form with Mr H as the recommender  
from November 2018.
Mr H first raised  that he had only received one Recommend a Friend  payment in branch in 
October 2018. And I understand that he says he and his partner had completed all the 
necessary forms for both switches  by this time. But, based on the evidence I have, I think  its 
likely that the form with Mr H as the recommender hadnt been completed correctly  at this 
point. And so I think its reasonable that Mr H had only received one payment at this point.
Nationwides records show that a second Recommend a Friend  payment was made to Mr H 
in November 2018. So it appears  Mr H was ultimately paid both Recommend a Friend  
payments, and that both payments were made within a reasonable time of the 
recommendation forms being  received  by Nationwide. And so I dont think Nationwide 
should be required to make any further payments to Mr H.
Mr H is also unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide  when raising this issue. 
Hes unhappy that he was told he was only eligible for one payment when he went into 
branch. And he feels the attitude of the staff was unprofessional and dismissive.
Mr H has given us his recollections of the service he received from Nationwide. Nationwide 
has sent us statements from several  members  of staff about  their interactions with Mr H. And 
weve also been sent email correspondence  between Mr H and Nationwide. I wasnt  present 
during the interactions,  so I cant know for sure what happened, but Ive considered all of this 
evidence carefully.
Ref: DRN39040042As Nationwide  has now confirmed that Mr H could have been eligible for a Recommend a 
Friend payment from both switches, the branch  staff were incorrect if they told him that he 
was only eligible for one payment. But the statements  from the Nationwide  staff show  they 
said they couldnt give Mr H a definite  answer immediately and would have to check  what 
had happened  with the Recommend  a Friend team.  So it appears  they were  also trying to 
help him.
I understand that Mr H feels Nationwide was dismissive of his concerns. But the subsequent 
emails he received did explain that the Recommend a Friend team  couldnt  find any record 
of him as the recommender  and offered to log a complaint for him if he wanted to take the 
issue further. So it seems  Nationwide did try to explain the situation and the possible next 
steps to him.
Mr H has now received  both Recommend a Friend payments. So I dont think hes lost out 
as a result  of any incorrect advice. And based  on the evidence I have, I dont think it would 
be fair to conclude that the Nationwide staff acted unreasonably. So I dont think  Nationwide  
should be required to take any further action as a result of this.
I said Id consider anything further Mr H and Nationwide sent in.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and argument to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide said it didnt  have anything further to add following my provisional decision.
Mr H said he was told by the branch manager that he and his partner  werent eligible for both 
Recommend a Friend payments. And that the branch manager  was rude, patronising  and 
dismissive when dealing  with him. Mr H also said there were no other staff members  present 
when he spoke to the branch manager,  so he questions who the other members of staff 
Nationwide has sent us statements from are. And he says his partner  hasnt been  contacted  
about what happened.
I said in my provisional decision that I cant know for sure what  happened,  but that the 
branch staff would have  been incorrect if they told Mr H that he was only eligible for one 
payment.
Mr H could have sent in a statement from his partner if hed wanted to, but hes been very 
clear in his recollections  so I dont think this wouldve added much weight to what hes said. 
And while Mr H has been  clear, the statement  I received from the member of staff he spoke 
to in branch was also clear and didnt support what Mr H has said.
I also received statements  from the manager  of the member of staff Mr H spoke to in branch 
and the member of staff who recommended  the initial switch to Mr H, as well as copies of 
subsequent emails between Mr H and the manager.  These statements and emails give an 
idea of the general service provided to Mr H. So even if Mr H was told he wasnt  eligible for a 
second payment,  as I said in my provisional  decision, it seems Nationwide did also try to 
check with the relevant  team and explain the situation and possible next steps to him.
Ref: DRN39040043Mr H ultimately  received both Recommend a Friend payments, so any incorrect information 
he received hasnt caused him a financial loss. And, considering all the evidence I have, I 
still dont think it would  be fair to conclude that the Nationwide staff acted unreasonably 
towards Mr H.
And so I still think the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision are correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019. 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3904004