K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains about the rejection  of her claim and the addition of policy  exclusions by 
Arch Insurance  (UK) Limited. 
background
Mrs S holds cover with Arch. She made a claim concerning her ankle and, after 
investigations, Arch rejected  her claim and placed  exclusions on the policy.  They  said this 
was due to Mrs S not disclosing  existing issues. Mrs S complained to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. They did not uphold  the complaint.  Mrs S 
doesnt agree with this outcome, so the case has been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint either. Ill explain why. 
First though I should like to comment on one aspect of the case. It has been suggested that 
at least one doctor involved didnt tell Mrs S what they have said in one of their reports. I 
have no jurisdiction over doctors  so cannot investigate that in full. If Mrs S feels the doctor let 
her down she will have to take that up with the doctor. 
Turning to what Arch did I note there is some argument over the precise wording  of Mrs Ss 
application and the questions she was asked. On that issue  I have looked at matters from 
Mrs Ss version of the documents, but I still dont  think I can uphold her complaint.  
Mrs S has a long term ankle issue. And a question was asked on the proposal form in 
April 2017 about  any in or out patient  treatment sought or expected. As Mrs S was seen at 
the hospital for her ankle both before and after the proposal date I do think  she didnt answer 
this question correctly.  If she had I have no doubt that Arch would have excluded cover  on 
her ankle. 
I realise that Mrs S has said her ankle operation isnt connected to her long standing 
problem. But, not only is there not a clear diagnosis of the underlying cause of the new 
problem, it seems to me that the exclusion  would  have precluded cover anyway, as her long 
standing problem must have had some  impact of her ankles condition. 
Ive also looked  at the cardiovascular  exclusion added. Here  Mrs S was asked if she was 
suffering from, being monitored for, or being investigated for any form of cardiovascular  
condition. Again she answered negatively for this. But she appears to have been on both a 
statin and an anti-hypertensive drug at the time.  Given that scenario I do feel she should 
have answered  differently  and I dont think Arch have acted incorrectly  by adding  a 
cardiovascular exclusion. 
So, in conclusion I dont  think  Mrs S answered the proposal questions correctly.  If she did so 
because her doctor told her something  different than the information on her medical records 
that is something she will need to take up with her doctor(s).  
Ref: DRN32348362my final decision
I make  no award against Arch Insurance (UK) Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3234836