K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that the car she acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  (VWFS) was not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mrs M entered into a HPA with VWFS in April 2015 to acquire  a new car. She says that 13 
months after acquisition  the engine management  light (EML) came on and the car went into 
limp mode. She took the car back to the dealer and was told the wiring  had corroded.  A 
repair was carried out at this point (May 2016), but in March 2017  the EML came on again.
Mrs M says she returned the car to the dealer and it was repaired again. However she says 
the same  issue re-occurred in July, and subsequent  months, so she no longer wants  the car 
as she believes there to be an inherent fault.
Mrs M accepts she was provided with a courtesy car while repairs were being  undertaken, 
but says that the ongoing issues have still caused her significant  inconvenience.
VWFS says that it is only responsible if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. It says that Mrs M only raised  her concerns with it in September  2018, which was 41 
months after acquisition.  It says it discussed  Mrs Ms car with the dealer, which confirmed 
the issue first arose 13 months after acquisition and that a repair  was carried  out at that time 
at no cost to Mrs M.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  He said that given when the issue  regarding the EML 
coming on and the car going  into limp mode first occurred, he thought  this suggested  there 
was an inherent fault. He said that as the issue re-occurred after repair  this suggested the 
fault hadnt been properly  fixed. He thought the car was not sufficiently durable and so 
Mrs M should  be allowed  to reject it.
Our investigator also thought that Mrs M should be refunded three monthly  repayments  to 
reflect her loss of enjoyment and the time she was without the car along  with £400 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  she had been caused.
VWFS did not accept out investigators view. It reiterated  that the issue was first raised  more  
than a year after acquisition, and said that the issue is not a known or common  fault with the 
type and model  of vehicle. It also noted  the weather conditions  of where Mrs M lives and 
said these could have  contributed to the problems she experienced. It said there  was no 
evidence that the issues were  due to faults  present  at the point of supply and that the matter  
of durability should be for the supplier to address, not the finance provider.
VWFS also said that repairs were carried out to the car, and that these  were  successful. It 
said new wiring was fitted which rectified  the original faults and that corrosion to the new 
wiring was a new issue  and not a failure of the repair.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mrs M first reported the issue  of the EML coming on and the car going  into limp mode 
just over a year after acquisition when the car had been driven just under 10,000 miles. 
Ref: DRN39426512At this time the wires were found to be corroded. The engine control unit was replaced 
along with the corroded wiring and a regeneration of the diesel  particulate  filter carried  
out. The fault codes were  cleared and the car tested and returned. I understood this work  
was carried out under warranty and I found  this was a reasonable remedy;
Mrs M reported  the EML coming  on again  in March 2017. The fault codes  were  cleared. 
In July 2017, Mrs M reported  the rear parking sensors not working. It was then found  that 
the wiring loom was heavily corroded. This was replaced. At this time the car had been  
driven around 22,000 miles;
The EML came on again in September 2017, although the issue recorded seemed  to 
relate to damaged contact on a pedal.  At this time the car had been driven over 30,000  
miles;
Mrs M experienced problems with her car. However, given the time that passed  between 
acquisition and when  the issues first arose I did not find I could safely  say that they were 
present or developing at the point  of supply. I also noted the mileage that had been  
covered, and thought that had the issue been  present from the start it would have  been  
identified sooner;
VWFS had a responsibility  under the regulations to ensure that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point  of supply an aspect of which  is that the car is sufficiently 
durable;
repairs had been needed on the car, but I didnt find I have enough to say that the car 
was not sufficiently durable; 
the issue identified  in May 2016  was corroded wiring  and the repairs  that took place at 
that time were recorded as wiring in the loom was replaced where necessary. Around a 
year later,  the wiring loom  was corroded again. It was possible that certain wires were 
not replaced in 2016, and should have  been. However, in regard to the new wires, as 
these had been replaced, I couldnt  say that the issue was due to a fault or a lack of 
durability of the car at the point of supply;
Mrs M was able to drive around  12,000  miles  between  the first repair of the wiring in 
May 2016, and when  it was identified as corroded  again in July 2017. I noted the 
comments that Mrs M lives in an area where the weather is particularly wet and while I 
appreciated Mrs Ms comments in response  to this I thought it possible this could be a 
contributing factor;
the issues caused Mrs M trouble and inconvenience but I didnt find that I had enough 
evidence to safely conclude that her car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. 
On balance, I thought it more  likely  than not that the issues  developed post-supply, and 
because of this I didnt uphold this complaint.
Mrs M responded to my provisional decision. She said that the first issue  with the car was 
with the seatbelt and that had there not been  a fault this wouldnt have been replaced. She 
said that when  the car was collected  in June 2016, she was told the wiring  loom had been 
chopped due to corrosion and was told the car was now fine. However further issues  arose.
Ref: DRN39426513Mrs M said the car had cost them a lot of money  as it was expensive  traveling back  to the 
garage for repairs. She said she shouldnt have experienced ongoing issues on a new car 
after only 13 months.  She also said the issue  of the weather  had been  raised  but the car was 
kept in a garage when not in use.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M acquired  a new car through a HPA with VWFS. Under the regulations  relevant at the 
time, VWFS could  be held liable  if the car provided  was not of satisfactory  quality. The 
consideration of satisfactory quality includes aspects such  as the car being fit for purpose,  
free from minor defects and durability. As Mrs M acquired a new car, it is reasonable that 
she would  expect it to be free from any issues for a reasonable amount of time.
I understand Mrs Ms comment regarding the seatbelt but as this was resolved I do not find 
that this needs  to be considered further.  
While it is clear there were issues with Mrs Ms car, and I note Mrs Ms comments  about 
where the car is kept,  I do not find that I can safely conclude that the issues  were  due to 
faults that were  present or developing at the point of supply. 
Because of this I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3942651