K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the repair  and rectification works his insurer, Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc, carried  out on his car following an accident. Hes also unhappy with the 
service hes got from RSA.
background
Mr S was involved  in a non-fault car accident and made  a claim on his insurance in February 
2018. Mr Ss car was repaired by RSAs approved repairer by March 2018  but, between  then 
and December 2018, Mr S experienced problems  with the car that he says result from the 
repairs. His main  ongoing  problem has been  water  coming in through the tailgate. 
Concerned to get the problem resolved and unhappy with the length of time this was taking 
and the service he was getting, Mr S complained to RSA. As an apology for the service  hed 
had and because  RSA found some  glass shards  hadnt been removed from inside the 
tailgate, RSA sent Mr S a cheque for £100.  Unhappy with this, and saying he was still having 
problems with water coming  in through the tailgate, Mr S complained to us.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ss complaint upheld  it. She thought it was more  likely 
than not Mr Ss ongoing problems were because RSAs repairer hadnt fitted some seals 
correctly and it should pay to get these fixed. She also thought RSA should pay Mr S an 
additional £100 as compensation for the length  of time it had taken to address his repair  
issues.
RSA disagrees and so Mr Ss complaint  has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Turning first to the repairs,  Mr Ss car insurance  policy says RSA will cover loss or damage  
to his car. This includes  paying to repair the damage  caused  by the accident. Under the 
terms of the policy, RSA arranged to repair Mr Ss car. But, as Ive said,  Mr S says theres 
been an ongoing problem with water  coming in through the tailgate.
From the internal  notes and other information  RSA has sent us, Im not entirely clear about 
all the precise details of the repairs process for Mr Ss car. But broadly they seem  to be as 
follows:
In February or March  2018, the boot lid/tailgate of Mr Ss car was replaced by RSAs  
authorised repairer as part of the initial repairs to Mr Ss car following the accident. 
Shortly afterwards Mr S complained  about the repair, saying the boothatch didnt seal 
correctly and water was leaking into the car. 
It seems  the repairs were then reviewed  by RSA and Mr S was asked to comment  on 
whether there was an ongoing problem. In May,  following heavy rain, Mr S 
complained water  was leaking  into his boot again.  
Ref: DRN30057592After this, around July 2018, Mr S got a main dealer to look at the car. RSAs internal  
notes say the main  dealer found  drain  ducts were  missing.  Mr S sent RSA a video 
from the main dealer  showing the problem. 
In August 2018 further repairs were carried out to the car. It looks  as if this may have 
been to fit weather  strips. But Mr S reported  there were  still problems  with water in 
early October 2018. At this point,  the repairer told RSA there was nothing  more it 
could do because, as advised  by the main  dealer, new rubber trims  had been fitted to 
the car. It suggested RSA might want to arrange  an independent inspection of the 
car.
This inspection was carried out in November 2018. The engineer recommended the 
car was sent to a main  dealer  for an intensive  water test to determine  where  water  
was coming in. He also recommended  the tailgate inner pad be removed so any 
loose glass shards or debris could be removed.
In early December 2018 a main dealer carried out the water test and found no leaks.  
But when  Mr S took his car to a different main  dealer for servicing later in December 
2018, its report noted the rubber  channels on the tailgate were coming adrift  and 
needed to be replaced.
RSA says it did all it could  to investigate the issues. It says is paid for an independent 
engineer to inspect  the car and his report didnt identify any issues  about  the rubber 
channels being  adrift on the tailgate. It says theres no evidence  its repairer  did anything 
wrong, other  than not clearing out all the glass debris, which  it put right. It said the video    
Mr S sent in from December 2018 is from his MOT and just mentions the rubber channels on 
the tailgate coming adrift. It says theres  nothing  to suggest this was related to the work 
carried out by its repairer. It says,  having spoken to one of its in-house engineers, this could 
happen at any time.  
On balance, and from the information  Ive seen, I dont agree. Mr S has said consistently 
there was an issue with water coming  in through the tailgate that dates back  to the time of 
the initial repairs. I think there more problems with the repairs  than just the glass shards RSA 
refers to in its response to our adjudicators view. RSAs own internal notes refer to missing 
drain ducts and new rubber  trims/weather  strips being fitted, which  I think its fair and 
reasonable to say mean there were problems with the initial repairs.  So I think  its more likely 
than not the rubber channels a main dealer says have come adrift have  done  so as a 
consequence of the repair and rectification works to the tailgate. And in these  
circumstances, I think  its fair and reasonable for RSA to pay for these to be replaced by a 
main dealer  and also for the rear seats of Mr Ss car to be valeted, if they still show signs  of 
water damage.
Turning now to the service Mr S has had from RSA, hes given us a detailed account of the 
various issues hes had. He says the time Ive had to invest  to get something  sorted  is total 
nonsense,  referring  to phone calls, emails and meetings with mechanics and assessors. He 
also says RSA has never actually listened  to him as a client   in particular, he says for six 
months he was asking for his car to be assessed  by a main dealer  but it was only after nine 
months, and following a recommendation from the independent inspector, that this 
happened. I can understand why all of this was distressing and inconvenient for Mr S and I 
think its therefore fair and reasonable for RSA to pay him an additional £100 for the distress 
and inconvenience  its caused him.
Ref: DRN30057593my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mr Ss complaint  and direct  Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to:
Pay for a main dealer to replace the rubber channels on the tailgate  and arrange  for 
the rear seats  to be valeted if they are still showing stains from water damage.
Pay Mr S £100 (in addition to the £100  it has paid him already) for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused him. RSA should pay Mr S this sum within  28 days of 
the date we tell it Mr S has accepted  my final decision. If it pays  later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the 
dart of payment at the rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3005759