K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains that a new car she got with a hire purchase agreement from Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited (trading as Skoda  Finance) (VFS) was of unsatisfactory 
quality when it was supplied. 
Mrs K is represented by her husband but Ill refer to whats been said on her behalf as if Mrs 
K had said it herself,  to keep things simple. 
background 
Mrs K got this car in in November  2017. She had a problem with the satellite navigation 
system not long after. The car went in for repairs a few times  but the fault wasnt  fixed. Mrs K 
asked VFS to sort things out or take the car back then the issue was resolved near the end 
of 2018. 
Mrs K wants  VFS to pay compensation  for distress and inconvenience and reimburse 
financial losses of nearly £2,000 as follows
Mr K lost three  working days taking the car to and from garages - cost £375 a day; 
Separately,  they spent  about  two working  days trying to resolve this matter speaking  
to various parties, taking  legal  advice, making and editing video evidence  of the 
satnav problem, phone calls and correspondence - cost £750;
petrol used driving to and from garages (six 20 mile trips) - estimated cost £23; and
sundry costs such as paper, postage, mobile  phone - £15.
. 
VFS says the fault was rectified under warranty at no cost to Mrs K last year and it shouldnt 
have to do anything  further. 
One of our adjudicators considered evidence Mrs K provided including  video  recordings 
showing the satnav  operation and a repair invoice. She thinks its more  likely than not there 
was a fault present when the car was supplied and that wasnt  fixed until the end of 
November 2018.  
She accepts  Mrs K and her husband  experienced loss of enjoyment, distress and 
inconvenience as a result  of this. But she says we cant  require VFS to compensate  Mr K - 
as hes not the customer  named on the finance  agreement. And we wouldnt usually award 
compensation for specific amounts of time spent  in the way Mrs K has requested. Taking  
everything that happened into account, she recommends VFS should 
apologise for the delay fixing the car and inconvenience and distress caused;  
refund  5% of Mrs Ks monthly  payments for the time she wasnt able to use the 
satnav from December 2017 to November 2018  to reflect  the loss of enjoyment she 
could reasonably expect from a new car; and
pay Mrs K £300 for the distress and inconvenience she experienced. 
VFS accepted these  recommendations  but Mrs K doesnt agree.  She feels our adjudicator 
hasnt considered the impact of what happened  properly.  She says (in summary) 
shes been penalised for keeping  an accurate  record of the time spent  dealing  with 
this matter;
Ref: DRN37205672her husband is an employee of her company so she lost out financially as he had to 
take time away from work  because VFS supplied a faulty car; and 
she exceeded the speed  limit once as a result of the satnav failure and had to attend 
a speed awareness  course which will increase the cost of insurance.   
Mrs K asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have reached much the same 
conclusions as our adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
VFS supplied this car under  a finance agreement and I am looking at its obligations under 
that agreement  in this decision. I am satisfied  VFS was required to ensure the car was of 
satisfactory quality (amongst other things) at the point of supply. There  appears to be no 
dispute that the satnav here was faulty  from the outset. It looks as if the problem has been 
fixed now - at no cost to Mrs K. So, all that remains for me to decide is what  else (if anything) 
VFS should do by way of redress. 
Where a financial business has done something wrong the approach we take is to look at 
what happened and require the business  to take appropriate  steps  to put things right - 
insofar as thats  reasonably possible.  This may include asking the business to compensate 
the consumer  for financial and non-financial losses.  This isnt a scientific  exercise.  I have 
considered the time, trouble and expense Mrs K was put to as a result of being supplied with 
a faulty car. And Ive thought about whats  reasonable  and fair overall (which includes Mrs 
Ks obligation to mitigate her losses).
I realise it must have  been disappointing  for Mrs K when she found this satnav didnt work 
properly not long after she got the car. I accept this was inconvenient and probably affected 
her enjoyment of the car. It took nearly  a year to resolve the issue  which I can see was 
frustrating and inconvenient for both Mrs K and her husband. I think its fair that VFS should  
provide appropriate compensation to Mrs K in recognition of this. But, I am afraid I cant 
require VFS to compensate her husband as well because hes not a party  to the finance  
agreement.
 
I appreciate Mrs K says the time her husband had to spend on this matter  when  he should 
have been working did cause a loss to her - as hes an employee of her company. But I dont 
think that makes a difference here - not least because  any such loss would have been 
incurred by the company and not Mrs K herself. Even if Im wrong  about  that, I am not 
satisfied theres enough  evidence to fairly  find this loss was reasonably foreseeable or 
flowed directly from the fact that this car had a faulty  satnav.  
I have given some thought to what Mrs K says about the circumstances that led to her 
speeding. I understand her frustration at what happened. But drivers are expected to cope 
with all sorts of hazards  and unexpected occurrences at the same time as attending to 
speed limits.  I am not persuaded its reasonable to say that this incident was caused  by or 
Ref: DRN37205673flowed directly from VFS supplying a car with a faulty satnav. I dont think this is something  
VFS could  reasonably have foreseen in any event and I cant  fairly hold it responsible for the 
consequences of this incident.    
Having considered all of the evidence  as well as the wider circumstances, I think  the 
outcome recommended  by our adjudicator seems fair. I find it reasonable that VFS should 
apologise and refund 5% of Mrs Ks monthly payments. I am satisfied this reflects  her loss of 
use and enjoyment  as a result of the issues she had with the satnav. And I think it is fair for 
VFS to pay Mrs K an additional £300  compensation for distress and inconvenience, amongst 
other things.   
I realise this decision  is likely  to come as a disappointment to Mrs K. But I think  this amounts 
to fair and reasonable redress overall  and I cant fairly find VFS should have to pay more 
compensation or do anything further. Mrs K doesnt have to accept what Ive said. In which  
case, it remains open to her to pursue this matter by other  means if she wishes  to do so.   
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint. For the reasons Ive given, I require Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited (trading as Skoda  Finance) to 
1.apologise to Mrs K for delay and inconvenience and distress;  
2.refund  5% of Mrs Ks monthly  payments for the time she wasnt able to use the 
satnav properly (twelve months from December  2017 to November 2018); and
3.pay Mrs K £300 for her distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3720567