K820x#14complaint
Mr C believes  that HSBC  UK Bank Plc has lost copies  of his personal  documentation.
background
In 2018, Mr C was the unfortunate  victim  of identity fraud. Two HSBC  accounts, and a third 
party bank account, were opened fraudulently in his name.
Mr C believes  that the fraudster was able to open the accounts using documentation that 
HSBC lost during  an earlier, genuine  application  for a business account  in 2014.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. Mr C was unhappy with this outcome, so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is my role to decide whether HSBC  has done anything wrong in this matter and, if it has, 
what it should do to put things right.
Im satisfied that HSBC  took appropriate  action  when it became aware that the two accounts 
opened with it in 2018 were fraudulently applied for.
I appreciate that Mr C strongly  believes HSBC lost copies of personal documentation he 
gave it in 2014. But I havent  seen  any supporting  evidence that would persuade me of this. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest HSBC lost any personal documentation that Mr C gave it 
in 2014 and/or that accounts  were opened fraudulently  in 2018 because HSBC  lost Mr Cs 
personal documentation in 2014. Mr C has said he never shares his personal details with 
anyone, and HSBC is the only institution  he has shared personal information with. But there 
are many sophisticated ways in which a fraudster can access a persons details.
Mr C has confirmed to our service that he has not had any other problems with identity theft 
since 2014, when  he believes HSBC lost his personal documentation. I think  its unlikely that 
a fraudster would wait around four years  to use personal information. And Im not persuaded 
that HSBC would have kept Mr Cs documentation  long enough  for it to have been lost 
recently. 
I cant say how the fraudster got hold of information  to open accounts in Mr Cs name. But 
looking at everything,  Im not convinced that HSBC has made an error in this case.
Ref: DRN36351882my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3635188