K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  that Lloyds Bank plc wont refund disputed  cash withdrawals made from her 
credit card account.
background
Ms P disputes two £500  cash withdrawals made from machines (ATMs)  in September  2017,  
which she says she didnt  make. Lloyds says that the money was taken each time using Ms 
Ps credit card and personal identification number  (PIN), which she hadnt  reported as lost or 
stolen. It declined to refund  the money because Ms Ps PIN had not been  compromised.
Our investigator initially thought that Ms Ps card could  have  been  cloned because the 
withdrawals hadnt  been authenticated by the chip in the card being read by the machines. 
The magnetic strip data was used instead. 
Lloyds then said that it had issued two cards to Ms P with the same card number, one in 
2016 and a replacement in April 2017.  It also sent her a new PIN in July 2017, which Ms P 
changed to one of her own choosing. Lloyds says that the first card was used for the cash  
withdrawals, whilst the second card had been  used for transactions prior to the withdrawals. 
Based on this, our investigator thought it most  likely that the genuine card was used for the 
disputed transactions.
Ms P responded to say, in summary, that there isnt any proof  that her genuine card was 
used for the cash withdrawals, particularly as the magnetic strip, rather than the chip, was 
read by two different machines for the two transactions.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms P 
and to Lloyds  on 20 February 2020. I summarise my findings:
The regulations  say that Lloyds  can hold Ms P liable for the disputed  items if the 
evidence suggests that she most likely  made  or authorised them  herself.
I was satisfied that the payments  from Ms Ps account were made with the data from the 
magnetic strip being read. Both withdrawals were made from UK based ATMs. As ATMs 
in the UK are chip enabled I expected the chip, embedded in the card,  to be read if the 
genuine card was used.
 I accepted that it was possible for a machine to have  a problem and so use the 
magnetic strip, but I didnt find it highly likely that the same problem occurred at two 
separate cash machines.
Ms P was overseas when these  cash withdrawals  happened.  She said her card was with 
her.
Lloyds said that it had issued two cards  to Ms P, one in 2016 and a second in April 2017, 
both with the same number. It told us that it was the first card that was used to carry out 
the disputed withdrawals.
Ref: DRN33908542I couldnt safely conclude that the transactions were properly authorised because Lloyds 
wasnt able to provide  records  to show  that the first card had been used for the 
withdrawals. If it had been used then the card had already  expired and the withdrawal  
request should  have  been refused.
Lloyds said that as there was no point of compromise for the PIN and the correct PIN 
was used this shows that Ms P provided her authority to a third party  to use the card.  
The regulations  say that its not enough for the bank  to simply rely on the fact that the 
card and PIN were  used; that doesnt  necessarily  mean that the payment transaction 
was authorised by the account  holder.
I didnt consider that Lloyds had provided  sufficient  evidence for me to be satisfied that 
Ms Ps genuine card was used. All the attempts  with the card were magnetic strip read, 
so either  the card had a damaged chip or a cloned  card was used.
If the genuine card was used (but the chip damaged) then this means  that Ms P could 
have authorised the disputed transactions. But Ms P had the card with her and she was 
overseas at the time.  
Lloyds originally said that the card used was the first one it issued to Ms P, which would  
have explained  why Ms P had her (second issued) card with her. But Lloyds has now 
accepted that the first card would have expired and, as such, the transactions  should  
have been declined.
On balance, I thought it feasible  that Ms Ps card was skimmed or cloned  and the PIN 
information to have been taken  at the same  time. Although  I cant  say exactly when there 
was a point of compromise  for the PIN, Ms P used  her credit card in a number of places 
throughout the preceding  month  where  it was possible for a card to be skimmed and the 
PIN captured (such  as POS devices in restaurants).
There were  also two failed attempts to take further cash  from Ms Ps account, around the 
same time as the two actual withdrawals,  which  if they had been successful would have 
taken Ms P over her credit limit
Subject to any further representations from Ms P or Lloyds, my provisional decision was that 
Lloyds had not provided enough evidence to show that Ms P authorised  the transactions.  I 
considered it should  refund the two disputed withdrawals and re-structure  Ms Ps account as 
if they hadnt taken place.  I thought  it should  also remove any adverse information  recorded 
on Ms Ps credit file about the account.
Lloyds accepted my provisional decision. 
Ms P responded to say, in summary, that she had been caused a considerable amount of 
upset and inconvenience by the whole matter and was also now receiving calls from debt 
collectors. She thought she should be awarded  some compensation for this.
Ref: DRN33908543my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has agreed  to take back the debt and get it written off. It has said that it will remove 
any adverse information  about the account from Ms Ps credit file.
I accept that Ms P has been  caused  upset and inconvenience over a period of time. And 
Lloyds passed  the account to debt collectors even though her complaint was still under  
investigation. I find this warrants an award  of compensation. Ive thought about the scale  and 
impact and all that has happened and I think £200  is appropriate  here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank  plc to:
1.Take back the debt and write  it off
2.Remove any adverse  information about the account from Ms Ps credit file
3.Pay Ms P £200 for the upset she has been caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3390854