K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about Tesco Underwriting Limiteds (Tesco) decision to decline a claim he 
made under his buildings  insurance policy. He is also unhappy about the way it was 
handled. 
background
In February 2019,  Mr Ms home suffered water damage as a result of an overflowing drain
pipe. He said the affected wall was joined to his neighbours home, which  had also suffered
water damage. So Mr M contacted a local contractor  to stop the leak.
Mr M contacted Tesco to report a claim for storm damage.  He provided it with a copy  of the
report completed by the local contractor,  along  with photos of the internal and external part
of the wall and drain  pipe.
Tesco considered  Mr Ms claim but didnt  agree  the damage had been caused  by a one-off
storm event and declined  the claim. Mr M disputed this. He didnt think  it had acted fairly as it
didnt visit his property  to assess the damage and decided based  on the local contractors
report and photos.
Tesco said it declined the claim as Mr Ms own contractor said the damage was caused  by
erosion and had occurred  over a period of time. It also didnt  think  a storm had taken place
at the time Mr M said damage occurred. As Mr M remained unhappy, he brought a complaint
to our service for consideration.
Our investigator recommended that Mr Ms complaint should  be upheld in part. She said that
she didnt think Tesco had acted  unfairly by declining the claim for storm damage. But it
should have considered the internal damage caused to Mr Ms property under the accidental
damage part of the policy.
Mr M agreed  with our investigators view. But Tesco didnt. It said that the photos showed
some damage had been present over a period that Mr M should have noticed and should
have taken steps to investigate. Therefore, it didnt agree that the damage was sudden and 
unexpected and should be covered under accidental damage.
As Tesco disagreed  with our investigators  view,  the case was passed  to me to decide.  
I issued my provisional decision on 20 November 2019 and my findings are set out below.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this
complaint should  be upheld.  I will now explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr Ms policy provides cover to damage caused to his home as a
result of a storm. But whats in dispute is whether  the damage was caused by a storm or had
been happening gradually over a period of time.
When considering  these complaints, we ask three questions:
Ref: DRN389736221.Were storm  conditions present on or around  the date that damage is said to have
                  occurred?
2.Is the damage claimed  for consistent with damage a storm typically  causes?
3.Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of these questions is yes then we would say a claim should succeed.
But, if the answer to any questions  is no, then the claim wouldnt succeed  under the storm
peril.
I think Mr Ms storm damage claim fails the first question. I have carried  out my own
research to determine whether I consider a storm took place or not. And having  done this,
Im satisfied the weather at the time of the loss wasnt severe  enough to be considered a
storm.
This service considers a storm to consist of strong  violent winds  accompanied by torrential
rainfall, hail or snow. But based on local weather records  taken five miles from Mr Ms home,
the peak gust was 18MPH  with a maximum hourly  rainfall of 0.2MM. And so Mr Ms claim for
both the internal and external damage to his home  doesnt succeed. Because  of this, I wont
be considering  questions two or three,  or requiring Tesco to do anything  else here.
The policy provides Mr M cover for accidental damage. This is defined  within  the policy  as
Sudden, unexpected physical damage which has not been caused deliberately.
Tesco considered  that the internal damage to Mr M was caused gradually  and therefore
didnt meet the policy definition. It also said that Mr Ms own contractor had said the cause of
damage was due to erosion, which is also something that occurs over time. Therefore, it
thought the subsequent damage  had also occurred over time and not sudden  and
unexpectedly.
Our investigator didnt  agree. She said that both Mr M and his neighbour noticed the damage
at the same  time  meaning it is likely  damage  occurred quickly.  She also didnt think Tesco
came to its conclusion fairly  as it only used photos  and Mr Ms contractors report to decline
the claim,  rather than visit Mr Ms home to assess the damage.
Im currently  minded to disagree with our investigators recommendations that Tesco  should
reassess the claim for accidental damage to Mr Ms home. Ive considered the report
provided by Mr Ms own contractor, which Tesco relied on to decline the claim. The report
states:
Leak damage  repair  work
Now that the leak has been stopped and confirmed as ingress  from brickwork  and pointing  
erosion around  gutter hopper, the brickwork  and pointing  in the immediate area around  that 
needs to be fully repaired and water sealed. Once this is done the internal wall need  to be 
fully dried before repairing  and re-decorating affected room.
With that in mind, Im more persuaded that the damage was caused by erosion. Erosion is 
something that occurs  over a period of time and not sudden  and unexpectedly. So, I dont 
think its fair to say that the subsequent damage  would have been sudden  and unexpected, 
given it Im satisfied the underlying issue was erosion.
Ref: DRN38973623Ive looked at the photos of the damage. And in my experience in dealing  with these types 
of cases, salt marks and stains on walls and ceilings arent something that occur as a result 
of a one-off  event  and occur over a long period of water ingress. Mr Ms contractor, who 
should be considered as independent, said the fault occurred as a result of erosion which  
means its more likely than not that damage was being caused  over a period  of time.
In any event, Ive considered the photos  along with the records  of the weather at the point 
leading up to when  Mr M said damage  occurred. And Im not persuaded that the internal 
damage sustained  was caused  by the minimal amount of rainfall shown on the weather 
records. Its more likely than not that this had been occurring over a period  of time.
Im therefore  minded  to say I dont think Tesco has acted unfairly by declining the claim for 
storm damage, or accidental damage. This is because Im of the view that damage had 
occurred gradually  over a period of time, and therefore doesnt definition of
accidental damage.  So I wont be asking it to do anything  else.
my provisional decision  
My provisional decision is I dont intend to uphold this complaint. 
the responses to my provisional  decision 
Our investigator shared my provisional  decision with both Mr M and Tesco. But neither party 
responded to provide any further  information. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As above, neither party has responded with any further comments in response to my 
provisional decision. And so, for the reasons set out above and within  my provisional 
decision, I wont be upholding this complaint and dont require Tesco to do anything here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is I dont 
uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020. 
Liam Hickey 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3897362