K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that The Co-operative Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a flexi loan account.
background
Mr S took out the policy in 1998 at the same  time as arranging  the flexi account.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
Mr S thought  he might have opened the account and taken out the PPI over the phone.  The 
Co-op said it was unable to confirm how Mr S made  the application.  However it has provided 
a copy of Mr Ss application form. Looking at this form, it seems most likely  that this was a 
postal sale  the form is addressed to him and gives instructions about returning  it in the 
envelope provided. Its possible that Mr S also had a phone  discussion with The Co-op  
which resulted in him being sent the form.
Looking at the application form,  there is a separate section for PPI with Yes and No boxes 
to either  request or decline  the policy. Mr S has ticked  the Yes  box. Mr S says he can only 
conclude that he was told he had to have  it as a condition of the lending.  But from the 
wording and layout  of the form,  I think that Mr S would  have known  that he didnt have  to 
take out the PPI. It seems  to me that he probably decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt 
have to, even  if he no longer  remembers  doing so.
The Co-op says it advised  Mr S to take out the policy. Therefore, in recommending  the PPI 
to Mr S, it needed to ensure that it met his needs. And from what  I know  of Mr Ss 
circumstances, the policy  was suitable for him.
Mr S wasnt  entitled to any sick pay and he didnt have any other  means, such  as savings, to 
fall back on. So he had a need for the policy and could have benefitted from it at what would 
have been a difficult time. Mr S was self-employed, but from what we know  of the policy 
terms, it wouldnt have been any more difficult for Mr S to make a claim for unemployment 
than an employed  person.  So the fact that Mr S was self-employed  didnt make the policy  
unsuitable.
Its possible that The Co-op didnt provide as much  information about the PPI as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr S wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think  that 
having more information would have  caused him to change his mind.  So he is no worse  off 
as a result  of anything  The Co-op may have  done  wrong, so theres  nothing  that The Co-op 
needs to do to put things  right. It follows that I do not uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Ref: DRN36825842my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3682584