K820x#14Complaint
Mrs G, on behalf of herself and the late Mr G, doesnt think  HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) 
has offered fair compensation  following  a complaint  about  a payment protection insurance  
(PPI) policy  sold alongside a Homeowner Reserve  account.
The late Mr G sadly passed away while the complaint was with our service.  For ease of 
reference Ill refer to Mrs G and the late Mr G as Mr and Mrs G. 
Background
In 2018, Mr and Mrs G contacted HSBC  to say it mis-sold them  a PPI policy  alongside a 
Homeowner Reserve account taken out in 1987.  
HSBC agreed to uphold the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold.  But it said as the PPI was 
taken so long ago  it was unable  to work out what Mr and Mrs G had paid towards the PPI. 
So it was unable to work out what Mr and Mrs Gs compensation  should  be.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs G referred the complaint to our service. Mr and Mrs G explained they 
had had provided HSBC with enough  information for it to be able to work out their 
compensation. Mr and Mrs G had provided HSBC a copy  of the credit agreement showing 
how much  the PPI cost and confirmation  of the start and the end date of credit  agreement.
One of our adjudicators was satisfied there was PPI on the Homeowner Reserve account 
and as HSBC  was upholding the complaint  it needed to do something.  He explained that if 
HSBC were unable  to work out an offer then it should consider making  Mr and Mrs G an 
average offer of compensation. This compensation is an average amount of compensation 
HSBC paid out to consumers  who had been mis-sold a similar PPI policy  and who had held 
the PPI for a similar amount of time.
HSBC was then able to, based on the information  Mr and Mrs G had originally provided, 
work out what Mr and Mrs G had paid towards the PPI. Its compensation was to place 
Mr and Mrs G in the financial  position  theyd have been in if they hadnt had PPI.
It worked this out to be £319.12. This consisted of £98, as a refund of the premiums 
Mr and Mrs G paid, and £221.12  (after tax) as compensation  for Mr and Mrs G being out of 
pocket of that money.
Our adjudicator thought the offer was a fair way to resolve things. 
Mr and Mrs G thought  the offer should  be higher. Mr and Mrs G thought they each paid for 
the policy  so HSBC had only paid half of the compensation.
Our adjudicator explained that while the credit agreement was in both Mr and Mrs Gs name 
 the policy  was solely in Mrs Gs name. So our adjudicator remained of the opinion that 
HSBCs offer was fair.
As Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicator, and as the matter hasnt been resolved, the 
case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN31185652My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has already  agreed the PPI was mis-sold, I wont look at how the PPI came to be 
sold. I just need  to consider whether Mr and Mrs G have been compensated fairly.
I understand Mr and Mrs G will be disappointed,  but based on what Ive seen, I agree with 
the adjudicator  and for the same reasoning. I think HSBCs offer of compensation for the 
mis-sold PPI is fair.
Before I look at HSBCs offer of compensation, I think it would be helpful to explain how wed 
expect a business to compensate a consumer  when they had been  mis-sold PPI.
When a business  mis-sells a PPI policy we expect it to put the consumer in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible).
With a policy  like Mr and Mrs Gs, to place them in the position as if PPI hadnt been  sold, 
generally means refunding the PPI premiums that Mr and Mrs G paid. Refunding any 
interest charged on those  premiums. And adding compensatory interest for any time theyve 
been without that money.  The rate of compensatory interest is 15% simple interest (non-
compound) per year prior to 1 April 1993  and 8% simple interest (non-compound) per year 
from 1 April 1993. 
Mr and Mrs G provided HSBC with enough information for it to work out compensation. 
The credit agreement sets out that the PPI cost Mr and Mrs G £7 per month.  Mr and Mrs G 
also provided evidence  of the duration  the PPI was paid for.
HSBC has now used  that information  to work  out its offer. It knows that Mr and Mrs G paid 
£98 in premiums for the PPI. And it then worked out the additional  compensation 
Mr and Mrs G were owed  for being out of pocket.
Having looked  at HSBCs  offer,  its fair, and in line with what I would expect to see.
I note Mr and Mrs G thought the PPI was taken out in both names, meaning they each paid 
for PPI. I disagree. The PPI was only in Mrs Gs name, and this is shown on the credit 
agreement. There  could be a number of reasons  why it was set up in one name only  but I 
dont think thats  important here. Mr and Mrs G say the PPI was mis-sold, and HSBC have 
agreed and are offering compensation for that mis-sold PPI. 
So Im satisfied there was one PPI policy in Mrs G name, meaning HSBC are only required 
to compensate Mr and Mrs G for that one policy.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G have said that as the adjudicator advised HSBC should consider  
offering average  compensation  then that is what they should be offered. But that would only 
be fair if there was no information that would  enable HSBC to work  out an offer.  In this case, 
there was enough  information, and it is right and fair for HSBC to use that information to 
work out fair compensation.
Ref: DRN31185653But I am mindful Mr and Mrs G had provided  HSBC with enough information that should 
have enabled  it to work out the offer of compensation back in October 2018. As explained  
earlier, Mr and Mrs G provided the credit agreement which showed the cost of the PPI per 
month. And Mr and Mrs G also provided  sufficient  information about  the start and end date 
of the credit  agreement / PPI policy. HSBC ultimately used the information  to work out its 
offer, so it follows that it could have done so a lot sooner.  Because of this I award  an 
additional £100 for the trouble caused  to Mr and Mrs G.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, the offer HSBC UK Bank Plc has now made  to resolve  
Mr and Mrs Gs PPI mis-sale complaint on their Homeowner Reserve  account  is fair.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  pay an additional  £100 for the trouble caused to Mr and Mrs G 
throughout their complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G, on behalf 
of herself and the late Mr G, to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3118565