K820x#14complaint
E, a limited  company, complains about the time taken by National Westminster  Bank  Plc to 
remove an ex director (who Ill refer to as Mr T) as an account  signatory for its business 
accounts. E is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr M. Mr M asks for 
compensation and a written apology. 
background
Mr M says NatWest  took over two years to remove Mr T from the mandate  for Es accounts. 
He says during  this time Mr T had full access to Es accounts. Mr M says theres money 
belonging to clients in the account. He says NatWest refused to freeze  the accounts or bar 
Mr Ts access as a temporary measure. Mr M says this is a data breach and put Es account 
at risk. He says hes spent a lot of time on the phone to NatWest trying to resolve  the matter 
and this has caused considerable distress.  
Mr M also complains  that NatWest has reported  a financial link between  him and Mr T on his 
credit file. Mr M says the £100 compensation offered by NatWest isnt sufficient.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
Mr M said he first asked NatWest to remove Mr T as an account signatory in December 
2016. In late 2018  Mr T told him he still had access to Es accounts.
In late 2018  Es directors completed a mandate to remove  Mr T. Mr T was removed as a 
signatory on Es accounts in February 2019.
the complainant  here is E  a limited company. We cant award compensation to third 
parties (such as Mr M). We have to look at the detriment to E. No money was taken from 
Es account. The error didnt affect Es business. 
NatW est said it had asked the credit  reference agencies to update  their records  so that 
no link was shown between Mr M and Mr T from December 2016. 
E didnt  agree and so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
In its final response letter  NatWest said it gave Mr M the benefit of the doubt: that hed asked 
it to remove Mr T from the account  in December 2016 and this wasnt  processed due to a 
bank error.  It apologised and offered £100 compensation. 
Ref: DRN35530622After the complaint came to us, NatWest said it had checked its records. It says it has no 
record of a request  to remove Mr T from the account  in December 2016 or any contact about 
this until November 2018. 
Mr M says he asked  NatWest to remove Mr T in December 2016. He hasnt provided 
evidence to support  this  such as an email or letter from that time or a copy of the forms 
hed have needed to complete.
Its unfortunate that NatWest expressed  one view of the matter  in its final response letter  and 
another after the complaint came  to us. Its apologised for any confusion  about this but says 
it was wrong for the final response  letter  to say theyd been a bank  error  when there  was no 
evidence the relevant  forms had been  received.
In November 2018, Es directors completed  a mandate to remove  Mr T from Es accounts. 
NatWest contacted them as some  pages  were missing: its unclear if this was due to an error 
by NatWest or if Es directors didnt provide all of the pages. Es directors submitted another  
mandate in mid December 2018. NatWest wrote to them at the end of December 2018 
requesting more information. It received  the information it needed in mid February  and Mr T 
was removed a few days later. 
NatWest doesnt  accept that it made  an error by not removing  Mr T from Es account  sooner  
as it has no record of Es directors making  the request  before  November  2018.  It did 
however give Mr M the benefit of the doubt  in its final response  letter and Ive considered 
how this affects the matter. 
what should happen now?
This complaint is from E. As a limited company, E doesnt feel worry or upset.  Theres no 
evidence that Mr T made any transactions  on Es account. Theres  no evidence  that E 
suffered any financial  loss or that data was compromised. So I dont think  its reasonable to 
require NatWest to pay compensation to E for financial loss, worry or upset.
We cant award compensation to third parties   such as Mr M. So while  Mr M has found  this 
matter worrying and upsetting, I cant fairly require NatWest to pay compensation to him.
Mr M says Es directors were caused inconvenience  and I can award compensation to E for 
this. If NatWest made the errors Mr M says it did (failing to process  requests  made in 
December 2016  and November 2018) this would have caused some  inconvenience: Es 
directors had to complete  and submit the forms again. In its final response letter NatWest 
gave Mr M the benefit of the doubt  about this and paid £100 compensation to E for the 
inconvenience. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr M has confirmed  that his credit file has been  updated with the correct  information.
I think NatWest  acted  fairly and reasonably to put matters right after receiving Es complaint. 
Ref: DRN35530623my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find that National Westminster  Bank  
Plcs response to Es complaint was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3553062