K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that the royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him a Royalties 
Gold packaged bank  account in 2009. He paid a monthly fee for the account which provided 
several benefits in return.
background
Mr M opened a fee-free account  with RBS in September  2009.  It was upgraded to a 
Royalties Gold packaged account in January 2009, and downgraded back  to a fee-free 
account in February  2015.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that RBS mis-sold the packaged account to Mr M and 
didnt recommend that RBS should  pay him any compensation.  Mr M didnt agree so he 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help me decide what to do about  Mr Ms complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Ms complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the Royalties Gold  account was 
mis-sold to him. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr M was given a fair choice when he took his 
packaged bank  account.
Mr Ms main  complaint  point  is that he was told hed be almost  guaranteed to either be 
approved for an overdraft,  or hed be able to get an overdraft increase if he held the 
Royalties Gold account. And so he says that as he needed the credit,  he upgraded his 
account for that reason.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mr M has said, but having done so, Im not satisfied that 
Mr M was misled  into upgrading.
Ive seen from evidence  provided by RBS that Mr Ms account was opened in September 
2007. It doesnt appear he had an overdraft initially, but he was approved  for a £300 limit in 
November 2008.
Mr Ms account was then upgraded in January 2009,  and I havent seen anything from RBS 
records to suggest  that Mr M applied  to extend  his overdraft  at that time. And as Ive said, he 
already had a £300 overdraft limit in place. 
Ref: DRN34389862I know that in response to our adjudicators view Mr M said that his overdraft application and 
account upgrade  would have similar timestamps on RBS records.  But as Ive explained,  I 
cant see that thats the case.
It looks as though Mr M didnt apply  to increase his overdraft until over three years later, in 
July 2012, when his application  was declined. He then successfully  increased it in October 
2014. 
Having considered this, Im not persuaded that Mr M upgraded his account on the premise  of 
obtaining further credit. I can see he already had an overdraft in place, and he didnt apply  
(whether successfully or not) to increase that limit until a significant  amount of time after the 
upgrade. And so on balance, I think he mustve upgraded because something  else about the 
Royalties Gold account appealed to him, knowing he had a choice about whether to do so.
I dont think that RBS recommended the packaged  account to Mr M so it didnt have to check 
if the account was suitable for him.
But even so, RBS still had to give had to give Mr M enough clear information  about account 
for him to decide if he wanted it. 
Like our adjudicator, I think that Mr M was interested in some  of the benefits of the Royalties 
Gold account, and chose it because of these  benefits. 
One of the benefits of the Royalties Gold account was a £250 interest-free overdraft portion, 
with preferential interest rates on overdrawn balances above that amount. And as Mr M had 
a £300 agreed  overdraft  limit at the time of the sale, I think this is something  that couldve 
appealed to him.
The account  also included  mobile  phone insurance, travel insurance,  and car breakdown  
cover. Mr M says he had am mobile  phone,  but he didnt own a car and didnt travel. I think  
its more likely than not that RBS wouldve  told Mr M about  these  benefits   after all, it was 
trying to promote its products, and Mr M wouldve expected to get something in return for the 
monthly fee he was agreeing to pay.
Whilst I acknowledge that not all of the benefits mayve suited him immediately, I still think 
he couldve  used them if hed ever wanted  to or needed to. And as the account came  as a 
package, I wouldnt  necessarily expect someone  to want  every benefit in order  to find the 
whole package appealing. 
I fully understand  that Mr M may not have used  all the benefits of the Royalties Gold  
account, and with hindsight he might not feel like it was good value to him. But this in itself 
doesnt mean RBS mis-sold the account.  
Its possible that RBS didnt tell Mr M everything it should have about the packaged account. 
But I havent seen  enough to make  me think that Mr M wouldnt still have taken the account 
even if RBS had told him more about  it. 
I want to reassure Mr M that Ive looked  at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought about everything hes said. But having  done so I dont think  RBS mis-sold the 
Royalties Gold account to him. So I dont  think it owes  him any money.
Ref: DRN34389863my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr M but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3438986