K822xcomplaint
Mr H and Ms L complain about their mortgage  account with HSBC UK Bank  Plc. They say 
that the bank refused to waive the early repayment  charge and didnt deal with them  
sympathetically. 
background 
In 2015, Mr H and Ms L entered into a mortgage with HSBC  on a non-advised basis, that is, 
HSBC didnt recommend  a particular mortgage product for them. They  took out a fixed rate 
product. The rate was fixed at 2.19% until 31 January 2021. This product was portable   
meaning it could  be moved to another property if Mr H and Ms L moved  house,  subject to 
certain terms and conditions  but came with an early repayment charge if it was repaid in 
whole on in part during the fixed rate period.  
Mr H has a progressive health condition  that affects  his mobility and ability to work, amongst 
other things.  In late 2018, Mr H and Ms L told HSBC that they wanted to sell the house  and 
buy something smaller. They asked HSBC  if it would waive  the early repayment charge  
given Mr Hs deteriorating health.  
Our adjudicator sympathised with Mr H and Ms Ls position but didnt think that HSBC  had 
treated them  unfairly in declining to waive the early  repayment charge. The adjudicator said 
that as the mortgage is portable, Mr H and Ms L may want to get advice about that but 
HSBC wasnt able to port the fixed rate produce  to an overseas property. The adjudicator 
thought that compensation of £200 HSBC had already paid in relation to its contact with 
Mr H was fair. 
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said:
The adjudicator  hadnt reflected all of the problems  theyd had with HSBC or 
considered sufficiently his change of circumstances.
HSBC didnt show any sympathy in relation to his situation. 
It was impossible to predict  how much  his condition would worsen.
The change in his health and his ability  to work  has been significant. 
They cant port the mortgage product as their income is such that they wouldnt pass  
affordability tests. 
HSBC hasnt shown  goodwill.  
He doesnt  expect the early repayment charge to be completely waived but reduced 
in accordance with the time left, in light of the circumstances.  
HSBC initially gave  him false hope that it would reduce  the early  repayment charge 
but the person to whom  he spoke  hadnt noted their conversation or acted on it. 
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31873862Its clear and quite understandable that Mr H in particular  has very strong feelings about  this 
matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support  the complaint, which I have read and 
considered. However,  I trust that neither  he nor Ms L will take as a discourtesy the fact that I 
focus on what I consider  the central  issues.     
Im very sorry to hear of Mr Hs poor health. Hes mentioned further evidence  in relation to 
his health and employment issues. Its for Mr H to provide what he thinks  is relevant to his 
complaint. I havent  asked  for further documentation  as I accept what Mr H says about his 
heath and dont doubt that it affects  his ability to work.
Ive looked at the mortgage offer. It set out clearly the early repayment charge. So, HSBC 
gave Mr H and Ms L sufficient and clear  information so that they could make their own 
decision about whether they wished to accept the terms of the mortgage product at the 
outset. 
When HSBC offered Mr H and Ms L the fixed rate product until 2021, it relied on repayment 
over that period.  Lenders  typically borrow fixed rate money to lend onto customers. If Mr H 
and Ms L repay earlier than expected,  HSBC  may be left with a fixed rate sum it still has to 
support, which  involves some cost.  So, HSBC estimates how much  it would cost it if 
borrowers repay early. 
Our stated position is that if the early  repayment  charge  is to be calculated  in accordance 
with a formula set out in the mortgage  offer,  it should represent a reasonable pre-estimate of 
the costs the lender will face on early repayment.  HSBC doesnt have to make  calculations 
for each  individual borrower; it can calculate the early repayment charge based  on the 
product or a portfolio of products as a whole. 
In this case, the early repayment charge is 1% of the amount repaid early  (above any 
overpayment allowance) for each  remaining  year of the fixed  rate period. That appears to 
me to be a reasonable pre-estimate of the costs HSBC will face on early  repayment. Mr H 
says that he doesnt expect  the early repayment charge to be waived completely but 
reduced in accordance with the time left. Thats built into the formula,  as the early repayment 
charge is lower as the fixed rate period progresses, as illustrated in the examples of the 
early repayment charges  set out in the mortgage offer.  
So, Im satisfied that HSBC is entitled  to make the early repayment  charge. I need to 
consider whether it acted unfairly in refusing to waive or reduce the early repayment  charge 
in this case. I dont  think it did. Thats because ill health or financial difficulties arent,  in 
themselves, sufficient to require HSBC to waive the early  repayment charge. Otherwise, the 
fixed rate product would  amount to a one way bet for borrowers. That wasnt  what  was 
intended by either party  at the outset. 
There was some reference to Mr H and Ms L buying a property overseas but HSBC wouldnt 
agree to port the mortgage product to an overseas property. Mr H says that they cant port 
the mortgage product in any event, as their income is such that they wouldnt pass  
affordability tests. Hes also referred to difficulties  making the mortgage payments. 
If Mr H and Ms L are in financial  difficulty, HSBC has a duty to act positively and 
sympathetically towards them. That doesnt  necessarily extend to waiving or reducing the 
early repayment charge.  If they are in financial difficulty, Id urge Mr H and Ms L to discuss 
that with HSBC in the first instance.  HSBC will wish to establish  Mr H and Ms Ls overall 
financial position before  deciding how it may help them. 
Ref: DRN31873863HSBC accepts that it didnt deal with Mr H and Ms Ls complaint as well as it might in that on 
Mr Hs initial  contact with the bank it may have provided him with false  hope  that it would 
look favourably on his request  and it didnt call Mr H when it said it would do so. I think that 
the compensation of £200 its already offered in relation to that is fair. I note what Mr H says 
about how this matter has affected  him and Ive taken  that into account in considering the 
nature, extent and duration of his and Ms Ls distress and inconvenience caused  by HSBCs 
errors.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr H and Ms L but, for the reasons  Ive set out above, there are no 
grounds on which to direct HSBC to waive or reduce the early  repayment charge. As Ive 
said, if Mr H and Ms L are in financial difficulty,  they should contact HSBC about that and Id 
remind the bank  of its duty to treat Mr H and Ms L positivity  and sympathetically. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr H and Ms Ls complaint, as the compensation of 
£200 HSBC UK Bank Plc has already  offered is fair. It should now pay Mr H and Ms L that 
amount, if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3187386