K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)  has declined  to provide him with 
alternative accommodation whilst redecoration works are completed  at this property. The 
work is being completed under Mr Bs property insurance policy. 
 
background 
Mr B has explained that in May 2018  there  was an escape  of water in a flat above  his. Water 
from this escape  of water entered his property, and caused damage to a number of rooms,  
including both bedrooms and bathrooms.  Mr B made a claim under his property insurance 
policy for this damage to be put right.
AXA accepted Mr Bs claim. It said the work to Mr Bs property wasnt  structural, but 
redecoration work. It said it would be possible to complete  the redecoration work whilst Mr B 
and his family were  still in the property. So, it offered to appoint its own contractors to 
complete the repair work. Or, to provide  Mr B with a cash settlement amount of £3,614.07, 
so he could get the work completed  himself. 
But, Mr B has raised concerns about this. He said he lived in the property with his wife, and 
his young daughter. He felt it wouldnt be possible to reside in the property whilst the work 
was carried out, as the work would create dust.  And he had concerns about  where  his 
belongings from the affected rooms would  be stored  whilst  work was ongoing. He said 
moving the items in these rooms would  mean  less room  in the flat to live in. 
AXA said alternative  accommodation wasnt needed  in this instance. It said it was possible 
to carry out the work whilst Mr B and his family  stayed at their home. AXA said the work  to 
the property was minor. And although a number of rooms in the property were affected by 
the water  its contractors would be able to work  in a way which  would mean living in the 
property was still possible.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld in part. He said that Mr Bs policy 
only provided alternative accommodation to Mr B if it wasnt  possible to live in his property, 
or because  it wasnt possible for Mr B to access the property.  He felt AXA had acted fairly in 
saying it was possible for Mr B and his family  to live in the property whilst repair works were 
undertaken. So, he didnt think AXA needed to do anything differently here. But, he 
suggested AXA pay Mr B an amount of £100 compensation  for some  unprofessional 
behaviour he felt the loss adjuster had exhibited in this case.
AXA agreed with our investigators  opinion. Mr B didnt agree. He remained of the opinion  
alternative accommodation should  be provided to him and his family for the duration of the 
repair works. He said he hadnt  been  given sufficient information  from AXA to show  how it 
was possible for him to still reside in the property whilst the necessary repair  work  was being 
carried out.
Because Mr B disagreed  this complaint  has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint in part. Ive explained why below. 
Ref: DRN35970522Ive looked at Mr Bs policy document to see what cover  it provides.  Mr Bs policy does 
provide alternative  accommodation in some circumstances. This is when the property  cant 
be lived in, or access to the building is denied because of the damage that occurred.  So, to 
say AXA should  provide  Mr B with alternative  accommodation as part of his claim I would 
need to be satisfied one of these  circumstances applied.
Its not in dispute  that Mr B and his family  have  access  to their home. So I havent 
considered this point  any further. But Mr B has said his property cant  be lived in whilst the 
necessary work is carried out. Ive thought carefully about this  and whether there is 
sufficient evidence to show this is the case. And I dont  think  there is. 
I can understand Mr Bs concerns about  what will happen whilst the work to his property  is 
being completed  particularly  as a number of rooms at his home are affected, and he has a 
young daughter.  But any insurance claim of this nature will come with an element of 
inconvenience. It needs to me more than inconvenience for alternative accommodation to be 
provided under the policy. The property needs  to be uninhabitable.
Both parties  agree the work to Mr Bs property is cosmetic. And I cant see any evidence  to 
show it wouldnt be possible for Mr B and his family to live in the property. AXAs contractors  
have visited the property, and are confident  they can work whilst it is inhabited. The kitchen 
and living  areas  of the property are unaffected. And AXA has said it will ensure  a bathroom 
is always available for use  for example  by completing the work to one bathroom at a time. I 
have no reason to doubt this is a reasonable method for completing the work. So, I dont 
think AXA has acted incorrectly here. 
Mr B has raised concerns about  there being  dust at the property whilst the work is carried 
out. AXA has said there wont be dust generated  given  the nature of the works that need  to 
be completed. These works are filling cracks  in plaster, stain  blocking  walls and ceilings,  
painting and renewing skirting boards. It has also assured Mr B it is able to protect surfaces  
in the home.  And I can see this action has been  provided for in the schedule of works AXA 
has complied. I think AXA has provided  sufficient evidence to show it will still be possible to 
live in the property  whilst  the works are undertaken  and that it will ensure disruption  to 
Mr B and his family will be minimised as much as possible.
AXA has also noted that if it becomes clear there is additional work  that needs  to be 
completed whilst the work is being  carried out it will consider if alternative accommodation 
becomes appropriate.  I think  this is a fair approach to take. 
AXA has said it can offer Mr B a cash settlement amount  of £3,614.07 if he would rather 
complete the work to his property himself, rather than have AXAs contractors carry out the 
repairs. Ive considered whether this cash settlement is fair. And I think  it is. Ive reviewed 
the schedule of works that was completed for the repairs.  And some information  on the cost 
of remedying a loose  tile. I can see that the cash settlement figure AXA has offered does 
cover all of the works noted in the schedule  as well as for the tile.    
Because AXA has offered to complete the work  itself, Im satisfied its fair for it to offer Mr B 
a cash settlement based on the amount it feels it would cost it complete the work. And 
Mr C hasnt provided any evidence to suggest  the cash  settlement offered is incorrect.  So, I 
think AXA has acted fairly here.   
Ref: DRN35970523Our investigator recommended AXA pay Mr B £100 compensation. This was to recognise 
that the customer service  one of AXAs representatives provided to Mr B couldve been  
better. And that this had caused some  upset to Mr B. AXA has agreed  to pay this. So, Ive 
thought about whether this is fair. Having reviewed the information provided  by Mr B and 
AXA I do think this is reasonable. Mr B was distressed by AXAs  representative noting he 
shouldnt profit from the claim   as he said this has never been his intention.  And I can see 
why this may have  caused some upset. I think the £100 agreed by AXA is fair to reflect the 
upset caused.
my final decision
Given the above, I uphold this complaint in part. I require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to;
Pay Mr B an amount of £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3597052