K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund payments which  he says he didnt 
make or otherwise authorise.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 6 January  2020. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
it was fair for Barclays not to refund the disputed transactions.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
20 January 2020.  Barclays  agreed  with the provisional decision, but didnt add anything 
further, and Mr S didnt  respond.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having  reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that Barclays  can hold Mr S liable  for the 
payments in dispute, as the evidence  suggests  its most likely he authorised them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35054832COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund payments which he says he didnt make or 
otherwise authorise.
what happened
In September 2018, Mr S went on a trip abroad. He said he went to a conference,  wandered around 
the city, visited tourist  attractions, and went on a night out.
Mr S has disputed a number  of transactions made using his card between 18 and 22 September 
2018, totalling  £1,876.02.  The disputed transactions were interspersed with Mr Ss own genuine  
payments, and were  for a mixture of cash withdrawals and payments to things like bars, restaurants,  
supermarkets, and a hostel.
Shortly after the last disputed  transaction, Mr S told Barclays his card had been stolen. He provided 
two reports: one where hed told the local police  hed had a medical  incident on 17 September  2018 
and had his card stolen then; and another where  an ambulance driver said hed had the medical 
incident on 22 September 2018  and had told them hed been  robbed then. He later said he hadnt 
realised his card was stolen until he was packing for his return flight. Alternatively, Mr S said hed met 
a man at the conference and had a drink with him, and thought that man had taken his card at a 
different point.
Mr S said he kept his card in a wallet  with other items such as his driving  licence. The wallet was 
either with him or in a locker in his hostel, which only he had the key for. He said his driving licence 
was also stolen,  then clarified it wasnt, and later used  it to identify himself  in a branch.
Mr S said he hadnt recorded his PIN or told it to anyone. But he said his PIN was his year of birth, 
and hed mentioned his age to a number of people, so they couldve guessed  his PIN based off of 
that. 
Barclays held Mr S liable for the payments. They felt hed either authorised  them or failed to keep his 
account safe. Mr S came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. She said Mr S had 
provided conflicting  information. She couldnt see a likely way someone repeatedly took Mr Ss card 
and gave it back  to him without him noticing, or a likely way they knew his PIN. She explained that the 
disputed payments looked  similar to Mr Ss genuine payments and didnt fit with how she might  
expect a thief to use the card.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, Ive come  to the same  conclusions  as our investigator,  and for much 
the same reasons.
Broadly, Barclays can hold Mr S liable  for the payments in dispute if the evidence  suggests that its 
most likely he authorised them.
Ref: DRN35054833Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that the person making the payments used Mr Ss 
genuine card, and the correct PIN. This is not enough, on its own, for Barclays to hold Mr S liable. So 
I also need  to think about whether the evidence suggests that its most likely  Mr S consented  to the 
transactions, or not.
Having carefully considered everything that both sides have said and provided so far, I dont think  its 
unreasonable for Barclays to conclude  that Mr S authorised the transactions.
Mr S made genuine,  undisputed  payments with his card in between  the transactions  that hes now 
disputed. So in order to make the disputed payments, someone would  need to have been able to take 
Mr Ss card, use it with the correct PIN, and return it to him on at least five separate  occasions  all 
without Mr S ever noticing.  I dont see a likely way that an unknown thief could do that. And its very 
difficult to see why they would  repeatedly risk being caught in order to give Mr S his card back.
According to the police, Mr S told them  his card was stolen on 17 September 2018 at 11am. But he 
made a number of payments in the hours after that which  hes not disputed  he even confirmed  one 
of them was definitely him. So his card cant have been stolen at that point  he was still using it. And 
the disputed payments didnt start until 18 September 2018.
According to the ambulance  service,  Mr S told them his card was stolen on 22 September  2018.  But 
that was after nearly all of the disputed transactions had already been made. 
Mr Ss card was sometimes in a locker that only he had access to, so I dont think  its likely it was 
taken from there. Or it was kept in Mr Ss wallet. And while I accept that Mr S could  have been  
pickpocketed, its difficult  to see why only his card would be taken, and not the rest of his wallets 
contents.
I cant  see a likely way that an unknown  person learned Mr Ss PIN. He said he hadnt written  it down 
or told it to anyone.  And the first disputed transaction was over six and a half hours after Mr S had last 
entered his PIN. It seems unlikely that someone wouldve  overlooked him entering his PIN and then 
either took his card and waited six hours to use it, or followed Mr S for six hours and waited  so long to 
take the card.
Mr S says his PIN was his year of birth, and that someone couldve heard him mentioning his age. But 
the correct PIN was used on the first try. Assuming  that the PIN really was his year of birth, it doesnt 
seem likely that a thief happened to hear Mr S mentioning his age, remembered it, assumed  his PIN 
would be based on this, and correctly  guessed  the right four digits from his date of birth on the very 
first attempt.
Overall, I do not think there is a likely way that an unknown person made  these  payments.
Ive also thought  about  whether someone known  to Mr S could have done this without his permission.  
But while its possible, I dont  think its likely.  Its still difficult to see how anyone  Mr S was with 
couldve taken the card from his locker or repeatedly stolen it from his person, used it over a number 
of hours, and then replaced it in his wallet, without  Mr S ever noticing  something was wrong.
Further, in order to make these payments,  the person making them  wouldve needed  to consistently 
be with Mr S throughout the trip in order to repeatedly take and replace  his card. We asked Mr S if 
anyone was with him throughout, but he didnt answer. He previously mentioned there was a man at 
the conference who he had a drink with, but it doesnt sound  like they were together for that long, not 
least as Mr S said he didnt even know the mans  name. And Mr S wasnt just at the conference;  he 
mentioned doing a number of other things. So based on what  Ive got, I dont see a plausible 
explanation for how someone Mr S knew couldve  made these  payments without his permission.
Ref: DRN35054834The disputed payments  were often  for relatively  small  amounts, made over several days, with 
significant gaps in time between them. So the person using Mr Ss card did not do so nearly as 
quickly as they could have.  They withdrew much  less than the maximum limit at ATMs, and despite 
checking the balance  before the last ATM withdrawals, they left over £3,000 available in the account 
and didnt try to withdraw more or ever use the card again. But if someone was trying to defraud Mr S, 
I might  have expected them to take as much money as possible,  as quickly as possible, before  the 
card was reported  as stolen.  Further, it looks like Mr S reported his card as missing just minutes after 
the last disputed  transaction. Then there were no further attempts to use his card.  It indicates  that the 
person using  Mr Ss card may have known that he cancelled it as soon as he did.
In order  to make the disputed transactions, the person using Mr Ss card needed  to have it for many 
hours at a time. And its not clear what Mr S wouldve  done for money in all the time his card wouldve 
been missing.  He says he made a cash withdrawal,  then used  that money  to fund his trip. But the 
cash withdrawal in question was only for £137, and in the first day of the trip alone Mr S spent almost 
£350 before the disputed transactions started. So I dont think  its likely that the cash  wouldve 
covered him for all the other days. And so its difficult to see how Mr S didnt notice  earlier that his 
card was missing if it was out of his possession for such long and frequent periods.
Many of the disputed payments were for things like restaurants, cafes, bars, souvenirs, and so on. 
Theyre similar to Mr Ss genuine spending, and match the sorts of things he wouldve been paying for 
as part of his trip. Mr S said he was staying in a hostel, but has disputed a payment  to a hostel.  So we 
asked Mr S for details  and receipts for the hostel he was staying in, but he didnt provide this 
information.
Further, some  of the disputed payments happened nearby both in place and time to Mr Ss genuine 
transactions  with as little as 16 minutes  difference between disputed and genuine payments. Again, 
the disputed transactions look very similar  to Mr Ss actual spending.  And its difficult to see how 
someone was able to make  these disputed payments  without Mr Ss permission, and then return  his 
card to him just in time for when  Mr S wanted to use it himself, all without Mr S noticing.
In summary, Im satisfied  that Mr Ss genuine card and correct  PIN were used for the disputed 
transactions. Its not plausible that an unknown  thief made the payments, and I dont  see a likely way 
that someone known to Mr S made them without his permission. Mr Ss testimony has been 
inconsistent and contradictory at points,  and the disputed payments look similar to his genuine 
spending. In my view that only leaves one plausible possibility  which is that Mr S made  the 
transactions or gave  someone else permission to make them. This is a difficult  message  for me to 
give, and I know its a difficult message for Mr S to receive.  But given the evidence I have,  Im unable 
to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
So based on everything Ive seen, I currently think its fair for Barclays to refuse a refund in this case.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont plan to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Please could  Mr S and Barclays send  me any more  information or comments  to look at by 20 January 
2020. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3505483