K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains the Society of Lloyds has unfairly  declined his motor  insurance claim when 
his car was stolen. 
background
Mr S insures his car through the Society of Lloyds.  He has insured it for £99,000  a 
specified value.  As a condition of Mr S insurance  he must keep his car in a locked garage  
between 11pm and 6 am when at his residence.  And he must have a Thatcham approved 
Category 5 Vehicle Protection and Tracking System installed and operational.
In June 2018 Mr S awoke  to find his car stolen. He hadnt garaged his car the night before 
as he was leaving early  for a flight. And because of being out of the country he didnt submit 
a claim until a few days later. 
Lloyds declined the claim as Mr S didnt have the necessary tracker in place  and he didnt 
comply with the requirement  to garage  his car overnight.  Mr S complained about that 
decision but Lloyds  stood by it. So Mr S asked  us to look into the matter.
Our investigator didnt  think Lloyds  had declined the complaint unfairly. The conditions  had 
been made clear  to Mr S and she found it was entitled to rely on them.  She concluded that 
as Mr S hadnt complied  with the conditions it was fairly able to decline the claim.  
Mr S didnt agree and feels very strongly this claim should be covered. In summary he says:
His car was stolen previously and later recovered. Lloyds covered the damage - it 
didnt decline the claim because  of the same conditions. 
He said Lloyds should have reminded him he wasnt complying with the conditions  
and he would have  taken action. 
He believes that in accordance with cases heard in court, if an insurer  has decided 
not to rely on conditions in the policy then it cant do so at a later date. 
It was a subsidiary of Lloyds that declined the claim and he was informed it wasnt  
able to make a decision based  on the facts as outlined.  He considers this office has 
not understood the specifics of why Lloyds were unable to reach  a decision. 
Rejecting this claim will have a greater impact  on his life  the circumstances are 
unfortunate and it isnt out of malice  that the conditions  werent  adhered to but 
because of a miscommunication by the insurers in the first instance. This will cause 
undue hardship.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
Mr S is correct  that the Society of Lloyds isnt the insurer for his policy.  The insurance 
policies are provided by syndicates but Lloyds handles complaints and issues the final 
responses. For our purposes the complaint  is set up against Society of Lloyds. And Im 
satisfied that Lloyds has given its reasons to Mr S and to us for declining  this claim.
Ref: DRN30097512Mr S has said that where insurers have  agreed claims even though  specific  policy  clauses 
werent adhered  to, courts have deemed  this to be a waiver of those clauses  in full. Mr S 
hasnt referred to any authority in support of his statement. I have considered  the Insurance  
Act 2015 and the regulatory  requirements  and, although an insurer can decided not to rely 
on a breach of condition  to exclude  a claim,  I havent seen anything to suggest that means it 
cant rely on those conditions in the future. Im therefore not persuaded Mr S previous claim 
being met means this claim must be met also. 
I turn now to this claim. Mr S policy had two endorsements placed  on it which added to the 
general exclusions contained within the policy:
We will not cover any loss or damage to your vehicle(s)bearing the registration  
number(s) XXXXXXX caused by theft or attempted theft unless a Thatcham  
approved Category 5 Vehicle Protection  and Tracking System is installed an 
operational with the maintenance or annual  subscription paid at the time of the loss.
We will not cover any loss or damage to your vehicle(s)bearing the registration  
number(s) XXXXXXX caused by theft or attempted theft between  23:00hrs and 
06:00hrs unless  the vehicle is locked in a garage or similar building  and there is 
evidence of violent  and/or forcible  entry or exit from the building.
These conditions were set out on Mr S policy schedule. And Ive been provided evidence  
this was sent to Mr S via e-mail. So Im satisfied these endorsements were made clear to 
him. It was for him to ensure the conditions were being complied with.  
Mr S said he didnt  put his car in the garage  as he was leaving early for the airport  the 
following day. I appreciate he may have had his reasons for not garaging his car. But that 
does mean  he breached  a condition of the policy as it wasnt in the garage when it should 
have been. I have also considered the video information provided and Mr S belief the car 
could have been stolen from any location  at any time. But having  the car in a garage meant 
it wouldnt have been in sight  so any prospective  thief might  not have known of the 
existence of the car at all. And even if the thief did, they would  then need  to contemplate 
breaking into the garage  all of which would have increased the chances of being  
discovered and perhaps caught. If Mr S had garaged his car as required and had there  been  
evidence of violent  and/or forcible  entry, then Lloyds wouldnt be able to rely on that 
exclusion. 
As Mr S didnt comply  with the condition  and it was breached, Im not persuaded its decision 
to decline the claim  is unfair.  
Lloyds has also declined  the claim as Mr S didnt have the required Thatcham approved  
category 5 tracker.  I understand instead Mr S had the tracker  that came as a package with 
the car  something he considered to be the equivalent of the Thatcham category 5. But I 
havent considered this in any detail as a breach of the above condition  is sufficient for me to 
find that Lloyds  hasnt acted unfairly.
I do understand this outcome will cause Mr S considerable difficulty, not least because  the 
car was on finance.  But I can only ask Lloyds  to do something if I find the claim has been 
declined unfairly  and thats not the position  here. 
Ref: DRN30097513my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3009751