K820x#14ComplaintMr H is unhappy that Shop  Direct  Finance Company Limited  (Very) cancelled  his direct debit 
without telling him, and this caused  him to miss four payments.
BackgroundMr H has a catalogue shopping account  with Very. On 13 September 2018  Mr H accessed  
his Very online account and set up a direct debit to make his minimum repayment  on the 
account each  month.
The first minimum  payment was due 28 September 2018; however, this was missed and so 
the account showed arrears for £159.85.  The next minimum repayment needed to be paid 
by 29 October 2018. This payment was successful, through Mr Hs direct  debit, which  
brought the account up to date. However, when Very attempted to take the next minimum 
payment of £28.54 on 26 November 2018,  this was returned unpaid  the following day. And 
as such, Mr Hs account showed  as arrears of £28.54.
The next minimum payment for £70.96 was required to be paid on 24 December 2018.  And 
on 22 December 2018 Mr H accessed his account  online and made  a manual payment of 
£70.96. As the direct debit  was still active Very requested the minimum repayment  of £70.96 
on 24 December 2018, which  was returned  unpaid. Very then cancelled Mr Hs direct debit.
Mr H said that as he wasnt  notified  of the cancellation of his direct  debit in December 2018, 
this caused him to miss four further  repayments.  He also said he wasnt made aware  his 
account was in arrears.  And because of this, hes had issues when re-mortgaging his house.
Very said they cancelled the direct  debit as it was returned twice consecutively, and on 
27 December 2018 it sent a letter to Mr H informing  him of the cancellation.  They also said 
statements were sent to his home address while he was in arrears.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with Verys response,  and as such brought  his complaint to our service.
I sent Mr H and Very my provisional  decision on 1 April 2020. I explained why I wasnt 
intending to uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ive copied the relevant part of my provisional  decision 
below for the sake of clarity:
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr Hs explained that he never received any notification of his direct debit being  cancelled.
Very have said they wrote to Mr H notifying him of the cancellation of his direct debit on
27 December 2018.
Ive seen a previous final response letter from Very dated in September  2018  relating to a 
similar complaint from Mr H. The letter relates  to a previous complaint where Mr Hs direct 
debit was cancelled  and he failed to make  his payments, causing his account to show 
arrears. I think this shows that Mr H wasnt a stranger to how the direct  debit operated  on his 
account, and to me, shows that he ought  to have understood how the account operated. And 
so, Id have expected Mr H to pay closer attention to his direct  debits.
Ref: DRN33725522Mr H says he wasnt notified  by Very that he was in arrears, and because  the direct  debits 
were cancelled this caused him to miss four further payments. I understand Mr Hs 
frustration relating to his arrears, and Im sorry to hear about the affect this has had with re-
mortgaging. However,  I cant see that Very did anything wrong in the circumstances. Ill 
explain why.
I can see from Mr Hs online  account statements that theres  several Notices of Arrears 
attached to his statements,  and Very have shown us sample letters  which theyve said were 
sent to Mr Hs home address, notifying him of the arrears. I accept that Mr H says he didnt 
receive these, but even  if he didnt receive  these  letters,  he ought  to have known that his 
account had arrears. I say this because he logged into his online account  on both 
13 September and 22 December  2018.  And as such, I think its likely he would have seen his 
account statements  which would have shown he already had arrears from previous missed  
payments.
As Ive set out above this isnt the first time Mr H has been in arrears. I think  its clear from 
Verys previous response letter  to Mr Hs previous  complaint  that he ought to have known 
how the account works, as he had been  in this position before, only a few months earlier.  
And while I understand Mr Hs view that he thought  his payments were  going through  fine, I 
think it would  have  been apparent when he checked his online account  that the payments 
werent being made.
Overall, when considering  the reasons above, I think Mr H knew  how his account  operated,  
and ought to have been aware his account was in arrears. Im also satisfied that Very did 
inform Mr H when the direct debits were  cancelled. And so, Im not minded to say Very have 
acted unfairly or unreasonably.
The response  to my provisional  decision
Very didnt have  any comments in response to my provisional decision. Mr H told us he 
didnt agree with the decision.  He said that since he complained to our service,  he has 
changed banks  for his personal banking. And because of this it has caused further issues 
with his direct debits with Very, which has meant  he has been  having to make  manual 
payments to Very.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr H has feels  hes having further issues with his direct debits and I 
can understand this is frustrating for him. However, this is a new issue,  and so it wouldnt be 
appropriate for me to comment on this. But, should  Mr H wish to raise this as a complaint he 
can do so.
Overall, I havent seen any information  from either  Mr H or Very that changes my mind. So, 
my decision  to not uphold Mr Hs complaint remains the same.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Ref: DRN33725523Matthew Hamlyn
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3372552