K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he received from Gateway Specialist Advice 
Services Ltd (Gateway)  about accessing the benefits from his Section 32 plans. He says 
the advice was unsuitable and he wasnt given any indication  that the indexation on his 
guaranteed minimum  pension (GMP)  could change.  
At the time of advice  Gateway was an appointed  representative of Sesame Limited. So 
Sesame has responsibility for dealing with the complaint.  
background
Mr M received advice in 2012 and a fact find was completed at that time. The paperwork 
detailing the advice given suggests that Mr M wanted to consider taking the benefits from his 
Section 32 policies. The plans were held with a product provider who Ill refer to as Firm X. 
The plans consisted of the original  plan which was set up when Mr M transferred his former 
employers pension plan to Firm X. And a redress plan, which  was set up as a result  of 
redress paid after it had been determined that the initial plan had been  mis-sold.
Mr Ms initial plan had a Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP)  attached  and Sesame 
recommended that Mr M didnt take the benefits  at that time.  This recommendation was 
based on the fact that the cost of the GMP exceeded the value of the initial plan. So the 
redress plan would also be used  to top up the cost of providing  the GMP. This would impact  
the tax-free lump  sum available for Mr M to take. Further,  Sesame said that Mr M didnt 
strictly need  the income at the time as he had a healthy disposable income. Instead, 
Sesame recommended that Mr M wait until he was 65 (he was 60 at the time of advice) to 
take the benefits of these plans. This was because Firm X has said that at the age of 65 any 
shortfall in the GMP would be made  up by Aviva  and Mr M would receive the full value of the 
redress plan. 
However, Mr M signed the paperwork for a quotation  received from Firm X dated 20 
September 2012. He wrote to Sesame  enclosing this signed  quotation and explained he 
didnt want to follow the recommendation provided. Going forward  Sesame dealt  with Mr M 
as an insistent client and Mr M took the benefits  from his Section 32 plans. 
In 2014 Mr M contacted  Sesame and queried  the indexation on his annuities.  Sesame  
responded confirming the position as it was set out in 2012 when the advice was given. In 
particular, that for GMP accrued before 1988 the scheme doesnt have to provide increases 
in payment; instead the State provides escalation in line with RPI. And for post-88 GMP the 
scheme provides  increases equal to the lower of RPI or 3%, and the state will provide 
increased above 3% up to RPI.
 
Mr M complained in 2018 about the advice he was given and the information Sesame had 
given him about  GMP indexation. Sesame responded explaining that in 2016 the 
Government introduced  new rules  regarding GMPs. These meant that as Mr M reached his 
State Pension age of 65 after 6 April 2016 the State would no longer pay any increases 
relating to the GMP.  Unhappy with this response  Mr M referred the complaint  to this service.  
An investigator here reviewed the complaint but didnt think Sesame had done anything  
wrong. She said it wasnt possible for Sesame to have anticipated a Government change  in 
the rules and she explained  that as a service we cant look at the complaint with the benefit 
Ref: DRN35238812of hindsight. Looking  at the advice  given at the time the investigator felt the advice and 
information provided was suitable. 
Mr M disagreed. In summary  he said: 
there was no warning of future change and as far hes concerned  the indexation was 
set in stone
the advice  was flawed and wasnt in his best interest.  Sesame suggested delaying  
the pension until he was 65. The reason for this was that at the age of 60 the redress 
payment would have  to be used to fund the GMP and so the tax free lump  sum would 
be reduced by that amount. Sesame said this was not good practice but took no 
account that he would receive the same  pension at 65 as he would have done at 60. 
So in effect  losing 5 years worth  of pension payments.  
The investigator responded and explained  that the advice not to take benefits wasnt 
followed and so he was dealt with as an insistent  client.  
As the matter couldnt be resolved the complaint has been  passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
the investigator reached, and for mostly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
I should firstly explain that Im only considering  the information and advice Sesame  gave 
Mr M in 2012; Im not going to be commenting on the accuracy of any of the information 
provided to Mr M by Firm X, or its predecessor. If Mr M has concerns that he has been  given 
incorrect information by Firm X thats  not something  that Sesame can be held responsible 
for.   
Mr M says that he was offered a higher annuity with more tax free cash from an alternative 
provider. However, the thing that persuaded him to take Sesames advice was that it 
guaranteed that the pension with Firm X would be fully index linked from the age of 65. So 
he says Sesame satisfied  him that there  was no risk and at no point raised  the possibility 
that the increases could be removed. 
I think its crucial  to point out here that Mr M didnt follow Sesames advice; he chose to take 
his benefits despite Sesame saying  it wasnt in his best interest.  And it couldnt be foreseen  
in 2012 that the Government  were  going to introduce changes to the state pension which 
had a significant impact  on increases to GMP payments for individuals turning  65 after April 
2016. So in 2012, all Sesame could do was provide advice and information on what  it knew 
at that time. 
Ive therefore  considered  the advice Mr M received and Ive seen nothing to suggest  it was 
unsuitable or that he was misled about his GMP entitlement as it stood at that time.  I say this 
because Sesame was correct about  what it said in terms of the funds in his redress  plan 
being used to subsidise any shortfall in the amount required to meet the GMP if Mr M took 
his benefits before the age of 65. 
Ref: DRN35238813I appreciate Mr M believes that by waiting a further five years to take his benefits,  he 
wouldve essentially missed out on 5 years annuity  payments. And I acknowledge hes 
provided his own calculations to show why he thinks this is the case. 
But I think its important to clarify that had he waited until he was 65 to take his benefits, 
Firm X wouldve reassessed what annuity  he was entitled to at that point based on annuity 
rates at that time and the value of his pension plans at that time.  And this would have taken  
account of the fact that the annuity  would be in payment for less time as it was being taken 5 
years later. And, the amount offered would almost  certainly have differed to what he was 
offered five years before at the age of 60.  
In addition, the cost of meeting the GMP wouldve come solely from the initial  plan and 
depending on the cost of providing this in 2016,  there may have been  an excess in the 
amount required  to cover the cost of the GMP. If this had been the case, any excess  along 
with the redress  plan wouldve been available for Mr M to take as additional income. Im also 
conscious that Mr M didnt  really  have a need for income in 2012.  For these reasons, the 
advice to not take his benefits  at the age of 60 doesnt seem  unreasonable.  
Mr M also says that he was told the whole plan was subject to increases. But this is not my 
understanding from the paperwork  Ive seen. The Annuity report which  was issued  at the 
time of advice sets out that there is a degree  of indexation and it also clearly explains  the 
requirements as they were at that time for pre and post 1988 GMP benefits.  It maybe  that 
since taking making  contact with Firm X after choosing to take the annuity, Mr M has been 
given contradictory  information. However, from what Ive seen Sesame gave him the correct 
information at the time of the sale. 
Overall, I dont  think that Sesame acted  unfairly so Im not upholding the complaint. I 
appreciate Mr M will be disappointed but I dont think Sesame can be held responsible  for 
changes introduced by the government that couldnt  have been  foreseen when he received 
advice. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, Im not upholding the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 19 January 2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3523881