K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Santander UK Plc didnt notify her before  her savings account was due 
to mature and as a result her funds were transferred to an account  paying a lower  rate of 
interest on maturity. She also complains  that Santander didnt reply to her letters.
To settle  matters shed  like Santander to refund the interest shes  lost out on.
background
Mrs E opened a Regular  eSaver with Santander towards the end of April 2017. She says 
Santander didnt  give her notice that her account  would  be maturing and it didnt respond to 
a letter  shed  written  in May 2018 to ask about what would happen to her account on 
maturity.
She later found out that the funds in her Regular eSaver that had paid 5% interest  were  
transferred to an Everyday Saver paying  0.25% interest when her account matured. Mrs E 
says that had she known about  things sooner she could have transferred the matured funds  
to her current account and earned  more interest.
Mrs E complained to Santander but it didnt  uphold her complaint. It said that what happens 
on maturity would have  been discussed as part of her telephone application. And it also 
explained that information about maturity was given  in the Key Facts  Document which  is 
provided to customers on account opening.  It also confirmed that it had written to her prior to 
her account  maturing.
Mrs E brought her complaint to our service  and our adjudicator concluded  that Santander 
had acted fairly. Our adjudicator  thought  the terms and conditions of her account and Key 
Facts Document made it clear that the funds would be rolled over to an Everyday Saver on 
maturity.
Our adjudicator noted that Santander  had given advance notice that her account would be 
maturing. This was sent to her online banking account in early April 2018.  In addition, the 
adjudicator explained that an email was sent to her asking her to check  her online 
correspondence.
When Mrs E complained to Santander it apologised and offered to transfer the matured 
funds to her current account  where she would earn a higher rate of interest  and it also 
explained she could  open a new Regular  eSaver so the adjudicator thought  this was fair and 
reasonable. 
The adjudicator thought  Santander had acted reasonably by not replying to the letter Mrs E 
had sent in May 2018 because her name  wasnt visible and no account  number was 
referenced. And in terms of the letter sent by Mrs E in October  2018,  the adjudicator 
explained that this didnt  relate to her account,  so they thought  it reasonable that Santander 
didnt reply to Mrs E about this.
Mrs E disagrees with the adjudicators view.  Some of her comments appear to relate to a 
different complaint so I wont repeat those here. She thinks that Santander  should  have 
replied to her May 2018 and asked her for any further information it needed. And she says 
she didnt include account details in the letter  because she only had one account  number at 
the time and she didnt  know  if this was hers or her husbands account number.
Ref: DRN30766712my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im sorry to disappoint  
Mrs E but I agree with the conclusion reached  by our adjudicator and for broadly the same 
reasons.
The terms and conditions  and Key Facts Document make clear that on maturity  of the 
account, the funds  would be transferred to an Everyday Saver.
Santander has provided a copy of a letter it sent to Mrs E on 10 April 2018. This letter 
explained that her account would become an Everyday  Saver towards the end of that month. 
It also explained that the rate of interest  would decrease from 5% to 0.25%. I realise that 
Mrs E says she never received this but Santander  confirmed it was sent to her online bank 
account. I think it was fair for Santander  to notify  her in this way because the terms and 
conditions of the account make it clear that communication about the account would be 
through online banking.
Santander has also confirmed that in addition  to sending the maturity letter through online 
banking, it also sends  customers  an email  asking them to review their online 
correspondence. I think its more  likely  than not that this was sent and Santander has 
confirmed that the email  address details  it holds for her are the same details as she provided 
to our service.
Based on the above I think Santander did enough to notify  her in advance that her account  
would be maturing and that it would automatically change to an Everyday Saver at a lower  
rate of interest.
As for Mrs Es complaint  that Santander didnt  respond to her letters, Ive looked  at her letter 
dated late May 2018. The copy  Ive seen doesnt include any account  number or reference 
and her name isnt visible. With the limited information it had, I cant  say Santander acted 
unfairly when it didnt reply. But if Im wrong about this Im satisfied that Mrs E ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware that on maturity her Regular eSaver would  automatically  
transfer to an Everyday Saver because Santander has provided a screenshot to show  this 
information was given as part of the online application process.
I can see why Mrs E thinks  Santander  should have written to her asking her for further 
information when  it received her May 2018 letter. However, based  on the copy  letter Ive 
seen I dont think that would have been possible as Mrs Es name isnt visible and neither is 
there any account reference.  If Santander  had simply written  back to an address without 
naming a recipient this might  have led to the possibility  of Mrs Es information being 
accessed by any occupant at her address.
But even if the original letter she wrote had clearly  stated  her name, whilst I agree it would 
have been good practice for Santander to have asked for further information, I cant say 
Santander did anything  wrong because I think it did enough to notify her in advance  of the 
forthcoming maturity  of her account  for the reasons Ive explained above.
The information in the letter Mrs E sent to Santander in October  2018 doesnt  appear to 
relate to this complaint so its not appropriate  for me to make any findings about  this.
Ref: DRN30766713I can see that when  Mrs E complained to Santander in October  2018,  its customer notes 
show it apologised and it offered to transfer  the matured funds into her current  account  
paying a higher rate of interest and it also explained  that could open a new regular saver  
account. So I think Santander treated her fairly here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3076671