K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that after he made a claim on his legal  expenses insurance policy DAS 
Legal Expenses Insurance Company  Limited (DAS) would only pay £100 an hour for his 
solicitors costs. 
background
Mr W (who is represented by his solicitors)  has legal  expenses insurance with DAS. Last 
year he made a claim on the policy in relation to a potential prosecution for a speeding 
offence. He wanted to use his own solicitors to defend the claim and asked  DAS to pay their 
costs. He later said there had been  delay by DAS in dealing with the claim. 
DAS said under the terms of the policy it wouldnt pay more than £100 an hour towards  
these costs. But it agreed to go beyond what the policy said and pay £150 in this case. It 
didnt think the case was particularly complex  and said one of its panel  solicitors who were  
specialists in motor  prosecution cases  would  have been able to deal with it for less than 
£150 an hour. 
 
Our investigator thought the policy was clear about  what DAS would pay for a firm that 
wasnt on its panel of solicitors. She didnt think the case was so complex that only a Grade 
1 fee earner at central London rates could deal with it. She thought DAS had offered Mr W 
alternative firms  who could  deal with the matter.  And she didnt think  any delays in relation to 
the claim had prevented  the case moving forward. 
Mr Ws solicitors didnt agree. They referred to another case on which  they said wed taken a 
different view. They didnt think the term in the policy  was made clear to Mr W and so DAS 
shouldnt be able to rely on it. They argued  the case did raise  complex  issues  and given 
Mr Ws previous  connections to them it was reasonable  of him to instruct them.  And they 
said the law gave Mr W the right to instruct a solicitor of his own choice and it would be 
appropriate for DAS to pay them  in line with the solicitors guideline hourly rates.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers are required to provide information  thats  clear, fair and not misleading.  Where 
theres a significant  limit on the cover the insurer needs to make this clear  so a policyholder 
can understand at the outset what cover theyre getting.
In this case the issue relates to the hourly rate which DAS will pay when a policyholder uses  
their own solicitor. And in relation to that the policy says: 
The most we will pay in costs and expenses is no more than the amount we would have 
paid to a preferred law firm. The amount we will pay a law firm (where  acting as an 
appointed representative)  is currently £100  per hour 
As its the insurer that will be paying the legal costs its reasonable for DAS to have a say in 
the amount being charged by the policyholders solicitor.And I think that term makes  it clear 
that DAS wont pay more than £100  an hour.  
Ref: DRN38341462However, I appreciate  that as Mr Ws solicitors have indicated this term isnt included in the 
Key Facts section of the policy. But Im also mindful  of the fact the legal expenses section 
of the policy  is in itself only six pages long, the hourly  limit is set out in the general What we 
cover  section on its second page  and the legal expenses policy is clearly flagged on the 
main contents page of the policy. Given that I think if Mr W had wanted  to understand what 
cover his legal  expenses policy provided this did enough to provide him with information  
about that. And if Mr W is concerned that wasnt  drawn  to his attention when he took out the 
policy thats something he may want to raise with the seller of the policy  (which  wasnt  DAS).  
Mr Ws solicitors have argued  that in another case we said that term wasnt  clear. Ive looked 
at the case theyve referred to and I can see that while this was also a complaint involving  
DAS the policy was worded differently and didnt specify  the rate that would be paid to a 
preferred law firm. So I dont think the circumstances  are comparable to what happened 
here. In any event we decide each complaint on its own merits. 
But even where  the rate is clearly set out (which  I think  it is here)  that isnt the only issue I 
need to consider. The law does give Mr W the freedom to choose his own solicitor  from the 
point that legal proceedings start. However,  case law has also established that insurers are 
entitled to limit the amount they pay to a non-panel solicitor  provided that doing so doesnt 
limit the policyholders ability  to choose  their own solicitor  to such an extent that it makes it 
meaningless. 
In this case I can understand  why Mr W wants to use his own solicitors who have acted for 
him in previous matters. But DAS has a large  panel of firms and has said its able to offer a 
choice of different  firms with the ability to deal with this type of case.  I think thats 
reasonable, and it doesnt  seem to me that it has limited  Mr Bs choice so much as to make it 
meaningless. Mr Ws case  relates to a prosecution for a speeding offence and DAS has said 
that it has firms  on its panel who have specialist teams for dealing with motor  prosecution  
cases. 
Mr Ws solicitors have put forward a number of arguments as to why they believe  the case  to 
be particularly complex and so requires their involvement. Ive reviewed these. I appreciate 
his solicitors may well be experts  in this field and I note the points they were intending to 
make as part of their defence of Mr Ws claim.  But Im not persuaded those arguments  arent  
ones that a panel firm with a team specialising in motor legal cases  wouldnt also have been  
able to make. They dont  persuade me that the case is so complex or unusual  that only a 
non-panel firm could have dealt with it. 
And DAS has already  gone beyond what its required to do by the policy  terms and offered to 
pay £150 an hour towards the costs of Mr Ws own solicitors. As I think its offered him a 
reasonable choice of solicitors I dont think there are grounds to ask it to do more than that. I 
appreciate there may also have been some delay by DAS in responding to Mr Ws solicitors 
in the early stages  of the claim. But I dont think that impacted  on the progression of the case  
or will have caused  Mr W distress and inconvenience to the extent that DAS should pay 
compensation for this. 
Ref: DRN38341463my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject  my decision before 22 August 2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3834146