K820x#14complaint
Mr B says MYJAR  Limited irresponsibly lent to him. He says that MYJAR didnt make proper 
checks to see if he could  afford the loan repayments  before lending  to him. 
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan MYJAR provided to Mr B. A loan of £275 was taken 
out on 5 May 2017, and was due to be repaid over three monthly instalments. I understand 
Mr B didnt make the loan repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B disagreed  and the complaint was 
passed to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Ive seen a record  of the information Mr B provided  when he completed his loan application. I 
can see that he was asked about his income and expenditure before the loan was approved.  
MYJAR also looked at his credit file. And this information showed that the repayments  were 
likely to be affordable  for Mr B. 
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely MYJAR was made  aware of any 
financial problems Mr B mightve been  having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it to 
investigate his circumstances  further.  
Mr B says much of the information MYJAR had was incorrect. And whilst this may be the 
case, Mr B had provided this information  to MYJAR at the time. I think it was reasonable, at 
this early stage in the lending relationship, for MYJAR to make  the checks it did. I wouldnt 
have expected it, at this time, to make  more detailed enquires or verify what  Mr B had 
provided. So I think it was reasonable for MYJAR to rely on the information it obtained.
So, overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments MYJAR did before lending  were 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend was reasonable.
Ref: DRN31515652my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3151565