K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that she was mis-sold a regular  payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by MBNA Limited (MBNA).
background
Miss G took out a credit card in June 1998. Around five months later after the credit card 
was agreed and Miss G had been  using it she was sold a PPI policy over the phone by 
MBNA. 
The policy cost 0.68p per £100  of the balance on Miss Gs credit card. A successful 
claim on the policy wouldve paid 3% of the outstanding balance  on the credit card for up 
to 12 months per claim  if Miss G was unable to work due to accident  or sickness or lost 
her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. He thought  there wasnt 
enough information to show the policy wasnt presented as optional and that the policy 
provided a useful benefit. 
Miss G disagreed. She says she didnt know she had the policy  and wasnt  given any 
information about it.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  
to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account when deciding 
Miss Gs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Gs complaint.
MBNA had to make it clear to Miss G she had a choice in taking the policy  and that she 
chose to take it. The policy was sold over the phone a few months after Miss Gs credit  
card account  was opened.  I dont know what was discussed with Miss G at the time she 
was sold the policy but Ive seen  a copy of her original  credit card application where she 
was given the option to select to take PPI or decline it. Miss G didnt select  either box on 
the application. 
But because PPI was applied to Miss Gs account  a few months after she her credit  card 
account was opened and used and she was given the option to take PPI on her credit 
card application,  I think she wouldve understood she didnt have  to take PPI to have the 
credit card. And I think PPI was likely applied to her account because  following a phone  
call with MBNA she chose to take it  I havent seen  anything to suggest  otherwise. 
I dont know if MBNA  recommended Miss G take the policy so to be fair to Miss G I am 
going to treat the sale as if MBNA advised  Miss G to take the policy.  What  this means is 
that MBNA  not only had to provide information about the policy  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that Miss G could make an informed choice about buying  it. It also 
Ref: DRN38320512had to make  sure that if it were to recommend the policy that it was suitable to her needs 
and circumstances.
I dont know if MBNA  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think the policy  was a 
suitable recommendation for Miss G for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught 
by any of the main  exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which 
couldve made it difficult to make a successful  claim. 
At the time of the sale Miss G says she had a small amount in savings and was 
entitled to statutory sick pay but had no other  means  of making her repayments if 
she couldnt work. The policy wouldve paid out on top of this and covered her for 
up to 12 months if she was unable to work  or lost her job. So I think  the policy 
wouldve provided a useful benefit to Miss G in her circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time. 
And if she no longer  wanted the policy she couldve cancelled it, which she did a 
few months later.
I also need to consider  whether MBNA gave Miss G information in a way which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper  choice about  whether or 
not she wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if MBNA  did provide all the proper information but even if it hadnt for the 
same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what  Miss G has told us about  
her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken  out the policy  if shed been  
given all the proper  information on the policy.  
And so it is for this reason  I wont be upholding Miss Gs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Miss Gs complaint  against MBNA 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3832051