K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint concerns a lack of access to his investment accounts, held on Cofunds 
Limiteds platform, following a change of intermediary.
background
Mr R held several accounts with three intermediary firms, all of which  used Cofunds 
platform. In January 2018 he was told that one of these intermediaries would no longer be 
working with Cofunds.  So, he had to transfer  the accounts held with it to a new intermediary.
He chose an alternative and arranged a transfer  request,  which was received by Cofunds in 
February 2018. The transfer  was completed but Mr R found he was then no longer able to 
access all of his accounts. He only had access via one of his three intermediaries. 
Mr R complained to Cofunds. This marked the start of a lengthy and complex 
correspondence between  the parties. (His wife had also tried to transfer her accounts to the 
new intermediary, which  brought  with it its own problems. These have been dealt with as a 
separate complaint).  
Cofunds accepted some of Mr Rs points and acknowledged that its service had been  poor.  
It paid compensation  to him of £600 in December 2018 and offered  a further £400 in January 
2019. But he didnt  consider these  amounts  fairly  reflected the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr R felt he should be compensated  in respect  of trading opportunities lost due to the lack of 
account access and also a refund of account fees paid to Cofunds during  the period in 
question. He further claimed for costs relating to a holiday cancelled and earnings lost due to 
the time spent in dealing with the complaint.
Mr R referred  the complaint to this service  but our investigator, while  acknowledging  the 
trouble that Cofunds failures had caused, concluded that its offer of compensation totalling  
£1,000 was fair and reasonable. 
The investigator said, specifically:
The lack of account access was clearly a significant failure, particularly given the 
misinformation provided by Cofunds  over a number  of months  and the eventual 
acknowledgement that it was actually an ongoing technical issue.
While  she understood Mr Rs reticence to trade  via the accounts with Cofunds due to 
the ongoing problems, alternatives  to on-line trading had nevertheless  been  
available. Without evidence of specific hindered trades she didnt feel this issue  could  
be fairly compensated.
The investigator was also unable to conclude that the loss of earnings was a 
foreseeable, reasonable and avoidable  consequence of the issues.
She also didnt feel able to recommend a refund of fees, as she considered that 
Cofunds had still provided elements of its service to Mr R, including  the safe custody 
of the investments, during  the period in question. 
Mr R responded to say, in brief:
He remained of the view the compensation should be increased.
Ref: DRN30748882His main point of concern was the lack of access to around  £400,000 from April 
2018. 
Hed never been given a single  point of contact at Cofunds  if he had been, the 
referral to this service couldve been  avoided. 
He disputed the conclusion that he wouldve been  able to trade  by phone or post. 
The problems at Cofunds meant  that it would have  been  reckless to try to do so. In 
practice, there was no viable way of trading. It should be clear why there is therefore 
no evidence of attempted trading.
Any award should better reflect  the level of distress and inconvenience caused  for 
instance, hed spent the equivalent  of 47 working days  on dealing  with the complaint. 
Cofunds keeping  the fees charged  during the period in question cant  be justified. 
The majority  of services offered in return for the fees werent available  to Mr R and it 
isnt fair that Cofunds should benefit from the money, taking  more  from Mr R than it is 
now offering in compensation.
As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change her opinion, the matters been  referred  to 
me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Cofunds has accepted that the service  provided  to Mr R has not been of an acceptable 
standard. So, my consideration is limited  to deciding what  represents  fair compensation for 
that failure of service.  
Mr R has explained that the failure impacted him in a number of ways.  Hes told us that hes 
had to spend considerable time dealing with what has become a very complex matter, 
resulting in him having to cancel a holiday and give up work. Further, hes made  financial  
losses as a result of having no viable options for trading. Hes also unhappy to have paid 
large amounts in fees to Cofunds during the course of the problems. While Cofunds has, as 
noted, offered  a total of £1,000 to compensate Mr R, he feels  that compensation should be 
closer to the maximum level of compensation Im able to direct   £150,000 for the period in 
question. 
Ill deal with each  of these issues in turn. 
Compensation for time
I dont doubt that this has been a very troubling time for Mr R. The frustration of not being  
able to access the accounts has clearly  been compounded by Cofunds  failure  to really 
address the issues  and keep him properly  informed of what it was doing   or not doing  to 
put things right. 
The ongoing  nature  of the problem and the involvement of a number of different parties has 
clearly made dealing with it difficult.  But that said, while I note the amount  of time Mr R has 
said hes spent on the matter, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Cofunds should  be 
held responsible for either his decision to not take his holiday in March  2018  which I think  
Mr R accepts to a degree  or his decision to not operate his business  during the period  in 
question. 
Ref: DRN30748883I asked Mr R for some more detail about  the circumstances  of him not trading  for the 
2018/19 tax year. Hes explained how his intentions to promote new business by way of a 
new website were hindered and led him to make  the decision to not claim trading  status  for 
the tax year.  He acknowledges that it would be difficult  to quantify the loss of earnings but 
highlights an opportunity to set off previous years losses,  which  was lost as a result of not 
trading, which  wouldve  saved a considerable amount of tax.  
While, as Ive said,  I can see that Mr R would have had to spend a lot of time dealing with 
the Cofunds issues I dont think there is a sufficiently clear link between  doing this and a loss 
of earnings. This wasnt a situation where  the operation of Mr Rs business was dependent 
upon the ability to access the accounts  or to trade. And it also doesnt appear that the 
Cofunds issue was the sole factor influencing Mr Rs decision to not trade.  
In the same  way that it was ultimately  Mr Rs decision to cancel his holiday, I think it was 
also his decision to not trade. And the resulting  loss  if there was one  couldve been  
mitigated by balancing the needs  of the business  against dealing with the complaint.  As the 
investigator noted, I dont  think this type of loss would  have  been  reasonably  foreseeable by 
Cofunds. As such,  I dont think I can directly attribute  it to Cofunds failing. 
Loss of trading opportunities
I can understand why, in the face of Cofunds  failings, Mr R might have been loathe  to 
further interact with the business by trading  through  it, via phone or post.  It couldve been  the 
case that doing so wouldve led to further  confusion and an even more  complicated situation. 
But I think if there had been specific trades that Mr R felt had to be completed to avoid 
losses or to benefit  from gains, he wouldve  made some attempt to get these completed. At 
least he wouldve flagged them to Cofunds,  or his intermediaries, as part of the lengthy  
correspondence, so there wouldve been  a record of his intentions  and what he was 
prevented from achieving as a direct result of the lack of access. 
In the absence of such  contemporaneous evidence of what Mr R might have wanted to do, I 
dont think theres any way to reasonably quantify any loss in this respect.   
Account fees
Again, I have some sympathy for Mr Rs argument on this point. I can see that it wouldve 
been frustrating  to continue paying fees to Cofunds  during a period when it wasnt able to 
provide him with a full service.  But, as the investigator noted, it wasnt  the case  that Cofunds  
was failing to provide  any service to Mr R. One of his accounts was accessible as normal  
and with the two other accounts,  where this wasnt the case,  Cofunds  was still managing the 
accounts and holding the assets. 
Any direction  of compensation I make is not intended to punish the business or to work as 
some sort of fine. I have to look at what the consequences of a business failings were and 
what, if any, financial loss or material distress they caused to the consumer. 
Regardless of Cofunds  failings  Mr R wouldve had to pay some  level of fees for the custody 
of his holdings.  This wasnt a situation  where he had to pay another  business for the same 
service at the same time. This being  so, I think  the most appropriate way to compensate  for 
the difficulties  is by way of a payment that reflects the trouble and upset caused, rather  than 
making a full or part refund of fees.  And that is what Cofunds has done in offering Mr R 
£1,000, which I think is a fair amount  in all the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN30748884I appreciate Mr R will strongly  disagree. But for the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think a 
consideration of the evidence and the wider circumstances supports a direction of additional 
compensation for loss of earnings or trading losses.  
my final decision
For the reasons  give, my final decision is that I dont uphold  the complaint  as consider 
Cofunds Limiteds offer to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2020.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3074888