K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) wont pay her home 
insurance claim for the removal of faulty  materials  from within the fabric of her home.  
background
Ms M discovered  that the sheeps wool insulation which was fitted (prior to her moving in) 
into the walls, and under  the floors, of the extension  had become infested with moths.  She 
had to have the plasterboard removed and the floors up in order  to remove the insulation. 
She also had to have  her whole house fumigated and then reinstated.  
Ms M made  a claim to L&G under her home insurance policy. L&G declined her claim. It said 
her policy provided cover  for damage caused by unforeseen  events (fire, storm, theft etc.) 
and additional  accidental damage, but it didnt  provide cover  for what she was claiming for. It 
went on to say that in addition,  the policy didnt provide cover for damage caused  by defects 
and faults, including defective  materials, nor did it provide cover for direct  loss or damage 
caused by insects. It said it considered moths to be insects. 
Unhappy with L&Gs decision, Ms M complained  to this service. Our adjudicator investigated  
her complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  He didnt think that L&G had unfairly  
declined Ms Ms claim. Ms M disagreed. She said she just wanted the insurance to cover the 
extensive work shed  had to have done to remove the faulty materials. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I fully sympathise with Ms M for the situation in which  she finds  herself  and the 
associated cost she now has to meet  Im afraid Im unable to make L&G pay her claim.  
Ms Ms insurance  policy  covers  her for damage  to her buildings.  That damage must  be 
caused by one of the insured events listed in her policy   by fire, theft, an escape  of water, 
subsidence etc. Ms M is claiming for the cost of removing the faulty materials (those being 
the sheeps wool insulation which had become infested with moths because the product it 
was treated with at the outset  to prevent infestation - had failed). But her policy doesnt 
cover her for such an event. 
Ms M said that it seems  to her that if a product works for several years, it should be covered  
by the policy  if it ceases to work at some point in the future. But that isnt the point of 
insurance. Insurance is there to provide  cover  for damage caused by one of the unforeseen 
events listed in the policy. The failure  of a product and the cost of its removal isnt one of 
those events. 
L&G referred to the policy  not covering damage caused by insects  or by defective materials. 
But both these clauses  are, in my view, superfluous to Ms Ms claim. Thats because it is 
inescapable that first and foremost, her policy provides no cover for the removal of faulty  
materials from the fabric of her home. It follows that I cant  reasonably  say that L&G has 
unfairly declined  her claim. 
Ref: DRN38618292 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3861829