K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) cross linked their 
details with another customer.
background 
Mrs C complains on behalf  of her and her husband, that Halifaxs  error in linking her name 
with that of another customer caused  them much work and stress. They  didnt discover this 
error until May 2018 when they were  trying to purchase a property.
Halifax could see that it had incorrectly linked Mrs Cs name  with that of another  customer. It 
initially paid her £100 compensation in June 2018  which it increased to £200 and £9 costs  
and then in November 2018  it offered another £1,000  and said itd resolved the problem.
In April 2019 Mrs C became aware that her address  and phone  number were not the ones 
listed on her profile with Halifax and she had to make another  visit to her local branch to sort 
this out. And in May 2019 she received a statement with her name and address on it but the 
account and the transactions related to the incorrect linked name. When the staff at her local 
branch checked  her profile details she discovered that they had been  changed  again  (not by 
her) and they were  wrong.
Our adjudicator contacted Halifax and it accepted itd never properly  resolved  the situation  
when Mrs C first complained. And at the end of June 2019 it increased its compensation 
offer to £2,000. Our adjudicator thought this was fair and reasonable.
Mrs C wasnt happy with this particularly as she said that she was still getting letters where 
her name was still shown  incorrectly. She asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. In the meantime our adjudicator  went back to the bank which said this was a 
hangover of the original issue  and not a recreation of a new link. But after further 
communication with Halifax,  in September 2019  it said it could see that there was another  
linking which itd now fixed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute that Halifax incorrectly linked Mr and Mrs Cs account with another 
customer. Halifax initially paid them  £209  and has now offered  them  another  £2,000.  So the 
only issue I have to decide is whether the compensation  is sufficient in light of the impact  this 
has had on them both.
In September  2019 Halifax acknowledged there was still a link with the other  customer  but 
said that this had now been  fixed. Thats nearly  18 months after Mrs C initially  contacted 
Halifax about this and it said itd removed the link. In those circumstances I think  its fair and 
reasonable for Halifax to increase its compensation offer to £2,500. Halifax  agreed to this. 
Ref: DRN33290792But Mrs C said shed requested a Data Subject Access  Request (DSAR) from Halifax which 
she received in October 2019. Shes found more errors  linking her to the other  customer. 
And shes received  a number of the other  customers bank statements. So she isnt happy  to 
accept that offer.
Halifax needs an opportunity to deal with the issues Mrs C has now raised after receiving the 
DSAR. Unfortunately that means she will need to raise this as a new complaint with Halifax  
to allow  it time to investigate and respond. If Mrs C isnt happy with that response she can 
come back  to us.
But for the reasons Ive given having reviewed the original  complaint I think  Halifax must 
increase its offer by another £500  which its agreed  to do so.
my final decision
To put matters right Halifax must  increase its compensation offer to a total amount of £2,709.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3329079