K821x#15complaint
Mr M says S.D. Taylor  Limited trading as Loans at Home lent to him irresponsibly. Mr M 
says that Loans  at Home didnt carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
lending. He says that if it had done, it wouldve realised that he was reliant  on the loans  and 
he couldnt afford to repay them in a sustainable  manner.  
background
This complaint is about ten home credit loans  which Loans at Home  provided to Mr M 
between February 2016  and October 2018.
loan number date started amount  borrowed term (weeks) date ended
1 04/02/2016 £625 45 21/11/2016
2 19/05/2016 £400 45 19/01/2017
3 24/11/2016 £875 45 10/08/2017
4 19/01/2017 £500 45 21/09/2017
5 03/08/2017 £875 45 15/02/2018
6 21/09/2017 £500 45 18/04/2018
7 21/12/2017 £500 45 08/08/2018
8 08/08/2018 £700 45 outstanding
9 15/02/2018 £1,125 45 03/10/2018
10 03/10/2018 £1,375 45 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that for loans 2 to 5 Loans at 
Home shouldve made better checks. And if it had made these checks  it wouldve seen  that 
Mr M was having problems managing his money  and it shouldnt have let to him. And she 
thought that the pattern  of lending itself was harmful after loan 6 so it also shouldnt have 
lent for this reason.  
Loans at Home disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion. It said that: 
the loan repayments could be flexible if Mr M was having  problems making  the 
repayments. There was no extra charge  for this 
it is not clear why having more than one loan outstanding was an indication  that Mr M 
was struggling financially
it is not clear why further checks should  be made in this case. We are not being 
consistent with other  decisions
So, as no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been  passed to me.
Ref: DRN37844062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending and high cost credit - including all of the relevant rules,  
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Loans at Home needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Loans  at Home should fairly  and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Ive decided to uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
I should firstly say that Im required to consider each complaint on its own merits. And as no 
two consumers circumstances are the same this can lead to different outcomes in seemingly 
similar cases. Ive come to what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome here, given the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN37844063Mr M didnt  disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because of this I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So I wont be making a decision about it. 
But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr M had with Loans at Home. So it is 
something I will take into account when considering the other  loans he took.
why I dont  think Loans at Homes checks  were  proportionate for loans 2 to 5 and 
what proportionate checks  wouldve  shown
When Mr M applied for loan 2 hed already  had a lending relationship with Loans  at Home 
for over 9 months. And he was making a commitment  to carry on making repayments for 
another 45 weeks. Whilst I can accept that home  collected credit loans can run for a longer 
time than some other  types of high cost credit, and can have flexible repayments, this is still 
a very long time to be using this type of lending. 
So I think Loans at Home couldve realised at that time that Mr M may have  some  longer 
term financial problems rather than just using the loans to help with a temporary cash  flow 
problem. Loans  at Home  shouldve  also become concerned  about  whether it knew enough 
about Mr Ms true financial  situation.
I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  to fully review Mr Ms financial situation.  And I 
think that Loans at Home  needed to verify the information it found out where  possible.  This is 
to make sure Mr M was in position  to make  the repayments sustainably.  I dont  think  Loans 
at Home did this. So I need  to think  about  what Loans at Home wouldve seen if it had 
carried out proportionate checks. 
Mr M has provided some information about his financial circumstances which includes his 
bank statements. I accept  that this isnt exactly what Loans  at Home wouldve seen at the 
time. But I think it wouldve found  out similar  information if it had made proportionate checks, 
so I think its reasonable  to rely on it.
This shows that Mr M was having  problems managing his money. In general  he was having 
problems making ends meet. But he was also using a number of other  short term and high 
cost credit providers. When this happens, its reasonable to say that, a consumer is unlikely 
to be unable to repay  their loans sustainably when they need to borrow  from multiple  
sources to pay for household expenditure and their other creditors.  This seems to have 
happened here. 
I think that Loans at Home wouldve found  out this information if it had made  proportionate  
checks. And I think Loans at Home wouldve seen Mr M wouldnt have been able repay the 
loans in a sustainable way. So I think that Loans at Home  shouldnt have given loans 2 to 5 
to Mr M and I think hes lost out as a result of this. So Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about  
loans 2 to 5. 
loans 6 to 10
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks  for loans 6 to 10 because  I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of Loans  at Homes 
lending history with Mr M, with a view to seeing if there was a point  at which  Loans  at Home 
should reasonably have  seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful. 
And so Loans  at Home should  have  realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Ref: DRN37844064Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 6. 
I say this because:
At this point Loans at Home ought to have realised Mr M was not managing  to repay  his 
loans sustainably.  Mr M had taken out 6 loans over an 18 month period approximately. 
So Loans at Home ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was having 
to borrow further  to cover  the hole his previous loan repayments was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr Ms first loan was for £625  and loan 6 was for was for £875. At this point Loans  at 
Home ought to have  known that Mr M was not likely  borrowing to meet  a temporary  
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing  need. 
Throughout all of this lending Mr M was provided  with a new loan to partly repay the 
loan he had. The amount Mr M had borrowed  generally increases over the time he 
borrowed from Loans at Home. This also points to Mr Ms need  for money increasing 
unsustainably
Mr M wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount he owed Loans at Home.  Loan 10 
was taken out around two and a half years  after Mr Ms first. And it was for a much 
larger amount. Mr M had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
Loans at Home over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Loans  at Home  continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans  had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans  and the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely  to have 
had negative  implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him 
in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 2 to 5 and loans 6 to 10 and Loans at Home  
should put things right.
putting things right  what Loans at Home needs  to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr M paid on loans 2 to 10;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative  information about  loans 2 to 5 from Mr Ms credit file;
the number of loans  taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded about  
them is adverse.  So all entries  about loans  6 to 10 should be removed from Mr Ms 
credit file.
Ref: DRN37844065If Mr M still owes Loans at Home any of the principal balance  he borrowed on loans 8 and 
10, instead of the above, Loans at Home should  remove all the interest and charges applied 
to the outstanding balance. Loans at Home  should then re-work the account  as if all 
payments made by Mr M went to towards the principal. But importantly, Loans at Home 
needs to make sure that Mr M doesnt  repay  more than the principal amount borrowed.  
If after doing this Mr M hasnt repaid the principal  he borrowed, Loans at Home can deduct  
this from the remainder of the compensation. If, Mr M has already paid enough to repay the 
principal then any overpayment should be refunded to him with 8% simple*  interest from the 
date of payment  to the date of settlement
And if Loans at Home  no longer owns  this debt, and it wants  to make a deduction due to the 
amount owed, then it should buy it back.  If it doesnt  then it isnt entitled to make  any 
deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr M.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans at Home to take off tax from this interest. Loans at 
Home must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Mr Ms complaint. S.D. Taylor  Limited  should  
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3784406