K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr T says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
The PPI policy was not in force for long, it was cancelled in 1999 and in total Mr T paid PPI 
premiums of £76.99.
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr T disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr T applied  for the credit card and the PPI using a postal  application  form. He completed 
the form and sent it back to Capital One. Ive seen a copy  of the application form. I can see 
there is a section about PPI. Within the section is the following statement, Please enrol me 
in Capital Ones Payment  Protection scheme. Beside this statement are two boxes. One is 
marked Yes and the other No. There is a tick in the Yes box and the No box is left 
blank.
Overall I think  Capital  One made it clear that Mr T didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand how he may not recall  this after so many 
years.
As it was a postal application I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr T so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr T got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Ive looked  at Mr Ts circumstances to consider whether any clearer  information  would 
likely have put him off buying the policy.
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr T didnt have any medical 
conditions that wouldnt be covered  and his employment circumstances were  not unusual  in 
any way. So it looks like Mr T was eligible for the policy  and could have made a claim if hed 
needed to.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time of the sale.  So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI cost would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN33969652Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr T because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr T about  that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr T, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said. Mr T has told us his employer wouldve paid 
him a good  level of sick pay if he became  too unwell to work. But the PPI policy  could have 
paid Mr T a monthly benefit  for up to 12 months in addition to any sick pay. And it would also 
have paid a monthly  benefit if Mr T had lost his job. So I still think  Mr T wouldve found the 
policy useful if things  had gone wrong. 
In summary  I think the PPI was presented to Mr T as optional  and I think he chose  to take it 
out. And even if Capital  One had given  Mr T all the clear information  about the policy  that it 
should have, I still think he wouldve gone  ahead and bought  it.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr T.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr T any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3396965