K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Brightside  Insurance Services  Limited  (her broker) provided poor 
service to her when she tried to enquire  about  the renewal of her motor insurance  policy.
   
background
Miss C had an accident in December 2018. She told us she was unhappy with the insurers 
claims handing (which has been dealt with separately) and with her attempts to get through  
to Brightside about the policys renewal.
Miss C said it wasnt possible to contact  Brightside  by phone due to its excessive holding  
times. Her car had been off the road for some time and shed been told that it may be written 
off. So she emailed Brightside on 8 March 2019 to ask what  to do about renewal.  She let it 
know shed had trouble calling it and asked for a call from it. She was promised a reply 
within two working days. That didnt happen,  but on 14 March  2019 Brightside told her by 
email the policy  had expired. It said if she wanted a new one, she should call or see its 
website. She told Brightside  it hadnt  answered her question, but got no response. 
Brightside later accepted  that its customers had been adversely affected by the high number 
of calls it was receiving  at the time. It offered Miss C £25 compensation and said it would 
reimburse her for call charges if she had an itemised bill. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Miss Cs complaint.  He thought  the offer Brightside had 
made for the call delays  was fair. But he noted  that Brightside hadnt dealt with Miss Cs 
query about whether she needed  insurance  in her particular circumstances. Initially 
Brightside said it couldnt see that Miss C had ever asked the question. Later  on, it accepted 
that it hadnt replied  to her email. It said shed been  asked to contact its call centre  about  her 
car being written-off. Brightside didnt think it needed  to increase its compensation offer.
The investigator then issued his view of the complaint. He said Miss C had asked Brightside 
a clear question that it hadnt answered.  He didnt think her request  for a call from it was 
unreasonable, as she couldnt  get through to it. At the time her emails showed she was 
confused about the role of the broker as opposed  to that of the insurer.  He thought  
Brightside could  easily have cleared that up and dealt with the queries Miss C had about 
renewing her insurance. He thought  Brightsides service fell below  the expected standard, so 
he said it should pay her £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
Brightside asked  for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Brightside dealt  reasonably with Miss Cs complaint about the long call waiting times  
and her not being able to get through to it to discuss her situation. But I think  it should also 
have dealt with the concerns that arose  form her attempts  to move matters  on by email. 
Miss Cs first email notified Brightside  of her latest unsuccessful attempt to contact  it by 
phone. Brightside was aware of the problems customers  were having, which I think  made it 
even more important  that it should respond  properly to emails. Miss C also said in her email 
Ref: DRN35686762that she didnt  know what to do about  renewal  given her situation.  As her renewal date was 
imminent, I think it was important that she should get a prompt  reply.  
Miss C asked for a call from Brightside.  So it would have been very disappointing  not to get 
one. Instead, after the policy had lapsed, she got a very brief response by email asking her 
to call or to look at Brightsides website. I think that was poor service.  And as Miss C pointed  
out in her next email, Brightside had ignored the clear question shed asked it. She asked 
the question because she was worried about what  to do next about  her insurance. Brightside 
didnt respond  at all to Miss Cs second email. In the circumstances,  I think that was far 
below the level of service  Miss C should have been entitled to expect.   
Brightside said Miss C had a copy of its terms of business. But as the investigator pointed  
out, its very unlikely the terms of business would have answered Miss Cs query about the 
policys renewal.  In any event, I think she should  have  got a call as requested. Failing  that, 
she should have  got a prompt  response  to her emails  that addressed the issue  she was 
concerned about.
Brightside said that in an attempt to provide  a better  telephone service, its advisors were 
moved around. It said that resulted in slower  responses to emails. It seems Miss C faced 
delay and inconvenience as a result  of these changes. Given  her existing discontent  due to 
the fruitless calls to Brightside, I think the additional poor service had more effect on her than 
it may otherwise have  done.  
In my opinion, its not unreasonable to require Brightside to pay Miss C £100 compensation 
to reflect  the distress and inconvenience she faced due to its poor communication.         
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Brightside Insurance Services  
Limited to pay Miss C £100  for distress  and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 December  2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3568676