K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the amount of compensation offered to him by TSB Bank Plc (TSB) 
following the IT issues it had last year.
background
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced some IT problems which  meant Mr G couldnt use 
his online  banking as he usually would. 
Mr G has sent us a detailed timeline  of the numerous problems he encountered from late 
June 2018 onwards. The issues  went on for a couple of weeks.  I have read Mr Gs emails  in 
detail and Ive summarised the issues he experienced below:
An IBAN code attached to his business  account  was changed and TSB failed to let 
him know. This was only identified  when a client of Mr Gs told him he was unable to 
make a payment  to him as agreed. Mr G rang TSB and was given a new number but 
he had to spend time updating his clients about the change. One client,  who had 
previously agreed  to pay an invoice amounting to £2,500, reduced the agreed 
amount to £1,250.
Mr G ordered a cheque book but was sent a paying-in book instead.
Three months of bank statements arrived later than expected and two weeks after 
the deadline for Mr Gs VAT return.
Mr Gs business account was blocked and no-one at TSB could tell him why.
Mr G spent numerous hours on the telephone  trying to remove  the block  from his 
account. He experienced long waiting times of generally over an hour and was asked 
to go into branch with his ID to unblock the account on five separate  occasions. Mr G 
also followed the online  process to reset his online  banking on numerous  occasions 
but all attempts were  unsuccessful. 
Small  transactions to the Post Office were charged to his card that he says werent 
him.
A large  payment of £5,000 had been attempted (it was blocked by TSBs  security 
systems) by an unknown third party - this was later identified to be the cause of the 
block on his account.
A new payee was set up on his business  account and a new telephone  contact  
number that wasnt  related  to him was also added.
Direct debits and cheque payments from Mr Gs account were  unsuccessful and all 
had to be reinstated or sent again  by Mr G.
A payment of £125  went  into his account  which couldnt be explained. Mr G was 
worried that this was another TSBs customers money but TSB couldnt tell him 
where it had come  from.
The above  issues  took place over around  a two week period. Mr G has told us TSBs 
telephone banking services were very busy at the time, so he experienced long waiting times 
whenever he tried to speak to someone to resolve the issues.  He also experienced long 
waiting times  in branch. Mr G has told us this two week period was a very stressful and 
worrying period  for him which stopped him running  his business as efficiently  as he normally 
would. Hes also spent a lot of time and effort trying to put things  right. Mr G has said his 
business turnover  in July 2018 fell significantly when compared  to May and June 2018 and 
this is because of the issues  he experienced with TSB.  He also feels he lost out on around 
two weeks worth of work. 
Ref: DRN36917562Mr G complained to our service and an investigator looked into his complaint. She contacted  
TSB and identified the £125 paid into Mr Gs account was compensation from TSB for its 
failures. She didnt  think this was enough  to compensate Mr G for the trouble hed been 
caused and recommended  additional  compensation of £375 - bringing Mr Gs total 
compensation up to £500. 
Mr G didnt think this was enough. As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.  
During the course of this complaint, it came to light that the transactions  to the Post Office 
did not actually  occur. TSB said there were no attempted  transactions to the Post Office  
(other than transactions  Mr G had made himself and not disputed).  TSB said the phone call 
to discuss these transactions must  have been  from a fraudster purporting to be from TSB as 
part of a scam. TSB said the fraudster was able to gain access to Mr Gs telephone banking 
for a while. And the reason why Mr Gs account was blocked was due to the fraudster 
gaining access to his account and attempting to make the £5,000  payment that was blocked  
by its security systems.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as our investigator   for much  the same reasons. Ill explain why below.
financial loss caused to Mr G.
Mr G has told us that whilst the IT issues were ongoing, there were numerous transactions 
made that werent  him. He was told a number of small transactions  had been put through  on 
his card at the Post Office and a large  transaction of £5,000 had been attempted  by an 
unknown third party had been blocked  by TSBs  security systems. 
Mr G has also told us that a client who had initially agreed to pay an invoice for £2,500,  upon  
being unable  to make  the payment, decided to reduce their order to £1,250 losing him a 
further £1,250.  Hes told us his turnover  for the month of July 2018 was significantly lower 
than May and Junes  turnover and this was a result of the on-going issues  he was 
experiencing. Hes said that he feels he has lost around two weeks  worth of revenue.
My role here is to ensure  Mr G is put in the position he wouldve been in had nothing  gone 
wrong. And so if I think Mr G has lost out financially as a direct  result of TSBs IT failings, I 
would expect TSB to put Mr G in the financial position he wouldve been in had everything 
happened as it should have done. 
Having taken into account all the evidence I have  available to me, I havent seen anything 
that persuades  it is more  likely than not that Mr G has lost out financially as a direct  result of 
TSBs IT issues. Ill explain why.
Mr G has told us TSB advised him that fraudulent transactions  to the Post Office and an 
attempted £5,000 payment had been  made on his account. He feels  TSBs IT issues  allowed 
the fraudsters access  to his account. But the alleged transactions to the Post Office didnt 
actually take place, and so Mr G could not have lost out financially because of them.  And the 
attempted fraudulent transaction of £5,000 was also stopped by TSBs  security systems - 
and a block put on his account  to stop any further transactions  leaving  his account. And so I 
Ref: DRN36917563dont think Mr G has lost out financially here.  I think TSB acted before this could happen - 
and before fraudsters  could defraud Mr G of a significant amount of money.
Ive also carefully considered what Mr G has said about losing out on £1,250  because  of 
TSBs IT issues alongside what hes told our investigator about  his turnover in July 2018 and 
his lost working hours. Essentially what  Mr G is saying is here is that hes lost out on 
additional revenue and working  hours  as a consequence of TSBs actions. In order for me to 
be able to recommend  TSB compensate Mr G for these consequential  losses, Id have to be 
satisfied that the losses  occurred  and happened as a direct result of TSBs actions. And I 
dont think I can say that here.
In January 2019, our investigator  told Mr G she would take these  losses  into consideration if 
he was able to provide  some evidence the losses were  incurred.  To date no further 
information about these losses has been  provided. And so I dont have evidence to show  the 
losses were actually incurred by Mr G or that they happened because of the actions of TSB.  
And so I wont be recommending TSB return these costs to Mr G. 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr G.
It isnt disputed that Mr G was impacted by the on-going IT problems TSB experienced. I 
dont think all of the issues caused  to Mr G were  due to the IT glitch, I think  some were 
caused because  it was necessary to place a block  on Mr Gs account  to stop the attempted 
fraud. And whilst I dont think TSB acted unreasonably in applying  this block (it was 
necessary to protect Mr Gs account),  I think it could  have been clearer  as to what  had 
happened on Mr Gs account  and what he would need to do to allow his accounts to function 
correctly again.  
I have no doubt  that not being  able to receive  invoice payments when he was trying to run 
his business must have  been very stressful for him. And spending time that he would usually 
spend running his business to try and sort out the issues must  have  been  very frustrating for 
him. I also dont underestimate  the annoyance  of having to remedy the failure  of bounced  
cheques and direct  debit payments which should  have been  working  correctly.  And so, the 
main thing I need to consider here is whether it would  be fair and reasonable for me to direct 
TSB to pay Mr G more than the £500 it has already offered for the trouble,  upset  and stress 
this caused him.   
As Ive said,  I dont doubt that this was a stressful period for him  especially given that he 
relies on his accounts functioning  correctly  to successfully run his business. And I appreciate  
that it can be uncomfortable and somewhat embarrassing to have to write  to clients  and 
businesses he holds  accounts with to explain the issues he was having  as Mr G eventually 
had to do. 
But I cant ignore  that TSB has already offered a substantial amount  of compensation to 
recognise the stress and inconvenience  caused  to Mr G. And some  of the issues were  
caused because  TSB was trying to protect  Mr Gs account. I also have to consider how long 
the issues went on for. And whilst  I acknowledge  that the issues  went on for longer  than they 
shouldve and Mr G was given confusing information from TSB, I also have  to take into 
account that overall, the issues lasted for around two weeks. Mr G was then able to operate 
his business as usual and any issues surrounding  on-going payments were  resolved once 
Mr G had set up new ones and spoken to his clients. 
Ref: DRN36917564I appreciate that having to set up new direct  debits and re-issuing cheques/IBAN codes 
wouldnt have been Mr Gs first choice and having  to do so was inconvenient, but it did 
resolve the issues. And presumably  any late payments were rectified from this point 
onwards.
Overall I dont think TSBs IT issues made  it impossible for Mr G to run his business. But I do 
think they made it more  difficult, time-consuming  and inconvenient to do so. So the question 
I need to ask myself is whether  £500  would be a fair amount  of compensation for TSB to pay 
Mr G given he couldnt use his accounts  as he usually would and wouldve experienced long 
waiting times. And having carefully considered everything Mr G has said,  I think it is. 
I should stress that we are not here to punish financial businesses. Our role is to put 
consumers in the position they wouldve been  in had nothing gone wrong. Ive not seen any 
evidence that persuades  me Mr G did lose out financially  as a result of TSBs actions but the 
situation was inconvenient and stressful  for him. And, whilst it isnt possible to give someone 
back their time or take away upset caused,  I consider an award of £500  fairly reflects the 
trouble and upset  Mr G has experienced in these  particular circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think the offer made by TSB Bank Plc is fair. And I wont  be 
asking TSB Bank Plc to do anything  more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3691756