K822xcomplaint
Mr P is unhappy with the increases in premiums on his home insurance with UK Insurance  
Limited (UKI). 
background 
Mr Ps home insurance policy was taken out with UKI in 1999. The first premiums charged in 
1999 totalled £284.52 for the year.  This increased over the years  and in 2016 the premium 
was £1,101.10. Mr P cancelled the policy in 2017.
Mr P thinks  UKI has taken advantage of him by unfairly increasing the cost of the policy 
every year. He says he was charged  too much and he should be compensated for the extra  
he had paid over the years. 
UKI offered to refund  some of the cost of the insurance  with a £2,600 gesture of goodwill 
offer. Mr P rejected this offer and UKI has now offered  to refund Mr P £4,600.  
Mr P didnt think the latest offer was fair. The case has now been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell a business  what its insurance should  have  cost.  I would be, in 
effect determining  or telling a business how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I 
can look at whether UKI has treated Mr P fairly throughout the period he held his insurance 
policy. I can also consider  whether UKIs  offer is a fair way to put right anything that might 
have gone wrong.
In 1999, Mr Ps home insurance cost £284.52  for the year. Often new policies will have 
introductory discounts. This isnt uncommon  and policies may well initially be priced  lower  to 
attract new customers. I dont think its unfair  for an insurer to seek  to recoup that cost over 
the first few years.
I can see that Mr Ps premiums continued  to increase each year and he didnt engage  with 
UKI about his premiums  until 2017. Looking at all the facts I think UKI should have realised 
by around 2006  that Mr P wasnt the type of person  who shopped around for cheaper 
insurance regularly.  So if I thought  UKI had only increased the price of the policy after 2006  
because Mr P wasnt engaging, that wouldnt be fair. 
One way to resolve any unfairness would be for UKI to refund any increases in the price 
from 2006 onwards  (adding in interest  for the time hed been out of pocket). But UKI has 
made whats likely a greater offer than this of £4,600 to Mr P, so it follows  I think this offer is 
a fair to put right anything that might have gone  wrong. 
Mr P says he was taken advantage of and is owed  a lot more than this in compensation. He 
says his neighbours were paying  much  less than he was for their home insurance. He says 
now his home insurance is around £30 per month. He also says he has overpaid between  
£60-£90 per month  since  he took out the insurance and the latest  offer doesn't cover  that or 
Ref: DRN39368812the interest that should be added. He said he should  be refunded  between  £7,000-£8,000 
refund plus interest  for the amount  he's overpaid throughout the policy.  
But its unlikely Mr Ps neighbours  home  insurance would have been identical to his. They 
insured different properties, and so cant be compared like for like. Along with a difference in 
premium, there also wouldve been differences in cover and difference excesses. So it 
wouldnt be fair for UKI to use what Mr P has said about his neighbours premiums when 
working out its offer. 
I must also take into account that his new home insurance policy  set up in 2017 is likely to 
have had a discount on the premium cost as well. So I dont think it would be fair for UKI to 
use this different policy cost when  working  out its offer. 
Having considered UKIs offer,  I think its fair. It makes sure Mr P hasnt lost out if UKI did 
increase the price just because he didnt engage at each renewal. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, UK Insurance Limiteds offer is fair, and I dont think  it needs  to 
do any more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3936881