K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that FirstRand  Bank Limited,  trading as Motonovo,  sold a vehicle she had 
with them  after theyd  repossessed it. She says theyd promised to hold the car until she 
could pay off the arrears  and she therefore  wants them to write off her debt or finance an 
alternative vehicle  on the same  terms.
background
Miss P took receipt of a used vehicle in August 2017. She financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with Motonovo but didnt keep up with the repayments. A default notice 
was issued by Motonovo  in October 2017.  Further payments were missed  and in March 
2018 Motonovo repossessed the car. 
A few days  later a representative from the Citizens Advice Bureau (CAB) called Motonovo 
on Miss Ps behalf. He was told Miss P had missed three of the five payments due on the 
car. The agent suggested he could  arrange  for the car to be held until the 20 April but Miss P 
would need to provide evidence she could afford to pay off the arrears of £892 and pay them 
off before 20 April 2018. 
But the car was sold at auction on 5 April so Miss P complained to Motonovo that they hadnt  
kept their side of the deal.
Motonovo said theyd  tried to contact Miss P but hadnt been  able to do so. Theyd received 
a letter  from her representative on 3 April but had tried to contact her on two occasions  and 
hadnt been able to. The vehicle was therefore sold on 5 April.  Motonovo didnt think theyd 
done anything  wrong but Miss P was unhappy  and referred her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator reviewed  the details of Miss Ps complaint. She thought Motonovo had been  
within their rights to default the account and repossess the vehicle as she noted  that the 
agreement had been in significant arrears. She understood that Miss P said she hadnt 
received some of the communications from Motonovo but she was satisfied it was most 
likely theyd been sent and Miss P was aware of the outstanding arrears,  as she noted  
Motonovo had the correct address details and their call logs had listed  the contacts theyd 
made. She thought it was likely Miss P would understand the contract had been terminated 
when her representative made the call for her to Motonovo and she didnt think, given the 
poor account history, that Motonovo  had been unreasonable when they sold the vehicle. 
She considered that, even if the car had been kept until 20 April, Miss P would have been 
unlikely to be able to afford to settle the outstanding debt.
But Miss P disagreed  and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss P but I dont  think it would be reasonable to ask Motonovo  to 
take any further action here. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN39275622Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. In particular, in this case, I note the adjudicator has covered 
the circumstances leading up to the repossession  of the vehicle but I dont intend to 
rehearse these  other  than to say that Im satisfied the arrears have been recorded correctly  
and the default was sent to the correct address and served correctly.
Miss P complained to Motonovo and to us that theyd said they would keep her car until 
20 April but failed to do so and sold it on 5 April instead.
Ive listened to the call the CAB had with Motonovo  and I think its clear they suggested the 
car could  be held until the 20 April if Miss P could provide  income and expenditure 
information to show she could afford  repayments  and if she repaid the arrears before that 
date. They  appear  to have made a mistake with the settlement  figure and Motonovos call 
logs show they tried to call her back afterwards, unsuccessfully. They  received a letter  from 
the CAB on 3 April explaining that Miss P could afford the repayments but their notes say 
this wasnt accompanied by any proof of income  and expenditure. They therefore attempted  
to call Miss P but calls on 3 and 4 April were unsuccessful and they sold the car on 5 April 
2018.
I dont think Motonovo  have been unreasonable here. They suggested the vehicle could be 
held until 20 April but that was on condition that Miss P pay the arrears and I dont think they 
would have thought this was very likely because: 
Miss Ps payment history was poor. Shed missed three out of five payments
theyd not been  provided with evidence to support  her assertion she could afford to 
get the agreement back on track
the CAB confirmed in the call they had with Motonovo that Miss P couldnt  pay the 
arrears of £892 at that point so there would have had to be a significant change  in 
her finances in a short  space of time 
the breakdown  of income and expenditure provided by the CAB showed that, after 
expenditure was taken into account, Miss P had £142.19 available  for creditors. As 
the CAB had confirmed she didnt have  the money to pay off the arrears of £892  in 
March and would only have  £142.19  available thereafter, it would seem reasonable 
to conclude she wouldnt be able to satisfy Motonovos demands 
theyd not been  able to contact Miss P to discuss the situation
So for these reasons I dont think Motonovo were wrong to sell the car when they did and I 
therefore cant support  Miss Ps request to have  them write off the debt or sanction a new 
agreement.
Ref: DRN39275623my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3927562