K820x#14complaint
Mrs H and Mr R are unhappy  with the way AWP P&C SA (AWP) handled their travel  
insurance claim. The complaint has been brought to us by Mrs H so I shall mainly refer to 
her for ease of reading.
background
In December 2018, Mrs H and Mr R were on a trip to Frankfurt.  They missed their return  
flight due to being held up by security  checks. As a result, they had to make alternative  travel 
arrangements which  meant they incurred additional  costs. On their return to the UK they 
made a claim under  their travel insurance policy.
AWP declined the claim.  They said the delayed and missed departure sections of the policy 
only provided cover for certain specified reasons,  delays due to security  checks  werent 
covered. 
Mrs H was unhappy with this so she brought the complaint to our service.  She also believed 
the policy was mis-sold.  Our investigator looked  into the complaint but didnt  think AWP had 
unfairly declined  the claim or mis-sold the policy.  
Mrs H disagreed with the investigator so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
mis-sale of the policy
Mrs H said the policy was mis-sold because the information she was given when she bought  
the policy was selective. She was only provided  with the Key Facts document  which  says 
missed departure is covered. Mrs H said full details  of the policy should have been provided  
before any money  was taken.
Ive seen there was a link to the full policy booklet on the website where the policy  was sold. 
AWP have said the policy booklet would have  been emailed once the booking  was complete. 
AWP have also said if Mrs H had contacted them to request the booklet they would have 
sent her a copy.
Ive considered what Mrs H has said. Ive also considered the relevant industry rules which 
apply to the sale of insurance policies. They say a customer should be given  appropriate 
information about a policy  thats  clear, fair and not misleading - and enough  time to make 
an informed decision.
The Key Facts Documents doesnt  give full information on all the specific insured events and 
exclusions of a policy. The document Mrs H was given says she should refer to the policy  
document for full details of the policy. Under the section What are my obligations  it says 
Read  your policy carefully  to ensure you have the cover you need. The document also 
says Mrs H had 14 days in which to cancel the policy  if she thought  it wasnt  suitable.
Ref: DRN31782722Taking all this into consideration,  Im satisfied AWP have met their obligations and the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  The documentation Mrs H was given clearly  highlighted the need  to check 
the policy document for full details  of the policy. Mrs H was given the opportunity to review  
the full policy  documents  and enough time to do so. 
I could also only fairly  say the policy  was mis-sold  if Mrs H had been disadvantaged. Mrs H 
has said she would have  purchased a policy elsewhere. I havent seen a travel insurance 
policy that would have provided  cover  for this particular set of circumstances. So I cant  fairly 
say that Mrs H has been disadvantaged.
the declined claim
Mrs H has said the claim  has been made  in good  faith and should be covered in the spirit of 
the policy she bought. And shes said the claim is for a genuine unforeseen circumstance. 
Shes told us she arrived  at the airport in good time and missed the flight  due to no fault of 
her own because the circumstances were  out of her control.
Mrs H said the circumstances were  unusual and the policy documents  dont say it wasnt 
covered. Ive considered this, but not all events will be covered by a travel insurance  policy.  
Only specific, defined  insured events set out in the policy will be covered. 
Ive read through the policy and the section that covers missed  departure says:
We will pay you up to £500 in total for the cost of extra accommodation  and transport which 
you have to pay to get to your journey  destination  or back  home because  you do not get to 
the departure point by the time shown in your travel itinerary (plans)  because:
- public transport (including scheduled  flights) does not run to its timetable; or
- the vehicle you are travelling in has an accident  or breaks down.
The policy documents define the departure point as The airport, international train station or 
port where your outward journey to your destination begins, and where your final journey  
back home begins (including any connecting  transport you take later).
Ive again considered the applicable industry  rules, they say an insurer  shouldnt 
unreasonably reject a claim. So I can only uphold Mrs Hs complaint if the claim was unfairly 
declined despite  my natural sympathy  for her situation.
Im satisfied the policy is clear in what it covers and it has given a specific  definition of what  it 
considers the departure  point. Im also satisfied the reason for the delay which  caused  Mrs H 
to miss the flight isnt an insured event which is covered by their policy. This means I dont 
think AWP has been unfair or unreasonable when it turned down the claim.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive given above.  Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr R to accept or reject my 
decision before  11 October 2019.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3178272