K820x#14complaint
Mr Es unhappy with the rate of interest  Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) has paid on his 
accounts against him as a customer of the other  building society
background
Mr E held savings accounts with another building society  which  were transferred  to YBS in 
around April 2018  when the two businesses integrated. Hes unhappy that he was paid a 
reduced rate of interest  on most of his new migrated  savings accounts. He thinks YBS has 
favoured its customers and discriminated against the other building societys customers by 
giving them lower  interest rates than itd paid its own customers  in similar  circumstances.
YBS said in its final response that it hadnt acted unfairly. Itd attempted  to ensure customers 
were given opportunities to move their savings into a variety of accounts, some of which  
were unique editions, to ensure they avoided significant interest rate reductions. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
In 2017 and 2018 YBS sent customers of the other building  society  various letters 
about the account migration that was to take place. It explained what would  happen 
to accounts and the new interest  rates available. It also invited customers  to carry out 
a savings review in branch or on the phone. And it later sent customers the new 
migrated account  numbers. During the migration some  old bonus  accounts were 
moved into an YBS savings account  because YBS didnt  offer bonus accounts. 
The terms and conditions of the old accounts  say the building  society may change 
the rate of interest payable  from time to time including if its business is merged with 
another deposit taker in order  to harmonise interest rates  in a reasonable manner.  
YBS made a commercial decision to rebrand  the old building  societys  accounts and 
during the migration  it kept Mr E aware of the changes taking place and gave him 
enough time to review  them.  If he was unhappy with what was proposed he couldve 
had a savings  review. Whilst hes upset that he wasnt  given like for like accounts 
and terms and conditions on the new YBS accounts, his accounts were  changed in 
line with their terms and conditions. 
YBS hasnt made an error and she cant  ask it to do any more.
Mr E didnt agree. He said his complaint is that YBS discriminated against  customers of the 
old building society by not offering them a special unique account similar to one it offered to 
its own customers in 2017 when it withdrew  its bonus accounts. 
YBS said itd offered some of its customers a special unique account  during the 
rationalisation as theyd  come from an account  with a much greater interest differential. This 
has been explained to Mr E and the simple  fact is he was a customer  of the other building  
society with a completely  different account  with a different  interest rate to that of the affected 
YBS customers. 
The adjudicator issued a second  supplementary  view. She said:
Ref: DRN34927682YBS had offered a special  unique  account  to some of its customers. This was a 
limited edition product  only available to those YBS customers  affected by the 
changes being  made and it wasnt on sale to any other new or existing customers. 
During the product migration YBS made a commercial decision not to offer a version 
of that special unique account  to customers of the other  building  society  as they 
hadnt suffered  such a large reduction in interest as the YBS customers.  
Although it was frustrating for Mr E not to be offered  a similar product his accounts 
were changed  in line with their terms and conditions. YBS hasnt  treated  Mr E 
unfairly.
Mr E remains unhappy and has reiterated his submissions. In summary he still considers he 
has been treated  unfairly and that YBS has chosen  to favour its own customers. He says the 
effective changes in interest rates for the two sets of customers  with bonus accounts was 
almost the same.  YBS shouldve offered him a special unique  account similar to the one itd 
offered its own customers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has provided detailed submissions to support  his complaint and says he would like 
each and every point hes made to be specifically addressed and answered.  Ive read and 
considered them all. But my findings are expressed  in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Es old accounts make clear the building society can change 
interest rates from time to time including when its business is merged  with another deposit  
taker in order to harmonise interest  rates in a reasonable manner. 
That appears to be what has happened here. A review and rationalisation of products  and 
interest rates was carried  out by YBS. It sent Mr E a number  of communications  explaining 
what was happening.  As part of this was process  YBS made a commercial  decision, as it 
was reasonably entitled to do, that it wouldnt offer bonus accounts. And as a result Mr Es 
savings accounts  were migrated to new YBS accounts. I think  that was fair.
Mr E says in doing this YBS has discriminated  against customers,  like him, of the other  
building society.  He says it didnt offer them a special unique  product similar  to one it offered 
its own its own bonus account holders who faced a similar situation.
YBS says it offered a special account  to some  of its customers. This was a limited  edition 
product only available to those YBS bonus account  customers affected by the changes  
being made and it wasnt  on sale to any other new or existing customers.  And it says during 
the product migration  it made a commercial  decision not to offer a version of that special 
unique account  to customers of the other  building society as they hadnt  suffered such  a 
large reduction in interest as the YBS customers.   
Mr E takes issue with this statement. And he says his calculations and figures show  there 
was only a very small differential  between the interest  rate changes of the two groups of 
customers. And they should both have  been  offered similar special unique  accounts.
Ref: DRN34927683Even so there was a difference between the positions of the two sets of customers.  And I 
think YBS has shown on balance that it changed the accounts to harmonise interest rates in 
a reasonable manner,  as its entitled to do in Mr Es accounts terms and conditions.
YBS is also entitled  to decide for itself how it deals with its customers  and the interest rates 
and the terms and conditions on offer on its products. In this case YBS has explained why 
the two groups of customers were offered different products. While Mr E may disagree with 
YBS reasoning and decision,  these  are matters of the building  society exercising its 
commercial judgement, in which we would not normally  interfere. And general issues  about 
how the banking  industry works are a matter  for the Financial Conduct  Authority.
YBS clearly  treated the two groups of customers differently for commercial  reasons but Ive 
seen nothing to support  Mr Es suggestion  this amounted to discrimination. 
Furthermore, whatever  YBS did, Mr E also had the option at all times of participating in a 
YBS savings review  or of reviewing the market to see what other  products were  available, 
possibly from other  providers, which might have  given him a better  return  on his savings or 
more favourable terms and conditions.
Taking everything into account  although  I recognise  Mr Es frustration  and strength of 
feeling, I dont  think I can fairly or reasonably require RBS to do anything  more. And I dont 
see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3492768