K821x#15complaint
Mrs H (as administrator of the estate of Mrs N) complains  about irresponsible  lending  by 
Santander UK plc.
background
Mrs N took out two loans  and two credit cards with Santander. A complaint about one of the 
loans was made too late for the purpose  of our rules, so this decision is limited  to my 
findings in connection with loan ending 516, and credit cards  ending 187 and 281.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 December  2018.  A copy  is attached 
and forms part of this final decision.
Mrs H said she didnt have anything to add in response to my provisional decision.
Santander said, in summary, that Mrs Ns application for credit  card ending 281 had been 
properly assessed  by its underwriters. It maintained that the decision to open the account 
was appropriate  because Mrs N could afford  the credit.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted everything  Santander has said and provided. Its supplied a record  of the data it 
relied on to assess Mrs Ns credit card application, which included (amongst other things)  her 
income and expenditure, her credit  agency  risk score and Santanders  internal risk score.
I accept that on her credit card application Mrs N recorded her monthly non-mortgage credit 
expenses as £200. But her monthly  repayments for the £10,000 Santander  loan were  £233, 
and Mrs Ns total unsecured debt was over £16,000. So I think  its likely that Mrs Ns monthly  
repayments towards her unsecured debt were  rather more than the £200 she quoted.
As I mentioned in my provisional decision,  I think the activity on Mrs Ns current account at 
the time she applied for the credit  card shouldve suggested to Santander that she might 
have been struggling with her finances.  
Santander points  out that she operated within  her agreed overdraft, and brought  the account  
back into credit each  month once shed  been paid. But Im mindful that Mrs N had a fairly 
regular pattern of reaching her overdraft by the middle of the month.  And given the extent of 
her unsecured borrowing, I still think Santander  shouldve checked more carefully that Mrs N 
would be able to afford  to pay for another credit  card. From what Ive seen, Im not 
persuaded that Santanders checks were as robust  as they might have been.
For that reason,  I remain of the view that all interest and charges applied  to credit card 
ending 281 should be refunded to the account to reduce  the balance.  
Ref: DRN34701492my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Santander  UK plc to refund all 
interest and charges applied to Mrs Ns credit card account ending 281. The refund should 
be used to reduce  the amount owing on the account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H (as 
administrator of the estate of Mrs N) to accept or reject my decision before  16 February 
2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34701493Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs H (as administrator  of the estate of Mrs N) complains about  irresponsible lending by 
Santander UK plc.
background
Mrs N took out two loans and two credit cards with Santander. A complaint about  one of the loans 
was made too late for the purpose of our rules, so this decision is limited to my findings in connection 
with loan ending 516, and credit cards ending  187 and 281.
Mrs H says Santanders lending was irresponsible because  Mrs N couldnt  afford the credit.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think  there was enough 
evidence to show that Mrs N was struggling  financially when she took out the loan and credit cards,  or 
that Santander  failed to properly  check her circumstances.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions,  and asked  for the complaint  to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely to have happened  in 
light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding circumstances.
Mrs N took out credit  card 187 in August 2012, and loan 516 for £10,000 in October the same year. 
She took out credit card 281 in March 2013.
Mrs H has provided a copy of Mrs Ns credit file, which shows she had a number of other credit 
facilities when she took out the loan and credit  cards that are the subject of this complaint.
Mrs H says Santander failed to properly assess Mrs Ns existing  debt when it offered her further 
credit. Shes  also unhappy  that Santander cant provide the evidence  it relied  on to make its decision 
to lend. I can understand  that, but Im mindful  that these events  took place a number of years ago. 
We wouldnt expect Santander to maintain  indefinitely  the records Mrs H is seeking.
Ive looked carefully at the credit report Mrs H has provided,  and the activity on Mrs Ns bank account 
when the loan and credit cards were arranged.
I accept that Mrs N had several other credit facilities when she took out the loan and credit cards. 
But the credit report indicates that she didnt start to default  on her existing facilities  until after the 
Santander loan and credit  cards had been arranged.
In addition, there  is nothing to suggest from Mrs Ns bank account activity that she was struggling  to 
manage her finances when  she applied  for credit card 187 and the £10,000 loan. When  she applied 
for that lending her account remained in credit and she doesnt appear to have  needed to use an 
overdraft.
But when Mrs N applied for credit card 281 in March 2013, I think  her current account activity  
shouldve indicated to Santander that she was having difficulty managing her finances. 
Ref: DRN34701494There were  some warning  signs from around the time she took the loan in October  2012. Nearly 
£8,000 was paid out immediately, and Mrs N appears to have used the rest to live on. 
Bank statements  from January, February and March 2013 then show  that she was having to use her 
overdraft by the middle of the month. I accept that the overdraft amounts werent excessive   but 
Mrs Ns income  was fairly modest and she was paying a mortgage and loan repayments from it.
The evidence  available to assess whether Santander properly reviewed Mrs Ns circumstances is 
limited. But from what Ive seen, I think  the bank  shouldve realised she wasnt in a position  to afford 
another credit card in March 2013. So Ive thought about what it should do to put things right.
Even though  I think Santander shouldnt  have  offered credit card 281 to Mrs N, I have to keep in mind 
that she had the benefit of the credit  she used.  So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ask Santander 
to write  off the account balance. But I think it should refund any interest and charges that have been 
applied to the account. This can be used to reduce  the overall balance. 
However, Im not persuaded  that Santander acted unreasonably or irresponsibly when it offered credit 
card 187 and the £10,000 to Mrs N in 2012.  So Im not asking it to do anything in respect of those. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part. I intend to direct Santander UK 
plc to refund all interest and charges applied to Mrs Ns credit card account ending 281. The refund 
should be used to reduce the amount owing  on the account.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3470149