K820x#14complaint
Mr C is complaining that Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) cancelled his motor insurance 
policy unfairly and declined a claim he was attempting to make.
background
In July 2018 Mr Cs car was stolen and he attempted to make  a claim under his motor  
insurance provided by Ageas.
Ageas asked Mr C to confirm his driving  licence information by having a conference  call with 
Ageas and the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency (DVLA).  Mr C refused to take part in the 
call, and it was explained that because of this Ageas would not continue the claim and would 
cancel the policy.  Ageas further explained that even if Mr C withdrew his claim his policy 
would still be cancelled  if he wasnt willing to validate his licence information.
A letter was sent to Mr C giving notice that his policy  would cancel on 7 August 2018 and his 
policy was later cancelled  on this date. Ageas provided a pro-rata refund of the premiums Mr 
C had been charged for the policy.
Ageas attempted to reconsider Mr Cs claim again in September 2018, but again Mr C was 
not willing to take part in the validation process, and again his claim was declined.
Ageas has since found that Mr C has an IN10  conviction  recorded against his driving licence 
from April 2018, and he has taken  out a new policy through another  company without 
declaring this information.  The new policy is also underwritten by Ageas. 
Ageas has explained that it would not have offered Mr C insurance  had he declared the 
conviction when  he took the policy. Ageas  told Mr C that it could no longer offer him cover 
and that he should cancel  the policy himself rather than have the policy  cancelled  by Ageas, 
which would have a worse effect on his ability to obtain insurance moving forward.  Ageas 
also warned Mr C not to attempt to gain another policy  with Ageas as the insurer, as it is not 
willing to provide cover for him.
Our Investigator  considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt  think it should be upheld. Mr C 
disagreed so this complaint has now been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt unusual for a motor  insurance provider to want to validate a customers  driving licence 
information when  a claim is attempted on the policy. This is a standard check common 
across the motor insurance  industry.
I have looked  at all the information  available about  this case and can see that Ageas had 
several conversations with Mr C where it attempted to obtain confirmation of his driving 
licence details by speaking with the DVLA and Mr C in a conference call, but Mr C refused to 
take part in the call.
Ref: DRN33774102There is a term in Mr Cs motor insurance  policy which is like that in most other similar  
policies. The term requires Mr C to cooperate with Ageas  when it makes  reasonable 
requests for information. The term states that Ageas can cancel a policy Where any person 
claiming under this policy fails to provide us with reasonable  information  we ask for.
As Mr C refused to validate his driving  licence information, I think Ageas acted reasonably in 
cancelling his policy.
Mr C went on to take a second  policy for a different vehicle with a different company, but the 
insurer was again  Ageas.  Ageas has since found  out about  this policy  and that Mr C has not 
disclosed the IN10 conviction.
Ageas has explained that it would not have offered Mr C the second policy had Mr C made it 
aware of the conviction. So, I dont think Ageas has acted unreasonably  by giving Mr C the 
opportunity to cancel  the policy before taking the action of cancelling itself,  as it is likely to 
have a worse effect on his future  insurance needs.
From listening to the calls between Mr C and Ageas I can see that Mr C may have been 
confused about some of the information,  but I can also see that Ageas made  an effort  to help 
Mr C by giving him the opportunity to give it the information it had requested and asked him 
if he was able to get a family member, or a third party to help him. But Mr C couldnt do this. 
Ageas also went on to give Mr C a good explanation of the affect the cancellations would 
have on him, and his future driving,  and checked  his understanding.
After looking at all the information available I dont  think Ageas has acted unfairly and I dont 
require it to do anything  to put things  right.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3377410