K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Silver packaged bank 
account in 2011. He paid a monthly fee for the account which provided several benefits in 
return.
background
Mr Rs account was opened as a fee-free  Classic  account with Lloyds in November 2009. It 
was upgraded  to a Silver account in April 2011  and changed back  to a fee-free Classic 
account in June 2018.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds mis-sold the Silver account to Mr R and didnt 
recommend that Lloyds  should pay him any compensation. Mr R didnt agree so he asked 
for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr Rs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr Rs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think the Silver account was mis-sold to 
him. Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr R was given a fair choice when he took his 
packaged bank  account.
Mr R has made several points throughout his complaint. Amongst those Ive noted that hes 
complained that the Silver package was added to his account without his knowledge,  and so 
he was unaware  that he had it. He also says he wasnt offered a fee-free account.
Ive seen Mr Rs account history and he held a fee-free account for around  a year and a half 
before he upgraded to the packaged  account.  Lloyds  says the sale was completed by 
phone, and it has provided  a brief customer contact note from the day it took place. The note 
suggests that Mr R received the Silver account for a discounted price  for the first two 
months. 
This makes me think that a conversation took place between Mr R and Lloyds, and the 
discounted fee likely played a part ion him making  that decision. I also cant agree that he 
wasnt offered a fee-free  account; after all, he already held one with Lloyds and theres  
nothing to suggest he couldnt have  simply kept it.
On balance, I think Mr R was aware of his account upgrade, and knew  he didnt have to 
change his account if he didnt want to. I think its more likely that he chose  to upgrade  
because the benefits of the Silver account appealed to him.
Ref: DRN32543412Lloyds says it recommended the Silver  account to Mr R. So it had to make sure the 
recommendation it made was appropriate, taking  into account  what it knew  about Mr Rs 
circumstances.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of a document it produced during the phone  call with Mr R. The 
document suggests that Mr R told Lloyds that he wanted to benefit  from breakdown  cover  
and travel insurance. It also shows that he told Lloyds that he already had mobile phone 
insurance  and the document  shows that its likely Lloyds advised Mr R to check  the other 
cover he had and only keep what he needed.
Mr R says that at the time of sale he didnt drive,  he owned a mobile  phone, and he travelled 
overseas at least once  a year. So I think he couldve been  attracted to, and made use of the 
travel insurance and the mobile phone insurance  that came  with the account. It might be that 
Mr R didnt want or need the car breakdown cover, but Looking  at what  I think  he told Lloyds 
at the time, I still think the account was a reasonable fit for his circumstances, given that he 
couldve made use of most  of the benefits. 
Lloyds also had to give Mr R enough  clear information about the account for him to decide if 
he wanted it. Like our adjudicator, I think that Mr R was interested in at least  some of the 
benefits of the Silver account, and chose it because of these benefits. 
Ive seen Lloyds  records which  show that Mr R registered many  mobile  phones  under the 
Silver accounts mobile phone insurance policy, including one shortly after he upgraded. 
It looks as though Mr R went on to make ten claims on this policy  eight of which  were 
successful. 
Given that Mr R clearly  had knowledge of how to make use of this benefit, and had a need 
for it, I think its likely  that Lloyds gave him enough  information about the account and its 
other benefits too. Mr R may not have made  claims on all the benefits, but this doesnt mean 
Lloyds mis-sold the account. The accounts insurance benefits were  in place regardless of 
whether Mr R made any claims, and I havent  seen anything  to suggest that he couldnt  have 
relied on them if hed wanted or needed to.
Its possible that Lloyds  didnt tell Mr R everything it should have about the Silver account. 
But I havent seen  enough to make  me think that Mr R wouldnt still have taken the account 
even if Lloyds had told him more about it. 
Mr R has also mentioned  that he had to pay a £50 excess fee when he made the claims on 
the accounts mobile phone insurance.  Its fairly standard for insurance policies to include an 
excess and £50 isnt unusual from what I know about other similar mobile phone insurance 
policies. And the fact that Mr R kept the account for some time, registered  a number of 
phones and made repeated claims makes me think that even though there was a payable  
excess, he was still relying on the cover instead of having to replace his phone at its full cost 
price.
I want to reassure Mr R that Ive looked at all the information I have about his complaint. And 
Ive thought about everything hes said. And given his extensive  benefit usage and his 
previous fee-free account, my decision is that Lloyds  didnt mis-sell  the Silver account  to 
Mr R. So it doesnt owe him any money.
Ref: DRN32543413my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3254341