K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Due to the time that has passed,  its not clear how Mr and Mrs B applied  for their PPI policy 
and/or when the sale of PPI took place. But Lloyds has assumed it was the start date of the 
mortgage which, in the absence of anything else to indicate otherwise, is a reasonable 
assumption to make.  They  applied for the mortgage   and the PPI policy, according to 
Mr and Mrs B  in a branch meeting. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  an unknown amount towards  Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. Lloyds records  indicate it cost £15.62  a 
month. In the absence  of evidence to the contrary, Lloyds has assumed the policy covered 
both Mr and Mrs B.
At the time,  Mr B was employed as an electrician. He has told us he was entitled to full pay 
for at least six months if he was off work sick and redundancy pay worth six months pay. 
Mr B has said he had medical conditions at the time of the sale.  
Mrs B was employed as an x-ray clerk. She has told us she was entitled  to redundancy pay, 
but hasnt said how much shed have got, and that she didnt have  any other means  of 
repaying the mortgage should she be unable to work.  Mrs B has said she had no medical 
conditions at the time of the sale. 
LB has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2004. 
Mr and Mrs Bs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf. However, for ease of reference,  I will refer to its representations as being Mr and 
Mrs Bs from now on.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs B say:
LB failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs B 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs B 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means LB should have told 
Mr and Mrs B about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN36018382The common law duty of utmost good faith also means LB should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs B and the impact 
they would  have had on their chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs B received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the mis-sale complaint  both parties have seen and had the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed 
with the adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Bs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
This sale likely  took place in 1984, before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.  
The first industry codes of practice for sellers of insurance were introduced in 1989,  which  is 
after LB sold Mr and Mrs B PPI. Prior to this there  were fewer  requirements on a business 
when selling  insurance such as this. But LB doesnt  appear to have considered this 
complaint any differently   it seems to me they have considered  the sale of PPI against 
these later standards. So on the basis that it puts Mr and Mrs B in a more  favourable  
Ref: DRN36018383position, I have  taken into account the later industry  codes of practice in considering what I 
think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
In particular, The Association of British Insurers General  Insurance Business Code of 
Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees  of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so LB 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If LB gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs B with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether LB gave  Mr and Mrs B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN36018384-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint about  the alleged  
mis-sale in favour of Mr and Mrs B, I must then go on to consider whether and to 
what extent Mr and Mrs B suffered  loss or damage and what I consider would 
amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs B 
and LB, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below.
did Mr and Mrs B know they had a choice?
LB had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Understandably given how much times passed  since the sale took place, there  are gaps in 
the information thats still available from the time of the sale. I dont, for example, have a 
copy of an PPI application form showing Mr and Mrs B decided to take the policy. That said,  
Ive no reason to believe  they werent given  the option to take accept or decline PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  I cant fairly  say that Mr and Mrs B didnt know the policy  
was optional or that they didnt agree to take it out without undue  pressure.  
did LB provide advice?
LB says advice was provided during this sale. Mr and Mrs B havent said either way. 
From experience of how LB sold these policies in general, and from the available  evidence 
in this case, Im persuaded  that it provided advice. 
This means  LB had to advise Mr and Mrs B with reasonable  care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs B. It seems Mr and Mrs B cant remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Bs financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr and Mrs B would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest Lloyds considered  whether  
Mr and Mrs B had any pre-existing medical  conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs B likely met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Ref: DRN36018385-Mr and Mrs B had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Bs ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mr and Mrs B were  not working for an extended  period of time  even  allowing  for the 
redundancy benefits and sick pay benefits they say they would have been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs B. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs B. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Bs employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, 
Mr and Mrs B have  told us about  Mr Bs broken leg and back  pain he suffered 
following a fall in the 1970s. However, neither of these injuries appears to have  
caused long-standing problems that recurred  after they initially arose.  There were 
also no additional restrictions  on cover  for mental health or back  problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
paid occupation  condition, the requirement that Mr and Mrs B be disabled or 
unemployed for 60 days before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances, including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys 60-day  qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, 
which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs B be unable  to make  the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs B sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs B were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if 
Mr and Mrs B were  unable to work through accident,  sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. Ive reached this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  LB gave sufficient information 
about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before 
Mr and Mrs B agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs B Im not persuaded 
Ref: DRN36018386Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs B all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs B have raised  a number of 
general points  with regard to the requirements  on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like theirs.  Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs B considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs B about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Bs views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr and Mrs B have suggested.  And taking into account the law, industry codes  and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and 
reasonable to conclude  that LB ought  to have done either.
what effect did LBs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs B? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs B suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that LB didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs B. 
So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr and 
Mrs B would have still taken out the policy, had LB done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs B, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs B have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs B would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs B say they would not have taken it out and believe I should  presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Ref: DRN36018387Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Lloyds  advised them that there was a suitable 
product they could  buy that would protect  their mortgage payments in the event they were 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
But the information about some aspects of the policy,  such  as the cost,  benefit and 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear LB told them the exact premium  at the point they 
applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs B would have been told 
the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy  for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they 
might have raised that with LB at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs B would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  LB made clear exactly what  Mr and Mrs B would get back  in 
return in the event Mr B made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs Bs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim were significantly 
different to what the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs B thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that were existing or 
pending and for which  Mr B or Mrs B had consulted  or received treatment for in the 
six-month period prior to start date of the policy and which  caused disability in the 
first six months after the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs B werent permanent employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs B be 
unable to do the duties of their normal employment  or any similar paid occupation 
which their training, education  and ability reasonably qualified them to do; 
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months in the event of unemployment, 
rather than the remaining  term of the mortgage.   
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs B pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided not to proceed. The 
Ref: DRN36018388limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs B from 
taking out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  for them. Mr and Mrs B were eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, could have proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. Although Mr B says he had a medical  
condition some time before the policy  was taken out and the policy  wouldnt have provided  
cover had he needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information 
about this exclusion  would have put Mr and Mrs B off agreeing  to it. 
I say this because  Mr B says he suffered injuries  from two separate incidents  in the 1970s. 
Theres no indication either of these incidents  werent merely  one-off events  and theres 
nothing to suggest he suffered long-standing  or recurring health problems as a result of 
either.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr and Mrs B would have  been  caught by any 
of the other significant exclusions.  So I still think they had some good  reasons to take the 
policy out. 
If Mr and Mrs B had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do both 
their job and any similar paid occupation  which  in the insurers view they might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if they were  unable (through disability) to 
carry on their own occupation the chances that they would  be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited. 
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs B would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
LB may not have  told Mr and Mrs B that any claim for unemployment  they made would be 
limited to a 12-month  period. This may have  differed  from what they expected and might 
have hoped for  but 12 months was a longer period than Mr B would have received full sick 
pay for and his redundancy entitlement was also significantly  less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs B would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly payments would have been of benefit  to them and would  help them 
manage the consequences  should  Mr or Mrs B be unable to work  in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk 
and might potentially  help preserve Mr and Mrs Bs sick pay or redundancy money for other 
use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs B would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr or Mrs B was made redundant, or 
Ref: DRN36018389unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr and Mrs B would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs B say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints  (DISP App 3) make it clear 
that, where a significant failing is identified, it should  be presumed the consumer wouldnt 
have taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  say we 
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs B would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs Bs circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs B found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs B believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs B in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr and Mrs B wouldnt have taken out the policy,  
Im satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not that they would  still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude LB should  pay Mr and Mrs B compensation, as that would put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs B think LB misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of LBs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why LB failed to act fairly 
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information LB gave Mr and Mrs B, in the way it did, was insufficient 
to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1984  when  
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ref: DRN360183810Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs B says a court might take if it were to find 
LB negligently misrepresented the contract  to them  and about the remedy  a court might 
award if it were to find that LB had been  in breach  of its duty of utmost good faith. But this 
doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs B in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 May 2021.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3601838