K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services Plc (M&S)  introduced  a one-time 
passcode (OTP) for online transactions.
background
Mr D has an M&S account with a MasterCard.  In January 2019, Mr D was notified that the 
process was changing  to authorise online transactions. M&S explained that, as part of an 
industry wide change,  there would now be an OTP sent to Mr Ds mobile  phone, as a text 
message, to authorise  some online transactions.
Mr D complained to M&S as he doesnt have any mobile phone coverage  in the area he 
lives. He explained that if the OTP is only sent to the mobile phone then he is being 
excluded from being able to make online purchases  with his card. M&S explained that it 
couldnt change  the way the OTP is sent  as its something that was set up by the card 
issuer  MasterCard. But it also explained  it had a phone number that Mr D could call and 
they could manually authorise  the transactions.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He explained that M&S  hadnt done anything  
wrong in this case as it was following  a procedure that had been put in place  by the card 
issuer. He also explained that it wasnt  the role of this service to change processes put in 
place by businesses.  And that M&S  had explained how Mr D could have his online 
transactions authorised if he had no phone signal. 
Mr D said he felt there should be something  done as the OTP system cannot  work  for 
consumers like him who live in areas with no mobile  phone coverage. He also explained that 
when he tried to use the system, he felt the process of having to call to have the transaction  
authorised was difficult. He asked for an ombudsman to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint for similar reasons as the adjudicator.
The OTP system  for online transactions was introduced  to enhance security.  This was 
something that was put in place by MasterCard  and the system would be rolled  out to 
financial businesses that use MasterCard.  One of these is M&S.  So M&S didnt have a 
choice as to whether to update this security process  it was something it had to implement.
I understand that this must be very frustrating for Mr D, who doesnt have any mobile phone  
coverage where he lives.  But this isnt something  that M&S has done wrong. It has 
implemented a security  change that applied  to a number of financial businesses. I do 
understand this means Mr D will find it harder to verify transactions online, but I am pleased 
to see M&S has a 24 hour phone line he can call to get verification. And I see that when he 
had to use this  after he didnt receive his OTP by text  the payment was authorised.  So 
whilst it is more difficult, I can see that Mr D can still use his card for online payments. 
As M&S hasnt done anything wrong  in introducing the OTP security  process,  Im not 
upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN30660872my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3066087