K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax gave him incorrect information 
about how much he would have to reduce his borrowing by to get a favourable fixed  interest 
rate. Mr G wants  Halifax either to give him the mortgage product it quoted him of 2.04% per 
annum fixed for five years or compensate him for the £10,000 additional interest payments 
he now has to pay.
background
Mr G had a mortgage  with Halifax and a mortgage  product which  was about to lapse. Mr G 
wanted to replace it with a new mortgage product  at 2.04% pa fixed  for five years. This was 
a product available if Mr Gs loan to value ratio (LTV) was below 60%. Mr G says that the 
Halifax adviser told him that to achieve  this he would have to reduce his borrowing by 
£33,000. Mr G cashed in his Halifax ISA releasing  £15,000. Mr G was in the process of 
transferring the remaining £18,000  when Halifax told him that in fact to get to the 60% LTV, 
he would  have to reduce  his borrowing by £50,000.  Mr G instead took out a five year fixed 
interest product  with Halifax  at 2.29% pa which he says will cost him an extra  £10,000 in 
interest payments.
Halifax says that its likely that its adviser did a calculation  of how much  Mr G would have to 
reduce his borrowing based on the House Property  Index  Valuation (HPI)  at the time of the 
conversation. But the HPI changed which meant that Mr G would have had to borrow more 
money. Halifax accepts that its adviser  should have  told Mr G that this index could change.  
In compensation  Halifax paid Mr G £350  and offered to assist in paying the funds back into 
the ISA. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as he felt that 
Halifax probably gave  Mr G the correct information  at the time and that Mr G had a 
reasonable time to look for an alternative mortgage product. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G was hoping to get a mortgage product at 2.04% fixed  for five years.  But this depended 
on his LTV being below 60%. It seems that when Mr G enquired  about  this product the 
Halifax adviser did a calculation based on the then house valuations  index which  indicated 
that to qualify Mr G would have to reduce  his borrowing by £33,000.  Mr G then set about  
getting this money.  But when  Mr G applied for the product, because of fluctuations  in the 
housing market to get to the 60% LTV, Mr G would have had to reduce his borrowing by 
about £17,000 more.
Mr G doesnt have  any formal offer from Halifax that it would give him the mortgage product 
if he reduced his borrowing by £33,000.  Mr G had an expectation that he would get such an 
offer if his LTV was below  60%.  I consider  that Halifax gave  Mr G an indication of how much 
it would  take to reduce his borrowing to get to the LTV required to qualify for the product. But 
as there  is no formal offer from Halifax to do so, I cant  fairly say that it agreed to give Mr G a 
new mortgage product  if he reduced  his borrowing by £33,000.
Ref: DRN32585952The LTV would change  depending on house  price  valuations. Halifax  has accepted that it 
should have managed Mr Gs expectations better  by telling him about  how it came to its 
valuation and that the HPI could change. I agree that it would be good practice to do so, 
although it would be reasonable for any house owner to realise that house prices fluctuate. 
In any case, Halifax  has offered  compensation for that which  I consider reasonable. 
Mr G says that through pressure of time he had to accept the rate of 2.29% offered by 
Halifax as an alternative.  It seems  that Mr G was told on 13 February 2018 that he would not 
qualify for the mortgage product if he only reduced  his borrowing by £33,000. Mr G then had 
a period of about six to seven weeks to obtain  an alternative mortgage product  before his 
existing product lapsed. I consider that was a reasonable time for Mr G to do so. So, for the 
above reasons  I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3258595