K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1988. Mr and Mrs B say Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  them  the 
PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs B complained to this Service. They said they felt pressured  to buy the PPI but 
they also say nothing was discussed  about PPI; and yet they also recall they were not told 
about the policy being optional. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be rejected. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked  at 
again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Bank of Scotland probably made  it clear that Mr and Mrs B didnt have to take 
out the PPI and they chose to take it out  although I can understand why they cant  
remember this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it had to check that the 
PPI was right for them  and based  on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example they were both eligible to buy the policy;  they 
were not affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and they 
seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs B about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But they chose  to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs B about  that. Because  
Bank of Scotland didnt tell Mr and Mrs B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN33903252Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs B has said - including what  they have said about 
being pressured into buying  the PPI, remembering there was no PPI discussion and then 
remembering they hadnt been  told it was optional. But these points dont change my 
decision because I think its probably more likely they were  given a choice.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs B.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs B any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3390325