K821x#15complaint
Mr W has complained that Pendragon  Finance and Insurance Services  Limiteds appointed 
representative sold him a warranty/guarantee  for his car when hed made it clear he didnt 
want it. 
background
Mr W was buying a car from the appointed  representative. It completed a Demands and 
Needs assessment to see whether it should recommend any additional insurance or other 
products. And it decided  not to do so. The appointed  representative then provided Mr W with 
a mechanical and breakdown guarantee at a cost of £494.99. It added  this amount to the 
finance agreement, which Mr W signed. 
Mr W has said he only realised this had happened  after he paid off the loan and then got his 
annual statement. He then complained  to Pendragon. It rejected his complaint. When  doing 
so, it pointed out hed signed  a proposal/guarantee schedule  for the guarantee and an 
invoice including  an amount for it. In view of this, it concluded the guarantee was sold to him 
with his consent and that it was suitable.
Mr W complained  to us. One of our investigators concluded the guarantee was sold without 
his consent and suggested  Pendragon should  reimburse what Mr W paid for the guarantee, 
plus interest. 
Pendragon doesnt agree with our investigator. It maintains Mr W agreed to buy the 
guarantee. And its also pointed out he didnt  have any other arrangements in place, which  I 
take to mean it still thinks the guarantee was a suitable. 
As Pendragon doesnt agree with our investigator, Mr Ws complaint has been referred to me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
When Pendragons  appointed representative  arranged the guarantee for Mr W and added it 
to what he was borrowing, it needed  to make sure he understood what he was agreeing to 
and treat him fairly. I dont  think it did. The paperwork provided  suggests Mr W didnt want  
any additional products. And I think this and his testimony shows  its most  likely he didnt 
want the guarantee and didnt intend  to buy it. Despite this, the appointed representative 
included it and added the cost to the credit  agreement. I think this was inappropriate and 
contrary to its obligations.
Pendragon has argued the guarantee was suitable  for Mr W, but I dont think  it was. This is 
because Mr W has told me he planned to use the car to commute  to work and had a round 
trip of 60 miles per day. This means, when added to the mileage he intended to do in the 
evening and weekends,  his planned annual mileage  was over 20,000.  And the guarantee 
only provided cover for 20,000 miles per year. 
I appreciate Mr W signed the proposal/schedule  for the guarantee, the invoice showing the 
cost of the guarantee and the credit agreement on which was included.  But hes said he just 
Ref: DRN37012472signed these as requested and didnt think he needed to check whether hed been sold any 
additional products,  as hed made  it clear  he didnt want any. I think this is understandable 
and accept this is why he didnt pick up what Pendragon  had done  against his wishes.
In summary,  I think Pendragons appointed  representative included  the cost of a guarantee 
on the credit  agreement it knew, or should have known, Mr W didnt want. And it didnt make  
it clear to him this was included. In doing  this, I think it failed  to fulfil its obligations to make  
sure he understood  what he was agreeing  to when he signed the documentation and failed 
to treat him fairly. 
I dont think Mr W would have agreed  to buy the guarantee if the appointed representative 
had made  it clear it had included it. I say this because he didnt want  it and had made this 
quite clear from the outset. 
Putting things right
I think Pendragon  should put Mr W back in the position he would have been in if he hadnt  
bought the guarantee  at all. This means I think the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint is for Pendragon to cover  any financial loss Mr W suffered as a result of buying 
the guarantee and borrowing the money to pay for it. 
Mr W borrowed extra to pay for the guarantee, so his loan was bigger than it should have 
been. And he paid more  than he should  have each  month. And when  he paid off his loan 
early it cost him more  than it would have done if he hadnt borrowed the money  for the 
guarantee. So Mr W needs to get back the extra hes paid.
So, Pendragon should:
Work  out and pay Mr W the difference between what  he paid each month  on the loan 
and what he would  have  paid without the guarantee.  
Work  out and pay Mr W the difference between what  it cost to pay off the loan and 
what it would have  cost to pay off the loan without  the guarantee.
Add simple interest at 8% to the extra amount Mr W paid (on both the monthly 
instalments and the amount to clear the loan) from when he paid he made  these 
payments until he gets these  amounts  back.1
If Mr W made a successful claim under the guarantee, Pendragon can take off what  
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint and Pendragon Finance and 
Insurance Services Limited  should pay him compensation  in line with the instructions set out 
above. 
Pendragon should do this within 28 days of us telling  it Mr Ws accepted  my final decision. 
1 HM Revenue & Customs requires Pendragon to take off tax from this interest.  Pendragon must  give 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN37012473Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3701247