K821x#15complaint
Mr Z has complained that Assurant General Insurance Limited  hasn't dealt with him fairly 
when processing  claims  on his mobile  phone and gadget insurance policy.
Reference to Assurant includes its agents.
background
Mr Z had a number of phones on his policy.  Hes had many issues with faulty phones that 
have resulted in him returning handsets and some  being repaired and returned to him and 
others being replaced with other  handsets.
In May 2018  Mr Z returned a handset for repair. Assurant told him that he hadn't returned  
other handsets when  he should have done. So it refused to repair the phone  hed recently  
returned, unless  he either paid it roughly £333  for the handsets  it said he hadn't  returned or 
otherwise sent those  back. Mr Z said he didn't have the handsets  so couldn't return  them.  He 
brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 March 2019. For ease I've reproduced my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.  
The evidence Assurant  and Mr Z have provided  to us is extremely confused.  Thats been 
complicated by the number of times  phones  have been repaired,  replaced or added and 
removed from the policy.  There  are seven phones that are significant  to this complaint. And 
Ive referred to those  below alphabetically. But in much of the correspondence that has gone 
before Assurant and Mr Z have referred to the pones by the last four digits  of their IMEI 
(identify) numbers. So for ease of reference,  Ive explained which  phone  is which  in the table 
below:
Last four digits of IMEI 
numberPhone reference
4610 phone A
2149 phone B
2812 phone C
4020 phone D
5299 phone E
2281 phone F
2372 phone G
Ive looked closely  at Assurants evidence to try to unpick exactly  whats happened.  That 
hasn't been an easy  task.  It seems that phone  A was damaged  in 2016. Assurant replaced it 
with another model of phone (phone  B). But when it received phone A back  from Mr Z, 
although it had already  replaced this, it repaired it and sent it back  to Mr Z in error. Assurant 
accepts this was its mistake and isn't looking to recover phone  A from Mr Z. Ive referred  to it 
here only to clarify that this isn't one of the handsets Assurant says Mr Z shouldnt still be in 
possession of.
Ref: DRN36778782In 2017 Mr Z claimed for damage to phone C. Assurant eventually decided  it couldnt be 
repaired and replaced it with phone D. 
Mr Z rang Assurant and said phone D had developed a fault. Assurant replaced it with phone  
E.
Mr Z then contacted Assurant again, saying his replacement phone had developed a fault.  
Assurant said that it arranged a door step exchange, whereby it would send out a 
replacement handset, phone F, and swap it for the faulty one in return.  It seems  it had 
anticipated taking  back phone E from Mr Z in return for phone  F. But instead of arranging the 
swap Assurant says its records  show it sent out phone F to Mr Z but the courier  didn't collect 
a phone from Mr Z. Assurant says it has no record of receiving a faulty  handset from Mr Z at 
that time.  In contrast Mr Z said that the he returned a handset.
I asked Assurant for evidence that it instructed its couriers to deliver phone F without an 
instruction to swap it for a faulty phone.  Assurant told me that given the passage of time it 
cant provide that evidence. Its provided a note for its courier account manager which says it 
sent the handset by delivery only. So its possible - although not guaranteed  - that Assurant 
did arrange to deliver a handset without collecting phone E from Mr Z. But if it had done that 
Id have expected it to take other action, for example  by sending  Mr Z a bag to return the 
faulty phone  in. But theres no evidence  it did so.
Less than a week later Mr Z again  reported  a fault on one of his handsets.  Assurant 
arranged another  swap  and it seems  it was expecting to receive  phone  F back  and that it 
had issued phone G, to replace it with. Its notable that Assurant hasn't argued that phone G 
was issued by delivery  only. And the notes  it's provided us with indicate  that a swap  was 
completed. In other words  that it swapped phone G for another handset.
I asked Assurant which phone was swapped at the time but it hasn't  answered my question.  
But Assurants records indicate that Mr Z completed  a swap in return for phone G. However, 
Mr Z has confirmed that he still has phone F, so he couldn't have swapped it for phone G. 
So its possible that Mr Z swapped a different phone. In particular I note he would still have 
had phone B at that point, so its possible he returned that one in error. 
Some months later, in May 2018,  Mr Z contacted Assurant  again concerning  a faulty  
handset. Ive listened to that call and it's clear that Mr Z is confused as to which handsets he 
still had. But Assurant asked him to return the faulty  handset to consider repair  or 
replacement. Mr Z returned phone E. But Assurant said it had expected him to return  that 
handset when it sent him phone F. So it didn't  think he should  still have  phone  E in his 
possession. And Mr Z has confirmed that he still has phone F, which  Assurant had expected 
him to swap  for phone G. So its now argued that Mr Z has two handsets which  he shouldn't  
have. But, even if that's the case I don't think its fair to blame  Mr Z for that situation.
As Ive said above,  Assurant said that it completed  a swap  for phone G but it hasn't told me 
what handset  it received  in return for it. So I think its likely that a swap  was made and on 
balance it seems likely Mr Z returned  phone B in error. But Assurant didn't identify this at the 
time. This would still mean that Mr Z has one handset more  than he should have, although
note he says he doesn't. But even  if that were  the case in the circumstances  I don't  think it 
would be fair for Assurant  to charge Mr Z for any handset its struggling to account  for. Thats  
because it seems that Assurant has caused the issue  to arise. I think  the responsibility  lies 
with it to recover faulty handsets. And I think its reasonable, where  it doesn't  swap a phone 
on the door step, that it takes prompt action to recover  a faulty handset  by issuing  its 
Ref: DRN36778783customer with a return bag promptly. But theres  no evidence its done  that at appropriate  
times in this case.
Also I note that Assurant  hasn't argued that the handsets Mr Z returned weren't faulty. So 
that means that on numerous occasions its issued faulty equipment  to him. And I think its 
been the need to replace  those faulty  handsets with such regularity thats  caused  the 
confusion to arise. That could have been  avoided if the handsets  were  of a reasonable 
quality and didn't require  additional repair or replacement so quickly. And in those 
circumstances I don't think its fair for Assurant  to charge Mr Z for the handsets it can no 
longer locate.
Also I can see that this complaint process has been a considerable source of distress  and 
inconvenience for Mr Z. And hes been  without one handset for many months after Assurant  
refused to repair it. And given that I don't  think the confusion was entirely his fault I don't 
think that was fair.
In order to put things  right I think Assurant should repair  the handset Mr Z returned, phone  E, 
in line with the remaining terms and conditions of his policy. It should also withdraw any 
attempt to charge  Mr Z for any overprovision of handsets. And, as I think  the claims process 
was avoidable  if Assurant had provided reasonable quality handsets, it should pay him £150 
in compensation  to address his distress and inconvenience.
developments
Both Assurant and Mr Z responded promptly to my provisional decision. Assurant said that it 
wouldn't look to examine a phone  and that its processes at the time was to accept a 
customers word  that a phone was faulty  and replace  them automatically. It said that Mr Z 
was looking for a cash settlement but it wouldn't do that when it had replacement phones  in 
stock. It said it was unusual for a customer to report so many replacement  handsets  as 
being faulty. Assurant confirmed that its courier reported that it had swapped phone  G for 
another handset but had no record of the phone  that it was swapped  for or of phone  G being 
returned. 
Mr Z confirmed that he had two of the same  make handsets from the outset. He added  that 
hed had numerous faulty handsets because Assurant provide reconditioned handsets rather 
than new ones. Mr Z also said that hed rather have the money  for the phone  hed returned  
rather than it being repaired  or replaced. Mr Z commented that he still pays a premium for 
the policy and still has a phone thats faulty.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Assurants told me that it didn't assess faulty  phones. But at various times, including when 
Mr Z returned phone  E, Assurant issued him a bag to return a phone in because it was faulty 
and to consider  it for repair. It didn't simply issue a new handset. 
Further I note that although Assurant said that it swapped phone  G, it can't now say what  
phone it swapped it for. The fact that it doesn't have a record of a phone being returned  by 
the courier would appear to be an issue for its own record  keeping. I don't think this calls into 
question my provisional findings.
Ref: DRN36778784I can confirm that I was aware  that Mr Z had two handsets of the same make from the 
outset, and Ive factored  that in when  coming to my conclusions. 
I understand that Mr Z isn't happy that Assurant will provide  reconditioned  rather  than new 
handsets. But his policy says that it will either repair or replace the phone. And if it does  the 
latter the handsets might be remanufactured  rather than new.  And thats not unusual in 
policies of this kind. So as Assurant has repaired or replaced handsets in line with the policy,  
I don't think its acted unreasonably  in providing reconditioned units. Although, as I said in 
my provisional decision, I don't think it was fair that it consistently provided  handsets  that 
were themselves faulty.
Mr Z said that his preference would be for a cash alternative to having phone E repaired or 
replaced. But I think its reasonable  for Assurant to act in line with his policys terms. And as 
those say Assurant  will repair or replace a phone it would be reasonable for it to do so. 
Mr Z also said that he has another phone which requires  repair. This wasn't a point he 
initially brought to us or that Assurant addressed in response to his complaint,  but appears to 
have developed while weve been  looking at the matter. But hes said that he still pays  the 
premium for his policy. So if his phone is one still covered by the policy  he may be able to 
claim for the repair or replacement of that now. However, I don't think its appropriate for me 
to address that matter here.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to:
Repair  or replace  the phone Mr Z returned in May 2018 in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy.
Withdraw any request  or demand  for payment  for overprovision  of handsets  or for 
handsets it doesn't think  Mr Z returned.
Pay Mr Z £150 to address his distress  and inconvenience.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr Z has accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate of 8% a year1. 
1 *If Assurant General  Insurance Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
Ref: DRN36778785Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should  tell Mr Z how much its taken off. It should  also give 
Mr Z a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3677878