K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that Capital One (Europe) plc wouldn't accept his offer to repay £100 per 
month towards his arrears. He isn't happy  with the way it dealt with his case. He says it 
failed to send  him income and expenditure forms and made him repeat the process a 
number of times. He feels this was to increase the interest he was paying on his account.
background 
Mr B has a credit card account with Captial One.
Mr B contacted Capital  One in December 2018  to say he was in financial difficulties and 
wanted to set up a repayment plan. He offered to pay Capital One £100 and said hed 
completed an income and expenditure form with a debt relief charity. Capital One said that 
hed need to complete its income  and expenditure form and that it would send the form to 
him. Mr B says he never received Capital Ones form. Mr B and Capital One agreed  a 
repayment plan at the end of February  in the meantime,  Capital  One had been adding  
interest and charges to Mr Bs account. Mr B complained about  Capital One not accepting  
his offer in December  and not accepting  the income  and expenditure form hed filled in 
saying that hed ended up paying  additional  interest and fees as a result.
Capital One did not uphold the complaint, it said it had sent Mr B two forms and he hadnt 
returned them. It also said it was right to refuse to refund the interest  and charges as these 
had been correctly applied.
Mr B complained to us. Our investigator  thought Capital One had followed the correct  
process when arranging Mr Bs repayment plan and had done nothing wrong. Mr B was 
unhappy with our investigators  view and the matter has now come to me for decision.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
In situations of financial difficulties, the lending code imposes an obligation on the lender to 
behave sympathetically  and positively and to do what it can to help the consumer deal with 
their debt. It is important that both parties  communicate about the financial difficulties. The 
key conversation took place in December and having listened to the call, I think the 
communication went wrong  from the beginning; both parties could have done more  to 
communicate better with each other.  Capital One said that its form would arrive in ten days. 
Mr B could have contacted Capital One after December when the income and expenditure 
form hadnt arrived or he could have got the form online. Capital One asked Mr B for his debt 
charity reference number. Mr B didnt  have it with him but he could have given Capital  One 
the reference number subsequently. Capital One could  have  done  more by explaining to 
Mr B the significance of the reference  number  and what  would have  happened  if he provided 
Capital One with the number. And it could  have done more  by accepting  the charitys  form. 
As I have said both parties had an obligation  to communicate with the other, but I can 
understand why it was difficult for Mr B given the circumstances that he made the call in and 
the difficulties  he had following up because of the hours he was working.  In short,  I think  
Capital One could have done  more and must bear more of the responsibility  in this case.
Had Capital One done more, for example accepted the charitys  income  and expenditure 
form, Mr Bs repayment plan would have been set up in December and he wouldnt have 
Ref: DRN39119602incurred the extra interest and fees.  So in view of this I am minded  to ask Capital One to 
credit Mr Bs account with the interest and charges that he has incurred which  he wouldnt 
have incurred if the repayment plan had been set up in December.
Mr Bs hasnt  mentioned  his credit file, which may contain more  adverse information than it 
should do. It would be helpful  if both parties  can comment  on what amendments  if any need 
to be made  to Mr Bs file when replying to this provisional decision.
I have looked  at the impact that this has had on Mr B.
I think that Mr B has suffered distress and inconvenience because  Capital  One didnt accept 
his original income and expenditure form. I say this because he had to call Capital One 
several times to set up a repayment plan and to fill in a new form. At the time, Mr B was 
finding it difficult to contact Capital One because he had increased  his working hours  and he 
finished work after Capital Ones closing time. I know that Mr B found all this frustrating. He 
said to the complaints team dont put so many hurdles  in place.
My provisional decision was that Capital One should credit Mr Bs account  with the interest  
and charges that he has incurred which he wouldnt have  incurred if the repayment  plan had 
been set up in December. Capital One should  also pay Mr B £200 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.
responses to my provisional  decision  
Mr B has said it would help if his credit file was amended. Capital One has said it accepts 
the provisional decision.
my findings
Capital One has not provided any further  comments in relation to my provisional decision or 
to the request for comments on any amendments to Mr Bs credit  file. Mr B has said it would 
be helpful if his credit file was amended.
I have considered whether Capital One should  amend Mr Bs credit  file to reflect what should  
have happened  and I think that it should.
I have re-considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have seen nothing to change  my mind 
and so my provisional  findings stand
Ref: DRN39119603my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  the complaint and I direct Capital One (Europe) plc to:
refund  Mr B all interest  and charges incurred on his card from December until the 
payment plan was set up.
to pay Mr B £200 for distress and inconvenience  at how it handled  his case.
remove any adverse payment information  recorded on Mr Bs credit file as a result  of 
the interest and charges on his balance  from December  until the payment plan was 
set up.
Capital One (Europe) plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr B accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3911960