K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Calpe Insurance Company  Limited (Calpe)  has paid too much  to settle 
a claim against his motor  insurance policy by a third party.
background
When I refer to Calpe,  that includes any contractors, firms or agents involved in handling or 
processing any parts of Mr As claim, unless otherwise stated. 
Calpe received a claim from the insurer of a third-party vehicle, who said Mr A had collided 
with and caused damage. And it wanted Calpe to settle the third partys claim.  
Calpe contacted Mr A about it and Mr A told them that, although he recalled coming into 
contact with the parked vehicle, the damage on it he photographed at the time seemed to 
him to pre-exist his collision with it. So, Calpe sent Mr A a claim form to complete and settled 
the third partys claim,  which included hire charges.
A number  of months  had passed  after the incident when Calpe then wrote to Mr A, 
specifying the sum it required him to pay under the conditions  of his policy. This was 
because the policy had a £3,000 excess on all claims, including claims against  him by third 
parties.
Mr A complained to Calpe that he felt he may not have  caused the damage being claimed 
for, and, in any case, he thought the sum he was being asked to pay was excessive.
In its final response letter,  Calpe said Mr As policy made him responsible for the costs of 
such a claim up to £3,000. It said that the car hire costs in the claim reflected the vehicle 
type that the third-party driver was entitled  to on their policy.  It said it had dealt with his claim 
in a fair and reasonable  manner. It didnt uphold Mr As complaint and asked him to pay the 
sum already requested.
Mr A complained to us. And our investigator  thought that Calpe had acted  reasonably in 
settling the third partys  claim  and asking Mr A to reimburse an appropriate amount. But he 
felt the amount Calpe  had asked Mr A to pay was higher than it should have been. And as a 
result Calpe agreed to reduce the amount by £200,  which our investigator thought was fair. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigator, so his complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr As policy  says he is liable for the first £3,000 of any claim.  And I havent seen that Mr A 
has disputed that he knew there  was an excess on his policy  or that hed be liable  to pay 
back Calpes reasonable outlay if it has paid a third party claim against him.
But Mr A has disputed  the amount of the claim and whether the impact he accepts he may 
have been responsible for could have  caused the extent  of damage the third party claimed 
for. He considers  the cost of the repair to the third partys vehicle to be too high for the 
Ref: DRN32376262damage he could  have caused. And he considers the cost of the car hire for the third party 
also to be excessive.
Mr A also feels  that the letter he received first notifying  him of the amount he was being 
asked to pay caused him distress, as he wasnt expecting  it.
extent of damage
Calpe received Mr As account of how he collided with the third-party  vehicle. Calpe doesnt 
have any other account of the collision. It does  have Mr As photos after the collision, and 
those of the third partys  insurers repairer before the repair  work started. It also has the third 
partys insurers  cost estimate of the repair works required. It also reviewed  photos  of the 
damage, the repairers assessment of the required parts and labour to complete the repair,  
alongside the account of the incident from Mr A. And I think,  with the information  available  to 
it, Calpe acted reasonably in its assessment  of the damage caused.  
cost of repairs
I understand Mr A suggests another quote  may well have shown the repairs could have 
been done cheaper than the sum hes being  asked  to pay. And, although Mr A has said he 
could potentially provide alternative  repair quotes,  I am mindful  that a repairer would only 
have Mr As photos to assess the work  required. And I am not persuaded that such  a quote 
could be as accurate  as the one produced after the physical  inspection of the damage by the 
actual repairer. 
I havent seen  any evidence that Calpe  or the third partys insurer considered  the cost of the 
repair to the third-partys  vehicle supplied by the repairer  was exaggerated by any party. So, 
I think Calpe  has acted  reasonably when it decided  the estimate/invoice provided to be 
consistent with the description of the collision, the physical assessment of the damage  
caused and the repair work required. 
cost of car hire
I have noted that the total cost of car hire is determined by two things  the daily rate of the 
hire and the number  of days  of the hire. The third-party driver  had a policy  which entitled 
them to a hire vehicle of a certain type  determined by the type of vehicle they had insured. 
I asked Calpe for evidence that it had seen the correct documentation to show  it had 
checked the third party  needed  the hire car. And that the cost of the hire was fair. I am 
satisfied that Calpe carried out the appropriate  investigation into the hire cost daily rate so 
Im satisfied it acted reasonably in paying the rate it did for car hire.
I understand the number of days the third-party had use of the hire vehicle is determined by 
the length of time their damaged vehicle is not available to them.  The work required on the 
damaged vehicle included dismantling parts of the vehicle, paintwork preparation and drying, 
and parts reassembly.  So, again I think Calpe acted reasonably in accepting  the duration of 
the car hire, given  the nature of the repair work  required. 
Calpes letters and the total cost of the claim
Mr A first knew  about  the amount of the claim against  his policy  when he received a letter 
asking him to pay nearly £3,000. Whilst I can understand he felt distressed by such a letter, I 
cant see that he urgently  contacted Calpe or its representatives about it. And Calpe did 
Ref: DRN32376263send him a letter just a few days later, apologising for the request and asking him to ignore  
it. I think Calpe acted  sufficiently promptly and reasonably when it realised what  had 
happened. Because of this, I will not be directing  Calpe to pay any compensation for the 
error. 
The total cost of the claim included a charge of £200 for investigation fees. Calpe  has 
already agreed  to remove this charge from its final request for payment from Mr A. And I 
agree this is appropriate.
As a result, the total cost of the claim that Calpe requires  Mr A to pay is £2,339.53.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold Mr As complaint. And Calpe Insurance 
Company Limited  should reduce the sum it requires Mr A to pay by £200, to £2,339.53.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Adrian Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3237626