K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs A is seeking to recover £50,000  from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) 
which was sent to a third-party as the result of a scam. 
background
I issued a provisional decision in March 2021  to explain why I thought the late Mrs As 
complaint should  not be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give 
me. This is an extract  from that provisional  decision:
On 4 June 2018,  Mrs A received contact from a third party purporting to be from Barclays 
fraud department who told her that her account had been compromised. She was duped  by 
this third party into thinking that there were fraudsters who worked for Barclays  that had 
been trying  to access her account. She also received  a call from someone purporting  to be 
from the local police force letting her know they were  aware  of the fraud. They were able to 
persuade her to transfer two payments of £25,000  to safe accounts  that they said had been 
set up in her childrens names. She was told that she should not disclose the reason for the 
payments as she may alert the fraudster in the bank. 
Mrs A said she was persuaded that the callers were genuine and that she didnt think she 
had disclosed any personal  information to them including her childrens names. She thought 
that as she told Barclays  her childrens names  with the receiving bank  details when she went  
into branch to make the payments, that the accounts were indeed  set up in her childrens 
names. This helped convince Mrs A that the third party was telling her the truth. So, she 
made these  payments in branch, five minutes apart.  
According to the notes  made when Mrs A attended  the branch, Barclays  asked Mrs A what 
the payments  were  for, and she explained  that they were inheritance payments for her two 
children following her husbands recent passing. The notes  also outline that a scam  
conversation was had with Mrs A, and that Barclays were  satisfied  these payments werent a 
scam so they processed them for her. She tried to make  a further payment of £10,000 three 
days later using telephone banking. This final payment was stopped, which caused Mrs A to 
call her daughter who informed her that no account  had been set up in her name which  
alerted Mrs A to the scam. 
Mrs A then contacted Barclays who declined to offer her a refund of the £50,000.  In its 
submissions to this service it said it didnt believe it had done  anything wrong in carrying out 
Mrs As instructions to make the payments  Mrs A had authorised sending the payments 
herself despite the branch  staff having  a conversation  with her about scams.  
Barclays accepted  that the payments were unusual and out of character for Mrs As account  
 but that her account balance was unusually high due to receiving inheritance  after her 
husband passed away. It argued that whilst the payments  were  unusual, Mrs As cover story  
given to branch  staff was plausible. It explained  that the third attempted  payment  had been  
stopped as it was made using telephone banking, and after it flagged on their fraud 
prevention system, they were unable to get in touch with Mrs A to verify the payment. They 
also clarified that these  payments were completed  prior to the introduction  of payee 
verification  so although she had entered her childrens names,  the receiving accounts 
would not necessarily be in those names and they wouldnt  have known  this at the time. 
Mrs A remained unhappy,  so she came to our service. Our investigator reviewed what 
happened and recommended that Barclays refund the £50,000 and award  8% interest  from 
Ref: DRN39111402the date of the payments  to the date of the settlement  they also recommended Barclays 
pay £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Barclays  didnt agree for much the 
same reasons as they had previously stated,  so the case  was put in a queue for a decision. 
Unfortunately, in the interim, Mrs A passed away, so this is now being considered on behalf  
of her estate. The complaint is now for me to decide.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am currently  minded to 
conclude that the complaint should not be upheld. Ill explain why.  
I do not doubt that Mrs A was the victim of a sophisticated and cruel  fraud.  I was very sorry 
to read of the circumstances Mrs A found herself in, particularly after the loss of her 
husband. But the question that I must  consider here is the extent to which Barclays  can be 
considered liable for the loss. 
It is not in dispute  that this was an authorised payment even though Mrs A was the victim of 
a sophisticated  scam.  She went into branch and authenticated  the transactions by entering 
her card and PIN. Whilst she did so under deception and didnt intend for the funds to go the 
fraudsters, under the Payment Regulations  2017  and the terms and conditions  of the 
account, Mrs A is presumed  liable  for the loss in the first instance.  
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good at the time, I consider Barclays should fairly 
and reasonably: 
Have been monitoring accounts and payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams. 
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions of other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average consumer. 
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of fraud or financial harm from fraud.  
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate. 
So, I consider that as a matter of good practice, Barclays should  have  been  on the lookout 
for unusual  and out of character transactions. Ive looked at the activity that took place on 
Mrs As account during  the scam and agree with our investigators view that these payments 
were unusual and out of character for this account.  The account has not previously been  
used to send amounts  of anywhere near £25,000  and Barclays have not disagreed with this 
point either.
I also agree  with our investigator that Barclays  should have been on notice that Mrs A was 
vulnerable. At the time she was over 80 and had recently gone through  a significant life 
change in that her husband had passed away. This means the bank should have been on 
notice that Mrs A was at an increased risk of fraud  or financial crime. 
Ref: DRN39111403Due to the unusual nature of her payments the relevant law, regulations and good industry 
practice required Barclays to question of Mrs A about the transaction and the reasons for 
making them before it agreed to process  them on her behalf. And there is an arrangement 
between the banks and the Police  called the Banking Protocol which means  that if a bank is 
concerned or suspicious about an out of character transaction it can refuse  to process  the 
transaction and contact  the police. It also provides steps for banks to take beforehand  where  
there is a risk of fraud such as taking  the customer into a private room, asking further 
questions and notifying more senior  branch staff. 
The branch  notes show Mrs A was asked what the payments  were  for, and she explained it 
was inheritance for her children, and that a scam  conversation was had with Mrs A that 
satisfied Barclays that the payments were genuine. There is not a lot of detail, and due to the 
passage of time it was not possible to gain further details from the branch staff involved in 
the transactions. But from reviewing the branch notes, I am minded  to conclude that they 
didnt ask any further probing questions after Mrs A explained that she was sending the 
money on to her children. They were aware  that her husband had recently passed away  as 
her account  was formerly their joint account.  And they could see that she was sending the 
payments to accounts  that she thought were in her childrens names  one of whom still 
shared Mrs As surname.  I would  assume  from the lack of detail noted in Barclays  fraud 
notes that the scam conversation that took place was generic in nature.  
Whilst I think more probing questions could have been asked,  where my current opinion  
differs from that of our investigator is that in doing  so, Barclays could have prevented Mrs A 
making these payments.  
Whilst we cannot  know exactly  what would have happened had Mrs A been further 
questioned, I think on balance the payments would not have been prevented if Barclays had 
taken additional  steps such as making further enquiries or speaking  to her in a private room. 
Safe account scams generally see victims  move all or most  of their money to another 
account in a short timeframe, whereas Mrs A left significant sums of money in the account  
indeed even if the £10,000 had gone through she would have still had an account balance  of 
thousands of pounds.  Because of this, the usual obvious signs of this scam would have 
been concealed from Barclays. 
Further, her cover story was very plausible as the account had an increased balance  due to 
receiving inheritance from her late husband. And as I outlined  above, the money  appeared to 
be going to two accounts which included  one with the same surname as Mrs As  adding  
further credibility to her cover story. 
Having considered that this was not a scam  that was very easy to spot, I thought about what  
questions Barclays could  have asked that may have made the scam come to light.  Our 
investigator suggested that they may have asked her whether shed sought legal advice or 
contacted a financial advisor  but neither of those  are strictly  necessary in the 
circumstances that Barclays understood to be happening. They could have asked her about 
how she got these  bank account details   but she could have simply said she had received 
them over the phone,  and theyd have had no reason  to doubt that. Ultimately, Mrs A had a 
vested interest in keeping the details of the scam  from Barclays  as she was genuinely under 
the impression  that she would be tipping  off fraudsters employed by Barclays if she did. And 
Ive not been able to contemplate any proportionate questions or lines of enquiry that it could 
have asked Mrs A that could have reasonably undermined  her cover-story so that it wouldve 
been reasonable and proportionate to have invoked the banking protocol in full and 
contacted the police.  I am satisfied that Barclays line of questioning  was proportionate at the 
Ref: DRN39111404time and Mrs As cover story wouldve appeared plausible. For this reason, I dont think it 
would be fair for me to hold Barclays liable for Mrs As loss  the fault here lies with the 
fraudsters themselves.
Mrs A contacted Barclays in June  2018  when she had become aware that shed been the 
victim of a scam  3 days after authorising the two payments. I have reviewed the 
information from the two receiving banks that she sent the money to, which  show  that 
unfortunately the accounts had been emptied prior to Mrs A becoming  aware  of the scam. 
And any further investigations  into what  happened to the money after it left the beneficiary  
account werent the responsibility of Barclays. So I cant say that Barclays could have done  
more to successfully  retrieve the scam funds. 
While I appreciate Mrs As been the unfortunate victim of a scam, I think  Barclays  decision 
to not to refund her the full amount, in the particular circumstances of this complaint, is fair 
and reasonable.  It followed Mrs As instruction  to make the payment and I havent seen any 
reason why it shouldnt  have  done this. 
I want to stress that I feel considerable  sympathy for what  Mrs A went through here. But 
unfortunately, whilst  Im sorry to have  to disappoint  her estate, Im not persuaded that this 
was a consequence of any specific failing on the part of Barclays.
For the reasons  Ive explained above, Im not currently minded to uphold this complaint.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays didnt have  any further points to add following my provisional decision. The estate 
of Mrs A did respond and did not agree with my provisional decision. Ive summarised the 
points that they asked  me to consider below. 
Barclays did not meet the relevant standard required to safeguard Mrs A, a 
vulnerable consumer as: 
-Barclays staff should  have been  trained and experienced  in recognising  this 
common type of scam.  
-They should have  followed industry  guidance  and best practice including  
discreetly asking her more probing  questions. 
-They should have  kept better records of their interactions with Mrs A, particularly 
as she was someone who they should have recognised would  be more 
vulnerable to falling victim to a scam. 
-They should have  confirmed the details  of the account names  on the receiving  
accounts matched  the account  names Mrs A had given. Whilst they understood 
that it wasnt legally required at the time, it would have been  best practice due to 
her vulnerabilities. 
Had Barclays met this standard and acted as they should have, it is more likely  that it 
could have been recognised that Mrs A was falling  victim to a scam. 
They felt that as Barclays had not met the standard of care for Mrs A who was a 
vulnerable consumer, it could not be fair and reasonable  to absolve Barclays 100% 
of any liability for her losses. 
Ref: DRN39111405Ive thought carefully about the points raised  by Mrs As estate but Ive reached  the same  
overall conclusions  as I did in my provisional  decision. Ill address each point in turn and Ill 
explain why. 
I do agree  that Barclays should have done  more in their interaction,  as outlined  in my 
provisional decision. They should  certainly have asked her questions  about the payment. 
They should  have kept better records of exactly what they discussed with Mrs A. But it was 
not industry practice at the time to check the details of the receiving account name when 
sending money  to them, and so I dont  agree that Barclays  should  have done this at the 
time. 
Unfortunately, I still remain of the opinion that it would have been difficult to recognise  this 
scam even  if they had done more whilst Mrs A was in branch. When  someone is taken in by 
these cruel scams, they are incentivised to ensure  the payment is sent. In this instance, this 
led to Mrs A giving an incredibly plausible cover  story to Barclays.  Ive considered the 
potential lines of questioning that I may expect  Barclays  to undertake, and having done so I 
believe that it would be unlikely that they could have uncovered this scam. As I outlined in 
the provisional decision, this scam  did differ from the usual safe  account scam. And I think  
that Mrs A could have  answered any further questions about sending  inheritance  to her 
children. So Ive concluded that I dont think further  action  by Barclays would have prevented 
the payments  being made.   
I can also understand that it does seem unfair to Mrs As estate that despite  Barclays  service  
in this instance being lacking, that they are not being instructed to refund any of the losses.  
But were  not here to punish businesses. I have  to consider what would have most likely 
happened if Barclays had met the expected  standard  of service, and as I have concluded  
that I still think these payments would have been sent I cannot ask them  to refund  them.  
In summary,  I remain very sorry to hear about  the circumstances  Mrs A found herself in. This 
was a particularly  cruel scam and one that relied  on causing panic in its victims. But I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable of me to conclude that Barclays should be liable for the 
losses  the fault here lies with the fraudsters.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of 
Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 18 June 2021.
Katherine Jones 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3911140