K821x#15complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Cofunds  Limited has taken its charges by selling funds from his ISA 
and not from his cash account as usual. 
background
Mr G has had a stock  and shares  Individual Savings Account (ISA) and a General 
Investment Account  (previously known as cash  account)  with Cofunds since 2003, which  
he opened through his financial advisor. 
In 2017/18 the administration  of these accounts was taken over by a company Ill call A 
and migrated to its new platform. Revised terms and conditions  were issued to all 
customers. Mr G received a statement in March 2018 prior to the migration and was told 
going forward theyd  be produced every  three  months. But he didnt  receive another  
statement until October 2018, which he obtained  through his financial advisor. 
Mr G noticed units  had been sold from his ISA to pay the annual  management charge (AMC)  
of his investment,  as there wasnt enough money in his cash account. Mr G says if hed 
received statements as promised hed have  topped  up the account to save  selling units  in 
his ISA which he cant now replace. He doesnt  feel the new platform is an improvement as 
the statements  dont  have enough  detail to show which funds have  been  sold, and he didnt 
get paper  contract notes for the sales. Hes worse off as his ISA has been  depleted  so he 
wants Cofunds to reinstate  the funds to his ISA and pay compensation. 
Mr Gs financial  advisor complained to Cofunds  on his behalf in November 2018 but didnt 
get a response. So Mr G himself complained in February 2019. Cofunds said the way the 
charges are administered is set out in its terms and conditions,  so it had the right to 
automatically sell units if the balance in the GIA was too low. Cofunds told Mr G it had 
informed financial advisors  of the delays  to paper statements, and updates were posted on 
the Cofunds online bulletin board. So while it was sorry  Mr Gs advisor hadnt passed this 
information to him it didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mr G didnt accept the response  as he said Cofunds hadnt met the commitments  in the 
terms and conditions (to provide periodic or three-monthly statements detailing all 
transactions). He reiterated that their administrative failures led to funds  being  withdrawn 
from his ISA which he cant  now replace. Cofunds apologised and paid him £100 to reflect  
the inconvenience. It said Mr Gs charges for May-November 2018  were £385.14, so offered 
to carry out a price  comparison to see if hed been financially disadvantaged by selling the 
units. But only if he was prepared to top up the account, which  he wasnt.  
Ref: DRN34100592So Mr G complained to this service and one of our investigators reviewed  what  had 
happened. She thought  the new terms and conditions did make clear  that funds could be 
automatically sold to pay charges, if the GIA wasnt adequately funded. She saw from his 
previous statements that Mr G did pay money into his account periodically.  So she thought  
he was likely to have  preferred to pay the charges in cash  rather  than by selling units.  But 
she didnt think it was reasonable  to require Mr G to pay the money  in before A would carry 
out the comparison, as he might not have been financially disadvantaged. So she asked A 
for a hypothetical fund valuation to be done, showing the value  of the sold units had they 
remained invested to the point Mr G switched out of those funds. This showed the units  in 
one fund would have made  a loss of £42.31, and the other  would have gained  by 45 pence,  
so a total net loss of £41.86. She also said the new terms  and conditions  state contract  
notes for individual sales will no longer be sent to save paper, but Mr G could view the 
transactions online. She concluded Mr G hadnt been financially disadvantaged by Cofunds  
selling funds from his ISA to pay the charges. And she felt the £100  Cofunds had paid was 
fair for the service issues. 
Mr G disagreed. He still feels through no fault of his own, his ISA balance has been reduced 
by £385.14 which Cofunds should reinstate.  He says he couldnt have checked his balance  
online as he doesnt  have an online account, which is why he needed the statements.
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
I appreciate Mr G isnt happy with the migration to the new platform and the delay receiving 
his statements. But if he didnt want to risk units being sold,  I think it was always  his 
responsibility to ensure  there were  sufficient funds in his GIA to meet  the charges. 
Before the migration he was sent a document called How the service we provide to you is 
changing which sets out the revised  terms and conditions. The fifth bullet point on the first 
page says All charges  will be settled by the automatic sale of your investments if theres 
insufficient cash in your product (my emphasis). 
In the body of the document theres a list of the changes to various numbered  terms and 
conditions which will be effective after migration to the platform.  On page 12 under the 
heading Charges theres a change to term 10.3.1  whereby the annual  charge will apply to a 
customers total holding  (including cash), whereas previously the cash  element was 
excluded leading  to an increase in how much you pay. But after the change, interest is also 
earned on any cash holding. 
And the change to term 5.4 explains that after the migration, units may be sold at more than 
one point during  the month  (previously  assessment  was on day five and sale on day nine) 
and for a specific amount to exactly match the charges due (previously the amount required 
plus ten per cent would be sold). So I think Mr G was given notice that the charges were  
likely to be higher  than previously, slightly offset  by interest on any cash  balance. And he 
was warned units could be sold without notice  to meet the charges. 
Ref: DRN34100593Mr G says he would have  topped up his cash account to prevent the sale of units  in his ISA if 
hed received a statement.  He hasnt  disputed the charges themselves, so if he wants 
Cofunds to reverse  the sales of the units and reinstate the funds into his ISA hell need  to 
pay the same amount  into his GIA. He cant expect not to pay the charges at all. Put simply, 
crediting his ISA with £385.14 would mean deducting that amount from his cash account.
I can see in January 2016 Mr G credited his cash account with £100 and the platform  and 
service charges for the year totalled £109.57.  And in January 2017 Mr G credited his cash  
account with £100 and the charges for 2017 totalled  £140.81. So the amount Mr G paid in 
didnt quite cover the charges for each period. At the time it made sense to keep the cash  
account balance  as low as possible as it didnt earn interest. 
In January 2018 Mr G credited his account with £130 but when he received his statement in 
March 2018 hed have seen the GIA balance was only £59.57  and charges for the first three 
months were  £84.38  (service charge £56.25 and platform charge £28.13).  Which  should 
have put him on notice  the next quarters charges were likely to exceed the remaining 
balance in his GIA.  Hed already been told to expect charges post-migration to be higher 
than he was used  to. So I think even without another statement he could have estimated the 
likely charges for the remainder of the year and topped up the account accordingly.  And he 
could have kept a higher balance on his GIA as it was now interest-earning.
Ive seen a copy  of the September  2018 statement with a covering letter  headed Your 
Cofunds statement   account upgrade 8 May 2018  including the transactions  from 1 March  
2018 to the upgrade date,  which shows the balance of his Cofunds Cash  Account as £3.91. 
Mr G says he didnt get this statement until October 2018 through  his financial advisor. But it 
appears correctly addressed, so if Mr G didnt receive it in September  I cant  hold Cofunds 
responsible for that. And as Ive said above,  I dont think the statement was essential  for 
Mr G to manage his account. 
Mr G says he queried the delay in receiving his statements several times with A, over the 
months. But when  doing so he doesnt  appear to have asked for the balance of his GIA. Ive 
not been able to listen to any calls between  May and October 2018 as theyre  only retained 
for 12 months. But A says if Mr G had asked, theyd  have  provided up to date account 
balances. 
Mr G said checking his balance online wasnt  an option as he doesnt  have an online 
account. But the document referred  to above  says under online access If youre not 
currently registered, youll need  to follow the simple registration instructions on our website 
to access your secure online account. Which suggests this is something Mr G could have 
done, even if he didnt previously access his account this way. And A has pointed out online 
requests for fund switches were received on 31 July 2018 and 26 October 2018, suggesting 
the existence of an online  account for Mr G, which may have been used by his advisor rather 
than himself. 
While I can see it was Mr Gs usual practice to pay his charges from his cash  account rather 
than through selling units, the theoretical fund value  comparison  found Mr G would have  
been £42 worse off had he retained  the units in his ISA and paid the charges in cash. Mr G 
believes his ISA balance  must be £385.14  lower because the funds have been deducted 
and not replaced.  But the total value of Mr Gs ISA fluctuates according  the value of his 
units, and the particular  units sold to pay the charges would have actually lost value had he 
kept them. I leave  it to Mr G to decide if he wants to pay sufficient funds  into his GIA to 
enable Cofunds  to re-credit his ISA.
Ref: DRN34100594And although Mr G was clearly inconvenienced  by the migration to As platform  I think  the 
£100 hes already received is fair compensation, so I wont  be asking Cofunds  to do anything 
else.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3410059