K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains she was given unsuitable  investment advice by Santander  UK Plc.
background
In my provisional decision of 27 September 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms part 
of this, my final decision, I said I was minded  to uphold the complaint. In short I said:
The issue isnt that she didnt understand the minimum that shed get back,  but the 
realistic chances of her achieving the maximum,  which I suggest on balance she 
didnt understand.  
I was minded to say that the investment, at the time, was too much money invested in 
similar structured  products.
If Ms C were  to compare the above  with what she was guaranteed  to get over the 
same period from a fixed rate bond on balance I think she probably wouldve gone  for 
the latter.
Whether or not the historic investment  advice  was suitable  it might have been given 
her circumstances at the time  its not what Im considering in this complaint. I 
acknowledge that structured investment products  can be suitable for customers  who 
have a very low attitude to risk but it depends  on their overall circumstances at the 
time. Peoples wants and needs change over time, and financial advice can never be 
a one size fits all approach. 
In terms of redress and to keep matters  simple I suggested that Santander  should  
pay redress, of D + E, where:
A = the original  investment  of £10,000  in the Santanders six year stock market 
bond.
B = interest at the rate of 3.9%  available for a five year fixed rate bond at the time 
but for the duration  of the investment.
C = the actual value of the stock market  bond at the date it matured;    
D = A + B  C;
E = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date the bond 
matured to the date of settlement.   
If Santander considered that it should  deduct  income tax from the interest 
calculated above, it must send  a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Ms C 
may reclaim any tax overpaid from HM Revenue  and Customs,  if her 
circumstances permit  her to do so, unless  the tax deduction certificate  wouldnt 
be applicable. 
In other  words, Santander may pay the interest  net of tax, so long as it provides a 
tax deduction  certificate. Otherwise  if its simply a notional deduction that Ms C 
has no way of claiming back  providing  that shes eligible to do so  I dont  think 
its fair.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  representations they wished for me to 
consider before making my final decision.   
Ref: DRN36690202Ms G responded and accepted my provisional  decision. She had no further  points to add other  
than wishing to bring  this matter to a conclusion.  
Santander initially asked  for evidence of 3.9%  Santander five year guaranteed  fixed rate bond 
because it was struggling to locate it. 
At my request our investigator  made  the following key points in response:
Santander didnt  do a five year guaranteed fixed term bond it was the investigators  
oversight. 
Other businesses, on the basis of a £10,000 investment for a five year term, offered the 
following rates: 3.93%,  3.98%,  3.70%  and 3.60%. 
In an effort to resolve this complaint he asked if Santander would be willing  to offer redress 
using an interest rate of 3.9% on the basis of the £10,000 investment for five years.  
The 3.5% based on a two year fixed rate bond  didnt appear  a fair comparison for a five 
year investment.
Santander responded and disagreed  with my provisional decision. In short, it made the 
following key points:
It doesnt agree with the redress but redress isnt relevant given that it doesnt  agree 
with the decision  to uphold this complaint.
Inflation would reduce  the purchasing power  of the return  on a fixed rate bond just as 
much as the return Ms C received on her structured  product,  rendering this argument  
 that she wouldve  been better off with the former  invalid. 
The key point being that the real risk of inflation  on the purchasing  power of Ms Cs 
money was exactly the same as any fixed rate bond as it was for the 
recommendation. 
Theres no evidence that the adviser  failed to explain to Ms C how the product 
worked, nor is there any evidence that she was simply  left to read the literature. 
A customer, who has taken out four structured products, with the potential  maximum 
returns linked to the FTSE 100 Index, would reasonably be considered as having  
experience of this type of product. 
Ms C had been through four interviews  with advisers since  taking out her first 
structured product in 2008. It isnt fair to speculate that none of the advisers 
explained how the product worked and how the maximum potential return  was 
calculated. 
As well as the structured products Ms C held fixed rate bonds previously with 
Santander, so was in a strong  position to compare  the pros and cons of structured 
products and therefore was in a position  to make an informed choice. 
The evidence concerning the advisers recommendations report proves  that a 
discussion took place  about structured products versus fixed  rate bonds  and she 
specifically rejected the fixed  rate bond and was prepared to accept the risk of 
unknown returns linked to the performance of the stock  market as long as her capital 
was safe.  
Ms C wasnt using  new money  but simply reinvesting the proceeds of one maturing  
structured product into another, with the intention of locking the money away  so she 
couldnt access it. It doesnt accept that she was over-exposed because  the products  
had different potential  returns. 
Ref: DRN36690203This wasnt  an unsuitable recommendation for a 57 year old with nine years  to 
retirement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and notwithstanding  the points made by Santander, my conclusion remains 
as set out previously, and for the same  reasons.  I uphold this complaint. 
However, in light of its further  submissions,  in the circumstances I think  the redress should 
reflect the average rate from fixed rate bonds  rather than the benchmark I had provisionally 
asked for it to consider. I will explain my reasons for this in due course. 
Having considered the thrust of Santanders response to my provisional  decision, I dont 
consider that any new points have been raised,  other than those key points already made 
and considered by me in my provisional  decision. 
In short,  Ive considered all the points  that I consider relevant  to my decision.
The issue  isnt that Ms C didnt understand the minimum shed  get back, but the realistic  
chances of her achieving the maximum,  which I suggest on balance she didnt  appreciate in 
light of her circumstances  at the time.  
In other  words the risk and consequences of her not making  any money  upon  maturity  
over and above the guaranteed minimum  and only having  three  years  left before she was 
to retire. Thats really  whats at the nub of my decision to uphold this complaint.
My decision  isnt changed by the fact that Ms C invested in similar  products  in the past and I 
dont think its fair to say that just because of this she knew what she was doing on this 
occasion. I note it was recorded by Santander that she wasnt an experienced investor and 
didnt consider that she had a lot of capital. So if this was the general attitude  taken  by the 
adviser  and Im not saying that it was  it may be that they assumed Ms C knew  more  
about investments  than she did.
Despite what Santander says, I dont consider this to be speculation but an observation  
which Im entitled to make. Theres nothing to suggest whether the the previous 
recommendations  bar the one complaint that was upheld for entirely different reasons  
were or werent suitable for Ms C given her circumstances at the time regardless of her 
understanding of how the product worked. Its not something I have to determine before I 
can reach a decision  in this case, and I havent  just assumed that the previous advisers 
havent done a good job. 
I understand that in certain circumstances  previous  experience of a product can broadly be 
taken to mean a degree of familiarity with it. But just because someone has been  advised to 
take out a product on several occasions  in the past,  doesnt  automatically mean   despite 
having experience of the product  that the advice to take it out another  time is suitable,  or 
that it can be taken  as read that the consumer knew how the product worked, including in 
this instance how the maximum potential return was calculated  and whether  it was right for 
them at the time.  
Ref: DRN36690204On balance, Im not persuaded  by the argument  that evidence  concerning  the advisers 
recommendations report proves that a discussion took place about structured products 
versus fixed rate bonds and she specifically rejected the fixed rate bond and was prepared  
to accept the risk of unknown returns linked to the performance of the stock  market as long 
as her capital was safe.  
As I said in my provisional decision I appreciate  that Ms C wanted  to reinvest her money into 
a locked-in investment  on the basis that itd be inaccessible so that she wouldnt be able to 
touch it for a few years.  Access to the funds and term of investment were  never  an issue. 
I appreciate some discussion is likely to have taken place, possibly. And Ms C may very well 
have rejected the fixed rate bonds in favour of the structured products, but she will have 
done so on the basis of the advice she received.  
My reference to the possibility of a nil return was in relation to any return  over and above the 
return of capital plus 15% minimum. Evidently Ms C wanted to make  some money in the run 
up to her retirement.  
Despite what Santander says about the potential returns, Im minded  to say I think  this 
investment  at the point in time in her life given her overall circumstances  was too much  
of her money invested in structured products. 
I agree  with the investigators conclusion that Santander is unlikely to have provided  the 
relevant product documentation or  amongst other  things  information regarding  the FTSE  
100 Index explaining the likelihood of growth over the next six years,  in excess of what was 
available on  for example  the guaranteed fixed rate bond, over a similar period.
As I have said above and in my provisional decision,  the bond might  be considered suitable 
for an investor who wanted to take little or no risk with their capital  and might (or might  not) 
have been a suitable recommendation for Ms C in the past  but I dont think  it was in this 
instance for Ms C at that point in her life. 
Turning to the issue of redress,  Im most  grateful for Santanders explanation  of the 
maximum potential return. But I think its unlikely that Ms C wouldve received  an 
explanation with the same level of detail which lends weight to my conclusion two 
paragraphs up. 
So, whilst I appreciate that it wasnt one fixed percentage but a band from 15.1% to 50%,  
and had the FTSE 100 Index during the averaging period averaged  slightly  it wouldve tipped 
into the maximum return and Ms C wouldve received higher than 15%,  this doesnt change 
my decision  to uphold  the complaint for the reasons Ive explained above and in my 
provisional decision. 
Santander is within its rights to object to my redress proposal, just as it has done so in 
relation to my decision to uphold this complaint. 
It was an oversight on my part to ask Santander  to award redress based on a five year term 
investment  that I subsequently found  out it didnt  offer (but didnt know at the time)  for a 
six year term investment. 
Ref: DRN36690205There was no suggestion, either  by myself  or the investigator, that Santander  had agreed to 
this interest rate, or that it sold any of the other  products  offered by other businesses as 
mentioned by the investigator. Santander was simply  asked to consider the position.  
Whilst Santander may think the subject of redress isnt relevant in response to my 
provisional decision, I would disagree.  Regardless of its stance on the merits of this 
complaint, it has had an opportunity to object and raise any alternative redress  it might  
consider relevant but has chosen  not to. I note it said that the  FCA method of calculating 
redress for the industry is to use the Bank  of England  Fixed  Rate  Bond Averages which I 
agree with. 
So, in light of what I consider to be fair and reasonable I propose  the following redress:
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Ms C 
as close to the position she would  probably now be in if she had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Ms C would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely  
what she would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Ms C's circumstances  and objectives when she invested.  
what should  Santander do?
To compensate Ms C fairly,  Santander  must:
Compare the performance of Ms C's investment  with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Santander  should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
Stockmarke
t Linked 
Savings  
Bond Issue 
24maturedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Ref: DRN36690206To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Santander 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation 
from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Santander totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Ms C wanted to achieve  a reasonable return without risking  any of her capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Ms C's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Ms C would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision 
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Santander UK Policy should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Santander UK Policy  should provide details of its calculation to Ms C in a clear,  simple 
format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 November  2019.
..
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36690207COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms C complains she was given unsuitable  investment advice by Santander  UK Plc. 
background
In 2012, Ms C was advised to invest £10,000  into Santanders six year stock  market bond 
with the objective of saving towards  her retirement.  Ms C was guaranteed to get back  at 
least her capital plus a minimum interest  return of around 15% with a potential for higher  
returns. 
In 2018, the bond matured and Ms C received  the return  of capital plus maturity  proceeds 
amounting to £11,500. 
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint. In its final response letter dated November 2018, it 
said it didnt believe the advice was unsuitable.  It said the bond  offered a guaranteed  return  
of the capital if held for the full term and was suitable for very low or cautious  risk investors. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld.  In 
summary, he said:
It was recorded  that Ms C wasnt an experienced investor and didnt consider she 
had a lot of capital. What capital she did have she wanted  to keep secure. 
In theory  the bond might be considered suitable for an investor who wanted to take 
little or no risk with their capital but not in this instance. 
Santander didnt  provide the relevant product documentation or  amongst other  
things  information regarding the FTSE 100 Index  explaining the likelihood  of growth  
over the next six years,  in excess  of what was available on  for example  the 
guaranteed fixed  rate bond,  over a similar  period. 
Although Ms Cs investment objective was recorded as better growth  potential  than 
can be achieved through normal fixed rate bonds and are happy to have  unknown  
returns that are linked to the stock market her circumstances  suggest  she wasnt 
willing to take that risk. 
It was recorded  that security was of particular  concern for Ms C as she only had 
nine years to save up for her retirement. So she wanted to maximise  her return with 
no risk. 
If Ms C was made  aware that she might  only get back £11,500 after six years  its 
likely she wouldnt  have gone ahead with the investment.  Particularly compared with 
what was guaranteed  with the guaranteed  fixed term bonds.  
Santander disagreed with the investigators  conclusions. It maintains Ms C was familiar  with 
how these products worked. In summary,  it said:
This was the fourth structured product Ms C has invested in. Its clear shes  unhappy 
with her final return and thats  why shes  complaining about the suitability of the 
recommendation. 
She re-invested £10,000 from her 2012  maturing  Guaranteed Capital Plus Issue 6 
plan. Documentation  from the previous products  show  they all work in a similar way  
with a potential  maximum return based on the FTSE 100 Index.  
Ref: DRN36690208Ms C was extremely familiar with fixed  rate bonds too having  had four with Santander 
before investing  in this product. 
It doesnt agree that Ms C wouldve gone for a fixed rate bond. The structured  
products had far greater potential for growth.  There was no evidence to suggest  that 
Ms C didnt  understand as a minimum shed get back her capital plus 15%. 
Our investigator having considered all the points but wasnt persuaded to change his mind.   
In summary  he said:
Given that so much  of her portfolio was already invested in structured products, the 
recommendation to invest a further £10,000  was unsuitable.  
After the advice in 2012, £37,460  (81% of her portfolio)  was held in structured 
deposit products  and £8,862 (19%)  was held in cash. Its unlikely  Ms C would want  to 
risk so much of her portfolio to the risk that if the underlying asset performed badly 
she wouldnt get back as much as she would with the fixed rate bonds.  
Ms C was looking to invest her capital in a broadly risk-free product and was looking 
for the best rate available.  Santander  was offering a five year guaranteed fixed rate 
bond at a rate of 3.9%. On this basis Santander  should calculate redress  as follows:
o Compare the return Ms C received on the stockmarket linked savings bond 
at its maturity date with the return she wouldve  got if shed  invested  the 
capital in a five year fixed rate bond  with a guaranteed annual return  of 3.9%, 
and then invested the proceeds in a product  with return  equal the Bank  of 
England fixed rate bond 12-17 months  for the final year. 
oSantander should add 8% simple  interest  per year to this loss from the date 
of bond maturity to the date of settlement. 
oIf any tax is deducted  Ms C should  be provided  with a HMRC tax certificate in 
case she is able to reclaim the tax. 
Santander disagreed and made the following  key observations:
In relation to a previous upheld  complaint  an ombudsman said they werent 
persuaded that a fact find had been completed  or that Ms C was issued a suitability 
letter. Instead she was told to make a quick  decision with little or no information.  If 
Santander had been able to produce  the sales papers the complaint  might not have 
been upheld.  
In relation to Ms C having 79% of her portfolio (£37,460 out of £47,329) in structured 
products it refers us to the Summary of my recommendations for savings and 
investments in the Suitability Report which says:
oyou came into branch  to discuss maturity options for your Guaranteed 
Capital Plus 6 Investment  Plan. You wish to leave this money invested to 
support you in retirement so you are happy to consider reinvestment options 
for the majority of it. 
oso you want to keep your capital  locked away now to resist the temptation  
as you have spent  some in recent years.
oYou want to keep  this capital as secure  as you can but you want  to try to 
outperform what you can expect to receive  from deposit accounts.
Ms C wasnt investing a further  £10,000  into structured products as this was already 
invested in a structured product and she was looking to roll over into another  locked-
in investment that she couldnt touch for a number of years.  
She already  has £27,460 invested  in structured products based on the FTSE 100 
Index  the final return was calculated over a different time product to the new 
Ref: DRN36690209Stockmarket Linked Savings Bond she was taking out. For this reason it doesnt 
consider it a concern that it retained  79% of her funds in structured products.  
When considering  suitability considerable importance is placed  on past experience   
Ms C had three similar  products  which calculated returns  in the similar way. She has 
a reasonable understanding of how these products  work. In addition  she held four 
fixed rate bonds which according to the fact find were also discussed but she wanted  
something with a better  potential  return. 
The sales documentation  proves that its adviser  did a very thorough  job. And it was 
Ms Cs responsibility to read through all the documentation.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for reviews. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, Im minded to agree with the investigators conclusions  for much the same 
reasons. Im going  to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Santander says, Im not 
persuaded this recommendation  was suitable for Ms C. Unlike  the investigator I have 
proposed a slightly different redress.
When advising Ms C, as with all sales, the business adviser  had two key responsibilities. To 
make sure that she was given an adequate  explanation of what  she was investing in, and to 
make sure any investment  recommended  was suitable  for her needs  and circumstances.
Structured investments  in common with other capital protected  products - can be designed 
to at least return the capital invested,  but arent without risk. So although these bonds were  
capital protected,  the possibility of receiving  a nil (or very low) return   aside from the 
minimum guarantee  can be a real risk, particularly because of the effect of inflation  on the 
purchasing power  of the investors money, as a result of locking the money in for five or six 
years. 
I dont think its necessarily fair to say that just because Ms Cs invested  in similar structured 
products in the past; she clearly knows what shes doing because I dont think  she did. If this 
was the attitude  taken  by the adviser  and Im not saying that it was  it may be that they 
assumed Ms C knew more about investments than she did. 
I think that if Ms C fully understood the risks of the investments being offered, shed most 
likely have been willing to forego higher potential returns  from the investment in favour of a 
secure return without the associated  risks.
Ive seen no other evidence that makes me think that Ms C was a particularly sophisticated 
or experienced investor who would have  been  capable of understanding and appreciating 
the complexities of the recommended  investment and the additional risks involved from the 
literature alone.  
Im mindful of what Santander says about the potential maximum but I think ultimately its 
only that  a potential. Im not satisfied that Ms C fully understood or appreciated the 
chances of obtaining that potential maximum was. 
Ref: DRN366902010I appreciate that Ms C wanted  to reinvest  her money  into a locked-in investment on the 
basis that itd be inaccessible  so that she wouldnt be able to touch it for a few years.   And 
she may very well have rejected the fixed  rate bonds in favour of the bond,  but she will have  
done so on the basis of the advice she received. The issue isnt so much that she didnt 
understand the minimum shed get back was her capital plus 15%, but the realistic chances  
of her achieving the maximum, which I suggest on balance she didnt understand. And its 
also in this respect that Im minded to say I think this investment  at this point on time  was 
too much  money  invested in similar  structured products. 
So if she were to compare  that with what she was guaranteed  to get over the same period 
from a fixed rate bond on balance I think she wouldve gone for the latter.  Im not sure why 
Santander keeps  saying if the product achieved the maximum  potential  she wouldnt have 
complained, she was unlikely to have  achieved the potential maximum, so I dont think  its 
really the point. 
As I understand it, the FTSE 100 Index linked to the stock market, would have to perform  
exceptionally well, in order for Ms C to do better  than the high street  rates of return  and be in 
with a chance of making the potential  maximum.  
But based  on what Ive seen, Im unable to safely say that she was made aware of this or the 
underlying complexities in this investment.  Put differently, the FTSE 100 Index would need  to 
reach a certain  level before the investment could generate a higher growth. And given  Ms 
Cs age and proximity to retirement I dont agree that the risk  particularly of no return  was 
suitable. 
Whether or not the historic investment  advice  was suitable  it might have been given her 
circumstances at the time  its not what Im considering in this complaint. I acknowledge 
that structured investment  products  can be suitable for customers who have a very low 
attitude to risk but it depends on their overall  circumstances at the time.  Peoples wants and 
needs change  over time, and financial advice can never be a one size fits all approach.  
I acknowledge it was recorded that security was of particular concern for Ms C as she only 
had nine years to save up for her retirement.  So she wanted to maximise  her return  with no 
risk. But I dont think she wanted just the potential to maximise  her return  with no real 
chance of getting there.   
I agree  with the investigator that if Ms C was aware of the risks involved she wouldnt  have  
invested in the bond, despite it having the possibility of higher returns. The fact she 
remained invested for the full term isnt evidence she was aware of the risks involved. 
In terms of redress and to keep matters  simple I think  Santander  should  pay redress, of D + 
E, where:
A = the original  investment  of £10,000  in the Santanders six year stock market 
bond.
B = interest at the rate of 3.9%  available for a five year fixed rate bond at the time 
but for the duration  of the investment.
C = the actual value of the stock market  bond at the date it matured;    
Ref: DRN366902011D = A + B  C;
E = interest on D at the rate of 8% per annum simple from the date the bond 
matured to the date of settlement.   
If Santander considered  that it should  deduct  income tax from the interest calculated  above, 
it must  send  a tax deduction certificate  with the payment.  Ms C may reclaim  any tax overpaid  
from HM Revenue  and Customs, if her circumstances permit her to do so, unless the tax 
deduction certificate wouldnt be applicable. 
In other  words, Santander may pay the interest  net of tax, so long as it provides a tax 
deduction certificate. Otherwise if its simply a notional deduction that Ms C has no way of 
claiming back  providing that shes eligible to do so  I dont think its fair.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further  submissions, provisionally Im minded 
to uphold this complaint.  
Santander UK Plc should pay redress as set out above. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3669020