K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that TFS Loans  Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
Mr H was given a single loan by TFS. In June  2011 he borrowed  £4,000  and agreed to repay  
the loan in 60 monthly instalments. Mr Hs mother agreed to act as a guarantor  for the loan. 
Mr H faced some problems repaying the loan, but the loan appears to have  been  fully repaid 
in February 2016.
TFS originally thought  that this complaint had been  made too late. I issued a decision in 
September 2020 explaining why I thought the complaint had been made in time. So Mr Hs 
complaint was assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She didnt think the checks TFS had 
completed before agreeing to lend to Mr H had been  proportionate. And she thought  that 
better checks would  have shown that Mr H wouldnt  be able to afford to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner.  So she didnt think TFS should have agreed the loan and asked the 
lender to pay Mr H some  compensation.
TFS didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, 
it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our process. If 
Mr H accepts my decision it is legally binding  on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Hs complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time TFS gave this loan to Mr H required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so TFS had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr H. In practice this 
meant that TFS had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr H undue 
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for TFS to simply think  
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr H. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
Ref: DRN31178892the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether TFS did what it needed to before agreeing  to lend 
to Mr H.
TFS gathered some information from Mr H before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and gathered information about  his normal  expenditure repaying  other  credit  
from his credit file.
The check  of Mr Hs credit  file showed TFS that he had faced multiple problems  managing 
his credit accounts. He had defaulted on a loan in 2007. And the majority of Mr Hs open 
credit accounts were showing that they were in arrears. TFS says it discussed these 
problems with Mr H who explained they had resulted from confusion over who was 
responsible for making the repayments  following the recent breakup of a relationship. He 
told TFS that he was now in a far more  stable financial position.
What Mr H had told TFS might have been  entirely  true. But I think  it was equally likely  that 
the adverse information showing on his credit file was representative of current  problems 
that Mr H might have been facing  managing  his money. I dont think it was reasonable for 
TFS to rely on Mr Hs explanation without undertaking  further  checks.
Mr H was entering into a significant  commitment  with TFS. He would need  to make monthly 
repayments for a period of five years. So, given what I have said above, I would expect that 
TFS would want to gather, and independently check, some detailed  information about Mr Hs 
financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I dont think  that the checks it did 
were enough. I think it would have been  proportionate for TFS to independently check the 
true state of Mr Hs finances before agreeing the loan. 
But although  I dont  think the checks TFS did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, that in 
itself doesnt mean  that Mr Hs complaint  should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that 
what I consider to be proportionate  checks would have shown TFS that Mr H couldnt 
sustainably afford the repayments. So Ive looked  at Mr Hs bank statements, and what  hes 
told us about his financial situation, to see what better checks  would have shown TFS.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check  that TFS 
should have carried  out. I do think TFS needed evidence to corroborate what Mr H said was 
happening with his finances.  And looking at his bank  statements is one way of achieving  that 
although there are of course many  other  ways that level of detail could be established. But 
I think that by looking  at Mr Hs bank statements I can get a good idea of what  better checks 
might have shown.
Ref: DRN31178893TFSs checks at the time didnt ask Mr H to provide details of his normal expenditure on 
things such as utility  bills, food and transport costs. Some of these items are individually 
detailed on his bank  statements. But others,  in particular those relating to household costs,  
appear to have been covered by payments  that Mr H made  to his partner. Mr H has provided 
us with a breakdown of that expenditure, and I have no reason to doubt  what  he has told us.
Looking at the information about Mr Hs expenditure, and taking  account  of his normal  
income, it is clear that his outgoings were exceeding his income. And that would  explain  why 
he was already struggling to meet his repayments on his existing credit accounts. So given 
those problems, and that there was no indication that things were likely  to improve  in the 
short term, it wouldnt be reasonable for a lender to conclude that Mr H would be able to 
meet further credit repayments in a sustainable  manner. I think that is the conclusion  that 
TFS would have reached had it seen the information  it should have from what  I consider to 
be proportionate checks.
So, to summarise, I dont think the checks TFS did before agreeing to lend to Mr H were 
sufficient. And I think that better checks would have led TFS to conclude  the loan wouldnt 
be repaid in a sustainable  manner. So I dont think that TFS should  have agreed to lend to 
Mr H, and needs to pay him some  compensation.
putting things right
I dont think that TFS should have agreed  to lend to Mr H in June 2011. So TFS should;
refund  all the interest and charges Mr H paid on the loan 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS to take off tax from this interest. TFS must  give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct TFS Loans  Limited to put things 
right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3117889