K820x#14complaint
Mr D, via his representative Ms T, has complained about the provider of the building  
warranty that was issued for his home,  National House-Building Council (NHBC). His home,  
a ground floor flat, is suffering condensation  and mould and NHBC wont fix it.
background
NHBC issued  a warranty for Mr Ds flat in February 2013. Ms T says that in mid-2015 they 
noticed mould growth in the property.  They contacted the developer  and, later, NHBC. When 
they contacted  NHBC they described  the damp and mould issues  they were seeing and said 
they were worried about their health.
NHBC said that Mr D hadnt contacted it until April 2016. It said his claim, regarding 
condensation and mould was being  considered under section 3 of the cover for damage 
caused by a defect found  in years three to ten of the cover.
Mr D provided  a report from a surveyor which found  that condensation and mould was 
present in the area of cold spots  in the wall, indicative, the surveyor said,  of defective 
insulation. NHBC said the condensation was likely being caused by lack of heating  and 
ventilation. It said a defect  had to be a breach of an NHBC technical requirement  and that 
the damage had to be more than just cosmetic. It said the mould could be wiped away but, in 
any event, it was being caused  by the condensation  which isnt a defect or within a part of 
the home covered by section 3 of the warranty.
Mr D complained to us. Our investigator  wasnt minded to uphold  the complaint.  She noted  
particularly that section 3 only gives cover for damage caused by defects present in certain  
parts of the property. She noted the cavity of walls wasnt one of the parts  listed.
Ms T argued that the cavity is an integral  part of the wall, and load bearing walls are 
covered, so if there is a defect with the insulation within  the cavity  part of the wall, there is a 
defect with the wall. She also pointed out that her health has been  affected and (if section  3 
doesnt apply) NHBC should be covering  this under  section 4 of the policy.
Our investigator asked  NHBC  for its view on cover being available under section 4. Section  4 
offers cover where there is an imminent or present danger to the health of occupants  
because the home doesnt meet certain  specified  building regulations. NHBC initially said 
that insulation  is covered  by Part L of the building regulations,  and that part isnt one of the 
specified regulations covered by the warranty. Our investigator pointed out that Part C is a 
specified regulation covered and that Part C does discuss walls,  cavities, insulation, 
condensation and mould. She felt this along  with the surveyors report, and the details  
provided about health risks presented by mould, were  sufficient  to say NHBC should 
consider a claim under this section of cover. She said it should also pay £250 compensation.
Ms T welcomed the finding but felt £250 wasnt sufficient compensation. She also asked 
about replacement  of belongings damaged by mould. Our investigator explained that the 
warranty doesnt cover belongings.
NHBC felt it wasnt  clear  that a building  regulation  had been breached. It said the developer 
had confirmed to it what material had been  used  for insulation and it had provided a 
certificate showing this material allowed building regulations to be complied  with. NHBC also 
maintained its view that the condensation  was being caused by lifestyle choices rather  than 
Ref: DRN37715052any proven defect. It said the surveyors report was based on thermal  imaging and this is a 
technique it generally doesnt  favour as it can produce flawed results.  It also noted that whilst 
Ms T had been under investigation regarding her health and its link to the mould,  no 
confirmation from a medical professional had shown a link between  the two. NHBC said that 
in the past we have said a link has to be proven.
Our investigator considered NHBCs response but wasnt  minded  to change her view. She 
told it that as the surveyors report had been  key to our finding in favour of Mr D, NHBC 
should reimburse the cost of it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the warranty
The warranty offers different cover at different times. So if a defect  is notified  to the 
developer and/or NHBC in the first two years of cover, the warranty offers cover for rectifying 
that defect. In years three to ten only damage caused by defects (defects which are present 
in certain specified  parts  of the property)  is covered.  There  is no cover for rectifying the 
defects themselves.
But, where NHBC carries out the role of the building  inspector, section 4 of the warranty  can 
apply. Section 4 offers  cover for repairs where  the property doesnt  comply with building  
regulations and this is causing an imminent or present  danger  to the health of the occupants.
section 2
The issue  with mould and condensation  wasnt noticed by Mr D until more than two years  
after the warranty was issued. Therefore, Im satisfied that NHBCs view that there is no 
cover for any defect  under section 2 is fair and reasonable. 
section 3
Taking this from Mr Ds point of view, the damage  is perhaps both condensation  and mould,  
both of which have  resulted  from a defect  with the insulation. However, just because  Mr Ds 
surveyor refers to the insulation likely being defective, doesnt mean the issue falls for cover 
under section 3. Thats  because the policy defines a defect as being  a breach of NHBCs  
technical requirements. Plus any defect  has to be within a part of the property specified in 
section 3. I know Ms T has disputed that the latter  of these two does apply (as the 
cavity/insulation within it, is part and parcel  of the wall) but Im not persuaded shes  correct  in 
this argument.  And I havent seen that any issue with the insulation  most likely equates to a 
breach of NHBCs technical  requirements  and is, therefore, a defect. And whilst  I know  
Ms T speculates that the weather might be causing  this issue (meaning there  might  be a 
defect with a part of the building  that is covered and which is causing this damage), Ive seen 
no evidence to make me think  this is likely  the case.
section 4
Ms T didnt specifically mention section 4 until after our investigator issued her view. 
However, the issue has always been  about  whether defective insulation, condensation  and 
Ref: DRN37715053mould are covered  under  the policy. NHBC chose to answer  this in respect of whether 
section 2 or 3 applied.  It was always open  to it to look at the other  section of the policy. In 
any event, when Ms T raised  it specifically NHBC was given chance to consider the issue.
It isnt currently clear  to me if Mr D has a claim under section 4 that will likely succeed. But 
I do think there is sufficient information available to suggest NHBC reasonably  needs  to 
consider a claim more  fully under  this section. And I say that in part not least because  
NHBC, whilst  having had the opportunity  to do so, hasnt provided sufficient evidence to 
satisfy me that considering a claim  under  this section  would  likely  be inherently 
unreasonable because,  for example, there is clearly no breach of a relevant building 
regulation.
I am satisfied there is likely a defect  (using the common parlance of the word,  rather  than a 
defect as required by other parts of the warranty) with the insulation.  The surveyors report 
isnt conclusive,  but it doesnt  have to be. It only has to satisfy that a defect is most likely. 
And whilst NHBC  may not like the technique  the surveyor  used  it hasnt persuaded me his 
findings were likely flawed. 
Im also satisfied that Part C of the building regulations  refers  to walls meeting certain 
specifications to prevent  or reduce condensation  and/or  mould. The surveyors  report says a 
defect with the insulation is causing  the condensation. Therefore, it seems likely to me, on 
the face of it, that the building  regulations  cant have  been complied with.
In its defence NHBC has said the developer  confirmed a certain  material  was used and this 
has been certified to conform  with the relevant building regulations. It provided a certificate 
to show this. Whilst I understand that NHBC thinks the regulations have been complied with 
 telling me that the developer confirms it has used a particular material  doesnt satisfy  me 
that is what was used. Furthermore, the certificate  contains a caveat  that the material 
always has to be used  appropriately and applied correctly. Ive seen no evidence of that. 
Therefore, Im satisfied  that, on the face of it, its likely the building regulations havent been 
complied with, and NHBC hasnt provided any persuasive evidence to make me think that 
conclusion is likely  wrong or unreasonable. 
Ms T is an occupant of the property.  She has been under investigation for mould related 
illnesses. Her doctor confirms that she hadnt  previously  suffered with respiratory issues. 
Ms T also supplied various  detail  about  the likely  effects on health from mould. The warranty 
only requires an imminent or present danger to health for the occupants  Im satisfied that 
Ms T has shown, on the face of it, the problem at the property is causing that. 
Having reviewed everything, I think NHBC fairly  and reasonably  needs  to consider a claim 
under section 4 of the warranty. As I said above I cant  say at this stage whether that claim 
should fairly and reasonably succeed. But I do think NHBC should have considered a claim 
in this respect before now. I think it should also reimburse the cost of the surveyors  report,  
and the doctors  letter,  plus interest* from the date they were paid for until settlement is 
made.
compensation
Mr D has clearly been caused distress and inconvenience  by NHBCs refusal to accept a 
claim under the warranty. In some respects  I think it made some valid points about cover.  
But I do think it should have considered  the claim under section 4 previously  even  though 
Ref: DRN37715054Ms T didnt specifically mention this section until later, NHBC as the warranty  provider and 
insurance expert should have noted  their claim might fall for cover in this respect.  NHBCs 
refusal to assist has clearly been  upsetting for Mr D, Im satisfied that £250  compensation is 
fairly and reasonably due. 
belongings
I know that Ms T would like belongings to be replaced by NHBC,  but the warranty doesnt  
offer cover for that. Whilst NHBC  should have considered the claim under section 4 earlier, 
I cant reasonably make  it replace items the warranty doesnt cover  just because of that 
delay. Even  had NHBC acted earlier to consider  the claim under section 4, it seems  unlikely 
the damage to the belongings would have been prevented. Ms T only notified NHBC of the 
issue in April 2016, but the developer had been  informed and refused to act in 2015.  Even  in 
April 2016 Ms T said there was mould  under the sofa and significant damp and mould  in the 
bedroom including in the cupboards and on the mattress.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require National  House-Building Council to:
consider Mr Ds claim regarding condensation  and mould under section 4 of the warranty  
taking into account my comments above as well as the terms and conditions of the 
warranty.
reimburse Mr D the cost for the surveyors report and doctors letter, upon sight  of proof  
of payment, plus interest* from the date they were  paid for until settlement is made.
pay Mr D £250 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience its caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If National House-
Building Council considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr D, it 
should tell him how much  its taken off. It should also give Mr D a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3771505