K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the advice Pro-Synergy Wealth  & Tax Management Ltd gave him in 
2012 to invest  in a Business Premises Renovation Allowance Scheme (BPRA). 
background
Mr W spoke with an adviser  from Pro-Synergy  in early  April 2012 initially via a telephone, 
and then met with the adviser in person a few days later. The notes  of the meeting confirm 
that it hadnt been possible  to complete a full review for Mr W because  of the timescales  for 
investing in the particular  BPRA scheme  under discussion. The notes say that Mr W had 
quite a few questions and they discussed the main commercial risks around the hotel 
business trade, the tax relief and how this works  and why, and what  could potentially go 
wrong.  Once the questions had been  answered and Mr W was happy  to proceed, the 
paperwork was filled in to invest. 
Shortly after this meeting Pro-Synergy produced a suitability report  for Mr W. This report set 
out, broadly, Mr Ws circumstances. It confirmed his income was in excess of £500,000 and 
that he wanted to invest  £50,000. It said that his current priority was income tax planning. 
In the section called attitude to risk it confirmed  that risk applied to the investment, and 
drew Mr Ws attention  to risk warnings in the report and in the memorandum for the LLP. 
The risk warning section  in the suitability report outlined almost two pages worth of risks with 
the investment.  That section started by saying  that Mr S should consider the suitability of the 
investment for himself and in light of his personal  circumstances and financial resources. It 
listed a number of risk warnings which the report said were not intended to be exhaustive 
and then referred Mr W to a risk warning  notice which, in short,  explained that Mr W was 
being advised to invest in a non-readily realisable asset. 
The report  set out a taxation risk warning which explained that the outcome of any 
investment in BPRA schemes  depended on the use of taxation reliefs  and allowances, and 
so investors should  have obtained advice  from their own tax advisers before applying to 
invest in the BPRA scheme. 
The report  recommended  an investment  in a particular BPRA  scheme to Mr W on the basis 
that it was the most appropriate tax shelter  for your circumstances. In essence,  Mr W would 
become a partner  in a limited liability partnership (the LLP). This LLP would  be responsible 
for purchasing the land or building requiring redevelopment, and then refurbishing it. In this 
case, the aim of the LLP was to fund and develop a hotel  at the site of the refurbishment. 
The LLP would be funded  by partner contributions, as well as an interest  free loan provided 
by the developer to the partnership.
In turn, the LLPs spending was intended  to qualify for BPRA,  thereby allowing investors to 
recoup their initial investment by the tax relief they would receive on their income tax. 
It said that the LLP he was investing in was expected to quality  for tax relief at 96.6% of the 
gross expenditure. 
Pro-Synergy had agreed a separate arrangement for its clients with the developer. In short, 
the developer  would provide the initial capital contribution required to subscribe and become  
a member of the LLP. In return, the client would sign a waiver which confirmed  that any tax 
rebate would be paid back to the developer to settle  the loan. 
Ref: DRN37204462Between 2013 and 2016 the LLP encountered  difficulties  in receiving all the relevant 
subscriptions from the partners. At around the same time, HMRC began  investigating the 
LLP, and whether or not it actually qualified for BPRA. Eventually this meant that Mr W was 
served with a notice  from HRMC to pay back the tax he had initially  claimed.  He initially paid 
back around £28,990. 
Mr W complained  and brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  and thought it should be upheld. In short, 
she explained:
No full fact find was carried out prior to investing, and as a consequence, Pro-
Synergy didnt collect any information about  Mr Ws investment  experience,  or 
investments which he held at the time  nor anything about  his attitude to risk or 
capacity for loss. 
Even though  it was Mr W who approached Pro-Synergy,  it shouldve explained to him 
that it wouldnt be able to advise him on the merits of investing  into the scheme  given 
the timescales available. If so, its unlikely Mr W wouldve  been  able to find another 
adviser, and so he wouldnt have invested  in the scheme  at all in 2012.
In any event, if Pro-Synergy had carried out the relevant fact find and done what it 
was required to do to establish whether the investment was suitable for Mr W, it 
wouldve understood that it wasnt.  There were  a number  of risks inherent within  the 
scheme which Mr W was, on balance, unlikely  to want to accept. For example his 
holding in the investment was illiquid until such time as the investment was sold. The 
investment itself was potentially contravening HMRC rules because  he was investing 
the proceeds of a loan (which he would then pay back with the tax relief). In addition,  
the little information Pro-Synergy did have about his financial circumstances  (the fact 
that he had around £100,000 jointly owned  with someone else) didnt specify  where  
this money came  from nor whether  he would  be able to use it to absorb any losses in 
relation to the investment.  
The investigator therefore thought Mr W should be compensated. 
Mr W agreed, but Pro-Synergy didnt agree:
It acknowledged there was little time to complete the fact finding  documents  prior to 
Mr W signing the relevant form in relation to his first investment in the BPRA scheme 
in 2012. However,  this was due to Mr W not wanting  to lose the opportunity and 
therefore there was very little time to complete the relevant paperwork.  This didnt 
mean that Pro-Synergy didnt consider suitability  and in fact its position  was that 
the scheme was suitable for Mr W.
Pro-Synergy didnt consider the loan which was provided to Mr W was a linked loan 
because the loan always had to be repaid. 
For this reason it didnt  consider this was the type of situation which had been subject 
to legal proceedings in a different case were such an arrangement had invalidated 
the tax relief that was claimed.  
In any event, Pro-Synergy had sought the advice of the schemes  tax and legal 
advisors who had provided  assurances  that this scheme was different to the one that 
had been the subject  of legal proceedings. 
Mr Ws view that the advice  was unsuitable was based on hindsight  and the fact that 
HMRC changed its interpretation  of the rules in 2013 following  investigations  in 
artificial schemes. Pro-Synergy said that this wasnt an artificial scheme and there  
Ref: DRN37204463was no reason to believe  in 2012 or 2013  that the tax relief  would be challenged by 
HMRC or that the partnership would go into administration.  
The reasons  for the failure  of the scheme were still being  investigated  and until such 
time as those reasons had been  fully established, it wasnt  fair to blame Pro-Synergy 
for things it couldnt have foreseen at the time the advice was given. 
Pro-Synergy acknowledged  that there  was a risk that the tax relief  might have to be 
repaid by Mr W, but he was told about that and warned at the outset. In any event,  all 
this meant was that Mr W would end up in the same position as if he had paid the tax 
that was due. He would not have suffered a loss or such a substantial loss. 
The scheme failed  because the LLP went into administration and the hotel was sold.  
Pro-Synergy didnt cause the failure  of the LLP and there were many other factors 
involved. 
Although HMRC were  apparently intending on clawing  back 100% of the tax relief 
available, this didnt  mean they were entitled  to do so and therefore that decision, 
when it is eventually  made, shouldnt necessarily be accepted.  Mr W had a duty to 
mitigate his losses and therefore should give due consideration and tax advice if 
necessary as to whether an appeal should be issued  against  any closure notice. 
Pro-Synergy didnt accept 8% interest on the heads of loss was appropriate  given 
that Mr W would never have received such a return had he not invested the money. 
In response to these  points Mr W provided further submissions:
Mr W was a new client to Pro-Synergy and it knew nothing about  his circumstances, 
and yet within a few days had advised to invest £50,000 in a complex  tax avoidance  
scheme. Given these circumstances, Pro-Synergy shouldnt have advised  Mr W to 
invest. And the only reason Mr W considered that he didnt want to miss  the 
opportunity was because Pro-Synergy had mis-sold the investment as an 
unmissable opportunity and put undue pressure on him to sign up. 
He didnt agree with Pro-Synergys points  in relation to the linked loan. It was clear  
that the principle,  in order to benefit from the tax relief which the BPRA  could deliver, 
was that the investment needed  to come from his own funds. In this case, the funds 
did not  they came  from a loan. And the repayment  of the loan was entirely 
dependent on the relief being  granted by HMRC. 
Mr W maintained  that the scheme was unsuitable for him, and he shouldnt have 
been advised to invest in it. He wasnt told of the relevant risks associated  with the 
investment, nor the even greater risk that HMRC would  see the loan he was being 
provided to invest in the scheme as a reason to clawback the relief it was providing.  
Its unreasonable to suggest that the duty to mitigate losses  meant that Mr W needed  
to challenge HMRCs  decision, given that on the face of it the challenge was valid.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by clarifying that this decision  only deals with the advice Mr W received to 
invest in 2012.  
Ive read the very detailed submissions provided  by Mr W, and I hope he doesnt take it as a 
discourtesy if I dont respond or address every point  that has been raised. Thats  not the 
Ref: DRN37204464purpose of my decision. The purpose  of my decision is to set out my findings on the key 
issues in the complaint.  
In this case, the key issue is the suitability  of the advice to invest in the BPRA  scheme in 
2012. Ive considered the evidence which Pro-Synergy has produced  in this regard very 
carefully, as well as the submissions provided  by Mr W. Ive taken particular account of 
Mr Ws witness statement  which I found  compelling, consistent and persuasive. 
I should say that I also dont  agree  with Pro-Synergy  that the key question  is to determine 
why the partnership failed nor do I agree  that the complaint is brought with the benefit  of 
hindsight. Its clear  that the failure of the partnership, and the total loss of Mr Ws investment, 
has prompted his complaint.  But, as I go on to explain  below,  there were a number of 
inherent risks in the scheme which Im satisfied ought to have been foreseen at the outset. 
Its one of the factors that meant the scheme  itself carried a high risk of capital loss  in 
addition to the fact that there  were  a number of reasons why any relief  paid by HMRC might 
need to be repaid by Mr W. 
These risks needed to be explained to Mr W, and Pro-Synergy needed  to ensure that Mr W 
was both willing and able to take those risks when investing. That goes to the heart of the 
issue of suitability in this case.  
But Im also not persuaded that the regulatory  changes Pro-Synergy has referred to werent 
foreseeable by the firm. I say this because rather than changes, it seems to me that HMRC 
was simply clarifying the rules in 2013 as they already existed. And one of the key issues  
was a court case decided  by the Supreme Court  in 2011. I think it wouldve been reasonable 
for a tax specialist firm to have  been aware  of that court  case, and to have at least explored 
what implications it had (if any) on the BPRA schemes it advised on. 
the advice
Its clear to me that there are a number of issues  with the way Mr W was advised in 2012. 
And Im satisfied the process Pro-Synergy followed was inadequate  and led to an unsuitable 
investment being  promoted to Mr W, and unsuitable advice being provided. 
I say this firstly because the evidence Ive seen persuasively indicates that the scheme was 
indeed promoted  as a government backed scheme, which  had a low probability of causing  
significant losses. In that regard,  I think  the suggestion that the investor neednt actually 
make a capital contribution at all, because it would  be funded  first by an interest free loan 
provided directly by the developer, and that loan would be settled in full by a tax rebate from 
HMRC, gives  an incomplete picture of the relevant risks and merits of the scheme.  
The issue  with this particular feature  of the investment ought to have  been  explained in 
much more detail  particularly because one of the risks of this arrangement  was HMRC 
disallowing the initial tax relief. 
In addition, there were  several other risks with the scheme which  in my view ought to have 
been carefully considered by Pro-Synergy before deciding  to promote, and subsequently 
recommend, this investment to Mr W. 
Some of the most significant risks included:
The value of the property bought and renovated by the LLP could fluctuate in value.
Ref: DRN37204465Mr W needed to keep  his interest  in the LLP for a minimum of seven years  if not, 
any tax relief received  would be clawed back by HMRC. 
Interest in the LLP wouldnt be quoted on any stock market  or other recognised  
investment exchange; so it couldve  been  difficult for Mr W to know how much his 
investment would be worth at any given point in time in the future. 
The LLP would still be liable for ongoing  costs of the property if it remained vacant at 
any time, as well as any loans funding the development. If the property remained 
vacant, or the tenant became insolvent,  in order to avoid  the loan being called upon  
the members of the LLP may be required to service  the loan. 
Problems in the development of the property, including  delays or variations to the 
planned layout  of the development could  have an impact on the BPRA  claim being 
made. 
There was no guarantee that all the expenditure incurred by the LLP would be 
accepted as qualifying for BRPA by HMRC  this means that the indications  Mr W 
was given about how much he could receive  in tax relief  was estimated. 
I acknowledge that these risks, in the main, featured  in the suitability report that was sent to 
Mr W after he invested. But in addition to establishing whether or not Mr W was willing  to 
take a certain  amount of risk with his investment, Pro-Synergy also needed to establish 
whether or not Mr W had sufficient knowledge and experience to understand the risks 
involved in the transaction.  Yet there  was insufficient  discussion  around these risks,  and no 
assessment by the adviser of Mr Ws previous investment experience.  
The evidence Mr W has provided, including a text message to Pro-Synergy from the time,  
indicates that Mr W had never invested in this type of investment before. Given  the number 
of risks involved  and the particular  features of this investment (including Pro-Synergys offer 
of an interest free loan) made it at best unusual, at worst non-qualifying for the purposes of 
tax relief, Im not persuaded Mr W wouldve fully appreciated what  risk he was exposing 
himself to. 
Finally, its clear that Mr W had a significant income. But here too there was an insufficient  
consideration of Mr Ws overall  financial circumstances, and in particular  whether  it would be 
possible for him to replenish a total loss of £50,000.  I consider thats  because  Pro-Synergy 
didnt consider, or discuss,  the possibility of HMRC asking him to pay back  the initial  tax 
relief. 
All in all, Im satisfied  Pro-Synergys  advice to Mr W to invest  in the BPRA scheme  in 2012 
was unsuitable  for Mr W. And Im satisfied that but for Pro-Synergys advice, he wouldnt 
have invested.  So I consider Mr W should  be compensated. 
putting things  right
Ive considered very carefully Pro-Synergys and Mr Ws comments on how to put matters 
right for Mr W. Having  done so, Im not persuaded to change  the investigators  
recommendations. I think what Ive outlined below  puts Mr W as far as possible back in the 
position he wouldve  been in but for Pro-Synergys unsuitable advice. 
Ref: DRN37204466In particular, Im not persuaded that theres much Mr W can do, or couldve done  at the time, 
to reasonably mitigate the losses hes faced and potentially  will face in the future. I dont 
agree that challenging HMRCs assessment of the BPRA scheme, or appealing its decision 
to clawback the tax relief  (and/or apply penalties)  is something an ordinary consumer should  
be expected to do. Given the specific circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I think  its reasonable 
for him to accept the validity of HMRCs  demands and pay what it tells him he needs to pay. 
I say this particularly  when considering that such a challenge would  likely  involve Mr W 
incurring further  professional costs   and with no real indication  of whether he would be 
successful or not.  
I also understand why Pro-Synergy thinks that our award of 8% interest on the relief Mr W 
has had to pay back to HMRC is too high. I appreciate that deposit rates are significantly 
lower than this. But it is not meant to reflect the return  Mr W would have received from a 
deposit account. It is meant to compensate Mr W for being deprived of his money for a 
period of time.
And its clear  that having to pay back this money  from his own funds has caused Mr W 
financial difficulties, and likely had an impact  on a range of decisions around his spending  
and borrowing at the time. 
As it isnt really possible to quantify  what this has meant for Mr W, our service  uses  the 8% 
per year simple rate in the majority  of similar cases.  Ive considered whether a different 
approach would be fair here, and Im not persuaded it would be
In order to put things  right for Mr W, Pro-Synergy must:
A.Pay Mr W £28,990 that hes already paid to HMRC and add 8% per year simple 
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement. 
B.Pay him the £21,010 which HMRC  has confirmed he will have to pay (as it is clawing 
back the full amount  he claimed in tax relief in 2012).  
C.Pay any interest  or charges which Mr W has paid to HMRC,  and add 8% per year 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
D.Pay any future amounts of interest and charges which  HMRC say are required after 
the date of settlement, although interest  would not be payable on those  amounts.  
Pro-Synergy must give an undertaking to pay those amounts within 28 days of being 
presented with proof of the amounts being charged. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Pro-Synergy Wealth & Tax Management 
Ltd must  pay the compensation Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 May 2019.
Ref: DRN37204467Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3720446