K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs G payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs G have said they were  told they had to take PPI in order  to have the mortgage. 
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence of this. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has 
done something wrong, fairness requires that the person  making the allegation should 
present evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to 
prove they didnt  do something,  especially when it was such  a long time ago. All I have is 
what Mr and Mrs G say they recall, and I have to bear in mind  that precise details of what 
was said so many years  ago might  have faded   although I acknowledge that Mr and Mrs G 
are very strong in what they say happened. I also acknowledge it would now be very difficult, 
if not impossible, for Mr and Mrs G to provide  supporting evidence. But without such  
evidence it wouldnt fair for me to conclude that the PPI was presented as non-optional.
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply.
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach  during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr and Mrs Gs particular circumstances. And it looks  to me as though a 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Gs situation at the time:
Finding yourself  unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to significant  difficulties.
Its likely  Mr G (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr G received  any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy  pay. It seems Mr and Mrs G didnt have savings at the 
Ref: DRN39745532time, and the PPI would  have put off the time when they would  need  to fall back  on 
any other support  they may have had for paying  the mortgage and other living costs. 
This all would have  put Mr and Mrs G in a more secure position, if theyd eventually 
lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs G took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have been  affected by any of these. 
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt  tell Mr and Mrs G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3974553