K821x#15complaint
Miss K has complained  about  an instalment loan Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 
118 Money) provided to her in 2017. Amongst  other  things, shes said that the loan was 
irresponsibly given to her as her credit  file wouldve shown that she already had a significant 
amount of existing debt.  
background
Miss K approached 118 118 Money  for a loan in July 2017. Miss K was provided  with a loan 
of £3500 and this was to be repaid over 24 monthly instalments of £355.95.
One of our adjudicators looked  at what 118 118 Money and Miss K said.  He thought that it 
was unfair  for 118 118 Money  to have provided this loan to Miss K. 118 118 Money  
disagreed and as it did so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
the regulatory framework
118 118 Money lent to Miss K while it was authorised and regulated  by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like 118 118 Money.  
CONC also replaced the requirements  set out in Section 55B CONC 5 sets out a firms  
obligations in relation  to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out a firms obligations after 
a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is 
evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules  specifically note and refer back  to 
sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
Ref: DRN36116202(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
Ref: DRN36116203(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
my findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions I need  to consider in order to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  These questions  are:
Did 118 118 Money complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that 
Miss K would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss K wouldve been able to do so?
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that 118 118 Money  didnt act fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Miss K 
and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what  is fair compensation.
Ref: DRN36116204Did 118 118 Money  complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that   
Miss K would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way?
The rules  and regulations in place  at the time 118 118 Money  lent to Miss K required it to 
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Miss K could afford  to 
repay his loan in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The affordability checks had to be borrower-focused   so 118 118 Money had to think 
about whether  Miss K would be able to repay the loan sustainably.  In practice this meant 
that 118 118 Money had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt cause 
Miss K undue difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt  enough  for 118 
118 Money to simply think about  the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider 
the impact of loan repayments on Miss K.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited  to) any indications  of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Before I look in more  detail at whether the checks that 118 118 Money completed for 
Miss Ks loan was proportionate, I have some  overall observations about its defence of its 
case.
Ref: DRN36116205118 118 Money says it carried  out a number of checks before it decided  to lend to Miss K. It 
says that it carried out a credit check and this together  with the income and expenditure 
information provided by Miss K was reviewed by its systems and assessed against its 
scorecard. It says it used industry standard verification checks  to validate the information 
provided by Miss K on the application.  Finally it has also referred to the information 
contained on Miss Ks loan agreement.
From what  I can see, 118 118 Money appears  to be relying on heavily on Miss Ks 
application having been assessed by its systems and against its scorecard. But it hasnt 
provided any detail  about its scorecard  or its industry standard  checks - I get the 
impression that it expects us to simply accept its scorecard resulted in a fair lending decision 
here. 
To be clear, 118 118 Money is responsible for the lending approved by its systems.  This 
service cannot and will not search  through dozens  of pages of coded  information looking for 
evidence to support  118 118 Moneys  defence of its scorecard and Miss Ks complaint. Id 
also point out that the use of industry standard software isnt in itself demonstrative  of the 
fact that 118 118 Moneys scorecard leads to fair lending decisions.  
Given 118 118 Money insists that Miss Ks loan was responsibly  lent, it ought  to know  and 
have explained   how it interpreted the information it gathered and how its scorecard led to a 
responsible lending decision being  made in this case. Without  this explanation from 118 118 
Money, I cannot and will not take it as read that this lending  decision was fair simply 
because the scorecard didnt trigger a manual review of Miss Ks application.
Equally while Ive seen 118 118 Moneys  reference  to the information on Miss Ks loan 
agreement, I cant  see that Miss K has ever complained about the amount of interest 
charged or that she didnt agree to taking out the loan. 
So I dont  see how Miss Ks loan application is relevant to the complaint thats in front of me. 
And Im certainly not persuaded that anything contained in the loan application or terms and 
conditions somehow negates 118 118 Moneys  regulatory obligation to lend responsibly. 
Were 118 118 Moneys checks reasonable and proportionate?
Having carefully thought  about what 118 118 Money  has said, I dont think that its checks  did 
go far enough.
As Ive set out above, CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge  for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.  
Miss Ks loan required her to make payments of around £350 for around two years.  So the 
total charge for Miss Ks credit was in excess of £5000. Im also mindful that 118 118 Money 
says that Miss K was asked what the purpose of this loan was and she said that she was 
going to use the funds  to consolidate existing debts.  
Taking all of this into account,  I think that 118 118 Money needed to get a thorough 
understanding of Miss Ks financial position. So as well as asking Miss K about the details of 
her income and expenditure, I think that 118 118 Money needed  to take steps to verify what  
Ref: DRN36116206it was being told by Miss K. It could have done  this by asking for information  such as bank 
statements, copies of bills, or even proof of Miss Ks income.  
Indeed CONC  5.3.1G(4)(b) says that where  it takes income or expenditure into account,  it is 
not generally sufficient  for a firm to rely solely on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer. 118 118 Money might have carried out a credit search. But I cant  see that it 
properly scrutinised what the credit search  showed.  For example, I cant see that it asked 
Miss K for an explanation  regarding  her defaulted  account. 
And given  the purpose of the loan was recorded as debt consolidation,  and the credit  search  
flagged up a substantial  amount of existing debt I also think  that 118 118 Money ought to 
have taken steps to establish which debts, if any, Miss K would actually be consolidating 
with this loan.  By failing to do so, 118 118 Money  ran the risk of increasing Miss Ks debt 
unsustainably. Id also question how could it possibly have worked  out what  Miss Ks 
disposable income would be going forward without having any idea of which  credit  
commitments shed  still be left with after she was given this loan. 
As theres  no evidence  that 118 118 Money did properly scrutinise the information on the 
credit check,  the purpose of the loan, or that it asked Miss K to provide documentary  
evidence to support  the income  and expenditure declaration made,  I dont think it completed 
reasonable and proportionate affordability  checks before providing this loan.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to 118 118 Money  that Miss K 
would have been unable to sustainably repay  the loan?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for this loan, I cant say for sure what they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that a proportionate 
check would  have told 118 118 Money  that it was unfair to offer this loan to Miss K. 
Miss K has provided us with evidence of her financial  circumstances at the time she applied  
for the loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show  different things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Miss K has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks 118 118 Money  mightve carried  out. But in the absence of 
anything else from 118 118 Money  showing what this information  would have  shown, I think  
its perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an indication  of what 
Miss Ks financial circumstances were likely to have  been at the time.
Bearing in mind 118 118 Moneys response  to our adjudicators assessment, I think that it is 
important for me to start by saying that 118 118 Money was required to establish whether 
Miss K could sustainably  make her loan repayments  not whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that 
this is the case.  This is because CONC defines  sustainable  as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ref: DRN36116207Ive carefully considered  the information  Miss K has provided in light of this. 
The information Ive been provided  with shows Miss K had an overdraft which  she was in 
continually in, in the months  leading up to this loan application. And Miss K didnt see a 
credit balance even  when she received her monthly salary. Indeed Miss K was struggling  to 
make ends meet to such an extent that she was even  supplementing her overdraft by using 
a revolving credit facility from a high-cost credit  provider.   
Ive thought about the arguments  118 118 Money  has made about Miss K being able to 
make minimum payments to her credit card. And if she did so, that would have made  the 
payments to this loan pounds and pence  affordable. I have to say I have significant  concerns 
about any encouragement given to consumers  to pay other debts more slowly so they can 
take on further (and in this case more expensive)  debt with another  provider. 
But, in any event, even  if I were to leave my concerns about this to one side and accept   
118 118 Moneys points on this argument  (I want to reiterate that I dont),  I remain  satisfied 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would  more  likely than not have only been able to 
make her loan payments  by using her overdraft to do so. And, in these circumstances, I think 
that reasonable and proportionate checks would  have alerted 118 118 Money to the fact that 
Miss K would not be able to sustainably make  the repayments to this loan.     
Did 118 118 Money  act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Miss K in 
some other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
three of this decision,  I think that 118 118 Money  unfairly and unreasonably provided Miss K 
with a loan because it failed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks and its more  
likely than not that such checks wouldve shown 118 118 Money that Miss Ks wouldnt be 
able to sustainably  repay the loan. So 118 118 Money shouldnt have provided  the loan to   
Miss K. 
As Miss K ended up paying  interest and charges on a loan proportionate checks would more  
likely than not have  shown shed be unable to sustainably repay, I think  that she lost out 
because of what 118 118 Money did wrong. So 118 118 Money should put things right.
      
fair compensation  what  118 118 Money needs to do to put things right for Miss  K
Ive carefully thought  about what amounts to fair compensation in this case. 
Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally expect that business   
in so far as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer in the position  they would be in 
now if that wrong hadnt taken place. In essence,  in this case, this would mean 118 118 
Money putting Miss K in the position  shed  now be in if he hadnt been  given this loan.
But when it comes to complaints about  irresponsible lending this isnt straightforward.  Miss K 
was given the loan in question and shes used the funds.  So, in these  circumstances, I cant  
undo whats already been  done.  And its simply not possible to put Miss K back in the 
position she would be in if she hadnt  been  given this loan in the first place.
Ref: DRN36116208As this is the case, I have to think  about some other way of putting things right in a fair and 
reasonable way bearing in mind all the circumstances of the case. And Id like to fully explain 
the reasons why I think that it would be fair and reasonable for 118 118 Money to put things 
right in the following way.
interest and charges 
As Ive explained, Miss K received the funds for this loan and shes used them.  So I think its 
fair that she pays back what she borrowed. In reality its the interest that Miss K had to pay 
118 118 Money on the loan that is the problem, as she kept having to find additional funds  
(usually through borrowing  elsewhere)  to pay this interest. And she then had to borrow 
again, on a number of occasions,  to either repay  others or cover  the hole left in her finances  
and she incurred more  interest and charges when  she did this. So I think  that 118 118 
Money should refund any interest  and charges Miss K has paid as a result  of this loan. 
The statement  of accounts 118 118 Money  has provided shows  that Miss K has already 
made, at least, 12 payments of £355.95.  So the payments Miss K has already made are 
more than enough to clear  what  she initially borrowed. As this case, 118 118 Money  should  
treat any payments  made  after Miss K paid the amount she received as overpayments. And 
to start with, I think that 118 118 Money  should refund these overpayments.
Ive also given thought to the argument that Miss K had to borrow  from elsewhere  in 
order to repay the interest and charges she paid to 118 118 Money  and so she should be 
refunded any borrowing  costs she incurred to pay 118 118 Moneys  interest and charges.
I accept that there were  occasions where  Miss K was simply cycling money around 
borrowing from multiple sources in order to pay debts. For example, its clear  that Miss K 
made a number of payments by using  her overdraft.  And, in circumstances, where it is clear 
that a consumer incurred additional  costs in order to be able to repay a lenders interest and 
charges, it might be appropriate  to direct a lender to pay the consumer extra compensation 
to cover those additional  costs.
But, in this case, Miss K is borrowing from so many different sources. And I cant see a clear 
correlation showing that funds from a particular source (or sources)  of credit directly went  
towards repaying 118 118 Moneys  interest and charges. In other words, I cant say exactly  
what directly additional  cost Miss K incurred at a given  time. So, in these circumstances,  
I dont think that 118 118 Money  should refund extra interest because  Miss K mightve  paid 
interest elsewhere in order to repay  her 118 118 Money loans.
That said,  its clear that Miss K did lose the use of the funds she used to pay the interest, 
I now think that 118 118 Money needs  to refund to her. As Miss K lost the use of these 
funds, I think that she should be compensated for this. 
We normally ask a business to pay 8% simple interest where  a consumer hasnt had the use 
of funds because  its actions resulted in something having gone  wrong.  Bearing  in mind my 
conclusions in the paragraph  above,  I see no reason to depart from our usual approach here 
and I think awarding  8% per year simple interest,  on the interest and charges  that were  paid 
(in other words any overpayments over and above  the amount of money Miss K received), is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN36116209Miss Ks credit file
Generally speaking, Id expect  a lender to remove any adverse information recorded on a 
consumers credit file as a result  of the interest  and charges  on the loans they shouldnt  have 
been given. After all its the interest and charges that the consumer  is being  refunded  and 
the expectation is they will have repaid, or they should repay what  they owe.  As the 
monetary award Im making reflects this, I see no reason to depart  from our typical approach 
in this case. So I think that 118 118 Money  should remove any adverse information recorded  
on Miss Ks credit file as a result of this loan. 
All of this means  that I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of     
Miss Ks complaint for 118 118 Money to put things  right in the following way:
remove all interest,  fees and charges added to the loan from the outset. The 
repayments Miss K made should be deducted  from this amount. Any payments  made  
after the total exceeds the amount of money Miss K was given  (in other  words  
£3500) should be treated as overpayments;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above overpayments  from the date they 
were paid by Miss K to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Ks credit  file as a result of this 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money  to take off tax from this interest.  118 118 
Money must  give Miss K a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Ks complaint. Madison CF UK Limited 
(trading as 118 118 Money) should  pay Miss K compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3611620