K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the service  he received from Gain  Credit LLC (trading  as Lending 
Stream) after he told it he was in financial difficulties.
background
Mr M had one loan from Lending Stream on 1 May 2017 for £250. It was due to be repaid in 
six instalments, the largest of which was £106. Mr M says if Lending Stream had made 
proper checks it would  have seen numerous  defaults on his credit  file. He adds  that he was 
also receiving treatment  for depression at the time he took out the loan.
Mr M says he emailed  Lending Stream in June 2017 to tell it he was in financial difficulties 
and was in contact with a debt management company. He says he heard nothing  until a 
legal company contacted him to tell him hed received a County Court Judgement (CCJ). 
Mr M says that when he complained Lending  Stream said it had sold the debt on and 
dismissed his complaint.  Mr M adds that he has now seen the letters Lending Stream  says it 
sent and has noticed an error in the address.  But he adds that he hasnt received a 
satisfactory response from either Lending  Stream, or the debt collection agency and he 
wants an apology, compensation for the stress and the CCJ removed.
Lending Stream says it asked Mr M about  his income and expenditure and verified his 
income with third party sources.  It says the repayments were affordable and Mr Ms credit  
check was satisfactory.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld in part. He did not consider it 
was unfair  for Lending Stream to have approved the loan, but did find it could have done 
more to communicate with Mr M after he said he was experiencing financial difficulties. Our 
adjudicator did not find enough evidence to say that the CCJ should not have been applied 
but he wasnt satisfied  Lending Stream acted positively and sympathetically to Mr Ms 
financial difficulties. He recommended Lending  Stream should  pay Mr M £100  for the trouble 
and upset caused, and rework the debt to remove any interest and charges that were  
applied since Mr M told it he was in financial difficulty.
Lending Stream responded  to say, in summary  that it agreed  with the adjudicators  
assessment and, if the third party debt collector refused to adjust  the balance,  it would buy 
the debt back  and adjust the balance accordingly.
Mr M said he would accept  the offer, only if the CCJ was removed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will first consider whether Lending  Stream was irresponsible to approve the loan. Lending 
Stream was required to lend responsibly.  It should  have  made  checks to make  sure Mr M 
could afford  to repay the loan before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be proportionate 
to things such as the amount Mr M was borrowing,  and his lending history.  But there  was no 
set list of checks Lending Stream had to do.
Ref: DRN39287292When Mr M applied for the loan,  Lending Stream asked him about his income and expenditure 
and checked his credit file. As Mr M said his disposable  income  was £400, and the largest 
scheduled repayment was just over £100,  I can understand why Lending Stream  considered  
the loan was affordable. But Lending Streams credit  check  showed Mr M had had a default 
recorded within the last three months.  So Id have expected it to increase its checks to include 
specific questions about other short-term loans. Based on the evidence  Ive seen, such  checks  
are likely to have shown  Mr M had one other outstanding short-term loan at the time, but Im 
satisfied the Lending Stream loan would still have  appeared affordable.
So I cant conclude Lending  Stream was wrong to approve  the loan.
I will now consider what happened after the loan was approved.
Timeline
I can see that Mr M notified Lending Stream  that he was in financial difficulties on 
5 July 2017. Although Lending  Stream acknowledged his email, I cant  see it responded to 
Mr M beyond that. However,  it did notify  him of a late payment charge the following day.
Following a further missed payment, Lending Stream sent Mr M an arrears  notice on 
3 August 2017,  and then a default notice on 8 September 2017.  I acknowledge  Mr M says 
he didnt receive  the letters,  but Im satisfied they were correctly addressed. The termination  
notice was then sent on 27 September 2017.
As far as I can see from the evidence provided, no further correspondence  was sent until 
April 2018 when Lending Stream sold the debt to a third party  debt collection agency  (DCA)  
and sent a notice of assignment via email.  The DCA  says this was followed up with a text 
message to inform  Mr M the email had been  sent.
The DCA adds  that it attempted to contact Mr M 14 times between  April 2018 and June 2018 
before then posting the notice of assignment  to his address on 29 June 2018. Following five 
further contact attempts, the DCA  says it posted a letter of claim giving 30 days notice of 
legal action. It also says it attempted to call Mr M on three different numbers but each call 
was disconnected. A further email was sent to Mr M on 21 August 2018 before the DCA 
emailed him on 4 September 2018  to tell him it had instructed a legal company.
On 17 October 2018 the DCA  says a county court claim was issued and a claim pack would 
have been posted to Mr M shortly afterwards. As no response was received, the legal  company  
told Mr M a County  Court Judgement (CCJ)  had been issued on 8 November 2018 and that he 
had 30 days in which to pay the outstanding debt in order  to have the CCJ removed.
On 10 November 2018, Mr M complained to Lending Stream that the loan wasnt  affordable  
to him. Then, at the end of December 2018,  he told the DCA  that he hadnt received any 
paperwork or emails about the CCJ and the contact numbers it had were incorrect.  
Lending Stream responded  to Mr M in January 2019 and explained that its checks showed 
the loan was affordable and the debt was now with a DCA. It followed that up with copies  of 
the relevant paperwork  it says it sent to Mr M.
Ref: DRN39287293Mr M maintained that the paperwork was never received due to discrepancies  with his 
address and that, due to his mental health,  he hadnt dealt with Lending Stream as a priority  
debt. He says his poor mental health  should have been taken into account,  but contacted 
the legal  company on 29 January 2019 to accept its offer of a settlement at 50% if the CCJ 
was removed. The legal services company said it had been trying to contact Mr M for some 
time and that its offer stood until 31 January  2019.
Mr M then referred his complaint to this service.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, Im satisfied  that Lending Stream did not respond to 
Mr Ms email  about his financial difficulties. As it is obliged to respond  positively  and 
sympathetically to a consumers financial difficulties, I consider its fair and reasonable for 
any charges that were  added after that date to be removed and for Mr M to be paid £100  for 
the additional distress  caused by the lack of a response.
However, with regard to Lending Streams actions before  it sold the account to the DCA, I 
cant conclude it did anything wrong.  I say that because:
Ive seen copies of all the relevant paperwork and Im satisfied it was correctly addressed;
Lending  Stream gave  Mr M sufficient notice of the transfer and both it and the DCA 
contacted Mr M when the debt had been sold.
I sympathise with Mr M when  he says he was suffering from poor mental health and his 
Lending Stream debt was not a priority, but I cant conclude Lending Stream was wrong to 
transfer the debt to a third party when Mr M did not respond to any of the correspondence.
I acknowledge that Mr M is happy  to accept the settlement  proposed above, on the proviso 
that the CCJ is also removed from his credit  file. As I havent found  Lending  Stream to have 
acted incorrectly when  it transferred the debt to a third party, I cant  conclude  the CCJ should  
be removed as this complaint  is about  the actions of Lending Stream.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) should:
Rework the debt to remove all interest and charges that were applied  after Mr M notified 
it of his financial  difficulties on 5 July 2017;
Pay Mr M £100 for the trouble and upset caused .
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3928729