K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1994. Mrs M says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
Mrs M took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but Allianz has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to Allianz  in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mrs M say that she wasnt aware  that PPI had been  added to her credit card,  and that 
she didnt know it was an optional  product.  But I think that Allianz made  it clear  that there  
was a choice in taking out PPI, and that Mrs M chose to do so. I say this because Allianz 
has provided a copy  of Mrs Ms store card application, and I can see that the PPI is 
presented as an optional product, and has been  selected. Mrs M has been chosen as 
the person to be insured, and then signed the application, agreeing to the information on 
it  but I can understand why she doesnt  remember this as it was so long ago.
Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs M got the information she needed to decide  if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, including what  shes said about while she may 
have selected  the policy, it wasnt clear that there was a cost attached.  But looking at the 
application, I can see that in the same section, the broad costs of the policy are also stated, 
and I think she wouldve known she had to pay something.  So this point doesnt  change my 
decision. And for the reasons set out above,  I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold.
other considerations
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how lenders should  deal with complaints about the non-disclosure 
of commission where  PPI was sold. 
But Allianz Insurance Plc wasnt Mrs Ms lender. So I dont think  these rules apply. 
Ref: DRN36445892my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3644589