K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that the interest rate Landmark Mortgages Limited has applied  to 
their mortgage has only increased and not decreased. They also said that it was never  
explained to them the type of company Landmark was, before it took over their mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs R took out their mortgage with the former Northern Rock  many years ago. When 
Northern Rock collapsed,  Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage was taken over by the government-
backed lender  which  was set up to deal with those  mortgages. It has since  been sold on with 
a book of other loans  to Landmark which is a private  company.
Mr and Mrs R initially took out a five-year fixed rate mortgage which expired in June 2011.  
This was followed by Northern Rocks standard variable rate (SVR) which  at the time of the 
offer was 6.59%, for a period of two years  and one month. This was then followed by 
Northern Rocks variable loyalty discount  rate which  was Northern Rocks SVR (6.59%),  with 
a discount of 0.25%.
Mr and Mrs R complain about  the rate on their mortgage. They  said it didnt decrease with 
the Bank of England rate changes and only ever increased. They dont feel that the rate 
being applied  to the mortgage is fair. They  would  like Landmark to reduce  their interest rate 
and reimburse them  for the fact they have refused to adjust their rate.
They brought the complaint to our service where  it was looked at by one of our investigators 
who didnt think the case should be upheld. She didnt think that the rate applied  to the 
mortgage by Landmark was unfair.
Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with what the investigator  said and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been  passed  to me to decide.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 February  2020.  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considerable  sympathy with the situation that Mr and Mrs R find themselves 
in. I know things havent been  easy for them.
Mr and Mrs R took out a five-year fixed rate mortgage which  expired in June 2011. 
Once this fixed rate expired, it was going to revert to Northern Rocks SVR which  at 
the time was 6.59%.  Once the interest  rate was on the SVR, it means under the 
terms of the mortgage,  Landmark are able to vary the interest rate for the reasons 
outlined in their terms and conditions. Ive looked at the terms and conditions and the 
reasons they give are:
7. changing the Interest Rate
7.1 we may reduce the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate at any time
7.2 we may increase  the Standard Variable Mortgage Base Rate  at any time if 
one or more of the following reasons apply:
Ref: DRN34997282(a)there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a 
general trend to increase interest rates on mortgages generally  or 
mortgages similar to yours;
(b)for good  commercial  reasons, we need  to fund an increase in the interest 
rates we pay to our own funders;
(c)we wish to adjust  our interest rate structure to maintain a prudent  level of 
profitability;
(d)there has been, or we reasonably expect there to be in the near future, a 
general increase  in the risk of shortfalls  on the accounts of mortgage 
borrowers (whether generally or our mortgage  borrowers only),  or 
mortgage borrowers (whether generally or our mortgage borrowers only) 
whose accounts  are similar to yours;
(e)our administrative costs  have increased or are likely to do so in the near 
future.
The original  mortgage  offer sets out that Mr and Mrs R would pay a fixed rate and 
then revert to the SVR.  There is nothing in the mortgage offer or the mortgage  terms 
that say Mr and Mrs R would be entitled to another  fixed rate once that one had 
expired  or that the SVR was linked to the Bank of England base  rate. The terms 
and conditions do allow Landmark to change the interest rate from time to time, and 
one of the factors they are allowed to take into consideration  is the Bank of England 
base rate. But there is nothing that says Landmark  have to do this  its just a 
consideration if they choose to do so.
Mr and Mrs R said that their rate only increased and didnt decrease. I can see that 
the SVR reduced  in October 2016.
The SVR fluctuated on their mortgage  account as follows:
June 2011 4.79%
July 2016  4.79%
October 2016 4.64%
January 2018 4.79%
September 2018 5.04%
All of the changes  in SVR were around the same time as, and by the same amount 
as, changes in base rate. 
Landmarks SVR may be higher than new interest  rate products offered by other 
lenders but the SVR is similar  to other  lenders  SVR rates. 
There is no requirement under the terms and conditions which say Landmark  should 
vary its SVR in accordance with changes to the Bank of England base rate. And I 
havent seen anything in any of the documentation which  suggests  that the SVR is 
linked to the Bank of England base rate. 
Ref: DRN34997283The government-owned lender owned  this mortgage before it was transferred  to 
Landmark. The government-owned  lender was prevented  from offering interest rate 
products by the terms of its government bailout. This was because of legal  
restrictions on government bodies  competing against the market. Landmark  is a 
private company,  so this doesnt apply  to them. This means  that there is no legal 
requirement for Landmark to offer new interest rate products  to their customers.
Landmarks regulatory permissions mean they could offer new interest products if 
they wanted to, but they have chosen not to. They are not trying to attract new 
customers by offering new or lower interest  rates. And this was a commercial 
decision that they were  entitled to take. As a business, they kept all of their 
customers on the SVR once their previous interest rate products expired. So they are 
not treating Mr and Mrs R any differently to any of their other customers.
Landmark is a closed book lender which means they are not taking  on new business,  
but they are still regulated by the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA)  and have to 
follow their rules. Having looked  at these rules, there is nothing to say that a lender 
has to offer new interest rates  to its customers once their old rates  expire. The rules 
say that a lender has to treat its customers fairly taking  account of their best 
interests; they have  to communicate with them in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way; they have to notify them of changes to their monthly payments. They  also 
mustnt take advantage of customers who cant move their mortgages elsewhere  by 
treating them differently  to other  customers with similar characteristics. 
I have seen letters which show  that Landmark  has notified Mr and Mrs R of changes 
to their mortgage payments, which would occur due to changes in their interest rate. 
And from what I can see, all customers must  stay on the SVR once their product  
expires, just like Mr and Mrs R. I therefore  dont think that Mr and Mrs R have been 
treated unfairly  in these circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs R explained they were unhappy when  the mortgage  transferred to 
Landmark as they were  never told what type of lender Landmark was. Under the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage,  there  was no requirement for the lender to get 
consent from Mr and Mrs R about  the transfer of the mortgage or to inform them of 
the type of lender it was transferring to.
There is nothing in the mortgage  terms or in what Landmark has done that would 
have prevented or still prevent Mr and Mrs R from re-mortgaging with another lender. 
They are no longer liable for an early repayment  charge so I cant see any 
contractual barriers  to them  if they wanted  to come out of this mortgage.
I understand that Mr and Mrs R have  said they tried to re-mortgage elsewhere a few 
years ago with another lender but because Mr R is self-employed, he couldnt satisfy 
the requirements of the new lender. Unfortunately,  while this is frustrating, this isnt 
something that I can hold Landmark responsible for as they wouldnt have  foreseen 
this when the original mortgage was taken out. However, under MCOB 11.9 it might 
be easier for Mr and Mrs R to move  their mortgage elsewhere if they get advice  on 
finding a suitable lender that may be better for them, with specialist help.
Ref: DRN34997284However, I do sympathise  with the situation  that Mr and Mrs R find themselves in. I 
know from my knowledge  of the mortgage  market that other  closed book lenders 
have made  arrangements  for their borrowers  to consult with mortgage advisers. This 
is to see whether they can move their mortgage elsewhere to a lender that would 
offer new interest  rates. Other banks  who have  closed all or part of their books offer 
this, and I think this would be helpful to Mr and Mrs R as it would give them some 
other options to consider. I think that represents good industry practice and would 
also be fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case.
I think in this situation, it would be fair for Landmark  to arrange for Mr and Mrs R to 
receive regulated  mortgage advice - at no cost to them.  I can only see from a 
previous mortgage  statement that Landmark,  in their standard  frequently  asked 
questions, referred  Mr and Mrs R to relevant charities that could help them. But I 
think they need to do more than that.
I think that where a lender has closed its book  and is not offering new interest rate 
products to their customers, theres no obligation  on them to do so. But at the same  
time, they have to act fairly, taking into account  the best interests of their customers. 
And I think they should do this for Mr and Mrs R. Its in the best interests of borrowers 
to access lower interest rates and I think its something that should be explored for 
Mr and Mrs R.
It would be beneficial for Mr and Mrs R to see a regulated mortgage adviser who can 
give them  advice about what  they may be able to do. I appreciate that Landmark  
cannot offer Mr and Mrs R a new interest  rate, and it may be difficult for 
Mr and Mrs R to switch lenders. But I think in fairness, Landmark should  arrange for 
Mr and Mrs R to see an independent broker who can give them advice to see if its 
possible for them to do so.
developments
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Landmark and Mr and Mrs R responded to my provisional decision. Landmark accepted 
what I had said and they confirmed they would be happy to refer Mr and Mrs R to an 
independent broker  who would be able to give Mr and Mrs R independent advice.
Mr and Mrs R responded.  They said they still felt the outcome was unfair because:
they changed their mortgage to Northern Rock because they were informed by their 
previous lender that their endowment  would  fall short to pay off the outstanding 
amount at the end of the term
the mortgage was transferred from Northern Rock to Landmark who is not a 
mortgage company  and they did not receive any notification of this
when they had their mortgage with Landmark the Bank of England  base rate had 
fallen but the rate they were  on stayed high and also increased
when they spoke to Landmark they were  told they couldnt  change their mortgage  as 
they are a loan company
Ref: DRN34997285my findings
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs R are disappointed  with the provisional decision  and I dont 
underestimate their feeling  of strength  about this complaint. But Im not persuaded that they 
have added or submitted anything materially new that would lead me to come to a different 
conclusion to the one I did in my provisional  decision.
They have said they were not notified that the mortgage was transferring over to Landmark. I 
can see that they were  sent out a welcome  letter in July 2016 confirming that the mortgage  
would change from Northern Rock to Landmark  I therefore cant agree that they were not 
notified of this. And I have already commented on the other points they have made above in 
my provisional decision. 
So based  on this, I see no reason  to depart from my provisional findings.  As Landmark are 
happy to refer Mr and Mrs R to an independent  broker who can give Mr and Mrs R advice, I 
think it would  be in their best interests to contact them to see what  options are available to 
them.
my final decision
For the reasons  based above,  I partially uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the financial ombudsman service,  Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3499728