K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr H applied for a credit  card in November 1995 and the PPI was also sold at this time.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr H disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
When selling  the PPI to Mr H, BoS shouldve made  it clear  the policy was optional.  It also 
shouldve got Mr Hs agreement to take it out. BoS has provided  a copy of the application 
form that was completed to at the time, but it isnt very clear.  From  what  I can see there is a 
section called Principal Cardholders Application and Consent.  And in this section there 
seems to be different  statements and all the boxes have been ticked.  Based on this and 
what I know about BoSs sales  processes at the time of sale,  Mr H would have had to select  
to take PPI and sign the form confirming its contents. And from what  I can see on Mr Hs 
application form, he has signed it. 
So having  taken everything in to consideration, I think BoS made it clear that Mr H didnt 
have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
cant remember this now many years  later.
BoS says it advised Mr H to take out the policy. So it shouldve made sure the policy  was 
right for him. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Hs circumstances at the time the PPI was sold, 
I think it was. I say this because:
Mr H appears  to have been  eligible for the policy.
Based  on what Mr Hs told us about his circumstances at the time of sale he wouldnt 
have been affected  by any of the things the policy  didnt  cover   like known health 
issues or unusual  employment  arrangements. So there  was nothing to stop him 
claiming the full benefit of the policy if hed needed to.
Mr Hs told us he wouldve received some sick pay from his employer. The PPI 
couldve been of use to Mr H as it wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance  on 
the card for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work  due to illness  or if he was made 
redundant. This wouldve  been  on top of any sick pay he wouldve got, meaning  he 
wouldve been able to use this for other  everyday  living  expenses.
BoS has told us the PPI wouldve  cost Mr H 78p per £100  of his outstanding  monthly  
balance. I havent seen anything to suggest  this wasnt affordable to Mr H. And as 
Ref: DRN31872782the premium was paid monthly, Mr H couldve cancelled the policy  at any time if it no 
longer met his needs. 
Mr H says he had some  savings he couldve used. But the PPI wouldve allowed him 
to keep these  savings intact. So I think the PPI offered Mr H useful  protection.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mr H, BoS also shouldve given him clear  
information about the policy so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not to 
take it out. I dont  know what  steps BoS took to do this and its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they shouldve been.  But I dont think  clearer information wouldve 
changed Mr Hs decision. I think hed still have bought it. I say this for the same  reasons I 
think the policy was suitable for him.
Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr H about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr H any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3187278