K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Al Rayan Bank PLC failed to notify  him of a change  in the profit  rate on 
his ISA causing him a loss of interest
Background
Mr S had an ISA with Al Rayan Bank PLC that had a 120 day notice period for withdrawals.  
The expected profit rate of the account  was reduced in July 2017, but Mr S said he wasnt  
notified of this change.  He said that if he had been, hed have moved  his money  to get a 
better return.  He complained to Al Rayan Bank PLC and wanted them to compensate him for 
the profit he felt hed lost.
Al Rayan  Bank PLC didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint.  They said that all customers affected by 
the profit rate change  were told.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with the response  and brought his complaint to us.
Al Rayan  Bank PLC explained that theyd sent a letter to all customers affected. They said 
they used a printing company to produce the letters to each of the customers  on a mailing 
list they provided. Theyve shown us the mailing  list, the invoice from the contractor 
performing the task and a copy of the letter that was sent.
Our investigator said that it seemed most  likely that Al Rayan Bank PLC had sent Mr S the 
letter to make him aware of the change.  She didnt think Al Rayan Bank PLC had done 
anything wrong  and didnt expect them to compensate him. Mr S disagreed so the matter 
has been passed to me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the records that Al Rayan Bank  PLC have provided. I think  the invoice and the 
copy of the template letter show  that Mr S was most  likely sent a letter telling him about the 
change.
Ive considered whether or not this was a fair and reasonable way for Al Rayan Bank  PLC to 
have notified Mr S about this. The Banking  Conduct  of Business Sourcebook (BCOBS) 
provide guidance banks  must follow. These rules say that a firm should provide reasonable 
notice to the banking customer on paper or in another durable medium before the change takes 
effect. I think that sending a letter met this requirement. Correspondence  between Mr S and 
Al Rayan  Bank PLC also showed that Mr S received a letter  previously notifying  him of an 
earlier profit  rate change on the same  account. I think  that sending  a letter  was a fair and 
reasonable way to have communicated this change.
I understand that Mr S never saw this letter, and I cannot say why. But I can say that the 
failure of it to arrive  with him doesnt  appear  to me to be the fault of Al Rayan Bank PLC.  I 
can see that Mr S has ended up with his money  in an account  for a long time when he could 
have placed it elsewhere. This will have been  frustrating for Mr S who feels  that he has lost 
potential interest on it. For the above  reasons though, I dont think  that Al Rayan  Bank PLC 
acted unfairly or unreasonable.
Ref: DRN39763912My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3976391