K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Mr and Ms Bs attempts to fund the purchase of a property at 
auction. They were  aiming to pay around £200,000 with money borrowed from family, and 
borrow around £160,000 from HSBC UK Bank Plc to repay  the family loan. Mr and Ms B say 
HSBC gave them a Mortgage Agreement  in Principle for up to £196,000 but later said it 
would only lend them  £50,000.  By  this time,  theyd  bought the house.
 
Mr and Ms B have had to extend the terms of the family loan whilst looking for an alternative 
source of finance.  To resolve the complaint, they want  HSBC  to waive what  they describe as 
its arbitrary cap of £50,000 or, failing that, pay them compensation for the resulting stress. 
background
Mr and Ms Bs meeting with HSBC was in July 2018, and on the strength of what  the advisor  
told them,  they went ahead and bought the property at auction. They borrowed the money 
from family,  on defined terms set out in a written agreement. However, when they went  back  
to HSBC to make the formal application,  HSBC  said it would have to treat it as a loan to 
consolidate existing  debt rather than for house  purchase, and its policy  limit on debt was 
£50,000.
Mr and Ms B have had to re-negotiate the family  loan whilst looking for an alternative source 
for the funding. Meanwhile, HSBC  apologised for the confusion and referred Mr and Ms B to 
us. Our investigator thought HSBC should pay Mr and Ms B £250 compensation for their 
time, trouble and upset. Mr and Ms B believe this should be higher, and that they should also 
be compensated for the financial implications of the years delay in arranging alternative  
finance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  is that no lender is obliged to lend. HSBC  hadnt made  a formal offer; the 
document it gave  Mr and Ms B was in no sense a commitment to lend. If they believe theres  
a legal argument to the contrary, theyre at liberty to seek the relevant legal advice and, if 
appropriate, pursue  a legal case against HSBC.  As far as HSBCs upper limit of £50,000 for 
debt consolidation  is concerned, its not my role to tell a lender what  its lending policy should 
be.
I think its fair to conclude that HSBC should have  told Mr and Ms B about the £50,000 limit 
at the July 2018 meeting.  So Ive thought  about  what Mr and Ms B might have done 
differently if it had. Nothing in their submissions gives me any reason to think theyd still not 
gone ahead  with the auction purchase, with the family loan. So theyd have been in broadly 
the same  position  of needing to get their mortgage elsewhere, only sooner.
On that point, Ive paid a great  deal of attention to Mr Bs email  of 9 September 2019, in 
which he sets out their rationale  for more compensation. It describes what  he and Ms B think 
the higher costs of securing a mortgage   to repay  the family loan will be, and the implications 
for them of starting  the process of repaying capital  a year later than planned  (as it was at the 
time of writing).  The problem is, its all rather speculative, and doesnt explain why they 
Ref: DRN39055302hadnt already  sought, and secured, the new mortgage immediately after HSBC told them it 
couldnt provide  what  they wanted back in the autumn of 2018.
All that HSBC is liable to compensate Mr and Ms B for is the distress and inconvenience of 
finding out after, rather than before, the auction purchase that it wouldnt be able to help 
them. For that, I consider  the investigators  proposed award of £250 to be fair in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. In full 
and final settlement, I direct HSBC  UK Bank Plc to pay Mr and Ms B £250 compensation.
I make  no other order or award. My final decision concludes this services consideration of 
this complaint, which means  Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 March  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3905530