K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with the interest rate products  available  to them in respect of 
their mortgage, which is administered by The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW).
background
Mr and Mrs M took out an interest  only mortgage  with Freedom  Finance  in 2004. Their  
application was completed on a self-certified  basis.
The mortgage was subsequently acquired  by a new company, E-Mex Home Funding. 
In 2008, E-Mexs  parent  company was acquired  by the Nationwide Group. And since 2011, 
TMW (a subsidiary of the Nationwide Building  Society) has administered  the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs M say that for years theyve been  trapped on a high variable rate (currently  
5.54%), because reduced rates arent  available  to E-Mex customers.  While  TMW has made  
new products available more recently, Mr and Mrs M say these are over 2% higher than 
those offered to other E-Mex and TMW customers.  They want TMW to offer them  a lower 
rate, as they want  to start repaying some of the capital balance   and they cant  remortgage 
elsewhere due to their circumstances.
TMW says E-Mex is a closed book   in other  words,  it doesnt offer any new lending.  Its 
not obliged to offer new products, but TMW made the decision to do so in April 2018. Mr and 
Mrs M have  the option of moving to one of its legacy  products, as are available  to all 
customers with self-certified mortgages. It says different  products  are available for different  
types of lending  based on its own commercial decisions.
Our adjudicator didnt  think TMW had done anything  wrong in offering Mr and Mrs M the 
rates that were available to other E-Mex  customers with a self-certified  mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs M still didnt  consider this to be fair. They couldnt see why the self-certified basis 
on which they applied  for the account  back in 2004  was being used to keep them from 
preferential rates available to other customers. And they said Nationwide had taken over 
other self-certified mortgages originating with other lenders, whom theyd allowed to transfer 
to its mainstream rates.  So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and while I do appreciate 
the difficult and frustrating position  Mr and Mrs M find themselves in, I dont think TMW  has 
done anything  wrong. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage contract remains with E-Mex. TMW acts as agent and 
administrator on E-Mexs behalf. While both are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Nationwide, 
both exist and operate  as separate entities in their own right.  
E-Mex has ceased to offer new lending and as such no new interest  rates products have 
been available to its existing customers,  such as Mr and Mrs M. Theres  no obligation  for a 
lender to offer new products to its customers and so, particularly in view of the fact that its 
ceased offering  lending  altogether, this isnt unusual.  So theres been no error on TMWs 
part in declining  to offer Mr and Mrs M a new rate over the years.
Ref: DRN32723062At issue  more recently is that while TMW has now offered E-Mex customers a selection of 
new interest rate products, not all of these are available to Mr and Mrs M. Its rates for 
residential customers are divided between what it refers to as residential and legacy 
residential ranges.  By virtue of being  self-certified  customers, Mr and Mrs M are only eligible 
for the latter  which start at 3.79%. Residential customers might be eligible for rates starting  
at 2.19%.
Mr and Mrs M dont  see how this is fair  the self-certified application was completed 15 
years ago and yet theyre still having  to pay higher rates now. I appreciate where theyre  
coming from. They say theyve proven themselves as good payers over the years and Ive 
no reason to doubt that. But its up to TMW to decide the criteria for its products  and to do 
so not on an individual basis, but at a portfolio level. In other  words,  its not looked  at Mr and 
Mrs Ms mortgage and decided to offer them only the higher rates  because  they took out the 
mortgage on a self-certified basis. Rather,  its decided  that E-Mex  self-certified  customers  
represent a certain  level of risk and priced  its products accordingly. I think  thats a decision it 
was entitled to make. It doesnt seem  unreasonable or out of keeping with general industry 
practice. And TMW  has applied those  criteria  to Mr and Mrs M fairly  in that they are being 
treated the same  as other customers with similar characteristics.
Similarly, I can appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms frustration if theyre aware  that other companies 
also owned by Nationwide  have made different  options  available to their customers  who 
have self-certified mortgages. But as noted above,  all Im looking at here are the actions  of 
TMW (as agent and administrator for E-Mex). So even  if Nationwide,  or some of its other  
subsidiaries, apply  different  criteria  or offer different options to their customers, that doesnt 
render TMWs  actions unfair or unreasonable.
Ive considered all of Mr and Mrs Ms comments, including their query as to the fairness of 
offering higher rates to customers whom cant pass affordability checks. Again I do 
appreciate the logic to that argument. But ultimately  this comes back to the element of risk 
that goes into pricing  decisions. Those  who a lender  deems to be a higher risk will  
generally speaking   be charged more  in interest, as there  is considered to be a higher 
likelihood that the debt will not be repaid. Again, those are commercial  decisions that a 
lender is entitled  to make and represents common industry practice. 
So while I do sympathise  with the points  Mr and Mrs M have made and the position they find 
themselves in, Im afraid I cant fairly require TMW to take any further  action in response to 
their complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3272306