K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Ms B complain  J M Glendinning (Insurance Brokers)  Limited  (JMG)  mis-sold them 
commercial property insurance.
Mr H and Ms B were  represented by various  individuals when arranging insurance  and 
during this complaint process. For ease of understanding Ive referred to any actions as 
being undertaken by Mr H and Ms B.
background
I issued a provisional decision in March 2019.  Ive attached a copy. It forms part of this final 
decision. In it I said why I didnt intend  to make JMG  pay anything to Mr H and Ms B or do 
anything differently. 
I also asked for any information  Mr H and Ms B would like me to consider  before I made  a 
final decision. JMG accept my provisional  decision. It didnt have anything further to provide. 
Mr H and Ms B didnt accept what I said in the provisional decision. They  provided  some 
additional information. Ive considered that. Where  I feel its necessary Ive addressed their 
points below.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making JMG  pay 
anything to Mr H and Ms B or do anything differently.
I said in my provisional decision there wasnt enough to make  me think  the occupancy  issue  
probably resulted  in a lower settlement offer for Mr H and Ms B. So I didnt consider if JMG, 
when arranging the policy, recommended a policy that was unsuitable for occupancy  
reasons. 
Mr H and Ms B said in response  that JMG  knew the property wasnt  fully occupied.  And they 
feel this means the policy wasnt  suitable  and this contributed  to the low settlement offered 
by the insurer.  Mr H and Ms B say they were given a legal opinion on this. They say they 
were told its far from certain  they would be successful in any action against the insurers use 
of an occupancy issue to reduce  the settlement. 
Ive asked Mr H and Ms B for further  information on the legal opinion.  But they havent 
provided much  just a very short summary  provided in a letter  from JMG.  Ive considered 
this and everything provided  about the occupancy issue. There is very little information about 
the claim.  There is very little detail of the insurers position or reasons for making the 
settlement offer it did. That hasnt been considered by this service or similar. Overall, unlike 
the underinsurance issue, there  isnt enough  to make me think  occupancy probably did 
result in Mr H and Ms B receiving a lower settlement offer.    
I said in my provisional decision that even if JMG hadnt done anything wrong there probably 
still would  have been an underinsurance issue and shortfall. I said, from what  Id seen of the 
care and attention  they had previously given  to arranging cover, it was unlikely they would  
have taken the steps to ensure they had a suitable sum insured. 
Ref: DRN38371882In response Mr H and Ms B denied a lack of care and attention  to their insurance. They said,  
for example, when  the property had been a care home they had insured it fully. Ive 
considered that point  and others  they have made. But from what  Ive seen  of their approach 
to arranging cover in the period before the escape  of water I still dont think  they would have 
made sure they had adequate sum insured. 
I said in my provisional decision that JMG explained,  in the policy cover email,  to 
Mr H and Ms B they wouldnt  be able to bring a complaint about the insurer to this service.  In 
response they said, not being able to do so, made  the policy unsuitable  for them.  
The insurer  is regulated  in another European  Economic Area  country.  But its authorised by 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  to offer insurance in the United Kingdom. So JMG can 
arrange its policies  for its customers. 
FCA rules require customers to be told the arrangements  for handling  complaints  concerning  
policies - including,  where  appropriate,  the existence  of a complaints body. As I said JMG 
explained there was no right to use this service. It didnt tell them  about a right to use a 
different but similar service. But I havent  seen anything that makes me think  there  is one. So 
I cant say that JMG  failed  to provide good enough information about this issue.  
I dont agree that not being  able to use this service  automatically makes  a policy unsuitable.  
And I havent seen  anything that makes me think it made the policy unsuitable for 
Mr H and Ms B in particular.  
Mr H and Ms B say they had personal  relationships  with JMG employees. They  feel that this 
resulted in it providing a lax or unprofessional service to them. But even  if I agreed  with this it 
wouldnt make  a difference to the outcome of this complaint. Thats because,  for the reasons 
Ive already given,  I cant say Mr H and Ms B probably lost out because of anything JMG 
might have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, Im not making J M Glendinning 
(Insurance Brokers)  Limited pay anything to Mr H and Ms B or do anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38371883PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H and Ms B complain  J M Glendinning  (Insurance Brokers) Limited  (JMG) mis-sold them 
commercial property insurance.
Mr H and Ms B were represented by various individuals when arranging insurance  and during  this 
complaint process. For ease of understanding Ive referred to any actions as being  undertaken by 
Mr H and Ms B.
background
In July 2013  JMG arranged commercial property owners insurance for Mr H and Ms B. This was to 
cover an ex-care  home they planned to convert to a house  in multiple occupation  (HMO). The policy 
expired in July 2014. JMG arranged  a policy with a different insurer. In October  2014 Mr H and Ms Bs 
insurance needs changed. Tenants were due to move  into the property.  So JMG arranged a different 
policy for them. 
Later in the same month there was an escape of water in the property.  Mr H and Ms B claimed for the 
damage. But the insurer  didnt agree to pay the full claim.  It offered £20,000 as a cash settlement.  
Mr H and Ms B say this was significantly lower  than the full cost of the damage. 
Mr H and Ms B say the shortfall was because the insurer felt they were  underinsured. The propertys 
rebuild sum insured was too low. And because the insurer had concerns about the occupancy  levels 
at the property. The insurer isnt within  the jurisdiction of this service. So the claim itself hasnt been 
considered by this or a similar service. But Mr H and Ms B feel JMG mis-sold  the October  2014 policy. 
They say it didnt do enough  to make  sure they had an adequate  level of cover for the property. 
So they feel JMG should cover the shortfall between the insurers cash settlement and the full cost of 
the repairs.  In response to Mr H and Ms Bs complaint JMG refused to cover any of the shortfall. It 
said it hadnt provided advice and information about sum insured levels and underinsurance. But it 
said when it had done so before Mr H and Ms B hadnt  ensured they had adequate cover. So it didnt 
see why they would have  done so for this policy.   
 
Our investigator felt JMG  should have given better advice in October  2014. But she felt 
Mr H and Ms B had contributed towards being underinsured. So she didnt find JMG  fully responsible 
for the underinsurance  shortfall but instead recommended it pay 50%. She suggested that would  be 
about £7,000. Mr H and Ms B didnt accept that. They feel JMG should pay them significantly more. 
JMG didnt accept it either.  They dont feel they should  pay what was recommended.  Because the 
complaint wasnt resolved,  its come to me for a final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to make JMG pay anything to 
Mr H and Ms B. Im persuaded by JMGs argument that Mr H and Ms B wouldnt have arranged a 
higher sum insured even  if they had been given  good enough advice  and information. 
Ive seen very little first-hand  information from the insurer  about the claim. So its difficult  to know for 
certain why it offered what it did as a settlement.  But it does seem, from a survey of the property,  that 
their sum insured  was around about 50% of what  it needed to be. The settlement offered was about 
50% of an estimate  of repair costs. 
So it seems  underinsurance  probably did have an impact on the settlement offer. But for me to say 
JMG should pay towards any shortfall Id need to think it did something wrong that caused 
Mr H and Ms B to lose out.    
Ref: DRN38371884JMG says,  when arranging the October 2014 policy, it didnt advise Mr H and Ms B about  sums 
insured and the implications of underinsurance. Ive seen what  it sent them  by email during the sale. 
There was some information  about sum insured levels. On page two of the policy  document its 
explained how important  it is to make  sure the rebuild sum insured is adequate. It said what type of 
costs it should cover. And it said the broker (JMG) should be contacted  immediately if theres any 
doubt about the levels provided under  the policy. 
Mr H and Ms Bs policy schedule set out the levels of cover, including the rebuild sum insured and 
uplift. The cover email asked them to look at the policy  wording and schedule. So they were  provided 
with some information  about  the sum insured and asked to consider it. Also JMG, during a previous 
sale, provided  information about this and the risk of underinsurance. So they werent completely 
unaware of the issue. Ive outlined  that previous information in more detail below.  
But even if I accept JMG did do something wrong in October 2014  that it didnt provide given good 
enough advice and information - I wouldnt  say Mr H and Ms B probably lost out as a result.  From  
what Ive seen  Mr H and Ms B didnt take much care to make sure they had the right cover for the 
property. So even if JMG hadnt done anything wrong  they still wouldnt  have taken  out cover with a 
higher sum insured. And there  still would have been the underinsurance issue and shortfall. Ive 
explained my reasons for this below. 
In 2013 JMG arranged the initial policy. Emails  between  Mr H and Ms B show a discussion about the 
buildings sum insured. A quote was provided  for cover including a rebuild  sum insured of £500,000. 
The emails show JMG had asked if the property had been surveyed  to get an accurate sum insured 
amount. It hadnt been, but Mr H and Ms B asked  for a quote with a sum insured of £1,000,000. They 
felt that should be adequate. That increase almost  doubled  the cost of the policy. In response 
Mr H and Ms B said they werent happy with that. They said the higher sum insured was just a guess. 
So they went  with the lower  premium that came with the £500,000 sum insured.  
Mr H and Ms B made that choice despite JMG explaining the consequences of being underinsured. It 
told them what type of costs the sum insured needed to cover. And it twice  explained that if, following 
a claim,  they were found to be underinsured  the settlement would be affected. JMG provided  an 
example  it said they would only be paid 50% of any claim if the sum insured was found to be only 
50% of the required level.  
In response to Mr H and Ms Bs request to keep  the sum insured at £500,000  JMG recommended  
they arrange for a survey to establish the correct amount required to avoid a future  underinsurance 
issue. Mr H and Ms B didnt do that.
 
In mid-June 2014 JMG sent Mr H and Ms B a policy renewal quote by email. It seems they didnt reply  
until 10 July 2014. That was two days after their previous policy had expired. They said they would 
accept the quote as they hadnt arranged any other insurance. Again  they dont seem to have been 
particularly concerned  with ensuring they had adequate cover in place.  
Mr H and Ms Bs approach  to arranging the October 2014 policy  showed a similar lack of care. They 
had tenants lined up to move in the property on a Monday morning. They understood this might 
require different cover.  But they left it until close to midnight  on the preceding Saturday  to ask JMG 
about the need to change their cover.     
JMG arranged a new policy that started  about  10 days later. The escape of water  happened about  a 
week after the cover started. Ive considered if things would have been different if JMG had provided 
good enough  advice or information. I accept its possible  Mr H and Ms B might have requested a 
quote, like they did previously, for cover with a higher  sum insured.  From  what  Ive seen its likely that 
would have resulted in a higher premium.  
Previously Mr H and Ms B, despite being the told of the implications of underinsurance,  choose a 
lower premium over a higher  sum insured. I havent seen anything that makes me think  they had 
Ref: DRN38371885started taking  more care with their cover. So I cant see why they would  have responded  differently  
this time around.  Their response would probably  have been  similar - that higher rebuild costs were  
just a guess  so they would stick with the lower premium. 
Its possible Mr H and Ms B would have arranged  for a surveyor to provide a more reliable  estimate of 
rebuild costs. But for that to have made a difference to the outcome of the claim a number of steps 
would had to have been taken. They would have had to appoint a surveyor,  received the survey 
results and then told JMG the required sum insured. It would then have had to arrange new quotes, 
send them to Mr H and Ms B for them to agree. 
To make a difference to the claim all that would have had to have happened in the short  time before 
the escape of water. Considering the care and attention Mr H and Ms B previously gave to arranging 
cover, I think  thats unlikely.  
The investigator said she felt JMG should pay 50% of the underinsurance shortfall. I dont agree  with 
her. She felt JMG should have double  checked  the sum insured as it knew the use of the property had 
changed. She said it had been converted to flats so JMG  should have considered  its rebuild costs  
would be higher.  
But according  to Mr H and Ms B the property didnt change significantly.  It became a HMO, but was 
previously a care home. So it seems  it didnt need structural  work. Mr H and Ms B say they spent 
about £30,000  on a new kitchen, plastering  and redecoration. I dont think  JMG should have thought 
that would have  had a significant  impact  on rebuild costs. And I dont think  the expenditure was so 
much it would have significantly changed Mr H and Ms Bs approach to insuring  the property.    
      
Overall I cant  say that Mr H and Mrs H probably did lose out as a result of JMGs failure to provide 
good enough  information or advice about the sum insured or underinsurance. So it wouldnt be fair to 
make it contribute towards any claim shortfall. 
It seems the insurer also referred  to the property not being fully occupied at the time of the escape of 
water. It seems to have said if it had known  the property was only partially  occupied it wouldnt have 
provided any escape of water cover. As Ive said there is very little information  directly from the 
insurer. So its difficult  to know for certain why it offered £20,000 as a settlement. Theres enough for 
me to think the underinsurance  probably  played a part. But there isnt enough to make  me think  any 
occupancy issue resulted in a lower settlement for Mr H and Ms B. So I havent considered if JMG, 
when arranging the policy, failed to provide suitable  advice or information on this.    
Mr H and Ms B say JMG didnt make them  aware  they wouldnt be able to bring disputes about  the 
insurer to this service. But that was explained to them in the cover email JMG sent them with their 
policy documents. 
Mr H and Ms B also complain JMG  knew  the insurer  didnt pay out on claims.  It says JMG admitted 
this to an unnamed third party. But it seems  unlikely  it would recommend an insurer  it knew that 
about. So for me to accept  that did happen Id need to see something significant  to persuade me it 
did. But Mr H and Ms B havent provided  that.    
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont intend to make J M Glendinning (Insurance Brokers) Limited pay 
anything to Mr H and Ms B or do anything differently.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3837188