K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling  of a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to Aviva  includes its agents.
background
Mr S was in an accident when his car hit the back of the car in front. Aviva said it would hold 
Mr S at fault for the accident. Mr S didn't think that was fair and bought  his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr S complaint  but he didn't think  Aviva  had done  
anything wrong. Mr S didn't agree so his complaint's been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing his complaint Mr S made a number of detailed  points.  I've considered everything 
hes said carefully but in this decision  I will focus in what  I see as being the outstanding 
issues following our investigator's assessment of the complaint.
Mr S ran into the back of another  drivers  car after she stalled it. Mr S has argued  that means 
the other driver was at fault for that accident as the car stopped  without warning and he 
didn't have time to break.
I should say at the outset that its not my role to decide whos  at fault for an accident, as 
ultimately thats a matter  for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr S policy  allows Aviva 
to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt  require Mr S consent to decide how to 
settle a claim and it may make a decision that Mr S doesnt agree with. But Ill look to see 
that its done so reasonably.
As I understand it insurers  generally consider that its the responsibility  of the driver behind 
to leave enough room to be able to stop without  hitting the car in front, even if the car in front 
stops without  warning.  Its apparent  Mr S believes he only hit the other car because  its driver 
stalled. That might be the case but Im also aware  that the opposite argument is that, as the 
driver behind, Mr S should have left enough  space between his car and the car in front so 
that, no matter how suddenly it stopped he wouldn't hit it. And insurers  say the responsibility 
for an accident in that case will still be with the driver of the car behind.  That's been Avivas 
approach in this case and I think that's reasonable.
Also, when considering how to handle claims,  insurers like Aviva  need to consider what 
would be likely to happen if the matter went to court. And, given that its generally accepted  
that its the responsibility of the driver behind not to hit the car in front, Aviva would have 
thought it was unlikely it could successfully  defend  any court  action. So it decided not to 
defend the claim. And I think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Im aware Mr S was concerned that the other driver might not have been insured to drive  the 
car.  But whether  the other driver  was insured or not wouldn't affect who was at fault for the 
accident. So even  if the other driver  wasn't insured Aviva would still hold Mr S liable. But in 
Ref: DRN39031892any event, as Mr S is aware,  the other car was insured at the time of the accident. It follows 
that I think Aviva have dealt with the claim fairly and reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3903189