K821x#15complaint
Mr N is unhappy with how Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) handled his loan application.
background
Mr N applied to move some of his borrowing with another  bank to Lloyds. There were  three  
separate applications. Two were for loans tied to businesses that Mr N is involved  with, and 
one application  was for a loan in his sole name. This complaint only concerns the application 
made in Mr Ns sole name. 
Mr N has said he was upfront about his circumstances throughout. Specifically, he said he 
told Lloyds early in the process that he only wanted  to move some  of his borrowing. Mr N 
said he was clear with Lloyds that the other bank already held a charge  over the property  
tied to the loan, and it would continue  to do so. 
To complete his loan application  Mr N worked  with a relationship manager, and hes said 
that throughout the process he was assured everything was going to plan. But, despite 
reaching the final stages,  Lloyds  decided  it wouldnt agree to lend to him. Lloyds  said it 
couldnt lend to Mr N because it wouldnt accept anything less than a first charge on the 
property. 
Mr N complained to Lloyds about its decision. He said he shouldve  been told upfront that 
Lloyds wouldnt agree to lend in the circumstances, and hed wasted time and money. 
Lloyds sent its final response letter to Mr N in April 2019. It apologised and agreed  things 
hadnt been handled well. Lloyds said the relationship manager  had misunderstood Mr Ns 
plans. The relationship manager  had thought  Mr N would be restructuring all his borrowing.  
But Lloyds did acknowledge that Mr N had indeed said he would like to keep some 
borrowing with the other  bank  because  of the preferential interest  rate. Lloyds couldnt 
explain how this had been overlooked and it accepted responsibility for getting things wrong.  
Lloyds offered Mr N £500 for the trouble and upset hed suffered. And it said it would be 
open to discussing  a new application  for the loan,  to move all of Mr Ns borrowing from the 
other bank.  But Mr N said £500 wasnt enough compensation for the time and money this 
had cost him. He said he had incurred extra costs as a result  of Lloyds mistakes, so he 
brought his complaint to our service. 
An investigator here looked at the case.  She agreed  Mr N had been inconvenienced, but she 
thought Lloyds offer was fair and reasonable. She said £500 was in-line with what  we would 
generally award in the circumstances. Mr N disagreed. He maintained  £500 wasnt enough 
to reflect  the stress and additional costs hed incurred. 
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN39902572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Ive seen, its not in dispute Lloyds made mistakes. Its said as much in its final 
response letter and has apologised for getting  things wrong. Neither is it in dispute that 
Lloyds has a right to exercise its own commercial judgement. Mr N has said he accepts that 
Lloyds cannot  be forced  to lend. So I dont think I need to spend time considering  these 
points because theyre already accepted, and Im satisfied that Lloyds did something  wrong.
Mr N has said he had to pay a higher rate of interest with the other bank while  he waited for 
Lloyds decision.  But applications for borrowing  arent  guaranteed  to be accepted.  Even if 
Lloyds would lend to Mr N under  the circumstances in which  he wanted to borrow,  its 
possible that his application would still have been declined for other  reasons. Alternatively,  if 
Lloyds had explained it couldnt lend to Mr N upfront, he might  have looked elsewhere for a 
better deal and still been declined, or his application  might have taken just as long. So, on 
balance, Im not persuaded that Lloyds is responsible for Mr Ns costs while he was abiding 
by the terms of his existing arrangement  with the other bank. 
Mr N doesnt think Lloyds  £500 offer is enough to take into account  the unnecessary costs 
he incurred. Hes said his solicitor carried out extra work for this loan application. And hes 
mentioned some fire-safety  and asbestos management reports which he said were arranged 
at Lloyds request.  Mr N provided some figures relating to this loan application  totalling 
around £2,000   which is the amount hes seeking  to be reimbursed. 
Its important to remember that Mr N was applying for other loans with Lloyds through  the 
businesses hes connected  with. He was doing so at the same time as applying  for this loan. 
So for transparency,  and to avoid confusion with the other loan applications,  I asked Mr N to 
provide evidence of his costs and how he paid them. In response, Mr N provided  an invoice 
showing the total cost for the fire-safety  and asbestos management  reports. But the invoice 
doesnt show me that Mr N paid it, or how. The invoice couldve been  paid for by a third 
party, or by one of Mr Ns businesses. In which  case the cost isnt directly  linked to him. In 
any event, if Mr N has paid for the reports, then hes had the benefit of them.  And given the 
property in question  appears to be buy-to-let,  its likely Mr N shouldve  had them  anyway. 
Moreover, Mr N hasnt  provided me with anything to show a breakdown  of his solicitors fees, 
or that he incurred extra  legal costs  as a result  of Lloyds mistakes. Ive considered Mr Ns 
testimony carefully, but I dont think it would be fair to make  an award for costs  which  arent 
supported by strong enough evidence. Particularly  when the amounts involved  or who paid 
them  arent  clear.  And on that basis, because Mr N hasnt provided  enough  for me to 
conclude that he suffered  a direct financial loss, Im not persuaded to consider the costs hes 
cited any further. 
Mr N undoubtedly had to spend unnecessary time on a loan application which  shouldnt  
have gone ahead in the way it did. And I can appreciate this matter wouldve been a 
frustrating experience for him. Theres no question that Lloyds shouldve explained things 
much earlier,  so its clear to me that Mr N has been caused  distress  and inconvenience.
 
Ref: DRN39902573But as Ive said above, theres not enough  for me to fairly conclude  Mr N suffered a direct 
financial loss. So in the circumstances, based on what I have available,  I think  £500 is a fair 
and reasonable offer to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused by Lloyds poor 
administration.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ns complaint. I require Lloyds Bank PLC to pay Mr N 
the £500 compensation it offered, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 January 2021.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3990257