K820x#14complaint
Miss G has complained that she was mis-informed by Swinton  Group  Ltd about her buildings 
insurance policy and over-charged.
background
In April 2015 Miss G contacted Swinton  for a policy for an unoccupied property. Swinton 
gave her a quote  which  she accepted. Miss G insured  the property for six months originally 
and then on a three  monthly basis. 
After several renewals Swinton told Miss G that it wouldnt be able to renew the policy in 
January 2017  unless  she renewed for 12 months.  It directed  Miss G to a brokers 
association. Miss G was then able to get an annual policy for much less from another 
insurer.
Miss G complained to Swinton that:
Shed been told that she could only get unoccupied buildings cover  through Swinton;
Swinton had misled  her over the cost of her premiums  as it had charged her over £1,200  
a year whereas she now pays  £170 a year for a policy  from another provider.
In response Swinton said:
It hadnt found any evidence that it had told Miss G unoccupied building cover  was only 
available through  it;
It had provided her with the best price based  on her circumstances from its panel of 
insurers. Shed had a 14 day cooling off period to review whether the policy  was right for 
her;
It could only advise  her of its prices,  not those of other providers in the market.  She could 
have shopped  around in the cooling-off  period.
Miss G brought her complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt 
think there was any evidence that Swinton  had done  anything  wrong.
As Miss G didnt agree,  the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Unfortunately its not clear  what was discussed when Miss G first contacted Swinton by 
phone. Miss G came away  with the distinct impression that she could only get unoccupied 
buildings cover from Swinton. I need to decide  whether its Swintons fault that this 
misunderstanding arose. Where theres little evidence to support the parties positions, as is 
the case here, I reach my decision on the basis  of what I think is most likely to have 
happened in the circumstances.
I dont doubt that Miss G is a person well used  to managing business matters,  and in 
particular taking out insurance, in a competent manner. But all of us can make mistakes and 
mishear what were being told, especially on the phone. I think  its more likely that Swinton 
Ref: DRN33903812didnt say it was the only provider of unoccupied  buildings cover  a quick  check online or to 
another broker could  have  easily proved this wasnt  correct.  I think it would have just said 
that it only had one insurer on its panel  offering this product.
In agreeing to offer unoccupied property cover to Miss G for a six or three month period, 
Swinton gave details  of the premium. This was the cost of not just the risk the property 
presented but included  a profit element  too. Commercial entities such  as Swinton are in 
business to provide a service  but also to make money. And theres nothing wrong with that. 
If theyre not profitable theyre unlikely to remain in business. Swinton has provided detailed 
evidence to show how it calculated Miss Gs premiums. I cant share this information with 
Miss G but Ive checked the figures  and Im satisfied  her premium was calculated  accurately 
and fairly.  Compared  with an annual policy short term polices generate far more  work and 
administration for the insurer and broker. So this is usually reflected in the premium.  
I also need to consider  whether Swinton treated Miss G fairly and gave her sufficient 
information about the price such that she could make an informed decision. Swinton  gave  
Miss G notice  of the premium in advance of each  renewal and she could have taken 
advantage of the 14 day cooling-off period to shop around for alternative cover  if shed 
wanted. I accept  that theres nothing to show Swinton ever told Miss G that a one year policy  
would have been much  cheaper. But on each renewal Miss G chose the renewal period and 
so she could have  asked for a quote  for an annual policy if shed wanted. 
However, even if Swinton  had explained  that an annual policy would  be better value, Im not 
persuaded that Miss G would have acted  differently. Thats because on each renewal  she 
was hoping to sell the property before the policy  next expired. Miss G was already aware 
that a six month policy was better  value on a daily basis than a three month one. Even  when 
Swinton told her it was no longer offering short term policies, she still chose to go elsewhere 
and look for a provider  who could offer a short term policy rather than take out a 12 month 
policy through Swinton.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 September 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3390381