K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Es sons, acting as executors of their parents estates, complain about advice 
given to Mr and Mrs E by a representative of St. Jamess Place Wealth  Management Plc 
(SJP).
background
Mr and Mrs E had their existing investment portfolio reviewed by the representative  in 2007, 
which included looking at a potential inheritance  tax (IHT)  liability. As a result of that review 
several new products  were recommended  to them.   
A joint life, second death whole of life (WoL) policy,  to mitigate an identified  potential 
IHT liability.  
An investment  bond
Two Trustee bonds
Mr and Mrs E sadly passed away in 2012  and 2014  respectively and following this a 
complaint was made to SJP about the advice. The executors  were  very unhappy generally 
and over an extended period of communication with SJP made a number of points, including 
that; 
The WoL policy had been unnecessary as thered ultimately  been  no IHT liability  
created following their parents deaths. They also said they couldnt understand why 
the sum assured had been less than originally illustrated,  or why the premiums had 
increased by so much. And it appeared that the policy hadnt been  placed in trust as 
originally intended until two years after the policy commenced.
The investment  bond  had been funded by the surrender of existing tax-efficient 
investments, losing the benefits for that money.  
The Trustee bonds had similarly been  funded by existing  investments, the surrender 
of which  had generated costs  including a market value reduction (MVR). Further, the 
bonds had been  set up with only Mr and Mrs E as lives assured meaning that they 
were automatically encashed  upon  Mrs Es passing. The executors had been led to 
believe that the bonds would  continue and that if theyd done so they wouldve 
benefitted considerably from a recovery  in the stock market.  
   
While not accepting any unsuitability of the advice,  but in the interests of resolving the 
executors concerns and demonstrating goodwill, SJP made an initial offer of compensation 
in 2016.
It noted that some of the annual premiums  for the WoL policy had been funded by 
withdrawals from the Trustee  bonds.  It calculated investment loss on these amounts 
using our medium risk benchmark, plus interest.      
For the investment  bond it calculated investment loss using the same benchmark, 
plus interest, and also offered to pay any IHT or income tax liability  created in relation 
to the bond.
Ref: DRN31886342For the Trustee bonds,  SJP again  calculated investment loss, plus interest,  and also 
offered to refund the cost of the market value reduction (MVR) incurred when 
surrendering the existing investment,  plus interest.   
SJP also offered to pay additional compensation to acknowledge the trouble and upset  
created by the matter. 
The offer was amended over a period of communication and review, during which, in 2017, 
the complaint  was referred to this service. As of April 2018 SJPs offer had increased to a 
rounded total of £54,000. This reflected the loss amounts set out above, plus interest  
brought up to date and was inclusive of a payment for trouble and upset increased to 
£3,000. 
The executors remained  unhappy and our investigator began to look into the merits of the 
complaint. He issued  his view in April 2019  explaining that he felt the offer made by SJP was 
broadly fair in the circumstances. 
As the executors didnt agree, the matters been  referred to me to review. In the interim,  in 
response to a request by the executors, a partial  payment  of compensation of £20,000 has 
been made to them  by SJP.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear the executors  have strong feelings about the representatives actions and SJPs 
response to the matter.  Theyve provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, 
which Ive read and considered in their entirety.  I understand that this is a very sensitive and 
emotional matter for them. 
However, I trust that they wont take the fact that my findings focus on what  I consider to be 
the central issues, and that those findings  are expressed in less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision is not to address every point raised in detail, but to set out my 
conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
Ill look at each recommendation in turn. 
the whole of life policy
I note that ultimately  no IHT liability was created upon Mrs Es passing in 2014.  But its 
nevertheless the case that a potential liability of around  £67,000 was identified through 
detailed calculations at the time of the advice. 
IHT planning  is never an exact science as many  factors can change  subsequent to the 
provision of advice   IHT allowances  change,  as they did in 2008  and 2009, and the value of 
assets can vary, particularly in the case of property.  
So, in the circumstances I think it was reasonable for Mr and Mrs E to be recommended  the 
WoL policy  as a means  of addressing  this potential liability.  
Ref: DRN31886343I note the executors concerns about some aspects  of the recommendation and accept that 
there do appear to have  been some issues. In respect of the sum assured reducing from 
£80,000 in the initial illustration to £60,000  this seems to have followed the underwriting  of 
the policy and given the size of the potential  liability isnt a great concern. 
The policy was put into the discretionary trust late, two years after it was started. While this 
could, of course, have  impacted its effectiveness, in practice it didnt  because  the claim paid 
out some  years later. And while Ive noted the executors concerns about not being aware 
the policy was in trust, its clear they signed  as trustees when  the trust was created, so I 
dont think SJP can be held responsible  for any misunderstanding in this respect.
Its not unusual  for cover  provided by this type of policy and for this purpose to be indexed, 
to reflect  the sort of changes in potential future liability I mentioned  above. Theres  no clear  
explanation for the anomaly in the different indexing amounts detailed in the suitability letter 
between 4% and 3%. But ultimately I dont think this issue impacts greatly on the overall 
suitability of the policy. Whichever level the indexation was at, the annual cost of the policy  
would still have increased with Mr and Mrs Es ages and the sum assured.  And Ive seen  
nothing to suggest those increases were beyond  what I wouldve expected to see given their 
ages. 
SJP has acknowledged  the issue of some  premiums being  paid via withdrawals from the 
Trustee bonds and its offer includes an element to account for any investment loss created 
by that. I think this is a fair resolution  in respect of the WoL policy.  Particularly as I note SJP 
has calculated that a full return of the premiums paid plus 8%  effectively recreating  the 
position as if the policy  had never been started  at all  shows  no loss; in fact the eventual  
payout was around  £11,000 more. Further, Ive not seen  that these withdrawals impacted 
upon the validity of the trust and SJP has indicated that the trust which Ill discuss  in more  
detail below  is still intact.
As an aside,  I note there was concern that an annual premium  was paid just prior to Mrs Es 
passing and the executors questioned whether it should therefore  have been returned when 
the payout was made. It wasnt and Im satisfied  that this was correct and in keeping  with 
how I would  expect such a policy to work. Ultimately,  the money will have been added in to 
fund and have  directly affected the amount of the eventual  claim.
the investment bond
Both the new investment bond  and the Trustee  bonds (which Ill discuss  below) were  
reinvestments of money obtained from the surrender of existing investments. The suitability 
letters issued to Mr and Mrs E at the time of the advice indicate  that they were attracted  to 
the SJP approach to investing  and simplifying their financial  arrangements. 
While we cannot be sure how accurate a reflection of the position this was, SJPs offer is 
based upon payment of any loss compared with a medium risk benchmark, plus interest. 
This strikes me as reasonable given Mr and Mrs Es investment experience and provides a 
fair comparison with what  the position might have been if the advice hadnt  been  provided. 
And importantly the offer also incorporates the payment, if any arises, of any related income 
tax or IHT liability.  
Ref: DRN31886344the Trustee bonds
These bonds were  also created using money  obtained from the surrender of existing 
investments. Again,  SJPs offer accounts  for any investment loss using the medium  risk 
benchmark. And it also includes the repayment  of the MVR, plus interest, incurred upon 
surrender. I think this is a reasonable  reflection of the position  had the recommendation not 
been made. 
In respect of the tax situation, while its not clear what if any liability  may have been created 
by the encashment of the bonds, SJPs position  on this is that there wouldnt have been any 
change in position from how the money was invested previously, which  strikes me as 
reasonable. This money  didnt  involve  the surrender of ISAs or PEPs, as was the case with 
the investment  bond. It was a change  from an existing  with profits bond, which was already 
in trust, to new SJP investments and these continued to be held in the same  trust.
The main  issue the executors  have in respect of this aspect of the 2007 recommendation is 
that they were  not named as additional lives assured on the new bonds. As a result the 
bonds were automatically  encashed upon Mrs Es passing and have remained in cash since  
then, still within the trust,  earning only nominal interest. The executors feel this has led to 
them missing out upon gains that couldve come from the bonds remaining invested.   
The suitability letter issued at the time of the advice  did cover off this issue to a degree, 
noting that the new arrangements would reflect the existing arrangements, with Mr and 
Mrs E as the sole lives assured. I note there was some confusion created later when the 
adviser mistakenly indicated otherwise and gave  the impression that the bonds would be 
able to continue  as invested.  But it seems  this misunderstanding was corrected. 
The executors raised a number of queries with the adviser as far back as March  2015 and it 
was confirmed that the bonds had been encashed and the monies  were  earning interest at 
Bank of England  base rate. Its my understanding that the position has remained like this to 
date. While I can understand the executors  disappointment  with this, Im unable to conclude 
that SJP has acted incorrectly in this respect.  Ultimately the executors, as also trustees of 
the trust,  have been in a position to make changes  to this position to mitigate  any loss that 
may have  been  incurred.  So I dont  think it would be fair to hold SJP responsible for any 
such loss.   
other considerations
During the course of the ongoing correspondence  since Mrs Es passing many other points 
of concern have  been raised.  Given my overall  view that SJPs  offer is a fair one (in the 
round) I dont feel the need,  as I explained  at the outset, to cover all these points off in detail. 
However, I recognise the concern this matter has caused to the executors, so I will address 
below several points that my review of the evidence and submissions has indicated  to be of 
particular concern. 
It seems  that there were several suggestions  made  during  the advisers discussions with Mr 
and Mrs E that the executors  feel either  shouldnt have been made  for instance,  the 
potential sale of Mr and Mrs Es property and the paying off of their £13,000 overdraft. And, 
equally, there are things  that were discussed  that didnt happen that the executors feel 
should have happened  for instance,  a gift of £20,000 to one of the executors.  
Ref: DRN31886345While I can appreciate that the executors  have  their own view on these matters, ultimately 
the advice was provided directly to Mr and Mrs E as the clients  of SJPs  representative.  It 
was therefore  for them to make their own decisions on how best to proceed.  Ive seen no 
evidence of any undue pressure being put upon them.  And so I think  were in a position of 
having to accept that things couldve been  done  differently. But theres nothing to suggest 
that Mr and Mrs E were unhappy to have been  advised, for example, to pay off their 
overdraft from their cash reserves.  
In summary,  as Ive said, I think SJPs  offer as a whole is fair. I recognise that the executors 
are unlikely to be satisfied that Ive reached  the same conclusion  as the investigator. But in 
all the circumstances  I feel it represents  a reasonable way of addressing  the concerns that 
have been raised.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that the offer made by St. Jamess  Place  Wealth 
Management Plc is fair and reasonable and it should pay compensation as set out above, 
taking into account  the amount already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 November  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3188634