K820x#14Complaint
Mr C and Mr A complain  The Co-operative Bank  Plc failed to assist  them  as they shouldve  
when administering  the estate of Mrs V, for which they are executors.
Background
The late Mrs V was a long-standing  customer  of the Co-Op. She held a joint current  account 
with one of her daughters and a savings  account in her name  only.  A power of attorney was 
in place with her son and his wife, which gave them mandate  to transact on both of those 
accounts.
The Co-Op  made several administrative  errors when checking  Mr C and Mr As authority to 
represent Mrs Vs estate. They apologised for this and awarded Mr C £100 in compensation.
On reviewing the late Mrs Vs affairs, Mr C became suspicious  about transactions  which had 
taken place on her accounts from shortly  before  her passing, but also historically. He asked 
the Co-Op for more information about ATM transactions,  card information, regular payments 
and transfers  to third parties. He suspects transactions were made by Mrs Vs son outside  of 
her best interests,  and in breach of his duties  as her attorney.
Prior to Mrs Vs passing,  a large  sum of money was transferred  from her savings account to 
her current  account and then transferred to a third-party account.  Mr C suspects the transfer 
was performed by Mrs Vs son. He says her son later gave back  those funds  by cheque,  but 
this was after non-estate funds  had been spent to help pay for funeral costs.
The Co-Op  provided Mr C with several years  worth of statements for Mrs Vs accounts, the 
sort code  and account number to which a regular payment  was sent,  and the location of 
several ATMs where money was withdrawn. They also confirmed Mrs Vs card had been  
used at the ATMs. But they refused to reveal the name of the account holder(s) to whom
payments were made.
An investigator at our service decided  not to uphold  Mr C and Mr As complaint. Unhappy  
with this outcome  Mr C and Mr A asked for a decision from an ombudsman,  so the complaint 
was passed to me to decide. I issued  a provisional  decision  and made several findings which  
differed to those made by the investigator, allowing each  party  the opportunity  to respond to 
my findings  before I made  a final decision.
The findings  I made in my provisional decision are below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im inclined to not uphold
it. Ill explain why.
Mr C clearly suspects  the late Mrs Vs son made transactions  that werent in her best
interests using his power of attorney status. I must make clear  that this is possible, but only a
court of law can decide this as a matter of fact, considering its unlimited  jurisdiction and
ability to consider the former power  of attorneys positions.
Ref: DRN31464012My role here is to decide whether I think the Co-Ops acts or omissions  were  reasonable in
relation to the transactions  that concern Mr C, and the requests he made as an executor on
behalf of Mrs Vs estate.  I need to also make clear  that Im unable to consider any personal
inconvenience or financial loss experienced by Mr C and Mr A while  performing their duties
as executors. This is because the eligible complainant  under  the dispute  resolution rules,
which we must follow, is the estate  and not the estates representatives. So, any loss I
consider mustve been experienced  by Mrs V before her passing  or by her estate.
Mrs Vs son and his wife had a power of attorney over Mrs Vs affairs,  which included her
Co-Op accounts. Generally this would mean the Co-Op needed  to act on instructions the
attorneys gave in respect to payments involving those accounts.  I appreciate  the concern
Mr C has about certain  payments, but I dont see theres strong evidence to suggest  the
Co-Op ought to have  questioned or refused  to process those payments, even if they were
made by the attorneys.
The ATM withdrawals which concern Mr C show they were made using the late Mrs Vs
card. Mr C thinks  someone other than Mrs V couldve  used the card, and the locations of the
ATMs would provide  a good indication of this, as her son lived in a different area of the
United Kingdom  to her. But even if it was one of the power of attorneys who used  Mrs Vs
card and PIN, I again  cant see this ought  to have led the Co-Op to infer the payments were
a cause for concern.
Mr C thinks the Co-Op  shouldve provided chequebooks stating POA above  the signature
section on each cheque. He says another bank issued cheques of this type when he acted
as power of attorney for his father. But the processes of banks vary and can depend on the
individual needs of the donor, as well as the terms of the power  of attorney in effect. Mr C is
concerned the late Mrs Vs son may have  used cheques  to benefit himself as he shared his
mothers initials. But this is not something I can reasonably decide based  on the information
Ive available. And whether the power of attorney was in fact breached  is a matter of law for
the courts to decide.
The failure to provide  all the information Mr C has asked for
Mr C strongly  suspects  the regular payment from the late Mrs Vs account was sent to an
account held by her son. The Co-Op have refused to confirm or deny this is the case.
Instead, theyve  provided  the sort code  and account  number for the account and confirmed it
wasnt held by Mrs V. The Co-Op also confirmed another  of Mrs Vs accounts  closed in 2012
and the remaining balance was transferred to a third-party account. Theyve not provided   
Mr C with the details  of the accounts owner.
I appreciate Mr C would  like as much information as possible  to consider whether the late
Mrs Vs estate  has experienced a loss, which is understandable. But the Co-Op have a duty
to protect  the personal information  of the data subject  in this case   the owner of the
account(s) to which the payments were made. They havent said they wont  provide this
information under any circumstances, as they would cooperate  with any police investigation
if they were approached. And on balance, I find this is in keeping  with their legal obligations.
The Co-Op  havent  been able to locate all of the ATMs where  withdrawals were  made.  They
have, however, provided the location of some of the ATMs, which  they sent to Mr C and
Ref: DRN31464013Mr A. In this regard Im satisfied the Co-Op  reasonably complied with Mr Cs requests for
information. Its been many years  since these payments were made, and its unsurprising the
Co-Op no longer hold all the information Mr C wants. Mr C says hes been able to obtain
statements dating much  further back for another bank, and I dont doubt him. But theres no
law or requirement I know of which required the Co-Op to retain information for longer than
they did, or to maintain records of all the ATM locations Mr C wants  to know about.
Since I issued my provisional  decision, neither party has added anything  further for me to 
consider, and the deadline I gave for responses has passed. As a result, I have now made a 
final decision. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to uphold  
this complaint for the same reasons  I gave  in my provisional decision.
The power of attorney  relationship the late Mrs Vs son and his wife had did allow  them to 
transact on Mrs Vs accounts.  Generally, this would mean the Co-Op would act on payment 
requests made by either  attorney in relation to those accounts. And with this in mind, Im not 
persuaded the Co-Operative Bank ought to have  refused to process  the payments Mr C and 
Mr A are suspicious  about, whether or not they were made by either  attorney.
Its possible the attorneys  did breach their fiduciary  responsibilities to the late Mrs V, but this 
is a matter for a court of law to decide. The court has the unlimited jurisdiction to account  for 
the position of each  attorney, and then decide  as a matter of fact whether any breaches 
occurred.
I appreciate Mr A and Mr C would like confirmation of the name of the account holders to 
which certain payments  were made.  But the Co-Op have obligations under data protection 
law to protect the personal information  of account holders - so I dont find their decision not 
to provide this information directly to Mr C and Mr A is inappropriate.
I find the Co-Op reasonably complied with Mr C and Mr As requests for information. Im 
persuaded theyve  provided as many of the ATM  locations as they could, and I dont find that 
they were under an obligation to retain information on the locations of all the ATMs  for longer 
than they did.
I havent made a finding on whether the amount of compensation the Co-Op offered Mr C is 
reasonable. I say this because the inconvenience he experienced was as a representative of 
the estate of Mrs V, which cannot  rightly be said to be a loss suffered by the estate - and its 
the estate which is the eligible complainant for this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN31464014Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2020.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3146401