K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains that Santander UK Plc has refused to refund  direct debit payments she 
made to her telecommunications provider.  
background
In April 2018 Ms N changed  her subscription to her telecoms provider and set up a direct  
debit with Santander for the required payments. Ms N has been  in a dispute  with her 
provider since then as she says her new system doesnt work as it should.
In December 2018 Ms N rang Santander to cancel her direct  debit and to request a refund of 
payments made since April. She said her provider had said she should make  a claim under 
the direct  debit indemnity scheme.  Santander  cancelled Ms Ns direct debit, but rejected her 
refund claim. It said her dispute  was with the telecoms company and the direct  debit  
indemnity didnt apply in those circumstances.
Ms N was dissatisfied with the banks reply, and so she brought her complaint to us.
In summary,  our investigator didnt consider that Santander had done  anything wrong. She 
said the direct debit indemnity applied when banks had made  payments in error, which in 
this case Santander  had not. She added that Ms Ns dispute was really with her telecoms  
provider and she gave  Ms N the name  of the appropriate adjudication service
Ms N had also complained about the way she had been spoken to by Santander staff, and 
she said that the bank hadnt  called her back when it said it would. Having listened to the 
relevant telephone calls our investigators view was that Santander staff had provided Ms N 
with factual information and explained why they were unable to submit  her direct debit claim.  
She did however  agree  that bank staff could  have been clearer  during Ms Ns 7 December 
phone call in explaining  that her claim had been declined. But overall, our investigator didnt 
consider that she could  fairly say that Santander  staff had been unhelpful. She also 
commented that the banks notes suggested  that it had phoned Ms N when it said it would.
Ms N disagreed with the investigators findings. In addition to repeating points shed made  
previously she said shed  originally cancelled her direct debit during a phone  call to 
Santander in May 2018.
Our investigator listened to all calls made by Ms N to the bank in May, but could find nothing 
to suggest that she had asked the bank to cancel her direct debit.
Ms N remained unhappy  with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans  
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N is unhappy with the service she has received from her telecoms provider and 
consequently she believes  she should  not have been charged  for that service from April 
2018. She is therefore seeking to claim that money back from Santander under the direct  
debit indemnity scheme.
Ref: DRN37273672Banks are required to refund customers money  under that scheme,  but only when the bank 
has made a direct debit  payment in error.  Typical examples would be where a bank paid 
more (or less) than it should  have done, or made  the payment  on the wrong date or made  a 
payment after the customer had cancelled  the direct  debit.
Initially, when Ms N brought  her complaint to us it appeared that she had contacted 
Santander in December 2018  to cancel her direct  debit and to request a refund of payments 
made since April. The bank cancelled the direct debit, but rejected the refund claim. 
Unfortunately for Ms N I cannot conclude  that Santander was wrong to reject  her claim. It 
cancelled her direct debit when she asked it to do so, and the payments it had made in the 
preceding months  hadnt been made in error.
But Ms N then told us that she had in fact phoned the bank in May 2018 to cancel  her direct 
debit which, if correct,  would mean  that the bank  had been wrong in making the subsequent  
direct debt payments  to the telecoms company.
But Ms Ns May phone calls do not reflect her recall of what  she believes she requested,  
namely to cancel the direct debit. And I note that although the direct debit continued to 
appear on Ms Ns bank statements for the following six months, she didnt pursue the matter  
with the bank. Reasonably I would  have expected her to contact the bank if she believed she 
had cancelled a direct debit, but it was still being  paid, particularly as she remained in 
dispute with the telecoms  company.
And so Im afraid that on the basis of the information  available  to me, and on the balance of 
probability, I cannot safely conclude that Ms N cancelled her direct debit in May.
It follows from this that I am satisfied  that Santander acted correctly on Ms Ns instruction to 
cancel her direct debit when she rang in December, and that it hadnt  made  any errors in 
paying that direct debit  up until that point. The direct  debit  indemnity therefore doesnt apply, 
and Ms N is not entitled to a refund from Santander.
With respect to Ms Ns complaint about Santanders customer  service and the attitude  of 
staff to her during  her phone calls,  I accept that staff could have been clearer  during some of 
the calls but I do not find them to have  been  obstructive or unhelpful.
In summary  therefore, and I know this will come  as a disappointment  to Ms N, I am unable to 
uphold her refund claim against Santander under the direct debit indemnity scheme, 
because the bank hasnt made an error.  
Ref: DRN37273673my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3727367