K821x#15complaint
Mr B  has complained that J D Williams  & Company Limited trading as Jacamo  (JDW)  was 
irresponsible when  it agreed to open a credit account for him and when it later increased his 
credit limit. Mr B says the credit was unaffordable  for him and eventually  worsened his 
financial position. 
background
JDW agreed an account for Mr B in November 2015 with a credit limit of £125.  It later 
increased his limit twice,  to £200  on 23 May 2017 and again to £300  on 20 June 2017. 
This type of credit was an open-ended or running  account and was defined in the credit  
agreement as an ongoing personal credit account of no fixed  or minimum duration. Mr B 
used this account to pay for goods bought from JDWs online catalogue. 
Mr B initially  spent £48 in Nov 2015 and repaid the credit that same month. He spent £28 
later in November, which  he repaid in December. 
Mr B spent £130 on 14 May 2017.  He repaid some  of this and had a credit balance  of £103 
when he spent a further £204  on 13 July 2017.  From  the information I have it seems he 
didnt make any repayments after that and his account balance grew  to £447 by January 
2018. 
Mr B says that he owed  money to other lenders and had missed some  payments when JDW  
first agreed credit for him in 2015.  He says his financial  situation had deteriorated  by the time 
the lender agreed further credit for him in 2017. 
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and found that JDW  should  have gone further in its 
affordability checks when  it opened  Mr Bs account  and each time it increased  his credit limit. 
Had it done so, it would  have learnt that Mr B wasnt likely to be able to repay credit 
sustainably when it increased his account limits in 2017. Our adjudicator  recommended  that 
JDW pay him some  compensation.
JDW disagreed with the recommendation  and said it had taken the necessary steps to 
assess the suitability  of the account  for Mr B and it wasnt irresponsible  to have increased 
his credit limit. The lender  asked for an ombudsman to look at the case again and so it has 
come to me to review and resolve. If Mr B accepts my decision it will be legally binding on 
both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I plan to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for JDW  and I hope  my explanation below makes it clear  why I have come to 
this conclusion.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when  JDW lent to Mr B. Its rules 
and guidance  obliged it to lend responsibly.  As set out in the regulators Consumer Credit 
Ref: DRN33373902Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that JDW  needed  to take reasonable and proportionate 
steps to assess whether  or not a borrower  could afford to meet  its loan repayments in a 
sustainable manner  over the lifetime  of the agreement. 
In the case of an open-credit agreement or running-account credit a lender  needed  to 
assess whether a borrower  could afford  to repay  the credit within a reasonable period of 
time. What constituted  a reasonable period of time wasnt  defined but considering  the length 
of time it would take a borrower  to repay  a fixed-term loan of a similar  amount  was 
suggested as a reasonable proxy.
The regulations also required  a lender to undertake an assessment of the consumers 
creditworthiness before significantly increasing either  the amount of credit to be provided 
under an agreement or the credit limit for a running account.
CONC 5.3.1G stated  that:
1.In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more  than assessing  the customer's ability  to repay  the 
credit.
2.The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability  to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner  was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while  meeting  other  reasonable commitments;   without having  to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without  having to realise security or assets  (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing  problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document  entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
CONC 5.3.1G also stated  that:
9.For a regulated credit agreement for running-account credit  the firm should set the 
credit limit based  on the creditworthiness  assessment or the assessment required by 
CONC 5.2.2R (1) and taking into account  the matters  in CONC 5.2.3 G, and, in 
particular, the information it has on the customer's  current disposable income  taking 
into account any reasonably foreseeable future changes.
[Note: paragraph 4.6 (box) of ILG]
Paragraph 4.6 (box)  of ILG stated:
We consider that the credit limit should have been set by the creditor (presumably 
aware of the borrower's  current disposable income and any reasonably foreseeable 
future changes in the level of his disposable  income  for example, if the borrower is 
close to retirement age and facing a significant fall in disposable  income)  on the 
basis of having  undertaken an appropriate  affordability assessment.
Ref: DRN33373903Neither the law nor the FCA specified what level of detail was needed  to carry out an 
appropriate assessment  or how such an assessment was to be carried out in practice.  The 
FCA said that the level of detail  would  depend  on the type of product, the amount of credit 
being considered, the associated cost and risk to the borrower relative to the borrowers  
financial situation, amongst other factors. 
As set out in CONC,  the risk to the borrower directly relates to the particulars of the lending  
and the circumstances of the borrower.  In other  words the assessment  needs to be 
borrower-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to the lender of recouping  its money, 
but of the risk to the borrower of incurring  financial  difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences as a result of the decision to lend. 
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed  checks
-the lower a persons  income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
-the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
-the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the borrower  is required to make  payments for an 
extended period).
-the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time 
during which a person  has been given  loans (reflecting  the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Bs case, I have considered  the 
following questions:
-did JDW complete reasonable and proportionate  checks  when assessing Mr Bs 
loan applications  to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way?
-if not, what would  reasonable  and proportionate  checks have shown?
-did JDW make fair lending  decisions?
-did JDW act unfairly or unreasonably  in some other way?
Did JDW complete  reasonable and proportionate checks?
It seems  to me that in order to reasonably assess whether Mr B could manage to meet 
repayments on his credit account  out of his normal income while meeting his usual 
commitments and without having  to borrow  further, JDW would need to understand 
something of Mr Bs monthly income and expenditure levels,  including what his current credit 
commitments were.  CONC  specifically mentions taking  into account a customers disposable 
income when agreeing  running account  credit and the ILG presumed this information would 
be gathered by the lender  when  setting a credit limit. 
So I cannot find that JDW  carried out a proportionate  check on Mr Bs ability to repay his 
credit in a sustainable  manner  either when it first agreed to extend a line of credit  to him, or 
later when it increased his limit, notwithstanding that the lender  says it gathered  some  
information about Mr Bs current and existing credit commitments. 
Ref: DRN33373904What would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown and, ultimately, did JDW  
make fair lending decisions?
JDW said The information we use in our assessment  includes  a current and historical view 
of how customers manage  credit relationships elsewhere; including  the number of credit  
accounts, how indebted customers are and any history of repayment  difficulties.  
JDW provided  a high level summary of some of the information it relied on when agreeing 
credit limit increases for Mr B which  stated that his level of indebtedness was low, he had no 
active CAIS1 accounts  and it had been zero months since recent  defaults.  I dont know the 
extent of the information JDW actually gathered from the credit reference  agency as it hasnt 
provided anything  beyond the above summary. 
Given the lender  says it took Mr Bs level of indebtedness into account and considered how 
hed managed previous credit, Ive reviewed the available  information to get an 
understanding of what  JDW was likely to have seen  when  it gathered  information (or ought  
to have gathered  information) about Mr Bs credit commitments. This includes a copy  of 
Mr Bs credit  file.
Altogether, I dont think JDW would have declined to open an account for Mr B, had it 
enquired further  into his financial  situation.  That said, I have  based  this conclusion  on limited 
information as I havent  seen any bank  statements from Mr B and so cannot  come to a view 
on the extent of his indebtedness in 2015 beyond  what I can see on his credit report. 
I can, however,  see from his credit record that he was struggling with his finances in 2017. 
As our adjudicator explained when giving  her recommendation, by May 2017 Mr B had 
missed payments on four accounts  totalling over £18,000 and had two outstanding short 
term loans, one for £1,500. It wasnt likely that he could repay any amount of further credit at 
that point and so JDW ought to have declined further advances  and not increased his credit 
limit. 
JDW said in response to our adjudicators recommendation that its checks were  
proportionate and that it had a good  opinion  of Mr Bs credit management as hed repaid the 
money he borrowed in 2015, he hadnt  fallen behind on repayments  and his account was up 
to date. The lender also said it took into account  a credit score provided  by a credit  reference 
agency when  it increased Mr Bs credit limit. 
However, it seems to me that JDW didnt consider fully Mr Bs wider financial circumstances 
when increasing  his limit, despite explaining that its assessment took into account  how Mr B 
managed his current and historic  debts. Had it seen this information  or taken proper account 
of it, it was likely to have  declined to increase Mr Bs limit or offer him further  credit  because 
to do so would have been irresponsible.  And so it follows that I find JDW  was irresponsible 
to have granted Mr B credit in 2017.
Did JDW act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other way?
I understand that when Mr B didnt repay the credit hed borrowed in 2017,  JDW  eventually  
sold his outstanding debt on to a debt collector and that he is now potentially  facing court  
1 CAIS stands for Credit  Account Information Sharing,  a credit database managed by Experian and 
shared by lenders.
Ref: DRN33373905action as a result. I dont know the detail  of what happened after Mr B defaulted on his 
account, but from the information Ive seen  I cant say that the lender has acted unfairly in 
some other way resulting in loss or harm to Mr B. And his complaint has focused on 
irresponsible lending.  So I will follow this Services usual  approach  in putting  things right in 
these cases.
What JDW should do to put things  right
Where we find credit to have been agreed  irresponsibly,  this Services approach to putting 
things right is to refund  any interest, fees or charges associated with the credit  that were  
paid by the borrower. In addition, we usually direct  the lender to pay a refund of 8% per 
annum simple interest on these payments where  the borrower was unfairly deprived of their 
money. Wed expect the borrower to repay the capital borrowed as they have had the use of 
these funds, in Mr Bs case to buy goods.
Ive concluded  that JDW was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr B from 23 May 
2017. Mr B shouldnt have  to pay any interest  or charges on goods ordered  on or after that 
date, including  account interest,  insurance,  admin fees, or delivery charges.
In order to put things  right for him JDW should:
a)remove all interest and charges on the account arising from purchases made  on or 
after 23 May 2017; and
b)add the capital cost of any items ordered, and kept, after this date to the outstanding 
balance Mr B owed prior to the credit  limit increase  on 23 May 2017; and
c)treat any payments  Mr B has made since 23 May 2017  as payments towards the 
balance calculated in a) + b).
d)If this clears the balance any funds  remaining  should be refunded to Mr B along with 
8% simple interest* calculated from the date of these overpayments to the date of 
settlement or if an outstanding balance remains, JDW  needs  to treat Mr B 
sympathetically and fairly, which may mean agreeing an affordable  repayment  plan 
with him; and
e)remove any negative information  about the account from 23 May 2017 onwards from 
Mr Bs credit file once any amount owed has been settled.
As the debt has been sold JDW should either repurchase it and ensure the above steps are 
carried out or liaise with the current debt owner to bring these about. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires JDW to take off tax from this interest.  JDW must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN33373906my final decision
As Ive explained above, I am upholding  Mr Bs complaint about J D WilIiams & Company 
Limited trading  as Jacamo  in  part and it to put things right as Ive set out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2020.
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3337390