K822xcomplaint
Miss W complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) recorded  
incorrect information on her credit file and hasnt sent correspondence in the format  she 
requires.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 3 October 2019, which is attached  and 
forms part of my final decision. In this I explained why I intended to uphold part of Miss Ws 
complaint. 
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information  or comments  theyd 
like me to consider  before I made my final decision.
responses
118 118 Money said it accepted the findings  of my provisional decision, including the redress 
award.
Miss W made  some further comments which I have summarised below:
She did tell 118 118 Money about  her sight impairment. One of those times was 
during a phone  call on the date she took out the loan.
She didnt receive any correspondence about  118 118 Money backdating the default  
and she didnt receive the default. The only copy shed received  was from the debt 
collection agency.
She queried how 118 118 Money could backdate  the default to November 2017. The 
credit reference agency markers show she was behind on two payments in 
November, rising  to six in March and defaulted in April 2018.
The backdating of the default  caused her to lose the property she was hoping to rent. 
Had it been registered in April 2018 she would not have lost it.
The debt collection agency removed the default  because the information 118 118 
Money gave them  was wrong.
Once the debt collection  agency  had removed the default she was successful in 
applying for another property.
She doesnt dispute the address 118 118 Money  sent correspondence  to was 
correct, but it wasnt sent in large  print.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to a recording  of Miss Ws phone conversation with 118 118 Money on the day 
she took out the loan. She didnt  mention  her sight impairment or her requirement  for 
correspondence to be sent in large, bold print in this call. Ive also listened  to two other call 
recordings that were noted  in 118 118 Moneys contact history. Miss W didnt mention any 
communication requirements  in these calls either.  
Ref: DRN35116932I can see the letter notifying Miss W of the default  being backdated  and the default notice 
were both addressed  correctly. But even if Miss W didnt receive the letters, she should  still 
have been aware  she was behind  with her repayments. So I dont think  118 118 Money was 
wrong to register the default.
I think 118 118 Money acted fairly when it backdated the default.  Doing this wouldve meant 
it coming off her credit file earlier, as defaults normally  remain  on credit files for six years 
from the date of the default. So it being backdated  was in Miss Ws best interests.
Miss W is concerned that the backdating  of the default caused her to lose the property she 
was hoping to rent. She says she doesnt  think she would have lost out on it if the default 
had been registered in April 2018. But from what  Ive seen, the default  wasnt  registered until 
April or May 2018 so it wouldnt have appeared on Miss Ws credit file before then. And in 
any event, from what shes told us she applied  to rent the property several  months after April 
2018. So I dont  think the default being  backdated, is likely to have made  a difference to Miss 
Ws success with renting a property.
Miss W says that the debt collection agency  removed the default because  118 118 Money  
gave them the wrong information. But I havent needed to consider the actions of the debt 
collection agency as Miss Ws complaint is against  118 118 Money.
Miss W may have been offered another property  once the debt collection agency had 
removed the default. But Ive still got no way of knowing if the incorrect  information on Miss 
Ws credit file was the reason for her being  refused the other property. As Ive said, I dont 
think 118 118 Money was wrong to register the default. 
118 118 Money says it wasnt  aware of Miss Ws requirement for large, bold print until 
November 2018.  It follows that any correspondence it sent to Miss W before then, would 
have been in standard print. 
Ive considered all of Miss Ws comments but they dont make a difference to the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  So I see no reason to change  them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold this complaint in part and direct Madison CF UK 
Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) to pay Miss W £250 for distress and inconvenience.  
It should do this within 28 days  of us telling it Miss W has accepted my decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss W to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35116933copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Miss W complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading  as 118 118 Money) recorded incorrect 
information on her credit  file and hasnt sent correspondence  in the format she requires.
background
Shortly after Miss W took out a loan with 118 118 Money, she fell behind on her repayments.  Miss W 
told 118 118 Money  she was in hospital  and it agreed an arrangement with her, but she fell further 
into arrears.  She told 118 118 Money she was still in hospital so 118 118 Money asked Miss W for 
medical evidence to support this. Miss W said she would  send this when she was able to.
Several months later 118 118 Money issued  a default notice informing  Miss W she was six months in 
arrears and giving her three weeks to bring  her account up to date. Miss W didnt contact 118 118 
Money or make any payment and the debt was sold to a debt collection agency.
Around six months later Miss W emailed 118 118 Money.  She said shed recently found out that her 
debt had been  sold on to the debt collection  agency. She didnt remember receiving  notifications  or a 
notice of default. She said she wouldnt have been able to see them if they werent in a large bold 
print because of her eye conditions. She queried  why the same debt was showing twice on her credit 
report and showing  as defaulted on two different dates by 118 118 Money  and the debt collection 
agency.
Miss W asked  118 118 Money to update  the credit  reference agencies to reflect that her debt was no 
longer active  with it. She also asked  118 118 Money to consider removing the default. She said she 
hadnt received any notifications  in the format  shed  requested which  she would have been able to 
see. She said she also had serious  health conditions and she wanted to move closer  to her family. To 
move home,  she needed  to rent and she was failing credit checks due to the default.
Miss W said shed made a data subject access request (DSAR)  for copies of the default  notices and 
any correspondence 118 118 Money had sent to her concerning her account. She said shed  always 
made it clear that she was severely sight impaired  and required correspondence  to be sent in large 
bold print. 
In its response to Miss Ws complaint, 118 118 Money told her it had advised the credit reference 
agency that her account was transferred  at the time. This should have been updated by the credit 
reference agency within 30 days, but it wasnt. 118 118 Money said it had asked the credit reference 
agency to ensure it was updated.
Miss W was frustrated that 118 118 Moneys response had been  emailed to her in standard  font. 118 
118 Money  apologised  for this and sent it again in large, bold font a few days  later.
There were  several further emails between  Miss W and 118 118 Money  as she chased for a response 
to her DSAR.  Miss W also queried  why the date of the default on her credit file was several months 
earlier than the date her default notice  was issued. Miss W was also unhappy  about  correspondence  
being sent in standard print.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ws concerns  but she didnt think that 118 118 Money  had done 
anything wrong. She thought  it had given the correct information to the credit reference agency. She 
said that she could only see one occasion where  118 118 Money hadnt sent emails in large bold 
print. It had apologised and sent it again a few days later in large  bold print. She said 118 118 Money  
had also sent evidence that it had sent the information Miss W had requested in the DSAR in 
December 2018 in large bold print. Our investigator didnt think 118 118 Money needed to do anything  
further.
Ref: DRN35116934Miss W disagreed with our investigators view. Shes made the following points:
Her credit  file was showing two different  default  dates for 118 118 Money  and the debt 
collection agency. It was the same debt not two separate ones.
She only found out about  the default  in November 2018 after losing a property she 
desperately needed  to move  to for increased  support and care due to the state of her health. 
It would  have  placed her much closer to her family  and friends. 
118 118 Money  had recorded the default against her 6 months before  they issued the default  
notice.
The copy  of the default notice (which had been passed on to her by the debt collection 
agency) was in standard print.
118 118 Money  didnt tell the debt collection agency about her requirements for large print.
Shes provided a copy of a statement of account from 118 118 Money  dated  April 2019 which 
is in standard font.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I intend  to uphold part of Miss Ws complaint. Ive 
set out my reasoning  below.
registering of default
118 118 Money  had an obligation to act positively  and sympathetically towards Miss W once it was 
aware of her financial difficulty. But the relevant industry guidance says that a default may be 
recorded if a borrower falls into arrears on an account to show that the relationship between them and 
the lender has broken  down. 
From what Ive seen, I think  118 118 Money did try to help Miss W when she fell into arrears on her 
account. It offered  her a repayment plan when  she first missed  a payment. The notes  from 118 118 
Money show there was a text chat where it advised her to call when she was able to and it had asked 
for medical evidence to support the account moving  forward. 
Miss W has told us that she was in hospital  for around four months. I appreciate that this must have  
been very difficult for her. But she doesnt appear to have contacted  118 118 Money  for almost  a year 
following her text chat with it. In the meantime 118 118 Money had issued a default notice and notice 
of arrears and it had sold the debt on to a debt collection agency. 
I appreciate that Miss W says she didnt receive the default notice and she wouldnt have been able to 
read it because it was sent in standard font. But I can see the letters were sent to the right address. 
And I havent seen any evidence that 118 118 Money was aware of her need for a larger font at the 
time. I also think Miss W would likely have known that she hadnt made  payments  on the account  for 
several months, so she ought  reasonably  to have known  that her account  was in default. 
So I dont think that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when it registered  a default on her credit file 
and sold the debt on to the debt collection agency.
default date
Miss W has complained that 118 118 Money recorded the default on her credit file around six months 
before it issued the default  notice. 
118 118 Money  says when it applied the default it backdated it to six months earlier  as this was when 
Miss Ws account fell into serious arrears.  Its sent us a copy of a letter  addressed to Miss W from the 
time it applied  the default which explains this. 
Ref: DRN35116935Defaults normally remain on a credit file for six years from the date of the default. So I think 118 118 
Money acted  fairly by backdating the default,  as this means that it would be removed from Miss Ws 
credit file earlier than if it had been applied after the default notice had been sent.
incorrect information on credit  file
When Miss W first made her complaint to 118 118 Money,  her main  concern  was that the same debt 
appeared to be recorded twice on her credit file. 
In its response 118 118 Money  said the credit file submission had been provided to the credit 
reference agency to advise that Miss Ws account was transferred at the time.  It said this should have  
been updated  by the credit  reference  agency  within  30 days but it wasnt done.
The credit  reference agency  has told us two entries would  have shown on Miss Ws credit file for the 
debt  one with 118 118 Money  and one with the debt collection agency. It says that 118 118 Money  
had no legal  obligation to remove the debt but must mark it as closed. It says 118 118 Money  didnt 
mark the debt as closed  it only placed a default marker on it. It should have marked the account as 
closed to ensure this was reflected fairly.
I asked 118 118 Money if it was able to provide any evidence that Miss Ws account  was marked 
correctly when it was sold to the debt collection  agency.  118 118 Money  said it wasnt able to provide 
any evidence of this because the file it sends is constantly updated and has technically been 
overridden since the report should have been made. 
On balance, I dont think 118 118 Money provided the right account closure  information  to the credit 
reference agency at the time. And there would have appeared to have been two defaulted debts  on 
Miss Ws credit file because of this.
I can understand why Miss W thinks shes lost out on renting a property near her family  because  of 
the defaults being entered on her credit file twice. But Ive no way of knowing what  would  have 
happened if the information  on her credit file had been correct.
customer service  and reasonable adjustments
The Equality Act 2010 says that organisations  have a duty to make reasonable adjustments  to 
remove barriers people face as result of their disability. 
Miss W is visually impaired and has told us that she cant read anything that is in standard font. She 
says this would appear like a blank piece  of paper to her. Miss W has expressed her frustration  that 
118 118 Money  sent documents in standard font (including the default notice)  and has sent emails 
regarding her complaint in standard font. Shes also complained that she doesnt think  
118 118 Money  informed the debt collection agency of her requirement for documents to be sent in a 
large, bold print. 
From everything Ive seen,  the first record of Miss W telling 118 118 Money  about her requirement for 
large print was in November  2018. Miss W has told us she isnt able to provide any evidence that she 
told 118 118 Money  about  this earlier   although she believes she did.
So I dont think theres enough to say that 118 118 Money did anything wrong when it sent documents 
to Miss W in standard font prior to this. And I also dont think that it could have been expected to let 
the debt collection  agency  know about Miss Ws requirements, given that it didnt appear to have 
been aware  of them when it sold her debt.
But I dont think that 118 118 Money did enough to ensure it was communicating clearly with Miss W 
once it was aware  of her requirements.  I can see that 118 118 Money did use large,  bold print in most 
of its emails to Miss W. And I accept that sending  the final response in standard font was likely an 
oversight, which was quickly  rectified once Miss W had made it aware of this. 
Ref: DRN35116936There were  several emails  between Miss W and 118 118 Money where  she was chasing for a 
response to her DSAR  and many of these were after this had already been sent to her. So I think it 
should have been clear  to 118 118 Money that its communication wasnt meeting her needs. With this 
in mind, I would have  expected  it to have tried a different method of contact, such as phoning her. 
This would likely have saved a lot of time and distress for Miss W.
Miss W has also sent us a copy of a statement  account dated April 2019  which is in standard  print. 
This was a long time after 118 118 Money was aware of Miss Ws requirement for documents  to be in 
large, bold print. This has caused additional  frustration to Miss W who hadnt even been aware  of the 
statement until her sister found it several  months later.  
118 118 Money  has told us that this was sent to Miss W in error and it would like to apologise for this.
in conclusion
I dont think 118 118 Money was wrong to register the default against Miss Ws account. And I think 
118 118 Moneys decision to backdate the default was fair. 
The information on Miss Ws credit file was recorded incorrectly to suggest  she had two separate  
defaults on two separate debts. While this is likely to have been due to an error on 118 118 Moneys 
part, its not possible to say whether or not this made a difference to     Miss W losing out on the 
property she wanted to rent. So I dont  uphold  this part of Miss Ws complaint.
I do think that 118 118 Money  should have communicated with Miss W more  clearly once it was 
aware of her disability. Given her visual impairment and her requests for information it had already 
sent, I think it would have been more appropriate for 118 118 Money  to use a different method of 
communication to try to meet her needs.  It should also have ensured that correspondence was sent to 
her in the print shed requested, once it was aware  of her disability. 
118 118 Moneys failure to communicate clearly  and to consistently make a reasonable adjustments 
has been frustrating for Miss W who has also spent a lot of time trying to get the information  she 
wanted. Miss W has significant health problems and is in financial difficulty. Given her vulnerability,  I 
think an award  of £250 for the distress  shes experienced  while trying  to get a satisfactory  response to 
her concerns, would be fair and reasonable  under the circumstances. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I intend to uphold  this complaint and tell Madison CF UK Limited to 
pay Miss W £250 for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN3511693