K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr C bought the policies  in connection  with credit  cards  that he took out in 1993. Lloyds 
cant say for sure whether  the PPI was added to Mr Cs accounts at the same time as Mr C 
applied for the cards.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance
of probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened in light of the
available evidence and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive concluded  that the PPI policies werent  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr C applied for his cards in 1993  and its possible  that he bought  PPI at the same 
time. But Lloyds doesnt know for sure if this is the case. Ive not seen anything to 
suggest the PPI was taken out after the cards. So I think its most likely  Mr C bought 
the PPI at the same time as applying for his credit  cards.
I think its likely that Lloyds made Mr C aware  the PPI was optional and he chose  to
take it. I say this because  from what we know  about  Lloyds sales processes in 1993
Mr C wouldve had to actively select the PPI on his credit card application  forms.
Mr C has told me that he didnt complete the application forms, and that this was 
done by the banks cashier. He says he was told he had to take the PPI to get the 
credit cards, and that Lloyds didnt give him a proper choice about buying  the cover. 
Ive noted everything  Mr C has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr C and 
Lloyds when the policies were sold. Im also mindful  that these events took place  
many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide much  documentation from the time of the sales.  
Again, thats not surprising given the amount of time thats  passed.
But without anything else to support  what Mr C has told me, I dont think it would  be 
fair or reasonable  for me to say that Lloyds didnt give him a choice about whether or 
not to buy the PPI. 
Lloyds accepts that it probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr C, but it doesnt look as
Ref: DRN34508082if it was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.
Mr C says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt work because
of sickness or accident, and that he had some  savings.
But the policies  wouldve  paid out in addition  to his employer benefits,  and would do
so, it seems, for longer.  And the PPI wouldve allowed Mr C to use his savings to 
cover other expenses.  So I think Mr C wouldve had some use for the policies, 
despite his existing arrangements.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it
should have been. But its unlikely Mr C would have been affected by any of the
main things the policies didnt  cover. And the policies were competitively priced and 
had reasonable benefits.  So I dont think better  information wouldve stopped him 
buying them.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr C, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3450808