K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about Mr Ks Halifax-branded mortgage with Bank of Scotland  plc. Hes 
unhappy that Halifax placed  a missed payment marker on his credit  file after he used what 
he thought was his accumulated over-payments  to cover his April 2019 instalment. To 
resolve the complaint, Mr K wants the marker removed from his credit file.
background 
By way of a provisional decision dated 27 March  2020, which is attached  below and forms part 
of this final decision, I set out, with reasons, the basis on which  I was minded to determine this 
complaint, subject to the further submissions  of the parties.  Both parties have replied, agreeing  
with my provisional decision.  But Mr K did say, separately that Halifax should  pay him £400  
compensation for his time, trouble  and upset.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, theres no reason for me 
to depart from my provisional conclusion, so I dont. 
On Mr Ks point about compensation,  we award  compensation where we believe a business 
has made an error. Had I found  Halifax to have done something wrong in his case, I would 
have awarded  Mr K compensation. Here,  the whole point of my proposed settlement was 
that it was on the basis there had been  no error  or omission, and that both parties should 
accept it as a compromise.  
my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons set out above and below, is that this complaint should fairly 
be resolved by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax changing the effective date of the 
over-payment cancellation to 1 May 2019 and removing the missed payment marker from 
Mr Ks credit  file. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38393892CONTENT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  Mr Ks Halifax-branded  mortgage with Bank of Scotland  plc. Hes unhappy 
that Halifax  placed a missed payment marker  on his credit file after he used what  he thought  was his 
accumulated over-payments  to cover his April 2019 instalment. To resolve the complaint,  Mr K wants  
the marker removed from his credit file.
background
In what  follows, I have  summarised events in rather less detail than has been presented, using  my 
own words  and rounding  some of the figures involved.  No discourtesys intended  by that; its a 
reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive 
ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach  is consistent  with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows me to focus on 
the issues  on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked  by matters which in my 
view will have  little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr Ks Halifax mortgage includes certain flexible features; in particular, it allows him to make over-
payments and, where he has done so, also to make  under-payments that then absorb  the accrued 
over-payments. If the monthly  instalment  is recalculated for any reason (for example, if a new rate 
deal is applied) any over-payment that exists  at that time is factored into the re-calculation  and reset 
to zero.
At the beginning of April 2019, Mr K had something in the region  of £66,000  of accrued 
over- payments on the account. He planned to make use of this in combination  with the under-
payment facility to miss his April payment, which  was due on 28 April 2019.
The mortgage  account  comprises several  sub accounts; each  with slightly different interest rate deals 
on them. The main account that carries the bulk of the balance was on a deal that was due to run out 
on 30 April 2019; at that point, it would revert to Halifaxs  standard variable  rate unless Mr K took a 
new deal. Mr K did apply for a new deal, and on 10 April 2019, Halifax wrote to tell Mr K with details  of 
the new deal. The letter  told him his new payment, which would take effect from 1 May 2019,  and that 
as a result of the payment recalculation his existing overpayment arrangement  was now cancelled.  
Mr K complained after discovering that Halifax had recorded  a missed  payment marker  on his credit 
file for the April 2019 instalment. Halifax rejected his complaint, pointing  out that his accrued  over-
payments had been reset  to zero by virtue of the payment recalculation for the new rate.
When Mr K referred his complaint to us, our investigator didnt recommend it be upheld. She said the 
10 April 2019 letter had informed Mr K that his over-payments  had been cancelled. He still had time to 
pay his April instalment in the usual  way, as the due date had been the 28th of the month (rather than 
the default  1st of the month)  at Mr Ks request,  since 2017.
Mr K asked for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ill start with some general observations. Were  not the regulator of financial businesses,  and we dont 
police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. We deal with individual disputes  between businesses  and their customers. In doing  that, we 
dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Ref: DRN38393893Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  on how we investigate  a complaint. We 
conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions  without interference  from anyone  else.  But in 
doing so, we have to work  within the rules of the ombudsman service, and the remit  those  rules give 
us
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier,  if I dont comment  on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit  is to take an overview and decide 
whats fair in the round. 
Its sometimes easy for those with a stake in a complaint to fall into the trap of thinking that complaint 
resolution is solely about  finding  fault and/or attributing blame. But there can often be more  (or less) to 
it than that. There are occasions where  its less about deciding who did or didnt get things wrong and 
more about what will set things right. To put it another way, sometimes the outcome of a complaint is 
simply about finding a fair resolution,  and in my view this is one of those  instances.
Ive read Halifaxs letter of 10 April 2019, and I agree with our investigator that it does tell Mr K his 
over-payments have been cancelled. But it also occurs to me that its possible to infer from the overall 
content of the letter that the cancellation of the over-payment would take effect at the same time as 
the new payment came  into effect; ie from 1 May 2019. 
Id stop short of finding  that Halifax misled Mr K, but it seems to me theres just a little bit of room for 
confusion, such that Mr K might reasonably have inferred  from the letter that he could still underpay in 
April 2019. Ive seen Mrs Ks full credit  file; its impeccable in every respect,  bar the missed  payment 
marker from April 2019.  Its clear that Mr Ks credit rating is important to him, and Ive no doubt that if 
he had fully understood  that he had now to make his April 2019 payment in the normal way, hed have 
done so.
In that context, its fair that he should be given  the benefit of the doubt. In my view, it seems eminently 
sensible and practical that Halifax should treat the over-payment cancellation as having  taken effect 
on 1 May 2019, and remove the missed payment marker  in respect of April 2019 from Mr Ks credit 
file. It should  do that not because it remedies  an error  or omission, but because  it is a fair and 
reasonable resolution that both parties should  be able to live with in a spirit of compromise.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, further to the final comments from both parties, is that this complaint should  
fairly be resolved by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax changing the effective date of the over-
payment cancellation to 1 May 2019  and removing the missed payment marker from Mr Ks credit file
Ill review the case and issue  my next decision after 17 April 2020,  or sooner if both parties  confirm  
theyve said and provided  everything they want in response  to this provisional decision. Neither party 
need repeat anything theyve said already.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3839389