K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Gefion Insurance A/S didnt pay him fully after he made a claim on his 
commercial motor vehicle  insurance policy and his van was written-off.  It later voided the 
policy. Mr R also says it didnt ensure the DVLAs  records were changed. Any reference  to 
Gefion in this decision  includes  its agents. 
  
background
Mr R took the policy  out in March 2017.  He said he had a full UK licence with no 
endorsements. In May 2017 he had an accident. He told Gefion his van skidded  on oil and 
collided with the central reservation on a motorway.  
Gefion made  numerous requests to Mr R for his driving licence details, plus a code it needed 
to carry out a DVLA check in order to validate the policy.  Mr R said hed sent the information 
to it several times. Later on, he said he no longer  had the relevant  details.  In December 2017 
he accepted payment for the vans salvage value, which  was £248.50.  Gefion said the pre-
accident value  wouldnt be paid unless the policy  could be validated.  That meant being able 
to check the details it had been  asking Mr R for from the outset.
In February 2018  Mr R told Gefion that hed received parking fines from the DVLA after the 
van was sold to a third party by the salvage  agent.  He thought that was Gefions fault.  Mr R 
said he thought  the van had been scrapped. As it was sold on, he wanted full payment  for it. 
Gefion said it still needed to validate the policy. 
A year later,  Mr R gave Gefion the DVLA code. Gefion found  that when Mr R bought the 
policy he no longer  had a UK driving licence.  And there were licence endorsements in 2016  
that he hadnt declared. Mr R said he wasnt aware  of them - or that they happened after the 
2017 accident. Gefion decided to void the policy (to treat it as though it had never  existed).
As Gefion  didnt agree to pay Mr R the vans full value - or accept liability for the parking 
fines - he complained to us. One of our investigators concluded that it had acted reasonably. 
He thought Mr R was reckless or had deliberately given Gefion the wrong  details when he 
bought the policy. He said when  Mr R agreed  to the salvage payment, it wasnt based  on the 
van being scrapped. He thought Mr R should have sent the vans V5 registration document 
to the DVLA, to avoid any confusion when the van was disposed of. He noted that the DVLA  
had since agreed  to backdate its records, which he said would resolve  the parking fines 
issue. But as Mr R didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
I think it was reasonable  for Gefion to decide  in 2019 to treat the policy  as though  it had 
never existed. It was only at that point that it knew all the facts. 
Gefion doesnt  have a copy of Mr Rs online application for the policy. But I think  it has 
shown that he would  have been asked whether he had a full UK driving licence, plus the 
date he passed  his test, which was recorded.  It says he would also have been asked 
whether hed incurred any drivingrelated convictions or endorsements in the last five years.  
The policy documents sent to Mr R show  he was reminded that the onus was on him to 
ensure he had a valid licence and that all the details  hes supplied  were correct. They also 
Ref: DRN36724392show that Gefion  thought  he had a valid licence with no driving offences on it, based  on what 
hed told it. Mr R didnt contact Gefion  to correct any of the details it had recorded.
I dont think Mr R took reasonable  care in answering  the clear  questions Gefion asked. 
Gefion has shown us underwriting criteria that confirm it wouldnt have offered him a policy  
had it known Mr R didnt  have a valid UK driving licence. I think it was reasonable for it to 
say that Mr R acted recklessly or deliberately   rather than carelessly  - in providing  the 
wrong details to it. That means he knew or didnt care that he was misleading  Gefion.  In 
these circumstances,  an insurer doesnt have to cover a claim or refund the policy premium. 
Mr R suggested scrapping  the van in December  2017 when he couldnt provide the licence 
details. Gefion paid him for the vans disposal.  Gefion made it clear that no more would be 
paid unless it could  validate the policy. I think its clear from the emails at the time that it 
didnt say the van would be sold for scrap. The damage to it wasnt  great enough  for that. It 
seems Mr R assumed the van wouldnt be sold on. But I dont think Gefion can be blamed 
for his misunderstanding. 
Mr R seems to think that Gefion benefited from the vans sale,  at his expense,  as its 
engineer valued the van at £3,550. But the file shows  that Gefion paid a third party more 
than £8,800 for the damage  the van did to property  during the accident.    
Mr R ceased to own the car once he agreed  to its disposal  and was paid for it. The V5 
document should then have been returned to the DVLA for it to amend its details. As it 
wasnt, Mr R was still recorded as the vans registered keeper, which  is why the DVLA 
contacted him about unpaid parking fines.  
As Mr R had sold his car to Gefion, it was his legal duty as the seller  to report it to the DVLA. 
Gefion asked Mr R to leave the V5 document in the car or send it to the salvage agent. The 
salvage agent says it didnt get it. Mr R thinks it did, but either way I think he had a duty to 
contact the DVLA.  He says it wasnt necessary as the car was to be scrapped.  Although  he 
was mistaken about that, the same  applies even in those circumstances. So I dont think 
Gefion is to blame for Mr R getting the parking  tickets  or for a bailiff  later trying to enforce 
payment. Gefion has since written a letter setting out the facts for Mr R. And once the 
DVLAs records are amended, the issue should  be resolved. 
I think its clear  that Mr R has been distressed by much of what happened. But I think  its fair 
to say that his actions  caused it - and he didnt co-operate with Gefion, as he was obliged to 
do under  the policy. As I dont think Mr R can show that Gefion did anything  wrong,  Im not 
upholding his complaint.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3672439