K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank plc wrongly placed  a fraud  marker  against his name after a 
third party illegitimately transferred funds  into his account.    
background
Mr S held a personal  current account with Lloyds. Over two days  payments totalling  £36,000 
were made to his account from another bank, which Ill call Bank A. Mr S then made  a 
number of transfers of those funds  to and from his savings accounts with Lloyds and to an 
account he holds  with a third bank, Bank  B.
Bank A then contacted Lloyds, indicating  that the two payments it had made werent 
genuine, but had been made fraudulently. Lloyds blocked Mr Ss account and placed a fraud  
marker against Mr Ss name with CIFAS, the Credit Industry Fraud  Avoidance  System.  Mr S 
says that this marker is preventing him from obtaining employment,  and he wants it 
removed. 
Lloyds didnt agree  to Mr Ss request. It said, in summary, that Mr S hadnt provided an 
adequate explanation for what had happened, or evidence that he was entitled to the funds 
that had been transferred to his account. Mr S didnt accept Lloyds  response  and referred  
his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  considered what Mr S had said, but didnt think  the bank had 
treated him unfairly. She identified what were, in her view, a number of inconsistencies  in his 
account of events and explanations about the source of the money paid into his account. 
Mr S didnt accept our investigators assessment, and asked that an ombudsman  review 
things. He said, in bringing his complaint to the ombudsman service,  he wanted to explain 
that he didnt know where they money had come from; and the information the investigator 
had received from Bank A (which  appeared to show the money  had come  from an account in 
his name) was incorrect.               
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr S says that he made  an innocent mistake and should  not be penalised for that. In my 
view, however, the evidence suggests he was more  closely involved than hes said.  
Initially, Mr S told Lloyds  that the money had come  from a business  partner who was 
investing in his new business. But he didnt say who that business  partner was, provide any 
details about the business or explain why it needed  an investment of £36,000. The banks 
records indicate that, when asked at one point about  this business partner, Mr S said hed 
just been contacted out of nowhere.  
When he made the complaint to this service,  Mr S told us that hed been told the money was 
an inheritance  from a deceased  relative. Again, he provided no more  detail, either  about  the 
relative or his or his business partners inheritance. At other  times,  Mr S has indicated that 
the money came from a cousin; but hes not been  able to demonstrate  that, explaining that, 
Ref: DRN36315962following a family dispute,  hes not now in contact with a number of family members. The 
person who sent the money has, he says, moved abroad.  
Not all of the information  Mr S has provided  about  the source of funds is necessarily 
contradictory. Its possible the funds did originally form part of the estate of a deceased  
relative; that a cousin  was, directly or indirectly,  a beneficiary; that Mr S and the cousin 
werent previously closely acquainted;  and that the cousin  did say he wanted to go into 
business with Mr S. But if that were the case,  I might have expected  Mr S to have  explained 
things to the bank or to this service  in rather more detail than he has.
Mr S said that the money was transferred to his personal account while he was setting  up a 
business account with Bank A. If that were the case,  it would be unusual to move  money in 
and out of a savings account, as Mr S did. He also moved money  to an account  at Bank B, 
he says to cover business costs.  He hasnt provided  any more  detail,  but that seems 
inconsistent with a business that was being set up and which  was in the process  of opening  
an account with Bank  A. 
Finally, Bank A has told us that the money it sent had come  from an international account 
with Bank  B, and that its own account  was in the name of Mr S, with his date of birth and 
home address included  in his details. Mr S says this is incorrect. 
I cant rule out the possibility that Mr S has been  merely nave here,  as he suggests. But hes 
provided extremely limited information   even about, for example, the business he was 
setting up, the expenses  it had incurred and why it needed such  a large injection of cash.  In 
short, I think it more likely  that he knows rather more  about the transfers to his account than 
he has been prepared  to tell us or Lloyds. In the circumstances, I think Lloyds was justified in 
acting in the way it did.
my final decision
My final decision is not to uphold Mr Ss complaint,  and I dont require  Lloyds Bank plc to do 
anything more to resolve  it. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 25 May 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3631596