K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a 
store card PPI (payment  protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from August 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was minded to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make  before 
I reached a final decision.  Mrs C responded to say she agreed with my provisional decision. 
FICL did not respond  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither of the parties has provided  any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that I uphold  Mrs Cs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint. I require  Financial  Insurance Company 
Limited to pay compensation as set out in my provisional decision  below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31104152COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs C has complained that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  her a store card 
PPI (payment protection insurance) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility  for the sale of such policies.  To keep things simple, Ill 
therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mrs C took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in 1995.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  to uphold Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to ensure  that Mrs C has a choice about  buying  the policy, but from the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont  think  that FICL has been able to show that was the case.
Mrs C applied for the card in store by filling out a form. She says that she was just told to complete 
her name  and address and then to sign the back page.
Looking at the application form, there is a separate section for PPI with Yes  and No boxes that 
could be ticked to either  accept or decline the policy. There  is a tick in the Yes box with initials next 
to the tick. The initials are not those of Mrs C. Neither  do the initials  correspond with the name of the 
staff member in the store that was dealing with the sale  I can tell this because  the store staff 
members surname is noted in the store use only section at the top of the form. However, the initials 
do seem to correspond with those of the member  of staff from the bank who signed the back  page of 
the credit agreement. Ive got some concerns about  this. Firstly, if Mrs C had ticked  the box herself  at 
the time (or even if the store member had completed the form for her and then asked her to check  it 
before signing), there would be no need for that tick to be initialled. Secondly,  if for some reason  it 
was felt that the tick was an amendment that needed  authorisation, I would expect it to be Mrs Cs 
initials on the form.   From  my understanding  of the sales process,  the person  that did initial  it wouldnt 
have been present in the shop when  Mrs C was completing the application  form.  Furthermore, Mrs C 
signed and dated the form on 9 March 1995, whereas  the member  of bank staff appears to have 
signed it the day before, which cant be right.
So I have significant doubts  about  the sales  process  and overall I am unable to conclude that Mrs C 
was given  a choice about having the PPI applied to her account.
Normally I would go on to consider other aspects of the sale. But Im currently satisfied that the failure  
to give Mrs C a choice  about  buying the policy  is sufficient reason in itself to uphold the complaint.
putting things  right
Ref: DRN31104153FICL should put Mrs C in the financial  position  shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A. FICL should find out how much  Mrs C wouldve owed when  she closed her store card account if 
the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owed when  she closed her account 
and what she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.  
B. FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs C wouldve owed when she 
closed her account from when she closed  it until she gets the refund. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
C. If  when  FICL  works out what Mrs C wouldve owed  each month without PPI  Mrs C paid more  
than enough to clear her balance, FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra Mrs C paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mrs C wouldve  owed FICL something 
on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. FICL should tell Mrs C what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs C a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mrs Cs complaint and require Financial Insurance Company Limited to 
pay compensation as detailed  above.
Carole Clark
ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN3110415