K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC blocked  and closed his account. And hasnt 
provided a satisfactory  explanation. 
background 
Mr L had an account  with Barclays. In December 2017, Barclays reviewed  Mr Ls account.  
Whilst it conducted its review Barclays blocked Mr Ls account. This meant he wasnt able to 
access any funds.
Following its review Barclays  decided to close Mr Ls account immediately. On 25 January 
2018 it wrote  to Mr L to let him know he needed  to make alternative  banking arrangements. 
On 7 February 2018 Barclays returned  the closing balance  of Mr Ls account to him.
Following the review Barclays finally closed his account on 9 February 2018.
Mr L complained to Barclays. They accepted they should have provided Mr L with better 
service. In particular it said it had closed Mr Ls complaint without the investigation  being  
completed, its review  took longer than the 10 days  Barclays said, and it didnt write to him 
when it said that it had.
Barclays reconsidered the decision to close the account and confirmed that Mr Ls account  
would remain closed.  Barclays offered Mr L £150 because  of the service issues  and the 
delay in reviewing  his account. 
Mr L was unhappy  with the compensation  Barclays  offered. He said it doesnt reflect the 
amount of trouble and upset he experienced. He said when Barclays  blocked his account he 
wasnt working. So, he needed the money  in his account to get by.
Mr L complained to our service. One of our investigators reviewed the case, she said 
Barclays were  entitled  to close the account, but it had taken  longer  than 10 days to review 
the account. Barclays had offered £150  in compensation because of this delay and she 
thought this was fair. She recognised that Barclays had fallen short  in its customer service  to 
Mr L and she thought an extra £100  compensation was fair and reasonable.
Mr L was unhappy  with our investigators view. He was unhappy that he hadnt  had access  
to his money for two months  and he hadnt  been  given  a reason for it. He was also unhappy 
with the way Barclays had dealt with his complaint. He said he had no money over 
Christmas. And said he wants £3,000  compensation.
As there was no agreement the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have reached the same  
conclusion as our investigator.
Account review and closure
Ill start by setting out some context for the review  of Mr Ls account.
Ref: DRN36185472Anti-money laundering regulations and UK legislation (which  includes the Financial Services  
and Markets Act 2000, the Proceeds  of Crime Act 2002, the Money Laundering Regulations 
2017 and the Financial  Conduct Authoritys financial crime requirements, place extensive 
obligations on regulated financial businesses to verify a customers  identity, establish the 
purpose and nature  of the business  relationship and the origin of funds. Businesses are also 
required to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. Barclays has 
said that Mr Ls account was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Mr L says he has no idea why Santander blocked his account and it came as a complete 
shock to him. He says the blocks meant  he couldnt  access his money over Christmas.
Whilst I understand Mr Ls strength of feeling,  as Ive already explained businesses  have a 
legal obligation  to comply with various  laws and regulations. Having looked at the 
information Barclays relied upon, Im satisfied that Barclays  were complying with its legal 
and regulatory  obligations when it blocked Mr Ls account. So, I cant say it has done  
anything wrong. The terms  and conditions of Mr Ls account also permit Barclays to block  an 
account. Having  considered those  terms, Im satisfied Barclays  acted in line with them in 
applying a block to Mr Ls account. 
I know Mr L wants Barclays to explain the reason  it blocked his account.  And I can 
understand Mr Ls frustration that he hasnt been provided a detailed explanation. But as the 
investigator has explained, Barclays is under no obligation to provide this information  to him, 
as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say Barclays has done  anything wrong by not 
providing this information  to him. 
Having said that, Barclays didnt complete the review of his account  within  10 days as it said 
it would. Barclays hasnt  explained why it took so long to complete the review. And accepts it 
should have finished things much  sooner than it did. As a result of the delay Mr L was 
without access to his funds for two months.  And from what  Mr L has said this made life very 
difficult for him. So, Im satisfied that Mr L was caused distress  and inconvenience. 
I consider £150  already offered by Barclays to be fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation for the inconvenience he was caused.  In deciding this I have considered that 
Mr L was able to have his wages paid to him by going into branch and a couple of other 
payments were also made. So, I am satisfied  that during this period  he had access to some 
money.
Customer service
Mr L says Barclays closed  the complaint without investigating it. Hes also said staff hung up 
on him twice. I have reviewed the evidence and listened to the calls.  Unfortunately,  not all 
the calls are available.  Having listened to the ones that are available  I can understand why 
Mr L was frustrated by not having  his questions answered. Barclays  could have directed him 
to the specific terms and conditions it was relying on and he was told he couldnt  raise a 
complaint. Barclays have accepted that it could  have  done better. And I think had Barclays  
answered Mr Ls questions it would have eased  his concerns. Our investigator  awarded 
£100 compensation for this. And I think this is fair. 
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr L feels about whats happened,  and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  time. I realise Mr L will be disappointed by my decision, but overall, based 
on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant say Barclays has acted unreasonably and treated Mr L 
Ref: DRN36185473unfairly when it closed his account.  However, I think Barclays  should have provided Mr L 
with better  service. So, I think Barclays should compensate Mr L with a total of £250.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mr L a total of £250 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused him by not completing its review  
in a timely manner and poor service
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3618547