K822xcomplaint
Mr O has complained about the poor service he said he received from U Drive Cover  Ltd 
when he bought a car insurance policy.
background 
Mr O bought a car insurance policy through a broker, U Drive Cover Ltd in October 2018. 
To verify Mr Os details for the insurer, U Drive asked Mr O to provide a copy  of his driving 
licence and proof of address. 
When U Drive passed the documents to the insurer, the insurer  noticed the length of time 
Mr O had held his driving licence for was three years. But when Mr O applied  for the policy,  
he said it was four years. So the insurer said as a result of the change, Mr O owed it an 
additional premium  of £305.
U Drive told Mr O that he owed the additional premium of £305.  However,  it was then able to 
negotiate a reduction in premium with the insurer. So in October  2018  it told Mr O he owed a 
reduced additional premium of £195. 
Mr O told U Drive he didnt believe he should  have  to pay the additional premium. Mr O had 
carried out comparative quotes online with the broker for the correct  and incorrect  driving 
licence years. He said the quotes  came  out as the same. 
In November 2018 Mr O complained to U Drive.  U Drive  didnt reply  to Mr Os complaint.  But 
it replied to his email. U Drive said Mr O correctly owed the premium and he could pay it in 
instalments over two to three payments. Mr O remained  unhappy,  but U Drive didnt reply to 
him. Mr O chased U Drive in January and February 2019.
In January 2019 U Drive warned Mr O that his policy would cancel if he didnt pay the 
premium he owed the insurer. On 21 January 2019 it sent him a text message to say his 
policy had been  cancelled.
On 22 and 23 January  2019 Mr O called and complained again to U Drive. On 24 January 
2019 U Drive explained to Mr O why he owed the insurer an additional  premium.  It said Mr O 
could repay  the additional  amount in instalments.
On 29 January 2019 Mr O replied  to say he was happy with the explanation and said he 
would like to repay  the additional sum in instalments. However, Mr O still wanted U Drive to 
deal with his complaint about the poor service he said hed received. 
Mr O contacted us in February  2019 as he didnt  hear from U Drive.  He was unhappy that U 
Drive hadnt given  him a reply to his complaints which  were:
The increase  in premium didnt seem  correct.
An agent  at U Drive was rude to him during a call and hung  up on him.
U Drive failed  to acknowledge or reply  to his emails for almost a month  - despite 
his agreement to pay the balance in instalments.  This led to Mr O not driving  his 
car as he believed his policy had been  cancelled.
Ref: DRN34851472We contacted U Drive in February  2019. U Drive spoke to Mr O in February 2019 and said it 
would cover £30 of the additional premium he owed the insurer  to compensate him for failing 
to call him back when agreed  and reply to his emails. Mr O paid the reduced balance  of 
£165. 
U Drive said Mr Os policy  was never cancelled. 
Our investigator gave  her initial view in March 2019.  She explained that as U Drive is a 
broker, any complaint Mr O has about  the increase  in premium would need to be directed to 
the insurer of his policy. And she explained  that we cant look at the time U Drive took to deal 
with Mr Os complaint as complaints handling  isnt a regulated activity. 
The investigator didnt  think the agent who spoke to Mr O had been  rude.  She understood it  
must have  been  frustrating for Mr O not to receive call backs  when promised and replies to 
his emails in good  time  but overall  she thought U Drives  compensation of £30 was enough 
to put things right. 
Mr O didnt agree. He provided a screenshot of the text message  U Drive sent him on 21 
January 2019.  This message said that Mr Os policy had been cancelled.  
The investigator asked  U Drive  why it had told Mr O his policy had cancelled  when  it 
hadnt. U Drive said it did this to prompt a response from Mr O. It worked  because  Mr O 
contacted U Drive and paid the additional premium to prevent his policy from being 
cancelled. 
The investigator didnt  think U Drive should  have texted Mr O to tell him his policy had 
cancelled when it wasnt correct. She thought U Drive  should  pay Mr O a further £70 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it had caused  Mr O for one day. Hed 
called U Drive on 22 January 2019 to discuss the policy. 
U Drive accepted the investigators second view.  Mr O didnt agree. He said £100 total 
compensation isnt enough to compensate him for U Drives failure to deal with his complaint 
about U Drives agent, for failing to call him back when promised and falsely  punishing him. 
Mr O feels weve underestimated the amount of stress and money hes lost which  he says 
U Drive caused.
Mr O says he wasnt able to use his car for a month because he believed  his policy was 
cancelled - and he had to use public transport.  So hed like an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The complaints that I can consider are:
U Drives agent was rude to Mr O in a call on 22 January 2019.
U Drive failed  to call Mr O back when promised. 
U Drive led Mr O to believe his policy had cancelled which  led to him not driving his 
car for a month. 
Ref: DRN34851473I think U Drive acted  reasonably as Mr Os broker in requesting  the verification documents 
the insurer needed. This led to the insurer requesting an additional premium  in order  for 
Mr Os policy  to continue.  
As the investigator  explained, because U Drive wasnt responsible  for setting the premium,  
Mr O will need  to raise  his concerns  about that with the insurer directly.  
I can see that Mr O raised his concerns about the increase in premium in a complaint to U 
Drive on 8 November 2018. 
Although U Drive didnt formally reply to Mr Os complaint, it emailed him on 9 November 
2018 and on 24 January  2019 to explain why he owed the balance  premium. In November  
2018 U Drive said it would investigate Mr Os complaint that an agent had been rude to him. 
It concluded by saying it would be able to set up a repayment plan for Mr O to pay the 
additional sum in instalments.
Mr O replied by email  on 12 November 2018.  He remained  unhappy with how the insurer 
reached the additional premium. U Drive didnt reply to Mr O. In January 2019 he received  
emails from U Drive warning him that his policy would be cancelled.  
On 21 January 2019  after sending an earlier text message to warn  the policy may be 
cancelled, U Drive sent a text message to say Mr Os policy had been cancelled. This was 
because he hadnt  paid the balance  premium of £195.
Mr O called U Drive the next day. In this call the agent explained  that Mr O owed the balance  
to the insurer   and if Mr O didnt pay it, the insurer has advised they will enforce 
cancellation. Ive listened to this call recording.  I dont think the agent was rude to Mr O. The 
discussion became  unproductive and the agent explained that he would end the call  which 
he did.
On 24 January 2019 U Drive sent an email to Mr O. It read:
As previously  advised  if you are unable to make this payment  in full, we can do this 
over a few monthly  payments for you. These payments will not include any interest.
If you still wish not to make this arrangement, your policy will be cancelled  and you 
will be charged for the time you have had on cover with the Insurers and any balance 
remaining will be refunded to yourself.
Mr O says he didnt drive  his car for a month as he believed his policy had cancelled. But I 
think he was made  reasonably aware  by U Drive by 22 January 2019  and certainly by 24 
January 2019  - that his policy was still in place. So I dont think  U Drive should  compensate  
Mr O for loss of use for a month.  
However, I dont think U Drive should  have  sent a text message to Mr O to say his policy  had 
been cancelled  on 21 January 2019  when it hadnt. I think  this was unreasonable.  So in 
addition to the £30 U Drive contributed toward  the balance Mr O owed the insurer, I think U 
Drive should pay Mr O a further £70 for the confusion it caused between 21 and 22 January 
2019. I dont think  it was fair for U Drive to text something that wasnt  correct in order to 
prompt a response from Mr O.
Ref: DRN34851474I understand Mr O feels that the total award of £100  compensation  doesnt reflect  the time 
he spent communicating  and chasing U Drive for a reply. But as the investigator  explained,  
we cannot consider his complaint about  the premium  set by the insurer.  This was the cause 
of his calls and initial complaint to U Drive  in November 2018. And we cannot  consider the 
way U Drive handled  his complaint  as complaints handling isnt a regulated activity that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  can look at. So this means Im unable  to consider an award 
of compensation  for these two issues. 
Because Mr O contacted  us in February 2019  as he hadnt received a reply to his complaint 
 he was able to take his complaint to the next stage in any event. And weve  considered the 
complaints he made against U Drive.  So I think the outcome for Mr O is - overall - the same  
as it would have  been if U Drive had formally replied to his complaint by January  2019.
I realise Mr O will be disappointed with my decision.  But I think the investigators 
recommendations to put things right in this case are fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. I 
require U Drive Cover  Ltd to pay Mr O a further  £70 compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience it caused.
U Drive Cover  Ltd must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it 
Mr O accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If U Drive Cover  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr O how much  its taken  off. It should also give 
Mr O a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3485147