K822xcomplaint
Mr Y is the late Mr Ys son. Hes brought a complaint on behalf of his fathers estate that, 
following his fathers  death, his mother didnt  receive any benefits  from his fathers pension. 
Mr Y says his father wouldnt  have  neglected to make some provision for his mother in the 
event of his death.  He wants The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) to 
make the payments he thinks are due. 
Mr Y also thinks  the pension was mis sold. Hes referred to recent press coverage of 
Prudential mis selling annuities  as evidence of that fact. 
background 
The late Mr Y held pension plans with Prudential. In September  2008 he applied  to draw  his 
benefits and two separate annuities were  set up. From one annuity he received tax-free cash  
of £1,528.84 and a pension, paid quarterly in advance, of £298.32. The other  paid tax-free 
cash of £5,369.78 with an annual pension  of £1,072.20 paid monthly in advance. The late 
Mr Y wasnt  married but had been  with his partner,  who Ill refer to as Mrs B, for nearly  50 
years. 
Unfortunately, the late Mr Y passed away in 2019. So Mr Y contacted Prudential to sort out a 
number of issues with the pension on his mothers behalf. But Mr Y says he was given  
various reasons  for why his mother should  (or shouldnt) receive  further payment from the 
late Mr Ys pension, so Mr Y complained about the conflicting information hed been given. 
He said his mothers state benefits had been stopped because of the late Mr Ys pension  so 
he needed to provide  correct information  to the relevant authorities. 
Prudential apologised  for what it described  as wrong and inaccurate information  when  
making contact with our customer service  centre . It offered a payment of £300  for the 
distress and inconvenience this had caused. But it confirmed that the annuity had been set 
up solely in the late Mr Ys name and there  was no provision  made  for any beneficiaries 
following his death.  It said there  wasnt a fund value remaining that could be paid out as 
lump sum. 
Mr Y wasnt  happy with the outcome,  so he brought his complaint  to us where one of our 
investigators looked into the matter. She didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She 
said the annuities  had been set up on a single life basis  according to information  provided 
in the application forms  and therefore  there was nothing further to be paid after the late 
Mr Y died. But she did think that Prudential had provided Mr Y with poor service during the 
time he was trying to resolve matters and thought  the £300 Prudential  had offered as 
compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr Y didnt agree. He said he didnt think that his father would have set his annuity up so that 
payment ceased  on his death. He thought his fathers wish would have  been  to make 
provision for Mrs B and then Mr Y and his brother. He was also concerned  that Prudential  
didnt have a recording of the call it had with his father and as a result  asked us to consider 
whether the plan had been mis sold. He said hed read recently  how Prudential had been 
fined by the regulator because of the mis selling of annuities during the time that his father 
had applied  for his. 
Ref: DRN34234972The investigator considered the matter of the suitability of the sale  but didnt think there  
was any evidence to support  that part of the complaint. She also noted  that the late Mr Y had 
been given plenty of time to return the annuity  application forms when hed received them 
through the post, so she didnt think it was likely that hed been  pressurised into completing 
them. 
Mr Y didnt accept this outcome and asked for the complaint to be referred  to an 
ombudsman, so its been passed  to me for review.
Sadly, Mrs B also passed away in March 2020.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I agree with the 
investigator and for largely the same reasons.
Should the annuity have been  paid out to Mrs B following the late Mr Ys death?
Looking at the first application form Mr Y completed I can see the choice he made to take a 
single life pension  alongside his tax-free  cash.  But page four of the form was entitled your  
further pension  options  and allowed for further quotations to be provided. One of the options 
was please send  me quotations  for a pension payable throughout my lifetime  and which  
continues after my death for the remaining lifetime of  and invited details of a spouse, or 
financially dependent male or female to be supplied for consideration.
Theres no evidence that this section was completed on the form  which  was signed by the 
late Mr Y, so I cant say that Prudential  made  any error in how it set up that annuity. I think it 
did what it was asked  to do by the late Mr Y. And I think  he was made  aware from the 
application form that further  quotations could be requested  which would have allowed him 
to add provision for Mrs B following his death. 
The second  annuity was in respect  of protected rights benefits and had different rules 
around joint life provision.  The application  form noted I understand that if I am married  when 
the pension is taken, I must select a joint life pension but if I am single I am able to select  a 
higher single life pension. The late Mr Y confirmed I am not married within the form and 
therefore chose  a higher single life pension amount. 
So in respect of the application forms I think Prudential set things up as requested  and I 
dont think it didnt anything wrong.
Ive also considered the pension quotation  the late Mr Y was given, which  stated that Under  
current pension legislation, the only pension we must provide you with is a pension which is 
payable for your lifetime  and then for your surviving  widow/er or civil partner If you should die 
without leaving a surviving widow/er or civil partner, we will make no further pension 
payments. However,  if you are unmarried at the date of your retirement, we are able to 
provide you with a pension  for your lifetime  only which will stop on your death - this benefit  
will be higher than those  quoted for a joint life You should note that no benefit  will be 
payable to your widow/er or civil partner if you subsequently marry.  
You have  advised  us that you are unmarried  and not in a civil partnership Therefore,  we
have prepared this quote on a single  life basis.
Ref: DRN34234973So again,  I cant safely say Prudential has made  an error based on this evidence. It wasnt 
the late Mr Ys financial adviser, it was simply acting as the product provider and had a duty 
of care to set up the plan as requested through the application  form and in line with the 
information it provided. 
When the late Mr Y asked to take his pension benefits Prudential responded by providing  the 
relevant forms and authority request. The relevant forms also confirmed that the late Mr Y 
could seek financial advice before making his decision and the form noted his open market 
option, which allowed  him to transfer his fund to another provider if he wanted to shop 
around. So I think the late Mr Y was made  aware of the various options which would have 
allowed him to further consider making some provision for Mrs B.   
Ive also seen a copy of the key features document the late Mr Y would have  been  provided 
with when he asked  to take his pension benefits. And I note there was an entire section 
devoted to what is the joint-life option? and this was explained  as  if you have a spouse  or 
civil partner or another person who depends on you for financial support choosing  this option 
means theyll get an income from your pension annuity, after you die   provided they 
survive you. If you want this option  you must  choose  it at the start, you cannot  add it later.
I think the information about the joint life option  was clear and I think the late Mr Y ought to 
have known that this option would have made some provision for Mrs B in the event of his 
death. Its not now possible to know what considerations the late Mr Y made when he 
decided what type of annuity  to choose, but by not including any joint life option there was no 
obligation for Prudential to make  any further  payments  from the plan after the late Mr Y 
passed away. 
I cant rule out that the late Mr Y simply didnt  see the options  to request further quotations 
for a joint life annuity. And it follows that he might just have thought  he had to choose 
between the options available in the main body  of the pack. But I think  the information was 
available to the late Mr Y and I cant blame Prudential if he simply failed to notice it and 
request further  illustrations. As Ive already said Prudential didnt give the late Mr Y advice  
and it did suggest  to him that he should  seek independent advice if he was unsure of his 
choices. 
Were the policies mis sold?
Mr Y says he doesnt believe his father would have agreed to single life annuities and would 
have wanted to provide for his family.  So he thinks his father must have been pressured 
into signing  the forms without talking to Mrs B or to other  providers. He thinks  the plans were 
mis sold.  
And I am aware of the recent coverage  of historic problems with the process Prudential used 
to make its clients  aware of the open  market  option (OMO) available to them when 
considering their retirement  benefits. The OMO  gives  consumers the opportunity to transfer 
their pension fund to other providers who might be able to provide a higher level of income.  
But that wasnt the issue here  as theres no evidence that the late Mr Y wanted to shop  
around for his annuity.
Ref: DRN34234974But Ive seen the pension  selection and authority papers that the late Mr Y completed and 
returned to Prudential. The document contained a section entitled your further pension  
options  and allowed the late Mr Y to request further quotations to include a spouse or 
persons who were financially dependent on him as well as the option to transfer the benefits 
to another scheme (the OMO).
So, I think the late Mr Y was made aware of all of his options around  drawing  his pension 
benefits and I think he was given the time to consider them   and discuss them if necessary, 
before he returned  the forms. The late Mr Y was sent the forms and asked to complete them 
and return them himself.  That would  suggest that he wasnt  pressured into completing them  
as Prudential wouldnt have been be able to pay the proceeds until it received all the 
necessary documentation and authority. 
So I dont  think the annuities were mis sold to Mr Y. I think he was provided  with all the 
necessary options,  and I havent seen any evidence to show that he was pressured during 
the process or indeed that Prudential  gave any advice or guidance  about  what  particular 
annuity Mr Y should select. Im satisfied the late Mr Y made that choice himself.
Prudentials errors and compensation payment
Theres no dispute however that Prudential didnt provide Mr Y with the sort of service he 
should have expected at a difficult time for him and his family. 
He was given  a number of conflicting  answers  about  whether Mrs B was entitled to a 
residual pension and ultimately her state pension benefits were stopped until the matter was 
resolved. Prudential did acknowledge that it had given incorrect  information and provided a 
poor level of service. It sent Mr Y a cheque  for £300  as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience its mis information caused.  And overall, when considering the impact  this 
information had on Mr Y in difficult circumstances, I think  the sum offered (and paid to Mr Y) 
is within the range of what Id expect to see for a matter such as this. So Im not going to ask 
Prudential to do any more.
I know Mr Y has referred to the telephone  call between the late Mr Y and Prudential  in 
August 2008.  He said it was a concern that its not available to confirm  the necessary 
information was sent to the late Mr Y.
But Ive seen the letter that was sent out afterwards  enclosing the pack that the late Mr Y 
requested, and this letter  referred to that call. But I dont think its unreasonable that 
Prudential no longer has a recording of a 12-year-old call, and Im satisfied that the letter, 
and an accompanying call note from the time,  are confirmation that the pack was sent out.  
Summary
Ultimately, Im satisfied that Prudential  didnt provide the late Mr Y with advice  on how to 
draw his pension  benefits and what annuity he should consider. 
I think the late Mr Y made this choice himself. And I do think the application forms and 
information Prudential  provided ought to have made the late Mr Y aware that he could have 
chosen other options which would  have made  some provision for Mrs B.  Theres  no 
persuasive evidence  to suggest  that the plans were mis sold or that Prudential  did anything  
wrong when it set up the plans. It was only obliged to set up annuities based on the 
information the late Mr Y provided it with. 
Ref: DRN34234975my final decision
My decision  is that the compensation  The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  has 
already paid of £300 is fair. I make  no further  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3423497