K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mrs Q says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold to her with a credit card. 
background
One of our adjudicators has assessed this case and said the complaint about the policy  
being mis-sold shouldnt  be upheld. However,  Lloyds has already paid Mrs Q some  money 
for the commission it received from the sale. Mrs Q still thinks the policy  was mis-sold in the 
first place and so has asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Qs complaint  about being mis-sold the 
PPI.
Mrs Q says she didnt need  any PPI. Lloyds told us Mrs Q took out her card account in 1999, 
which is obviously now 20 years ago, so it hasnt retained a copy of her original application 
form. This isnt unusual and businesses arent required to keep records indefinitely.
However I was sent an example of the type of the form that was in use at the time of Mrs Qs 
credit card application. And I can see this did contain the option for her to either agree to  or 
reject  PPI with her new credit card. I think that to get PPI, Mrs Q would have ticked  the 
yes option and left the no option blank and then signed the form. So I think Mrs Q must 
have been able to see she had a choice. 
I think she agreed to the policy.
Lloyds concedes it probably recommended the PPI cover  with the credit card. So this means 
it was under an obligation to make sure it was suitable for Mrs Qs situation. I looked  at her 
age, job, health  and general circumstances  to help me decide about  this. 
I think that Mrs Q was eligible for the PPI and I dont think  she would have been caught  by 
any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies. The cost was around  £0.79 per 
£100 of the outstanding monthly balance on Mrs Qs card.  Ive seen nothing that suggests 
she would  have found these monthly charges unaffordable.
Mrs Q told us she already had some sickness protection  with her job and I agree this would 
have been quite generous. But this doesnt necessarily mean  the PPI wasnt  of use. In the 
event of a successful claim for example, she wouldve been  able to have her outstanding 
balance reduced  by 10% each month  for up to 12 months. These  benefits  were  accessible in 
addition to any other means  she already  had in place at the time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the policy was probably suitable for her.
Ref: DRN36596392Lloyds also had to give Mrs Q clear  information.  After such  a long time I cant confirm  she 
was told everything she shouldve been  told. But I can see from the example form, the cost 
would have been set out, next to where she would have been  given  the choice about having  
PPI.
For me to uphold this mis-sale complaint, Id need to think  it was more  likely that Mrs Q 
didnt consent  to the policy or there were other serious flaws  in the way the policy was sold.  
I simply dont  have  that evidence. On balance, I think she agreed to and wanted the policy.
Lloyds has already paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs Q because  when  the policy 
was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - it should  have  told Mrs Q about  that. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs Q.
Lloyds Bank  PLC has already paid her for the commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium so it doesnt  need to do anything else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3659639