K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the cost of his car insurance with U K Insurance  Limited over a number 
of years.
background
Mr Os car insurance was underwritten by UKI from 2005. Previously it was underwritten by 
a company which then became part of the UKI corporate group. Mr N made  a claim in 2007, 
as result of which the premium increased by a large  amount.  There  was also a large 
increase in premium  in 2011 following Mr O buying  a new car and the cover changing from 
Third Party Fire and Theft  (TPFT) to comprehensive. The policy also increased  by some 
24% at the 2016 renewal.  Mr O at that stage  found a policy elsewhere for about  a third of 
what he had been  paying. He complained to UKI, who advised  him that the policy had been 
priced correctly.
Our adjudicator reviewed  Mr Os complaint. She advised that having reviewed the pricing 
information given  to us by UKI that the policy had been priced  fairly according  to UKIs 
pricing criteria and explained that the policy increases in 2007 and 2011 were  fair in Mr Os 
case. She also advised that the policy had decreased in price in certain years  and that it was 
fair for a claim to affect the premium and for it to take a few years to work  through.
Mr O was unhappy in particular at the very large increase in 2011 and explained  that he was 
aware about no claims discounts  and their effect  on premiums.  He didnt accept that any 
reason for a price increase should  be confidential.  He felt that the availability of such a 
significantly cheaper policy in 2016  meant that UKI had overcharged for his policy.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont generally  tell insurers what they can charge in what is a competitive market.  So 
prices for insurance can vary quite a lot for similar cover. Its not part of our function to 
regulate the insurance market, but we are concerned to see that insurers charge each 
customer fairly within their own pricing criteria.  So any customer in a similar position  is 
charged a price within a reasonable range for the same risk criteria. 
Although Mr Os car policy dates back a number of years,  there are no records available 
before 2005. I think it fair to look at the price from 2007 onwards. There  was a claim in 2007  
and this would have affected  the price. Although from the records  it appears that the policy  
cover was changed then from comprehensive to TPFT which meant that the price reduced  
considerably. In 2011 the price increased  from £422.05 to £1,052.58. It appears that the 
major reason for this is that Mr O changed his car, which fell into a higher rating category 
and the cover was changed back to comprehensive. There  were  other  pricing factors  which  
UKI has advised us of which  affected  the 2012  renewal. As Mr O was advised by our 
adjudicator, those factors are commercially  sensitive to UKIs business and it has asked that 
we keep them confidential. I note Mr Os demand  to know the details but our procedures do 
allow for us to receive such  information and not disclose it without UKIs  consent. In that 
Ref: DRN33639552way, we can independently and impartially investigate complaints whilst ensuring that we 
have access to any information that might  otherwise be commercially  sensitive.
Despite me not being able to share this with Mr O, I am satisfied  that the price increase was 
applied fairly  and would have been  the same  for any other customer  in Mr Os position. 
There was a 24% increase for the 2016 renewal,  again due to commercially sensitive rating 
factors. I note that Mr O didnt go ahead with the renewal. But I do think  that Mr O was 
charged fairly according to UKIs pricing criteria for this policy.
When look at complaints like this, we do consider whether the customer was sufficiently alert 
to changes in premium and whether they engaged  with the insurer over the price of their 
insurance. In this case Ive noted that Mr O did engage with UKI over alterations to his cover.  
And in 2012 he contacted UKI and agreed a 5% discount, and chose  to continue renewing  
after that. This was a policy  which  fluctuated  in price according to various changes in cover 
and in pricing criteria  as well as Mr Os claims history. Indeed, as of 2015, the price for the 
policy was less than in 2007. And I understand that Mr O works in the insurance business  so 
he will be aware of the need to review his policy each year, and of the availability of other 
policies through  different insurers. So I dont think this was a case  where  UKI needed to 
contact Mr O to ensure he understood this.
As the policy was charged fairly and as Mr O was sufficiently engaged  with UKI over the 
price of his insurance,  I wont require  UKI to take any further action.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and make no award  against U K Insurance Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3363955