K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Hastings Insurance Services Limited gave  him the wrong  details in a renewal 
quote for his motor  insurance policy.
background
In 2017, Hastings renewal offer said Mr E had paid £392.59 for his last policy. In fact hed 
only paid £275.99.  Mr E says Hastings set out the wrong sum to make  the new quote 
(£316.69) seem low. Hastings said it had told the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) about 
a fault with its system  that led to the error. It said we were also aware of it. Hastings offered 
Mr E £43.30 to make  up for it. Later on, it offered  him a further £50. But Mr E wanted a full 
refund of the premium. 
Our investigator thought Hastings had acted  fairly.  As Mr E disagreed,  the complaint was 
passed to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think Mr Es been able to show  that 
Hastings meant to mislead  him. Hed queried  the price of cover in 2016, when Hastings 
quoted £392.59 for a policy. It then quoted £275.99.  So both those figures were in its 
system. We know  that the systems  fault in 2017  affected other consumers as well  weve 
dealt with similar complaints. Hastings aimed to compensate all those affected by it. 
I think Hastings made  a fair attempt to put right any upset it had caused.  Theres  nothing to 
show that Mr E lost out financially  due to the fault. He hasnt suggested that he ended  up 
paying more as a result of it. Mr E usually checks and compares the price of policies at 
renewal, and he chose to stay with the one Hastings offered. I dont think  it would be fair to 
ask it to refund his premium. Mr E had the benefit of the policys cover for the full year.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the Financial  Ombudsman Services rules, I must ask Mr E to accept or reject  my 
decision before  28 February 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3441214