K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited wont refund to him the money that 
he paid for a mobile phone. 
background
Mr T entered  into a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni Capital in March 2018 to pay for a 
mobile phone from a supplier. He says that the phone wasnt  delivered to him so he asked to 
cancel the agreement. The supplier  said that the phone had been delivered to the correct 
location and not returned. Mr T complained to Omni Capital  but it said that the agreement  
couldnt be cancelled.  He wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.  
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Based on the 
evidence provided  she thought that it was more likely  than not that the phone  was delivered  
to the correct address  so she concluded  that she wouldnt be asking Omni Capital to 
refund the cost of the phone to Mr T.
Mr T has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary,  
that goods remain at the traders risk until they come into the physical possession of the 
consumer or a person identified by the consumer to take possession of the goods  and he 
didnt instruct for the phone  to be left anywhere and he didnt sign for it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We offer an informal dispute  resolution 
service. We try to resolve complaints by customers about financial businesses  by looking at 
what we consider to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Although we do take 
account of applicable law and regulations we also consider the overall situation.
The supplier  has provided a signed receipt  for the delivery of the phone  to Mr T. But he says 
that he was abroad  when  the delivery was made  so didnt  sign the delivery receipt  and hes 
not received the phone.  He says that risk in the phone is the suppliers until it comes into his 
possession or a person identified by him takes possession of the phone. Omni Capital has 
investigated Mr Ts claim for a refund  including  evidence  from the supplier and the delivery 
company that the phone was delivered  to Mr T. 
The supplier  says that the phone was delivered  to the correct  address and not returned  so 
Omni Capital  says that the agreement cant be cancelled. Mr T says that hes paid for the 
phone so should receive a refund of the money that hes paid under the agreement and 
Omni Capital  says that it hasnt recorded  a default on his credit file. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that theres  been  a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier because it sent the goods to the correct 
address and I consider it to be more likely than not that the phone was delivered  to the that 
address and that it was fair and reasonable for the phone to be delivered  to Mr T in that way. 
I also consider that its fair and reasonable for Omni Capital  to conclude on the basis of its 
investigation that the phone was properly delivered. 
I sympathise with Mr T for the difficulties  that hes been caused and I understand the 
frustration that he feels. But Im not persuaded that Omni Capital is liable to him for those 
Ref: DRN32760772issues or that it would  be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require it to 
refund to him the money that hes paid under  the agreement  or to take any other  action in 
response to his complaint. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 My 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3276077