K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold them a 
regular payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy when they took out their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1990.  At the same time they were sold 
a PPI policy. The policy covered Mr C only and a successful claim wouldve covered their 
mortgage payments  in the event Mr C was too sick to work  or became unemployed for up to 
24 months following  a waiting period of 90 days.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld  because she didnt think 
Nationwide had made the 90 day waiting  period  clear and thought had it done so Mr and Mrs 
C wouldnt have agreed to take the policy.
Nationwide disagreed. So Mr and Mrs Cs complaint  has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs C complaint.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it didnt have to check  if the policy  
was right for them. But it did have to make sure they got the information they needed  to 
decide if the PPI was right for them.  Based on what Ive seen so far I dont think Nationwide 
did this.
I say this because  the PPI had a 90 day waiting period   meaning Mr C (as the insured 
party) couldnt  make a claim  if he was unemployed or too sick to work  for the first three 
months. Then, upon a successful claim, the benefit wouldve been backdated to the 61st 
day. So if Mr C was off work for 89 days no benefit wouldve been due at all.
Nationwide says that as part of its process  Mr and Mrs C wouldve been given a PPI leaflet  
which included information about  the 90 day deferment  period.  I dont  know  if they actually 
received or even  read this leaflet but even if they had  after viewing the leaflet  I dont think 
the information about the waiting period was sufficiently prominent  to draw Mr and Mrs Cs 
attention to this term.
And I think this piece of information wouldve mattered because Mr C says he was self-
employed at the time and had no entitlement to sick pay or any other means  of 
supplementing his income if he couldnt work. And as they chose to cover  Mr C only, I think 
his income was important  and had some bearing  on their financial situation. So I think if Mr C 
was unable to work  they wouldve struggled  to keep up their mortgage  repayments for the 
initial three months before they were able to make  a claim. And I think its more  likely than 
not that they wouldve  wanted to be able to make a claim on the PPI policy  much  sooner 
than 90 days  particularly as they had such limited other means  of making their 
repayments.
Ref: DRN38487662Nationwide have given  us a mortgage application form from 1995 which records Mr C as 
being self-employed for 4 years. Nationwide  say that this means  its possible he was 
employed when  he took out the policy in 1990 and mayve been  entitled to sick pay. I agree 
this is possible - but Mr Cs recollection is that he was self-employed. And even  if he was 
employed given  the nature of his work,  I think its unlikely that he wouldve been entitled to 
more than statutory  sick pay.   
Ive also taken into account what Nationwide has said about the arrears management 
measures it would have  offered Mr and Mrs C if they were struggling to make their 
repayments during  the 90 day waiting period. But these  measures  are informal  and are at 
the discretion  of Nationwide, so theres  no guarantee that this type of help wouldve been  
offered or available when Mr and Mrs C may have needed it.
So, I dont think Mr and Mrs C wouldve bought  the policy if Nationwide had made this 90 
day waiting period clear  and I think Mr and Mrs C have lost out because  of what  Nationwide  
did wrong.
what Nationwide should  do to put things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs C in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide  to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give Mr and 
Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society and direct it pay the fair compensation  outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3848766