complaint
Ms J complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her a 
regular premium payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy with her mortgage.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy  taken out in July 1999 alongside 
a mortgage. The policy covered Ms J for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint was passed to me. Ms J said, in summary, if shed been told PPI was  
optional she wouldnt have taken it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Js case.
From the evidence Ive seen, I dont  think that National  Westminster recommended the 
policy to Ms J. So, it didnt have to consider  whether  it was suitable for her. But, it did 
have to give her information  that was clear, fair and not misleading so that she could 
decide for herself if the policy was right for her and she wanted to buy it. 
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Js complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know what was discussed with NatWest when she took out her mortgage. I cant  
reasonably expect Ms J to remember everything  that was discussed, after so much time. 
So, as well as taking into account  what Ms J has said,  Ive looked that the paperwork from 
the time of the sale. 
I can see that she selected PPI on the mortgage  application. She got a separate  PPI 
quotation. Her mortgage offer made it clear that shed selected  PPI. She signed a 
separate direct debit  instruction to take out the PPI. The paperwork made it clear she 
didnt have to have PPI. So, I think it likely Ms J was told that PPI was optional and 
decided to take it to protect her mortgage repayments.
NatWest didnt advise  Ms J to take out this policy, so it didnt have to check whether  it was 
suitable for her. Even if it had given  advice, however, from what Ive seen  I dont think  the 
policy was unsuitable  for her. It wouldve paid out in addition to Ms Js work  benefits. Having 
the policy in place wouldve meant  she couldve used her sick pay to cover other expenses.  
Ms J said she had some savings, but I cant see that her other  resources made the policy  
clearly inappropriate  for her. Having PPI wouldve avoided her having to dip into these 
savings to meet her mortgage repayments  and allowed her to use her savings to meet other 
household expenditure  if she was out of work  or sick. Given  that her home  was at risk if she 
couldnt keep  up with her mortgage  repayments, I think Ms J wouldve had some use for the 
policy.
Ref: DRN38140072The mortgage offer and quotation said the PPI would cost £5.08 per month for £100 per 
month of cover. She ended up paying  £5.12 per month at the outset. I cant see that this was 
unaffordable. The bank  couldve given  her clearer information about the costs and benefits of 
the policy. But, I dont  think this wouldve made  a difference to her decision. I think she 
wouldve understood how much she was paying for the cover. She couldve cancelled  the 
monthly premium at any time without losing out financially. So I think it unlikely  that Ms J 
wouldve made a different  decision if clearer  information had been provided.
Ms J was eligible to take out the policy. And her circumstances dont suggest she wouldve 
been caught by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits. So, I dont think  
she needed better information  about  these things.
In summary, I think Ms J agreed  to take out the cover, probably knowing she didnt have 
to. And given it provided broadly what I think she expected when she agreed to it, I dont  
think she wouldve made a different decision  (and decided against  taking it out) if she had 
been better informed.  So, I dont think Ms J has lost out here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3814007