K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complained that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS).
background
Mr and Mrs M bought the PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in October 2003. BoS 
said that the sale took place in a meeting and that it advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the 
policy. Mr and Mrs M said that they werent given a choice about  taking  out the PPI  and 
indeed didnt  agree  to it. They also said they had good employee benefits  so they didnt 
need it.
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr and Mrs M at a 
monthly cost of £28.25. The total monthly benefit  was £465.92  (although this was split 
between Mr and Mrs M in proportion to their salaries). If either had made a successful claim, 
the policy wouldve  paid out for up to 24 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed,  and asked that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
BoS sent in copies of its computer records of Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage account, along  with 
a copy of the mortgage declaration that Mr and Mrs M signed and which  included  reference 
to the PPI cover. BoS couldnt provide any other  documentation from the time of the sale, 
apart from the mortgage offer,  but this is not entirely surprising given that this all happened 
over 15 years ago and the mortgage has since been repaid. So Ive also taken into account 
what we know about similar BoS sales from around the same time.
Mr and Mrs M complained that they werent  given a choice about taking the PPI  and didnt 
agree to it. As it was sold during a meeting, I cant know how the adviser might have 
explained the PPI. And as Ive said, I have  a limited amount  of documentation from the time 
of the sale. But I think that the PPI is likely to have been discussed to some degree to 
determine that cover was required for both Mr and Mrs M, and to arrive at the allocation  of 
benefit. I have  no evidence to say that the PPI was compulsory, and taking account of the 
information provided here, and what we know about similar sales, I have no reason  to think 
that the PPI was added  to the mortgage without Mr and Mrs Ms knowledge and consent.  . 
So on balance, I think its most likely  that Mr and Mrs M were given a choice  about  the cover  
and agreed to take it.
From the evidence I have,  I think BoS advised  Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy, so it 
shouldve made  sure it was suitable for them. I think it was.
Ref: DRN30201322As Ive said,  I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI  especially the things not 
covered. But I cant see that Mr and Mrs M wouldve been  affected by any of these. Mr M 
said he wouldve been entitled to between six and twelve months sick pay from his 
employer. Mrs M didnt  confirm her sick pay, but as she worked for the same employer as 
Mr M, I think it was probably similar. Mr and Mrs M also said that they didnt have any other 
ways of meeting  the mortgage payments if they couldnt work.
From all this I think Mr and Mrs M couldve found it difficult to meet  the mortgage payments  if 
one of them had lost their job or had been off sick for longer than they wouldve  had full sick 
pay. And Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve  paid out for up to 24 months in the event 
of a successful claim. So overall, I think the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit to protect 
what was a major commitment.
Its not clear how and when the cost of the PPI was disclosed, but Ive no evidence  to 
suggest that cost was an issue. And as Ive said, I think Mr and Mrs M could reasonably 
have wanted to protect an important commitment.
On balance, although I cant say for certain  that BoS clearly explained all of the policy 
details, I think Mr and Mrs M would  still have bought  the policy if it had. It couldve provided 
valuable protection if one or both of them had been unable to work.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs M paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr and Mrs M back some  of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mr and Mrs M.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3020132