K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd (t/a Aqua) acted irresponsibly  when it increased  the credit  
limit on his credit card.
background
Mr H had a credit card account with Aqua. In October 2017  Aqua increased the credit limit 
on Mr Hs account from £600  to £1,500. It has provided a copy  of a letter it sent to Mr H 
confirming, and giving him the opportunity to opt out of, the increase.
Mr H used the available credit and exceeded  his new credit limit in December 2017. He then 
contacted Aqua to explain he was having  difficulty making  repayments  and managing  the 
new limit. Aqua has provided evidence it then provided a one-month payment  holiday to 
assist Mr H. Mr H did not make any further  payments to the account. He has said to our 
service that he was reluctant to do so while he was unhappy with the service provided by 
Aqua. 
Mr H complained to Aqua  that it had acted  irresponsibly by increasing his credit  limit as the 
new limit was unaffordable for him. He said the increase shouldnt  have  been  granted  and 
asked Aqua to write off the balance and remove any adverse information from his credit file.
Aqua said it had followed its processes and was confident  it had acted responsibly in 
providing the increase in the credit limit. Unhappy  with this response  Mr H asked our service 
to look into the complaint.  In the meantime,  as no further payments were made to the 
account, Aqua sold it to a third party.
An investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld in part. He felt the 
information provided suggested  Aqua hadnt  done enough to check  that the credit limit 
increase was affordable to Mr H. So he recommended that it refund  any interest or fees 
incurred as a result of the increase as well as paying  Mr H £100 for the upset caused. 
The investigator didnt  though think it was reasonable to ask that Aqua write off the balance 
in full as Mr H had had the benefit  of the funds. He also didnt think he could reasonably ask 
it to change any of the information reported to credit  reference agencies as it was an 
accurate reflection of what had happened on the account  as Mr H had acknowledged hed 
not made payments.
Mr H said he accepted  the investigators  recommendations. Aqua did not agree with his 
findings. It said it had based its decision on the information it had available  and doesnt 
exclude customers from increases if it doesnt have up to date details of their income and 
expenditure. It also said it didnt think it was fair for it to be scrutinised for providing further 
credit when Mr H had not contacted it for a significant amount of time to discuss  repayment.  
As a result, the complaint has been  passed to me to make a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I find Ive reached largely 
the same  conclusions as the investigator.
Ref: DRN31171392Lenders must lend responsibly. This means  that, before they lend to someone,  they should
check the customer can afford to pay back money they borrow in a sustainable way. 
Aqua has acknowledged that it did not review  or request  updated income and expenditure 
details for Mr H before providing the increased level of borrowing. 
Aqua increased Mr Hs credit limit from £600  to £1,500  so an increase in permitted 
borrowing of 150%. Given the level of the increase, without knowing how much Mr H was 
receiving each month and how much  committed expenditure he now had, I dont  think  Aqua 
could determine  that he would be able to afford  to repay this sustainably.
Aqua says it based  its decision  on how Mr H had managed his Aqua account  and 
information from credit reference agencies about  how hed managed other  borrowing. 
Neither of these are enough in my opinion to show that Mr H could afford  to make 
repayments if the credit limit was increased. Knowledge  of how accounts had been managed 
may indicate whether Mr H had been  able to make repayments. But not whether  they were  
affordable in the longer  term, what compromises Mr H mayve had to make  elsewhere in 
order to make those repayments  or if he could afford to pay more.
In addition, the information provided by Aqua about  how Mr H had managed  his account 
shows that in two of the four months  before the increase, Mr H had exceeded his existing 
agreed credit limit. Although hed then made  partial repayments to the account, it does 
indicate that Mr H may already have been struggling  to manage his account.
Mr H has also provided us a copy of his credit  file. This shows  that at the time of the limit 
increase, while  he was up to date with payments on some  of his accounts,  he also had more  
than one account with a default status. It also shows  he had recent county court  judgements. 
And there was information showing hed made regular  use of short term loans in the run up 
to the credit  limit increase.  Again I think this suggested Mr H mayve been having  trouble 
managing his finances and that allowing further  borrowing could potentially make the 
situation worse.
Aqua has said it gave Mr H the opportunity to opt out of the credit limit increase. But giving 
this option doesnt excuse  or allow a business to lend in an unaffordable  way. As Ive said 
businesses have a duty to lend responsibly. In Aquas  response  to the investigators view it 
also said it shouldnt be scrutinised for this decision when  Mr H has not contacted it to 
discuss repayments. But again what has happened since the lending  decision does not 
excuse Aqua of its responsibility. Nor does it mean  that Mr H cant  complain or that our 
service cant or shouldnt consider whether the lending decision itself was reasonable.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Aqua did enough at the time of granting  the 
credit limit increase to check that this was affordable to Mr H. And based on the information  
available, I think the additional lending was unaffordable. So I think Aqua needs to do 
something to put this right.
Mr H has had the use of the credit. So like the investigator I dont  think  itd be reasonable to 
say the additional borrowing should be written off in full. But I do think the costs  incurred 
associated with the additional  borrowing should  be refunded. The decision to grant  the 
additional borrowing  has also contributed to the difficulty Mr H has encountered  managing  
his accounts.  And I dont  doubt this was stressful  for him. So I also think it would be 
reasonable for Aqua to pay him some  compensation to address this.
Ref: DRN31171393In terms of the information recorded on Mr Hs credit file  businesses  are required to report  
information that accurately reflects what has happened. Mr H has admitted that he did not 
make repayments to the account while the complaint was ongoing,  largely because  he was 
unhappy. I understand Mr Hs motivation but even though the dispute  was ongoing, monthly 
payments were due on the account. They were  due before the credit  limit was increased so 
the dispute over this didnt negate the need for them to be made. As a result I dont think  it 
would be reasonable for me to ask Aqua to ask credit reference agencies to amend the 
adverse information  recorded in respect  of this account.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part.
To put things right NewDay  Ltd (t/a Aqua) should;
refund  all interest, fees and charges incurred as a result  of the credit limit being 
increased from £600 to £1,500. Aqua sold the outstanding balance on this account  to 
a third party. So it either needs to buy the account  back  from the third party and 
make the necessary  adjustments,  pay an amount  to the third party in order  for it to 
make the necessary  adjustments,  or pay Mr H an amount equivalent to the reduction  
needed on the outstanding balance.
pay Mr H £100 for the distress caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3117139