K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the cost of his homecare policy  arranged  by British  Gas Services 
Limited. 
background
Mr C has had a British  Gas homecare  plan  covering his boiler, plumbing, central heating 
etc.  for a number  of years. In addition, the plan also included kitchen appliance cover for 
a number of Mr Cs kitchen appliances. The annual premium for Mr Cs plan for the 
2017/2018 policy year was £757.23.  
In June 2018, Mr C received  his plan renewal pack from British Gas;  his premium for the 
2018/2019 policy year was £904.35.  Mr C contacted  British Gas to discuss the cost of his 
renewal and it agreed to apply a 20% discount,  reducing his premium  for the coming year to 
£696.86.
In February 2019,  Mr C contacted British Gas again  because he wanted  to reduce the cost 
of his monthly outgoings. He said to British Gas that hed been on its website and found  
policies that cost less than he was currently paying. British Gas looked into the matter  for 
him and, on finding  that itd already applied a 20% discount to his premium for the year told 
him it wouldnt be able to discount  it any further.  British Gas offered to cancel Mr Cs policy, 
reduce the level of his cover or add an excess if he preferred but he declined  to do so. It also 
said that new customers paid an introductory price for the first year they had the policy  after 
which renewal prices  were calculated and tailored to the individual.  
British Gas told Mr C that factors which affected the price charged included  the age, make  
and model of the appliances, breakdown history, geographical location and any increase  in 
the cost of running the business.  Mr C said hed found a policy for £384 on line, but British 
Gas said this was for new business  boiler  cover  alone and didnt include any kitchen 
appliance cover. It said if that was included then the new customer  price would increase to 
£576 for the year to have  the same cover  as he had. British Gas offered to set a reminder 
call to call him around renewal time to discuss his renewal.  
Unhappy with what hed been told by British  Gas, Mr C complained  to this service. Our 
investigator looked into his complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld.  Mr C said he 
didnt think it was fair that new customers were made an introductory  offer.  He asked for his 
complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C thinks its unfair  that British Gas offers introductory discounts on its homecare policies 
to new customers. And he thinks hes paying too much for his plan. 
I cant tell British Gas what price it needs  to charge to cover the risk of Mr C making a claim 
under his homecare policy.  Thats  for British Gas to decide, based  in part on the risk it thinks  
there is of him needing to make  a claim and its wider commercial  requirements. What this 
service can do though, when a consumer complains about the price they have been 
charged, is look at whether the provider has treated the consumer fairly and whether it can 
explain why its charged the price  it has. We can then explain to the consumer that weve  
Ref: DRN37138262checked the price  theyve  been charged  and are satisfied that theyve  been  treated fairly and 
in line with the way that the provider has treated all its other customers with similar risk 
profiles. 
Its important  to understand that this service  doesnt  normally assess whether a price is too 
high to cover  a particular  risk. Thats for the insurer to decide based  on its appetite for risk 
and its business  requirements more generally. So, we wont  normally  say whether a product 
represents good value for money.  We generally  accept that providers can charge what  they 
like for their plans so long as they act fairly.  In simple terms, that means that they should  
apply their chosen pricing model consistently provided the consumer has flexibility  to shop 
around and change insurer if they wish.  Im satisfied thats the case here. 
Here British Gas has explained  that all its customers pay an introductory price for the first 12 
months, however,  thereafter the price  is automatically generated and tailored to each 
customer. British Gas says it takes  a number of factors into account  when  calculating  the 
price to charge  (age, make and model  of appliances, breakdown  history and geographical  
cost) and it says it takes its wider commercial requirements into account too. Im satisfied 
from what British Gas has told us that its treated Mr C fairly and in the same  way that it 
would any of its other customers with similar  circumstances. I dont think  its singled him out 
in any way.
Whilst I can see here that a new customer on an equivalent plan is charged about £120 less 
than Mr C, I cant ignore that the home  emergency  plan market  is a highly competitive one 
and new policies typically include significant discounts in order to attract  new customers.  But 
that in itself isnt necessarily unfair.  Renewing home emergency cover will involve a bit of 
time and effort  to get the best terms. People  who take the time to shop around often end up 
paying less. And I dont  think  British Gas should  have  to compensate Mr C for this in the 
circumstances of his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3713826