K820x#14Complaint
Ms H and Mr D has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly continued to apply 
increased interest, fees and charges to their overdrafts, as a result of a change to its 
overdraft pricing structure, when  they were in financial difficulty.
Background 
Ms H and Mr D complained about Lloydss changes to its pricing overdraft  pricing structure 
and said this led to them experiencing financial  difficulty. One of our adjudicators looked at 
this complaint and thought that Lloyds hadnt treated them  fairly  and reasonably  and needed 
to rework Ms H and Mr Ds accounts to remove the effect of all the interest  fees and charges 
added to their overdrafts from the point that they were renewed  in March 2012.  
Lloyds didnt accept  our adjudicators view and offered to refund the fees added to Ms H and 
Mr Ds overdrafts between March 2016  and October 2018 as it didnt think they were in 
financial difficulty prior to this point. Our adjudicator thought that this was a fair offer and put 
this to Ms H and Mr D. They disagreed and the case was passed to an ombudsman for 
review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Ms H and Mr D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
their complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Lloyds has agreed  that it should have realised that Ms H and Mr D may have been  in 
financial difficulty between March 2016  and October 2018. And it has agreed to refund the 
fees charges during this period. 
However, Ms H and Mr D believe that Lloyds  should refund all the fees charged from    
March 2012 as per our adjudicators initial view.  Ive thought about what  Ms H and Mr D 
have said. But the information Ive seen  suggests  that they had the funds  to clear the 
overdrafts if they wanted  to. And they were even able to clear what  they owed on occasion 
too. Ms H and Mr D initial referral to our service also quite clearly  refer to the increased 
charges from November 2017 onwards  as being the cause of their difficulties and so what 
they wanted refunded. 
As this is the case, I dont think that I can reasonably find that Lloyds ought  reasonably  to 
have realised that Ms H and Mr D had no reasonable prospect of exiting their overdrafts, or 
that they had become unsustainable for them prior to the March 2016 renewal. And, in these  
circumstances, I dont  think  that Lloyds unfairly  failed  to take corrective action in relation to 
Ms H and Mr Ds overdraft prior to this date either.    
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already agreed  to do to put 
things right for Ms H and Mr D  refunding the interest, fees and charges paid between 
March 2016 and October 2018 - is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and 
Im not requiring it to do anything more.  I therefore  leave it up to Ms H and Mr D to decide 
whether they wish to accept Lloyds offer.
Ref: DRN30117772Ive also seen that Ms H and Mr D have  referred  to concerns about a loan they were 
provided by Lloyds. But this didnt form part of their original complaint to Lloyds. And as a 
respondent firm should be given a chance to consider  a complaint first, Ms H and Mr D will 
have to refer this matter  to Lloyds in the first instance. 
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im satisfied  that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already agreed  
to do to put things  right for Ms H and Mr D is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
their complaint. So Im not requiring it to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3011777