K821x#15complaint
Miss A acquired a new car in August 2015, by means of a four year hire purchase 
agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BMWFS).  Her car caught fire and 
was written off in May 2018. 
Miss A complains  that her car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. She 
wants BMWFS  to cancel her agreement,  to write  off the outstanding balance,  and to 
compensate her for all the monthly  payments  (required under her agreement) that she has 
made.
background
Miss A said:
Her car had been regularly serviced by a manufacturer  approved dealership  the 
most recent service  was in early November  2017, when  the car had travelled just 
over 35,000 miles
When being driven on a motorway in May 2018,  the car began to judder and the 
dashboard displayed a warning  notice
Smoke began to enter the cars  seating area,  and it was driven onto the hard 
shoulder and stopped
Shortly after all the occupants had got out of the car, its engine  went  on fire
The fire service attended and put out the fire, but the car was a total write-off
The car was subsequently  examined  by inspectors on behalf  of the manufacturer   
they could not ascertain the fires  cause, because  the car was so badly damaged, 
and so the manufacturer did not admit any liability for it
She received  a payment  from the cars insurer  but the outstanding balance on her 
agreement account was just over £5,000  more than this payment
She is aware that the manufacturer  has recalled  some of its cars,  to deal with a fire 
risk arising from a manufacturing  fault,  and she believes that her cars fire was 
caused by similar  fault
Miss A complained to BMWFS. It responded saying:
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA),  any issues  that arise outside of the first 
six months of ownership are not considered to be present or developing at the point 
of sale
A manufacturing fault had not been  diagnosed,  and so it was unable  to agree with 
her
Miss A then referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator clarified with the dealer  that Miss A had been invited in late November 2017 
to return her car for a quality enhancement. The dealer said this was in order to improve the 
vehicle, and was not a recall because of a known manufacturing fault. 
But the dealer was unable  to provide to us a copy of the correspondence  that it said it had 
sent to Miss A. Miss A told our investigator that she never received any such  
correspondence or a recall notice.
Ref: DRN30243232Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She noted that BMWFS  has a 
responsibility to ensure  that goods  of satisfactory  quality,  and corresponding  to their 
description, have been  supplied. This means  that a reasonable person would have regarded 
the goods as satisfactory,  taking into account all relevant circumstances, which for cars 
include age and mileage  travelled. But there are limits to BMWFSs  responsibilities. In 
particular, faults  must  be present or developing at the point of supply.
Our investigator also noted that the cars  engine fire occurred less than three  years  after the 
point of supply.  She said that, when considering satisfactory quality, she would need to look 
at durability.
Our investigator felt that, in normal circumstances, an engine fire in a car of this age and 
mileage was inconsistent  with expected durability and satisfactory quality. And she had seen 
nothing that made her think  the specific circumstances of this complaint were abnormal. In 
particular, she thought Miss As cars durability was unaffected by the fact that it had not 
been returned to the dealer for its quality enhancement.
Our investigator recommended that BMWFS  should:
Cancel Miss As agreement, with nothing further to pay
Refund her deposit, plus interest at 8% simple  per annum
Remove any references it had made to this agreement on Miss As credit file
Our investigator did not recommend that BMWFS should compensate Miss A for her monthly 
payments  because  Miss A had made  full use of her car up to May 2018.
Miss A did not disagree with our investigators  recommendations. But BMWFS did, saying:
The outstanding  balance on Miss As account was only greater than the insurance  
payment(s) she received,  because she decided not to protect  herself against this sort 
of occurrence  by including GAP insurance within her cover  and so her decision 
made her liable for the shortfall
It was unusual for a car that had been  serviced in line with the manufacturers 
guidelines not to be durable   but Miss A is unable to demonstrate  that the style in 
which the car had been driven  did not lead to the engine  fire, and the burden of proof 
is on her to do so
And so this complaint was referred  for review  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances.
We are an informal  dispute resolution service.  Its not my role to decide  cases  by applying 
the law. Only a court  can do that. I have to decide  what I think is fair and reasonable, in all 
the circumstances of this particular  complaint, taking  account of (among other  things) the 
relevant law. In this case the relevant law is the CRA.
Ref: DRN30243233I dont fully share BMWFS s interpretation  of the CRA. Although  I accept that, when faults  
arise more than six months  after the point of supply,  complainants (rather  than finance 
providers) are usually asked to demonstrate  it is more likely than not that these faults  are 
inherent.
On the one hand, Miss A has drawn  attention to:
Her cars  regular  servicing, and that her car was most recently  serviced only six 
months before its engine fire
The fact that her cars manufacturer  has recalled some of its vehicles, to deal with a 
fire risk arising from a manufacturing fault,  and her belief that her cars fire was 
caused by a similar fault
On the other hand, BMWFS has drawn attention to the fact that Miss A had not taken out 
GAP insurance  and, if she had included this insurance in her cover, she would not have 
needed to ask BMWFS  to write off its outstanding balance.  But taking out GAP insurance is 
optional for Miss A  it does not alter the legal position, as far as BMWFS  is concerned, over 
the durability of the car.  
And the manufacturer has recently told us that, if Miss As car had not been  written off in 
May 2018, this vehicle  would have been included  in its autumn 2018 safety recall, relating to 
a risk of fire. In light of that information, I think the weight of evidence  favours Miss A. 
This means  I find, on the balance  of probabilities,  that the engine fault in Miss As car was 
inherent  which is the test required  by the CRA. And so I have  come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons. I also agree with our investigators 
settlement recommendations, for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited:
1.To cancel Miss As agreement, with nothing further to pay
2.To refund her deposit, plus interest at 8% per annum simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
3.To remove  any references it has made to this agreement on Miss As credit  file
If BMWFS considers it has to deduct tax from the interest element of my award, it should 
send Miss A a tax deduction  certificate when it pays her. She can then use that certificate to 
try to reclaim  the tax, if she is entitled to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2019.
 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3024323