K821x#15complaint
Mr Ws complaint  is about an erroneous pension transfer involving Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited (Lighthouse), a third party  transferor  ReAssure Limited (ReAssure)   and 
a third party transferee. After referral  of the complaint  to this service, a question about 
suitability of another pension transfer  which  was advised by Lighthouse  arose.
background
Mr Ws ReAssure  Retirement Annuity Policy (RAP) was wrongly transferred from ReAssure 
to the transferee  in August 2017. The RAP should not have been transferred. Its transfer 
was mistakenly initiated by a Lighthouse  adviser, as part of a wider review of Mr Ws pension 
arrangements. Some of his pension schemes were transferred  to the transferee,  based on 
Lighthouses advice, but the RAP was not supposed to be included. Lighthouse concedes  
this. There is evidence  that its advice was to retain  the RAP with ReAssure, not to transfer it. 
In a separate complaint  about ReAssures role in this matter, ReAssure says it received the 
RAP transfer request  on 9 August, that the transferee requested  use of the electronic Origo 
service for the transfer, that it processed the transfer  through  that service as requested and 
that the transfer was completed by 16 August. ReAssure  also says it heard no further about 
the matter until five months  later in January 2018  when  Lighthouse informed it about its 
advisers error and sought assistance  to reverse the transfer.
Lighthouse, ReAssure and the transferee appear to have explored  the possibility of 
reversing the transfer, however that pursuit concluded unsuccessfully. A calculation  of the 
financial loss incurred  by Mr W  based  on the loss of valuable benefits from the RAP due to 
the transfer  was concluded as being  £19,390.68 (including future charges) or £16,482.07 
as net redress  after deducting basic rate tax.
There has been a debate  between Lighthouse  and ReAssure  as to responsibility  to 
compensate Mr W. There appears to be no dispute that Mr W is entitled to the compensation 
that has been calculated, but there  remains dispute over who has and/or  shares  
responsibility to pay him. 
Lighthouse accepts 20% of the responsibility and says ReAssure should  be responsible for 
at least 80% of the compensation  payment. It says ReAssure had a duty to ensure that 
transfer related  paperwork was part of the process  before proceeding with the transfer;  it 
refers to a letter from ReAssure in February  2017 confirming such paperwork;  it says no 
such paperwork existed in the process  and had ReAssure used said paperwork that would 
have made  its adviser aware of his error  and he would have stopped the transfer; it also 
says that the transferee holds ReAssure mainly  responsible for the matter and that past 
correspondence from ReAssure suggests  that it previously conceded that responsibility. 
ReAssures position  is that Lighthouse bears  full responsibility for the mistake  and for the 
compensation payment to Mr W. It disputes Lighthouses argument and says the electronic 
service nominated by the transferee  and used in the process is designed to conduct 
transfers without  the paperwork  Lighthouse mentioned, so it had no duty to use them  or to 
highlight their absence. In addition, ReAssure says the transfer value was less than £30,000 
and the transfer  was adviser-driven, by Lighthouse, so it had no cause to suspect  that a 
mistake had been made or to query  Mr Ws awareness of the benefits he was giving up by 
transferring the RAP.
Ref: DRN35844202One of our investigators  looked into the matter and concluded that Lighthouse is wholly 
responsible for the erroneous transfer  and for the compensation that is due to Mr W. In 
addition to the compensation, she proposed that £500 should be paid to Mr W for the trouble 
and upset caused to him. 
The investigators view was extended to say Lighthouses advice, within  its review  of Mr Ws 
pension arrangements, to transfer his Defined Benefit Pension (DBP)  thereby losing its 
benefits  was unsuitable. She concluded  that the basis on which  Lighthouse had advised  
retention of the RAP ought to have applied to the DBP, so that too should have been  
retained. She considered  evidence of Mr Ws profile  and how the transfer  of the DBP was 
advised at the time, she noted  what she considered to be further grounds for unsuitability 
and she proposed redress for unsuitable  pension transfer. She also proposed  an additional 
£300 for the trouble and upset caused  to Mr W in this issue.
Lighthouse disagreed with both outcomes. With regards to the RAP transfer it repeated its 
core argument and also suggested that the transferees  culpability in the matter should be 
considered. 
With regards to the DBP transfer it says its recommendation was driven by Mr Ws specific  
objectives at the time, which made  it necessary to transfer the DBP in order to generate 
extra income of £500  per month (and to have income flexibility) and in order  to facilitate his 
desire to leave a lump  sum (on death)   which he could  not achieve  with the DBP. 
Lighthouse also says the critical yield directly  relevant to Mr Ws specific  objectives 
supported the recommendation  and that it gave notice to him at the time that but for his 
specific objectives it would not have recommended transferring the DBP.
The matter(s) was referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The RAP transfer
Lighthouse accepts that its adviser  committed the initial error of submitting the RAP for 
transfer when  that should  not have been  done, so the remaining issue to address is whether 
(or not) its responsibility continued uninterrupted  up to the completion  of the transfer  and/or 
up to when the transfer error was identified.  I consider the following:
Lighthouses  reference to a letter from ReAssure in February 2017  about transfer 
related paperwork   relates  to a letter that was sent around five months before its 
review of Mr Ws pension arrangements was confirmed (in July 2017), which  led to 
the transfer activity in which the RAP was wrongly transferred. The letter  was also 
sent around six months before  the RAP was transferred (in August  2017). 
The letter did not relate directly to the post-July 2017 transfer activity  so it cannot 
reasonably be viewed as evidence of Lighthouses  expectations at the time. If this is 
the argument, I consider it a self-defeating argument. The letter arose  from an earlier 
general enquiry  about transferring the RAP; months later, in July, Lighthouses 
advice was to retain   not transfer  the RAP;  in August, it did not knowingly submit  
the RAP for transfer, it did that mistakenly; it could have held an expectation of 
Ref: DRN35844203paperwork for the RAP if it knowingly submitted it for transfer,  as that was not the 
case it could not have held such an expectation;  it appears that it did not even know,  
at the time, that the RAP had been  transferred; its present  argument  about the 
February 2017 letter appears to be based on hindsight not on what  happened or 
should have happened  especially as evidence  shows that use of the electronic 
transfer service nominated by the transferee was devoid of the paperwork and was 
what happened at the time.
Lighthouse  was the adviser in the transfer process and its submission of the RAP for 
transfer  albeit done in error  was reasonably taken by the other parties as 
confirmation that the RAP was supposed  to be transferred. I have not seen evidence 
to suggest that any other party ought  reasonably to have  doubted or verified this.
There is evidence about the pursuit  to reverse the RAP transfer  which suggests that 
ReAssure and the transferee attempted  to assist in doing so, however the delay in 
highlighting the error  and in starting the reversal pursuit   caused obstacles to 
reversing it. That delay  was on Lighthouses  part, no other party appears to have 
known the transfer  was wrong  until it identified it and said so (to the others). The 
conclusion that arises is that Lighthouses  responsibility continued  uninterrupted  up 
to completion of the transfer in August 2017 and up to when the error was identified  
and/or notified  to the others in January 2018.
I am not bound by any view on the matter that the transferee  allegedly has. I also do 
not consider that the idea of a concession by ReAssure  is accurate. ReAssure does  
appear to have voiced some regret in the matter  previously, but evidence of its final 
position is as I have summarised above  and it expressly disputes responsibility.  
Lighthouse  is responsible for compensating Mr W for the financial loss caused by the 
erroneous RAP transfer as calculated and I agree  with Mr Ws entitlement to an 
additional payment of £500 for the trouble and upset  the matter has caused him.
The DBP transfer
I agree  with the investigator.  The transfer of the DBP and resulting loss of its benefits was 
unsuitable for Mr W and ought  not to have been  recommended. This conclusion  does not 
suggest that Lighthouse  was particularly reckless in this matter. It was not and, as it has 
argued, there is evidence of its notice to Mr W at the time that the recommendation is 
unusual and that it would not normally recommend  the transfer of a defined  benefit pension  
scheme  but for what it considered to be the need to meet his specific  objectives. 
This conclusion reflects  what  appears to be Lighthouses misguidance in the matter. What it 
has presented as a requirement or need  within Mr Ws objectives  does  not appear to have 
been such; its argument about some of the DBPs benefits being redundant to Mr W does 
not appear to be supported by fact finding  evidence; its argument about the critical yield 
assessment is not persuasive; and it recommended the retention of the RAP for reasons that 
arguably ought to have  applied to support the retention of the DBP.
I explain as follows:
Generation of income (including income  flexibility) was indeed  expressed by Mr W, 
but it was not a requirement. It also does not appear that generation  of a lump  sum 
was required  or, in the alternative, required as suggested. Lighthouse should have 
Ref: DRN35844204brought such observations to Mr Ws attention,  in the context of the transfer probably 
not being in his interest if valuable benefits would be lost from the DBP for the sake  
of objectives which could have been addressed  in another  way. It is not 
unreasonable to expect  such  considerations  in the course of investment advice.
The advice report says Mr W had a lowest  medium  risk profile; he was retired  
(early); his partner was also retired; their home  was mortgage  free; their joint monthly 
fixed expenditure was £1,450 (which was expected to remain the same  in the future); 
their joint monthly  income was £2,450  (£950 rental income for Mr W and £1,500 
pension income  for his partner);  and their total assets were worth  around £511,000, 
including cash savings of £28,000 and Premium Bonds worth £20,000 (which  is 
mentioned under  the sub-hearing  Emergency Fund/Cash Deposits).
The report says Mr W wanted £500 per month to  maintain [his] present standard 
of living . However, the income and expenditure  figures in the report show he (and 
his partner) had around £1,000  per month  surplus income, which suggests his 
standard of living was already being maintained with this surplus providing extra 
capacity for that to continue even if his monthly  expenditure increased.  I am not 
persuaded that it was worth losing the benefits  in the DBP for the sake of adding 
£500 to an existing monthly  surplus  income of £1,000 (for the household).
The report says Mr W wanted to access his  whole pension commencement  lump 
sum [PCLS] for various projects   and that he wanted to  maximise [his] tax free 
lump sum  and to have  a potential tax free lump sum death benefit. The DBPs 
value was around £95,000  and the PCLS appears  to have been based on 25%  
suggesting around £24,000. Combining the cash savings and Premium Bonds, Mr W 
appeared to already have  access  to around  double this amount in reserve. I have not 
seen evidence of funding for his various  projects (or any other  purpose he might 
have had for a lump  sum) being considered from this reserve  pot, as opposed  to 
being derived  from the DBP. I am not persuaded that it was worth  losing the benefits  
in the DBP in this context. 
The report also says Mr W did not want the defined income and reduced spouse 
pension (after death) features in the DBP  the latter was mentioned as the reason 
why the prospect of achieving a lump  sum death benefit from the transfer was 
suitable for him. However,  Mr Ws pension retirement questionnaire did not say 
exactly the same and it suggests  that he was at least somewhat unsure on these 
issues. For example,  in response to a question about the importance  of income in 
retirement he chose  the middle  option which said it was important but he had other 
sources of income; in response  to a question about whether (or not) he wanted to 
pass remaining  pension fund and/or income  to his partner  upon  death he ticked  
yes; and in response to a question that was essentially  about the prospect of losing 
the valuable  feature  of a guaranteed pension he again chose the middle  option  
which said he would need to compare the levels  of income  before making a decision.  
Overall and on balance, I am not satisfied that Mr W considered the defined  income  
and spouse pension  (after death) features in the DBP to be redundant to him.
Lighthouse  appears to accept that the critical yield analysis,  to match  the DBP at age 
65 and with spouse benefits  (after  death), showed unsuitability of the transfer.  It 
argues that an alternative critical yield analysis that was conducted at the time, and 
based on no spouse benefits and no increase  in income, showed  suitability. As I said 
above, I am not satisfied that Mr W wanted  to dispose of the DBP benefits  (such as 
Ref: DRN35844205the spouse benefits) as argued, so I do not accept this argument and I give merit to 
the critical yield analysis  that showed unsuitability.
As the investigator  pointed out, the advice report recommended the retention  of the 
RAP for broadly  the same  reasons  it said the DBP should not be retained  she took 
the view that Lighthouse  should have recommended the retention  of the DBP for the 
same reasons. The report referred to the guaranteed pension in the RAP and said it 
should be retained because  it would be very difficult to replicate the ceding 
scheme benefits by transferring to another  provider. I agree with the investigators 
view and I consider that this point adds to the conclusion  that the recommendation to 
transfer the DBP was unsuitable. 
what must  Lighthouse do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Lighthouse  must do the following:
For the RAP transfer   
Pay Mr W £500 for the trouble and upset this matter  caused him.
Pay Mr W the net redress calculated  as £16,482.07. Pay interest  on this amount at 
the rate of 8% simple  per year from date of this decision to date of settlement (if this 
redress is not paid within 28 days of Lighthouse being  notified  of Mr Ws acceptance 
of this decision).  Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
For the DBP transfer   
Pay Mr W £300 for the trouble and upset this matter  caused him.
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for Lighthouse to put Mr W, as far as 
possible, into the position he would  now be in but for the unsuitable transfer advice. 
It must  undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension  review 
guidance as updated  by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of this decision and using the 
most recent financial assumptions published at this date.  In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ws acceptance  of the 
decision. 
Lighthouse  may wish to contact  the Department  for Work and Pensions (DWP) to 
obtain Mr Ws contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS or S2P). These details should then be used to include a SERPS  
adjustment in the calculation,  which will take into account  the impact  of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Ws SERPS/S2P entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates  a loss, the compensation should if possible 
be paid into Mr Ws pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges 
and any available  tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into the pension 
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension is not possible or has protection or allowance 
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr W as a lump  sum after making a notional  
deduction to allow  for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. 25% of the 
loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely 
income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20% (based on evidence in his 
pension retirement  questionnaire)  so making  a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects  this. 
Ref: DRN35844206The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid 
to Mr W within 90 days of the date Lighthouse  receives notification of his acceptance 
of this decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 
8% simple per year from the date of this decision to the date of settlement. It is 
possible that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  this 90 day period  allowed for settlement  and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation 
is data from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont  apply. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ws complaint. I order  Lighthouse Advisory  
Services Limited to compensate Mr W as detailed  above and to provide him with a 
calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple format. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
27 September 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3584420