K820x#14complaint
Miss M says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss M took out a PPI policy in 2009 in one of the banks branches at the same time as she 
applied for a mortgage. The policy gave  her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. 
She paid a monthly amount  for it. She increased the benefit level when she took out a further  
advance in 2011.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive 
followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Miss M says she was unaware the PPI was added to her account and it must have been done 
without her consent or knowledge. I cant know what was said in the meeting or how the PPI 
was presented to Miss M. So I have thought carefully about her comments and looked at the 
available paperwork.        
Her mortgage application shows she indicated  she wanted PPI. She completed a separate 
direct debit mandate for it and signed a consent  form confirming she wanted to apply for the 
cover. 
Her mortgage offer made clear that Miss M didnt have to take out any insurance through RBS,  
that only building insurance was mandatory,  and it listed PPI under the heading Optional 
insurance setting out the cost separately. So overall,  I think RBS made  it clear  the PPI was 
optional, and Miss M agreed to take it out. 
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss M so it didnt  have to check the policy was right for 
her. However, it had to give clear, fair and not misleading information  about the PPI so she 
could make a properly informed choice.
Its possible RBS didnt  give Miss M as much  information as it shouldve done. But I dont 
think better information wouldve put her off taking out the PPI. I say this because:
Miss M was eligible  for the cover and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main  
things not covered by the policy. 
Ref: DRN37818632Miss M told us she was entitled to 12 or 13 weeks sick pay and she had some savings. 
But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any work benefits and for up to 12 months. It 
would have allowed her to use any savings to cover other living  expenses  whilst not 
working, or to keep them intact  for future  needs.  Miss M was borrowing quite a large sum 
over a number  of years secured against  her home, so given the consequences of 
missing mortgage repayments I think the PPI wouldve been useful if she was sick or lost 
her job. 
The cost of the policy was made clear on her mortgage offer and the PPI was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. 
It follows I dont think Miss M lost out because of any problems with the sale. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 June 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3781863