K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc harassed  him about his loan.  It then closed his 
bank account  without any explanation.
background 
Mr M had a bank account with HSBC. But it was closed and Mr M wants to know  why. He 
also had a loan account. But the payments  had got into arrears.  The bank wrote  to Mr M to 
say his arrears were nearly £40,000. After many calls HSBC said itd made a mistake. The 
bank then repeated  the mistake in further  letters.
Mr M feels the bank has treated him very poorly. He has hearing difficulties and found the 
whole matter very distressing. HSBC continued  to call him and harass him about his loan. 
But hes making  payments towards  it. So hed like an apology and compensation.
HSBC apologised  for its errors when contacting Mr M about the arrears on his payments. Its 
letter in December 2017 stated an incorrect amount of over £36000 when  the correct  figure  
was just over £17000. The bank understood its letter  mustve been worrying for Mr M and it 
paid £50 towards his loan in compensation.
HSBC explained  Mr Ms loan account had been in arrears since December 2014. He had put 
in place an agreement  with a debt management  company. But the agreement had expired. 
And thats why HSBC  had been  trying  to contact Mr M again.  HSBC confirmed itd written  to 
Mr M on 21 July 2017 to say it would  be closing his bank account.  Mr M had called to 
complain. But the bank  had confirmed its decision to him.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  with HSBCs  response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She spoke  to HSBC who agreed to pay Mr M an 
additional £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its errors. 
HSBC also accepted it shouldve taken Mr Ms hearing difficulties into account when trying to 
contact him. So the bank  offered a further  £200  to Mr M.
Mr M felt the offer didnt cover all of HSBCs mistakes. Hed had two more  letters  after the 
initial £150 offer. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision. Hes concerned the bank 
may still have the wrong figures against  his loan. And he wants  confirmation  he can continue 
to pay the contractual amount each month and then reach a new agreement about  the 
arrears  which should now only be a few hundred pounds. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As our investigator has explained, HSBC doesnt  have  to give a reason when it decides to 
end a business relationship with a customer - just as Mr M might  decide to close  his 
accounts with HSBC and bank elsewhere. From what  Ive seen HSBC has acted within the 
terms and conditions of the account.  And theres nothing to suggest its treated Mr M unfairly  
or any differently.  I realise how distressing this mustve been for Mr M. But I cant say HSBC 
did anything wrong  when it closed Mr Ms account. So I cant  ask it to review its decision.
Ref: DRN39776502Mr M said hes been paying the agreed amount of around £300 each month  towards his 
loan. And hes paid an addition £50 each  month  to reduce the arrears. But he feels HSBC  
has been harassing him. It sent letters saying it needed to make  new arrangements  - and 
then quoted the wrong figures.  And the banks call centre kept ringing  to discuss matters  
even though he struggles to hear on the phone.
I do agree  HSBC couldve done  more  to take Mr Ms hearing difficulties into consideration. 
Its important that customers with similar disabilities get clear and consistent  communication  
from the bank. And I can see how frustrating  it mustve been for Mr M to receive unhelpful 
phone calls and then receive follow-up texts asking  him to rate the banks level of service.
HSBC has accepted Mr M shouldve been  referred  to its vulnerable  customer  team.  Its staff 
wouldve been better trained to discuss matters in an appropriate manner with Mr M. But this 
hadnt happened until recently. HSBC  has apologised  and agreed it should pay Mr M a 
further £100 for the two letters sent to him in August and October which repeated  the 
previous mistakes.  And the bank has offered an additional £200 compensation for its poor 
level of communication  to Mr M and not taking into account his difficulties.
From whatve Ive seen HSBC has now resolved the calls issue.  And its specialist  team 
should be able to help Mr M moving forwards. Mr M should continue  to make the contractual 
payments on his loan.  And he will need to discuss with HSBC  how best to repay the 
remaining arrears so that his credit  file can be updated accordingly.
This mustve been very upsetting for Mr M. And I sympathise with the difficult time hes been  
through trying to resolve  matters. Ive looked carefully at everything thats happened and 
what HSBC has done to put things  right. HSBC has now put in place appropriate  measures 
to contact Mr M. And its apologised  and offered  a total of £450 compensation for the 
mistakes it made when writing to him and for the poor service  he received from the bank.
Its not the role of this service to punish  banks for their mistakes.  We award what  is fair and 
reasonable. Based on everything Ive seen I think HSBCs offer of £450 is a fair level of 
compensation for the trouble and upset  Mr M has been through.  And its in line with the level 
of award our service  would normally make in such circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has made a fair offer. It should pay Mr M a total 
of £450 compensation as it has already agreed to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3977650