K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Virgin Money plc didnt give her clear information  about the timescales  
for taking  out a new mortgage product. As a result, she paid additional  interest and shed like 
this to be refunded.  
background
Virgin Money wrote to Ms A in February 2018. It said her fixed rate mortgage product would 
end and from 1 June 2018  its standard  variable rate (SVR) would apply. 
Ms A contacted Virgin  Money in February 2018. She made an appointment to discuss  new 
products but Virgin Money was unable to contact her at the agreed  time. Ms A contacted 
Virgin Money again in March 2018  and it explained the online process and said Ms A could 
call it again if she needed to. 
Virgin Money wrote to Ms A on 11 May 2018  setting out the SVR and the new monthly 
payments. Ms A says she received the letter on 18 May and called Virgin Money the same  
day. She was told it was too late for a new product to be in place by 1 June 2018. 
Ms A says she had a lot going on in April 2018. She says Virgin Money  should  have told her 
when the deadline was to have a new product in place by 1 June 2018. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying  Virgin Money 
had given Ms A sufficient  time to do the product switch. The adjudicator said Virgin  Money 
didnt have to tell customers what its deadlines  are for product transfers. And Ms A hadnt  
asked for information  about this. Ms A didnt agree. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Virgin Money wrote to Ms A in February 2018  saying her mortgage  product would end and 
its SVR would apply  from 1 June 2018.  
Virgin Money offered  Ms A an appointment with an adviser to discuss  new products. It also 
told her she could apply  on an execution only basis and gave  her information about how to 
apply online. 
While Ms A says she was told shed be sent further reminders in time for her to take out a 
new product, the available evidence  doesnt  support this. I dont think Virgin Money  gave her 
incorrect information about its process for taking out a new product.
I appreciate that Ms A had other  matters  to deal with in April 2018.  But Virgin Money  wrote  to 
her in February 2018. I think it gave Ms A enough time and information for her to take out a 
new mortgage product  in time for it to apply from 1 June 2018. It didnt have to send her 
further reminders. 
Ref: DRN33385162In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Virgin  Money to refund 
any interest applied  to Ms As mortgage  while  the SVR applied. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2018.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3338516