K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Calpe Insurance Company  Limited wont  cover his claim on his motor 
insurance policy. 
background 
Mr S was in an accident and his broker advised  him to go through a claims management 
company (CMC) rather then his insurer to claim against the other driver. He did this but then 
found that the other driver  was uninsured. Calpe then declined  to accept his claim as it said 
the policy requirement was that claims should be reported within  48 hours.  
Calpe said Mr S hadnt told it about  the accident  for over a year and he hadnt provided an 
estimate for repairs for it to consider. Mr S had had his car repaired without Calpes 
approval. So Calpe thought this prejudiced  it as it couldnt assess the loss. Mr S had now 
sold the car so it couldnt assess it. It thought this had greatly prejudiced its position. It said 
any investigation of the accident  circumstances was now compromised.  
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought the 48 hour 
condition hadnt  been met. But he thought  Mr S had reported the claim to his broker and it 
had sent notification to Calpe, albeit  this wasnt received. Mr S had an engineers report  and 
photographs of the damage  so the investigator thought Calpe could  still assess  the car and 
the damage. So he couldnt see how this had prejudiced  Calpe and he thought  it should  
settle the claim.
Calpe replied that Mr S had breached  the terms and conditions  of the policy.  It said it 
couldnt assess the car to establish  the accident-related damage or establish the accident 
circumstances due to the passage of time.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
I can see that Mr Ss policy contained a condition that accidents  should be reported  within  48 
hours. But I think Mr S reasonably did this. He told his brokers  and the police about  the 
accident within 24 hours. The broker then sent a letter of notification to Calpe. Unfortunately, 
this was incorrectly addressed and Calpe  didnt receive this. But I dont think its fair for 
Calpe to decline the claim for this reason as I think Mr S had done what  was required of him 
at this stage.
Calpe has provided  a number of other reasons why it thought it shouldnt deal with the claim.  
It said Mr S had had the repairs  made without allowing it to assess  the damage and agree 
appropriate repair costs.  It said there  may have been pre-existing damage that should be 
taken into account.  It said it could now not assess the car as Mr S had sold it. It also said 
that, due to the passage of time, it couldnt now validate the claim circumstances. 
Ref: DRN37486982I can see that the policys terms and conditions require Mr S to send Calpe repair estimates  
for it to approve. And there is a requirement for Mr S to give Calpe reasonable access  to 
assess his cars condition. Calpe said it was for Mr S to do this, not his broker.  Clearly, Mr S 
didnt fulfil these  requirements at the time. 
But I dont think it would  be fair and reasonable for Calpe to decline his claim because  of 
this. This is because I cant see that Calpe has shown that these breaches of the policy  
conditions are material to the loss or have prejudiced  Calpes position.  
Mr S has provided an engineers report on the damage to his car. This was made by a 
qualified engineer and considered, amongst other  things, the cars condition.  Mr S provided  
an accident report at the time. Ive heard the phone call where Mr S reported the accident to 
his broker and this provides  further details of the circumstances. Mr S provided photographs 
of the scene, the other driver and the damage  to his car. I cant see that Calpe has reviewed 
these or considered whether they provide sufficient information for it to retrospectively  
assess the damage to the car and the repairs estimate. 
Consequently, I think Calpe can get all the necessary information from Mr S to investigate  
the claim.  So I cant see that the claim has been  prejudiced and I think  Calpe should now 
deal with it as if it was a new claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance  Company Limited 
to settle Mr Ss claim under the remaining  terms and conditions of his policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3748698