K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained that Society of Lloyds didnt tell him about a claim against  his taxi 
insurance policy.
Mr H is represented in bringing this complaint by his wife, Mrs H. But for ease Ill refer to all 
actions and comments as being those of Mr H.
Also for ease, whenever  I talk about Society of Lloyds or Lloyds in this decision, this will 
include anything done by the underwriters  and its agents.
background 
Mr H told Lloyds about an incident and a claim he thought  was potentially fraudulent being 
made against him. He said the other driver had already asked him for money directly. He 
said he didnt want to claim and didnt think the other driver  would either.  He said Lloyds told 
him it would let him know if the other driver  claimed.  He said he didnt hear anything  until he 
was later trying to get a copy of his no-claims  discount (NCD).  At that point he found  out 
Lloyds had accepted the claim against  him. Mr H said this prevented him from working as a 
taxi driver because his premium with his new insurer went up after the NCD was removed 
and he had to wait to have the money  refunded.
Lloyds said Mr H went into the back of another driver whod stopped suddenly. It said the 
other driver had claimed against  Mr H for damage and personal injury and the claim was still 
open and under investigation. It said the out of hours claim line had told Mr H that Lloyds 
would call him in the event of any claim but that wasnt right. It said it wouldnt ordinarily let a 
customer know when a claim  was made  against  them. And it had told Mr H about the claim 
in his renewal documents.
Mr H said hed only looked at the renewal premium  and not the rest of the documents.
Lloyds said Mr H called to renew his policy after receiving renewal documents  but wasnt  
able to due to his employment status. He brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 April 2019 where I explained  why I 
thought Lloyds should compensate Mr H. In that decision I said:
Mr H has made a number of detailed points and I hope he doesnt  take it as a discourtesy 
that Im going to focus on what I see as the central issues of this complaint.
We dont decide  whos at fault for an accident  as thats the role of the courts. Instead we look 
to see that an insurer  (in this case Lloyds)  has dealt with the claim fairly and reasonably.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Hs policy say Lloyds  can take over and settle or defend a 
claim as it sees  fit. That might mean  it makes  a decision Mr H disagrees with but the policy  
allows it to. Again, we consider whether its done so fairly and reasonably.
As the other  driver wanted to claim against  Mr Hs policy Lloyds had to log it as a claim, 
even though Mr H wasnt claiming. Lloyds said the claim is still being investigated which  
means its an open claim. Its usual for an open  claim to be considered a fault claim until its 
settled otherwise. So I dont think Lloyds has done  anything wrong in how its recorded the 
claim. But I do think Lloyds should have done more to let Mr H know  there was a claim 
against him.
Ive seen a transcript  of the call where Mr H reported the incident to the out of hours call line.
Ref: DRN35951112The call handler told Mr H someone  from the insurer would  call him back. Lloyds  said this 
wasnt correct. It said Mr H should  have  known about the claim as hed reported  the incident.
And the renewal documents provided the details of the claim and told Mr H he wasnt  entitled 
to any NCD.
Given the importance of providing accurate information when buying  insurance we think its 
good industry practice for insurers  to let customers know when a claim is made against 
them. I can understand why Mr H wouldnt have been looking for the information in the 
renewal documents,  given  that the call handler on the out of hours claims line told him the 
insurer would call him. Hed also been clear in the call that he didnt think the other driver 
would make a claim. So, I dont  think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to say Mr H should 
have known there was a claim.
Lloyds did provide Mr H with the information  he needed before he bought his new policy.
However I can understand why Mr H might not have thought he needed to check his renewal 
documents in full as he was expecting to have one years NCD. I also think it could have 
been clearer in telling  him hed need  to check the statement of fact which  contained details 
of the claim.
I accept that not knowing  there was a claim against him caused  Mr H distress and 
inconvenience and I think its fair Lloyds compensate  him for this. But I dont think Lloyds is 
wholly responsible  for his premium increasing  with his new insurer.
Mr H also complained to us about the problems hed had with his new insurer. I understand 
hes already received a refund of his premium  following this complaint but feels he wasnt 
able to work while this was being sorted out. Ive looked at the questions  the new insurer  
asked Mr H when he bought his policy. It asked him if hed been  involved in any accidents, 
claims or losses,  regardless  of blame, in the last five years.
While Mr H didnt  know there had been a claim he did know hed hit another driver in the rear 
as hed reported it to Lloyds. I appreciate Mr H doesnt think  hitting the other driver fits the 
definition of an accident because there wasnt any damage. But I dont agree. When 
considering the ordinary,  everyday use of the word I think its reasonable to consider hitting 
another car in the rear as an accident.  So while I think Lloyds not updating Mr H contributed  
to how he answered  this question, I think Mr H should have answered it differently whether 
or not he knew there had been a claim as he knew hed had an accident.
So while I think Lloyds should have  kept Mr H informed I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to hold it responsible for any future losses.  Having taken account of other 
awards our service makes  for cases of similar  seriousness, I think £100  is a fair and 
reasonable amount for Lloyds to pay Mr H to compensate for the unnecessary distress an 
inconvenience it caused by not letting him know about the claim sooner.
Lloyds didnt provide any further comments but Mr H didnt agree with my provisional 
decision. He said if hed known there was a claim hed have been able to make different 
choices when looking for a renewal quote.  He said hed only had to wait for his new insurer  
to refund him because he didnt know there was a claim. He thought £100 a week  would be 
a fairer amount.  Mr H added that the claim has now been closed  and thought this should  be 
dealt with as part of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN35951113my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
depart from my provisional findings.
I understand the claim is now closed however I dont think it matters to the outcome of this 
decision, as this complaint concerns what Mr H knew about the claim at the time of his 
renewal and not how its now recorded. If Mr H is unhappy with the outcome of the claim hell 
need to complain about that separately. 
Mr H said if hed known there was a claim hed have made different choices as hed have 
known the quote his broker provided was reasonable and wouldnt have needed to go 
elsewhere. However Ive heard the call where Mr H contacted Lloyds to renew  and it said it 
wouldnt be able to insure him for other reasons. I appreciate Mr H has challenged Lloyds 
on this but Im satisfied  this shows Mr H didnt  only go to a different  insurer because hed 
been given a cheaper quote.
Mr H said not knowing about the claim also led to him answering  the question  incorrectly 
when buying a new policy. However  while Mr H didnt know  there was a claim,  he did know 
there had been  an accident. And he didnt  tell his new insurer  about that when  it asked about  
any accidents or claims. So I dont think its fair and reasonable for me to hold Lloyds 
responsible for Mr Hs losses when buying his new policy. I also understand that Mr Hs 
broker refunded him the premium for his new policy as it was mis-sold. So I dont think  the 
way he answered  the question  was the only reason he had to wait for a refund. For these 
reasons I remain satisfied that £100  is a fair and reasonable amount for Lloyds to pay Mr H 
to compensate for the distress and inconvenience  it caused him by not letting him know  a 
claim had been  made against his policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint and require Society of Lloyds to pay 
Mr H £100 to compensate  for the distress  and inconvenience it caused  him.
Society of Lloyds should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Hs accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it should  add interest to the compensation at 8% simple per 
year from the date of my decision to the date it makes payment1. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
1 If Society of Lloyds considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.   
Ref: DRN3595111