K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains that TSB Bank plc cancelled a direct debit set up to pay his TSB credit card 
bills. As a result hes incurred interest  on his outstanding credit  card balance and his credit 
file has been affected.
To settle  matters hed like the interest hes been  charged refunded,  compensation for the 
time spent  trying to resolve matters and hed like any adverse information  on his credit file 
removed.
background 
I set out the background  to Mr Ps complaint in my provisional decision.  In that decision I 
also explained why I was proposing to partly uphold his complaint. Below, Ill again 
summarise the background to Mr Ps complaint  and my provisional findings  so all the 
information is in one place.
Mr P had a credit card account  with TSB.  He says he set up a direct debit from an account  
he held with another bank, T, to pay his credit  card bills in full each month. Mr P says TSB 
rang him in December  2018 to tell him his credit card was in arrears - because  his direct 
debit had been cancelled. As a result,  Mr P says he was charged interest on his credit card 
balance and its affected his credit score.
Mr P complained about this - and other  matters  - to TSB. TSB upheld some  parts  of his 
complaint and paid £150  compensation. But it didnt  uphold his complaint about the 
cancellation of the direct debit. It said the direct debit had been cancelled by T.
Mr P also complained  to T but it also denied any wrongdoing and said TSB had cancelled 
the direct  debit.
Unhappy with TSBs response Mr P brought  his complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at the information  provided  by both banks. They  thought the 
information provided by T was more persuasive because it named  TSB as the 
instructor of the cancellation whereas  the evidence TSB provided wasnt  as clear.
The investigator also noted that TSBs evidence showed the direct debit was cancelled  
on 10 September 2018 whereas Ts evidence was dated 11 September 2018, so they 
thought it made more  sense for TSB to have given  the instruction which T actioned  the 
next day.
Our investigator recommended that TSB should pay an additional £100 compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  and that it should also amend Mr Ps credit  file and 
remove any missed/  late payment markers applied and readjust  any interest payable on 
his credit card while the direct debit was inactive.
Mr P disagrees with the investigators view. He thinks he should be awarded £200 
compensation. Ive briefly  summarised his reasons below.
   he accepts TSB has already paid £150 compensation but he says this was paid for other 
matters. At the time, TSB didnt uphold his complaint  about the cancellation of his direct 
debit and no compensation was paid to him for this. He also says that the compensation 
paid by TSB was only for inconvenience up to that point. Since  making his complaint he 
says hes spent  a lot of time trying  to resolve  matters including visits to TSB branches.
Ref: DRN37610762   £100  compensation  isnt sufficient in light of the amount of compensation he says TSB 
has paid to him for a different, unrelated complaint.
In my provisional decision I said:
I realise  it must be frustrating for Mr P that neither TSB nor T accepted  responsibility  for the 
cancellation of his direct  debit. Ive seen final response letters  from both businesses in which  
they say the direct debit was cancelled by the other.
Our role is to resolve complaints about  financial businesses by looking at what is fair and 
reasonable taking into account  the impact  the mistake has had on Mr P. Due to the 
contradictory evidence  provided by TSB and T I cant conclusively say that TSB cancelled 
the direct  debit. I therefore make my decision  based on what I think  is more likely than not 
to have happened in light of the available  information  and the wider circumstances.
Based on the limited  and contradictory information available,  I think the information 
provided by T is more  persuasive. I say this because the information provided  by TSB 
shows the direct debit was cancelled by payer on 10 September  2018.  However,  it doesnt  
detail who the payer  is. On the other  hand, the information provided by T shows the direct 
debit was cancelled  by the service user on 11 September 2018 and it names TSB as the 
service user.  I also agree  with the investigator that it makes more sense that the instruction 
to cancel the direct debit  was given by TSB which T actioned the next day.
Both businesses say the direct debit was cancelled  by the other. Mr P says he didnt 
cancel it and neither  business appears  to suggest this was the case. Even though  I cant  
say with any certainty that TSB cancelled the direct debit I nevertheless  think  its fair and 
reasonable to ask it to help to put matters right for the reasons Ive explained  above.
My role is to consider if the investigators  recommended award is a fair and 
reasonable settlement of this complaint or whether, as Mr P thinks, its appropriate to 
award further compensation.
The investigators suggested settlement didnt detail the amount by which  TSB should 
readjust Mr Ps interest  so we asked  both parties about this. Mr Ps credit card 
statements show interest charges of £47.27 in November 2018,  £18.66  in December 
2018 and £24.83 in February 2019. Interest of £1.76  was credited in January 2019. Mr P 
told us he was also charged interest in March 2019 but the information Ive seen shows  a 
new direct  debit was set up and collected  at the end of January 2019  so I havent  
considered any further interest charges from that point.
Mr P told us he set up his direct debit to pay off his credit card bills in full each month. Given  
that was the case, I wouldnt have expected Mr P to make any payments to his account 
during the period the direct debit was inactive. However, Mr P has explained  that he did so 
because during this time he was also experiencing problems accessing  and managing  his 
online credit  card statements, so he made ad hoc payments to ensure he didnt  exceed  his 
credit limit.
Mr Ps explanation is plausible and I dont have any reason to doubt his account. In these 
circumstances I therefore think its fair and reasonable to ask TSB to refund the interest it 
applied to his account because, in making the payments he did, he minimised  the interest  
that TSB would otherwise have applied as a result of the cancellation of the direct debit.
Ref: DRN37610763TSB should therefore refund £89 to Mr P. This represents the interest he was charged in 
November 2018  through  to February  2019 less the small interest credit of £1.76 applied  in 
January 2019.  Mr P also says interest of £25.07 was applied  in March 2019  but the 
information Ive seen shows a new direct debit  was put in place and collected  at the end of 
January 2019  so I dont think its fair to ask TSB to pay this.
TSB should also contact credit reference agencies to ensure that any missed/late 
payment markers  are removed from Mr Ps credit  file.
We look at each complaint on its merits so Im afraid that just because TSB paid Mr P 
compensation on what he thinks is a more favourable  basis  in relation to a different 
complaint, I cant use that as a basis to award compensation for this complaint. Instead we 
look at what  is fair and reasonable  based  on the impact the mistake had.
Ive thought carefully about the reasons  why Mr P thinks the compensation for the 
inconvenience and distress caused to him should  be increased to £200.  However,  I think  
£100 is fair and reasonable.  I say this because Ive explained above that the information  
Ive seen doesnt conclusively show TSB cancelled the direct debit. In the circumstances 
Ive explained  why I think its fair and reasonable to ask TSB to help to settle the 
complaint but I dont  think it would be fair to hold TSB completely responsible.
My decision  compensates Mr P for his financial losses and it also requires TSB to contact 
credit reference agencies to remove any missed/late  payment markers  from his credit file for 
the period when the direct debit  was inactive so Im satisfied this addresses  any impact on 
his credit file. I therefore think £100  is fair and reasonable for the trouble and inconvenience 
caused to Mr P taking into account  the nature of the problem and its impact.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint in part and I intend  to direct 
TSB Bank Plc:-
    to adjust the interest on his credit card statements for the time the direct debit was 
inactive by refunding  to him £89, such sum to be credited to his credit card account; and
   to remove  any missed/late payment  markers  on his credit  file relating to the period when 
the direct debit was inactive; and
   to pay £100  compensation to Mr P in addition to the £150 referred to in TSBs  final 
response letter.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions 
before I reached a final decision. TSB confirmed it had nothing  to add.
Mr P provided further submissions. He thinks  TSB should also refund the interest  he was 
charged on his March statement because he says that when  the new direct debit was set up 
in January 2019, TSB only set this up to collect the required  minimum payment  rather 
than to pay his credit card balance  in full each month.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37610764Ive thought carefully about the additional  points Mr P has made.  But I cant  deal with his 
concerns that TSB failed to set up the new direct  debit  correctly because Im not aware that 
this formed part of his initial  complaint  to TSB at the time. If Mr P would like our service to 
look into this part of his complaint he will first need to raise this with TSB and give it the 
opportunity to investigate  and respond.
It follows that I see no reason to depart  from the conclusions I set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct TSB Bank Plc:-
    to adjust the interest on his credit card statements for the time the direct  debit was 
inactive by refunding to him £89, such sum to be credited to his credit card account; 
and
   to remove any missed/late payment markers  on his credit file relating to the period 
when the direct  debit was inactive;  and
    to pay £100  compensation to Mr P in addition to the £150 referred to in TSBs final 
response letter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3761076