K820x#14complaint
Miss Cs complaint is about the way Acromas  Insurance Company Limited has dealt with a 
claim on her European Breakdown Cover insurance  policy (EBC).
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator  for these reasons:
Miss C has recently suggested she paid for and bought the policy  in her late partners 
name  Mr M - on the phone. But Acromas has confirmed the policy was bought by 
her online  and there werent  any phone interactions with her. 
Acromas has raised issues about  the policy being bought by Miss C when she was in 
the UK only a few days before the request for assistance from Mr M abroad. And its 
questioned whether  he was in fact already abroad when this happened. 
But whatever  happened the simple fact is the EBC Miss C took out was in her sole 
name and she didnt take out joint cover for any other person. That is evidenced by 
the documentation Acromas sent out. That meant that when Mr M broke down 
abroad Acromas wasnt obliged under the terms and conditions  of the policy  to assist 
him at all as he wasnt covered by the EBC and Miss C wasnt with the vehicle at the 
time.
Despite this Acromas did help Mr M, contributing around £750  to assist him which 
included the cost of him flying home.  It says it did so in good faith as his policy  
couldnt be located on its system having been  told he was a joint policy  holder. 
Miss C is unhappy about the assistance and service Acromas provided  to Mr M 
including that it didnt repatriate  the car or provide  a hire vehicle. But it wasnt  in fact 
obliged to assist  him and has actually done more than it was obliged to under the 
terms and conditions  of the policy. And it has also paid Miss C £30 compensation for 
the way a call centre  handled Mr M.
Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise Miss Cs strength of feeling and 
frustration,  I think that Acromas has acted fairly and I dont think  on balance that I 
can reasonably  require it to do anything more  or differently, including  paying  her any 
more as shed  like.
Taking everything into account,  I think Acromas has acted fairly and I dont think  I 
can reasonably  require it to do anything more  or differently.
For these reasons I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
Ref: DRN34543282My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Acromas  Insurance  Company 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3454328