K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr Y was sold the PPI alongside a loan in 2002  (one year term)  during a meeting.
The PPI would have  provided a monthly benefit  for the remaining term of the one year loan if 
Mr Y was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ys complaint should  be upheld.
Mr Y didnt agree with our adjudicator so the complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ys case.
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ys complaint.
Based on Mr Ys age, residence and employment  status at the time of the sale, it seems  to 
me that Mr Y was eligible  under  the policy.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr Y that the policy was optional  and needed  his consent 
before it could be applied to his account. I can see from the copy  of the credit  agreement 
provided that Mr Y was presented  with two equally clear options to either take or refuse PPI 
and that Mr Y selected PPI. Although the agreement shows a printed X rather  than a 
manual selection,  Mr Ys personal details have  also been completed electronically and as 
the PPI was sold during a branch meeting I think its more likely  that the information and 
choices on the form reflected  the discussion between Mr Y and the representative. Mr Y also 
signed this form and so if he had any doubts about  PPI at this time,  he could have raised this 
with the representative at the time of the sale.
Lloyds accept they advised Mr Y to take the policy out. I havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest otherwise.  This means that Lloyds wouldve had to take adequate steps to ensure 
the policy was suitable for Mr Y. 
I cant say whether or not Lloyds  did take all of the steps as they shouldve,  but I think the 
policy was suitable  for Mr Y. I say this because:
-Although Mr Y has told us he would  have been  entitled to sick pay from his employer, 
the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ys sick pay and for a longer period of 
time. It would also have paid out if he lost his job. 
-I havent seen  anything which suggests  to me that the cost of the policy  was 
unaffordable to Mr Y at the time of the sale.
Ref: DRN34720202-Mr Y didnt  appear to have been  affected  by the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
For example, pre-existing medical conditions. So it appears Mr Y couldve made a 
successful claim  under the policy if the need arose.
-Given the relatively short length of the loan, I dont think Mr Y would have had a need 
for flexibility. So even  though the policy didnt provide a pro-rata refund if cancelled  
early, I dont  think this would have made this policy  unsuitable  for Mr Y.
Lloyds also had to give Mr Y clear enough information so that he could decide for himself  
whether or not to take the policy out. I dont think Lloyds did present Mr Y with all of the 
information as they shouldve. For example, I cant see that the costs  of the policy  were  set 
out fully at the point at which Mr Y chose  to take PPI. This in itself doesnt mean that the PPI 
was mis-sold as I have  to go on and consider whether better information would have put him 
off taking it out.
I dont think better information  about  the costs  of the policy  would have put Mr Y off taking 
the PPI out. The missing  information related to the amount of interest  that would be charged  
for the PPI  this amounted to just over £5 for the entire year.  Mr Y was aware  of how much 
he would  be paying  per month for the policy and it appeared  that this was acceptable to him. 
And as already mentioned  it appeared to have been affordable for Mr Y.
Ive also thought about whether better information about the benefits and exclusions would 
have put him off taking the policy  I dont think it would have. I say this for the same  
reasons I think the policy was suitable  for Mr Y.
So having  taken everything into consideration,  I dont think  Lloyds mis-sold Mr Y this PPI 
policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint against  Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3472020