K820x#14complaint
Ms Ms complaint arises out of several claims she made on her legal expenses insurance 
policy from 2014 onwards.
The underwriter of that policy eventually declined all of those claims because  the courses of 
action Ms M wanted to claim for werent covered under the terms of the policy. 
Ms M says this means Towergate  Underwriting Group Limited, the broker of the policy, mis-
sold her the insurance.  Because  of this she wants Towergate, amongst other things, to 
reimburse her costs and expenses incurred in pursuing her claims, as if legal expenses 
insurance had been  in place.
background 
Ms Ms claims stem from a dispute  with the leasehold owner of the flat below her own. Ms M 
owns the freehold to that flat as well as her own.
From 2014  Ms M made a claim  on her legal expenses insurance policy to pursue several 
claims against the leasehold owner  of that property. The insurer eventually declined those 
claims. They said:
(Claim 1) This matter was raised to assist  you with the breach of lease terms and therefore 
have advised  this is specifically excluded by your policy. Our understanding  is that you 
would like to forfeiture proceeding  based  on the breach of the lease including:-
Non-payment of rent and service charges.
Refusal of access
Failure to provide information.
(Claim 2) This matter was reported  to us and relates to a dispute you have with your tenant 
who issued a claim against you in the Property  Tribunal and an Application  of determination  
of liability to pay service charges and monies owed.  Unfortunately this claim was later 
declined as the incident fell outside  the insurance  policy (pre-inception).
(Claim 3) We raised the claim against (the leaseholder) for breach of lease by owning a HIV 
positive cat. Your policy excludes a dispute over the terms of a lease of land or buildings  or a 
licence or tenancy  of land or buildings  and therefore  we have advised we are unable to 
assist.
(Claim 4) This matter relates  to a dispute  with your tenant for allegations of disrepair 
resulting in an outbreak of E.coli. Further allegation  included late fees and unpaid  rent. We 
have considered this matter under  Contract Dispute section of your policy and advised that 
we are unable  to assist  due to the lease/licence  exclusion.
In this present  complaint Ms M says the insurance Towergate sold her was unsuitable for 
her circumstances because it would never have covered her for disputes with a leaseholder. 
As Ms M was a freehold owner, she thought Towergate shouldve sold her a policy  that  
provided cover for the claims shed made. 
Towergate have  said that there was no legal expenses insurance  cover they couldve sold 
Ms M that wouldve covered disputes between freehold and leasehold owners. 
Our investigator considered Ms Ms complaint and concluded that although the policy  
Ms M had been sold was unsuitable to her needs,  there didnt appear to be a policy available  
that would  cover the disputes she was claiming  for. He said that most  commercial legal 
Ref: DRN38293862expenses insurance  policies, like landlord policies, would only cover  disputes if the other  
property was rented out but not subject to a lease. 
Ms M doesnt agree. She says theres  specialist insurance available  which wouldve covered 
her for the claims she made. Because of this she wants  Towergate to do a number of things, 
including reimburse  her for the costs and expenses she incurred  in pursuing her claims.  She 
also wants Towergate to provide her with continuous legal expenses  insurance cover from 
2010. 
Because of this, the matter has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I wont  be upholding Ms 
Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Towergate have  said that Ms Ms legal expenses insurance policy  was sold to her on an 
advised basis. Because of this they had a duty to ensure the policy  was suitable for her 
needs and circumstances as well as provide her with enough information to enable  her to 
decide whether  to take out the insurance. 
In this case, Towergate have said the legal expenses insurance Ms M bought was wrongly 
sold to her. Thats because the policy sold was in respect of a property that was not Ms Ms 
main residence. Towergate say this meant  the insurer  wouldnt cover Ms M for any claims 
made in respect  of that property.  As a consequence, they removed  the insurance in 2017 
and offered Ms M a refund of her premiums paid to date, together with interest. 
But Towergate dont  think theyre responsible to pay any more than theyve offered. They 
say thats because even if the policy had covered her for the correct residence, no cover 
wouldve been available for the disputes she wanted  to claim for and they didnt offer any 
other policies that provided such cover. 
I considered Ms Ms complaint about  the claims that were declined  by her legal expenses  
insurer and issued a separate decision in respect  of that. In that case the legal expenses 
insurer didnt decline cover on the basis that the policy sold didnt cover the property Ms M 
was claiming for. Rather they declined the claims because claims in relation to breaches of a 
lease werent covered  under the property or contract  sections of the policies she was sold. 
I dont think I need  to determine  whether the policy was unsuitable for Ms Ms needs 
because it didnt cover  her for disputes  about  leases,  in order  to decide whether Towergate 
needs to do anything more than refund the premiums its offered.  Thats because Towergate 
accept that Ms M shouldnt have ended up with the policy she did. But I have thought  about 
which other policies  Towergate couldve offered Ms M at the time of the sale and whether its 
likely they  wouldve sold her a policy that wouldve covered her for such  disputes or whether 
there were policies available on the market that wouldve insured her for this. 
Towergate have  told us they didnt  have any other  policies available that wouldve provided 
cover for Ms Ms legal  costs in respect  of a dispute  arising out of her lease with the 
leaseholder of the property below her own. And as I havent been provided  any evidence to 
the contrary, Im satisfied  they didnt have  any alternatives they could sell her. Because  of 
Ref: DRN38293863this, Ive gone on to think  about  whether Ms M wouldve  gone  elsewhere to find a different 
policy that wouldve  catered for such a situation.  
Ms M has told us that she had made  enquiries with other insurers  about whether she could  
get cover  as a freeholder  and was told they wouldnt  provide buildings insurance  in respect 
of this and that shed  need to find a specialist provider  to do so. Shes  also said that there 
were very few providers  that provided such cover  and Towergate  was one of them. So Im 
satisfied, that at least in relation to buildings  insurance, Ms M wouldve used a different 
provider if she thought shed be covered for claims that might  arise out of her owning  her 
property as a freeholder. 
But that doesnt mean that cover was available elsewhere for the types of claims Ms M 
wanted legal  expenses insurance for. Ms M says that she thinks  she couldve got cover 
elsewhere which wouldve  covered her claims.  But what  shes  provided doesnt  support  that. 
To be satisfied that cover  was available elsewhere  at the time Ms M bought  the legal 
expenses insurance  policy, Id need to see policy terms that appear to cover  disputes 
between freeholder owners and their leaseholders.  The commercial  policies Im aware of 
dont offer cover for those  sorts of claims- rather they offer cover for landlord and tenant 
disputes, which arent the same as disputes between  freeholders and leaseholders. And 
although I can see that Ms M has provided a screen print that suggests insurance  is 
available in relation to a block of flats for freeholders, leaseholders, management 
companies and more, I dont know what that cover is in relation to. It could be buildings 
insurance only and not legal expenses  insurance cover,  which is what is in dispute here. 
Because of this, I dont think Towergate needs to do anything more  beyond their offer to 
refund the premiums  theyve offered Ms M, together with interest.  If Ms M wishes  to accept 
that offer, she should contact Towergate directly. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint against 
Towergate Underwriting  Group Limited.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.  
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3829386