K820x#14complaint
Miss Z complains about how U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has dealt with her travel insurance 
claim.
background
Miss Z travelled abroad, outside of Europe and unfortunately missed her flight  home to the 
United Kingdom  (the UK). Miss Z said she had to pay £800 to cover the cost of a new ticket  
home. On her return, she contacted her insurer to claim for the cost of the new ticket.
Between January and March 2019, there  was some back and forth,  and Miss Z was asked to 
provide various  pieces  of information.  She was eventually told her claim would be settled 
and the money  paid into her account.  When this didnt happen, she queried  things further 
and was told that her claim wasnt actually  covered  under  her policy.  This was because her 
policy covered claims for European travel only, for a maximum of 22 days  at a time. So UKI 
declined Miss Zs claim, explaining that this was because she had travelled outside  Europe, 
and for longer than 22 days on the trip.
Miss Z isnt disputing the claim refusal, but is unhappy that she had spent around  two 
months gathering  information in support of her claim. She said she should have been told 
from the start that it wasnt covered. UKI agreed  the service could have  been  better, and 
offered Miss Z £150 for the inconvenience caused.  Miss Z also said she had made several 
calls to UK numbers and international numbers in support of her claim.  So UKI offered her 
£60 towards the costs  of these calls too.
Unhappy with the compensation offered, Miss Z brought her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator thought  UKI had treated her poorly but thought  the amount offered was 
reasonable in the circumstances. Miss Z disagreed and thought the compensation should  be 
higher. So the complaint was passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  UKI has acknowledged  that it hasnt  
offered Miss Z the service  it should have. As mentioned above, it also offered  Miss Z £150 
for the inconvenience  caused and £60 towards the costs of the calls she made. 
Miss Z isnt disputing the claim decision.  So what I have to decide is whether the 
compensation UKI offered  to Miss Z is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and I think  
it is. Ill explain why.
UKI has acknowledged that it should have made Miss Z aware that her claim wouldnt be 
covered when she initially logged it  and I agree  with this. I appreciate it would have been 
frustrating to go to the trouble of providing  all the necessary paperwork,  as well as having to 
contact UKI regularly for updates on the claim. I also think  Miss Z would have been 
disappointed to be told more than once that her payment was being  processed,  only to find 
out that she wouldnt be getting anything  for her claim.
But I also think UKI has acknowledged its mistakes here, and it has considered the stress  
caused when  awarding Miss Z compensation. And having thought about this carefully, whilst 
I agree  the situation would have been both disappointing and inconvenient, I dont think the 
Ref: DRN32953922inconvenience was significant enough to ask UKI to pay any more than the £150 it has 
already offered.
Miss Z also explained she had to make several  calls both to numbers in the UK, and 
internationally, to get the information UKI had asked her for. Miss Z said she used a 
pay-as-you-go phone to make  the calls, so couldnt  provide any call logs. She said she also 
didnt keep any evidence  of top-up receipts, and couldnt specify an amount she thought  she 
had spent.
I appreciate that Miss Z said she didnt want to go to the trouble of providing more paperwork 
in the circumstances. But without much information around what Miss Z paid for the calls,  its 
difficult to say what a fair amount would be. Miss Z asked  for the calls within  the UK to be 
covered, and asked  UKI to contribute what it could  to the international calls,  without the call 
logs. UKI offered  Miss Z £40 for the calls in the UK, and a contribution  of £20 towards  the 
international calls.  As Miss Z wasnt able to provide much information  about how much  the 
calls cost her, I think UKI has offered  a reasonable amount in the circumstances.
Overall, I think UKI has acknowledged its failings  here. And taking into account the loss of 
expectation that Miss Z suffered, the inconvenience of having to get information and the 
overall service she experienced, I think £150  fairly compensates Miss Z for what she went  
through over the two months.  And for the reasons  mentioned above, I think £60 is enough to 
compensate Miss Z for the phone calls she made.
my final decision
My final decision is the total of £210  U K Insurance Limited has offered Miss Z is enough to 
reflect the stress and inconvenience caused, and it should make this payment if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Hana Yousef
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3295392