K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that a member of staff at Shawbrook Bank Limited took home  his personal 
information and misplaced it. 
background
Mr D says he received a letter from Shawbrook stating that his personal information was 
misplaced by a member of staff who had taken home information such  as names,  addresses  
and bank details,  for over 80 customers.  He says this is not acceptable and has caused  him 
worry and stress.
Shawbrook say the data was misplaced  but returned  to them within  48 hours.  It was 
reassured by the person who returned the document that no copies had been  taken or 
shared. It says the details were limited  to name,  Shawbrook loan account number and 
complaint details.
Shawbrook says it notified the Information Commissioners Office and the customers  
affected, offering  to pay any costs associated with credit reference agency  checks and fraud 
protection. It also says it took action with regard  to the member  of staff and put procedures in 
place to avoid  the problem being repeated in the future.
In response to a complaint from Mr D, Shawbrook wrote to him upholding his complaint and 
offering him a goodwill  gesture of £50. It also repeated its offer to pay for any costs  for 
services relating to checking and placing a protective  registration  on his credit file. 
Mr D didnt accept Shawbrooks apology  and goodwill offer and brought his complaint  to our 
service. 
Our investigator thought that Shawbrook  didnt need  to do anything  further.  Mr D didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  I have decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint.  
First, I must explain that its not the role of this service to decide if Shawbrook has breached 
data protection  laws by misplacing Mr Ds information and whether its acted  in accordance  
with its applicable data privacy policies. I understand that Mr D has complained to the 
Information Commissioners Office  regarding the actual breach itself and they will be able to 
advise him further  regarding  this. I can only determine what a fair and reasonable outcome 
to this complaint  should be, looking at the impact this has had on Mr D.
Shawbrook has told us that the information  misplaced was limited to Mr Ds name, his loan 
account number  and complaint details. Meaning  it was company-specific data and thankfully 
the breach appears to have been  relatively  limited.  Shawbrook also say the document  in 
question was returned to it within 48 hours with reassurances that it had not been  shared. 
Whilst I appreciate the incident would certainly have caused Mr D worry, I dont believe he 
has suffered any financial  loss as a direct result of his data being misplaced. I say this 
because theres no suggestion that his data has been stolen or used in a detrimental way. 
And I can see no evidence of him becoming  a victim  of fraudulent activity as a result of the 
Ref: DRN38037992banks actions. So I am satisfied there is no evidence that Mr D has suffered any financial  
loss resulting from this incident.   
As I have already  detailed, Shawbrook wrote to Mr D explaining it believed  the likelihood of 
fraudulent activity resulting from the incident was extremely low. It suggested Mr D may wish 
to consider both checking and protecting his credit  file and confirmed it would meet  any 
associated costs. 
I think this offer of financial support to ensure  protection of Mr Ds credit file is fair and I also 
think Shawbrook has kept him updated of the situation.  For these reasons I am satisfied that 
Shawbrook took enough action to reduce  the risk of potential  fraudulent  activity.    
I have no reason to doubt that Mr D has had to spend time changing  personal  details as he 
has informed us. But I believe  the goodwill offer of £50 Shawbrook paid to him and its 
undertaking to meet  reasonable mitigation costs relating  to checking and placing a protective 
registration on his credit file, is fair and reasonable. This is because  there is no evidence that 
he has suffered any fraudulent activity or resulting  financial loss as a result of the incident.
my final decision
I believe that Shawbrook  Bank Limited  has done  enough to rectify the breach  and minimise  
any impact.  I am aware that it has apologised to Mr D and made an offer to pay £50. It has 
also offered to pay costs  associated with credit reference agency checks  and fraud 
protection.
 
I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. I understand 
that this payment has already been made but if not, Shawbrook  Bank  Limited should now go 
ahead and pay Mr D.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3803799