K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Atom Bank  PLC sent him unclear information in the run up to the 
maturity of the funds  held in his savings account. 
background
Mr G had savings invested  at a fixed interest  rate that were due to mature  on 
28 December 2018. Four weeks before maturity Atom contacted Mr G to let him know. Atom 
contacted Mr G again 14 days before the maturity  date by a text message that said your 
rate matures in just two weeks,  were currently pulling together  a choice of options for you. 
Well be in touch soon.
On 25 December 2018 Atom gave Mr G details of his options. Mr G found  the products 
offered were  the same as those available to new customers. He went  on to complain  that the 
information Atom  sent had misled  him into believing  he would be offered tailored, preferential 
rates. As a result, he hadnt looked  at other  options available elsewhere.  Mr G says the 
products offered by Atom  werent as good as others  he found elsewhere. 
Atom didnt agree it had misled Mr G in the run up to the maturity  of his funds. Mr G referred 
his case to our service and an adjudicator looked at what had happened.  They didnt feel the 
information Atom  had sent was misleading and didnt ask it to do anything else to resolve his 
complaint. Mr G didnt agree so his complaints been  passed to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his response to the adjudicator Mr Gs explained that the main focus of his complaint is 
that he was induced to wait for the options Atom said it would send him which  delayed  the 
window for arranging to reinvest his funds elsewhere. Ive thought very carefully about what 
Mr Gs said in his response and looked  closely at all the information he was sent by Atom  in 
the run up to the maturity date. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr G but I havent  found Atoms various communications acted as an 
inducement not to look at his other reinvestment options. I thought Atoms messages were  
clear in explaining that it would give Mr G details  of options available  to him before the 
maturity date of his existing fixed rate. And thats  what it did. Atom  put a list of options 
together for Mr G which was then given to him three days  before the maturity  date. 
I understand Mr G feels he was led to believe that the options  Atom gave would be tailored 
to him and not in line with those available generally. But I havent seen anything from Atom 
that says it will offer him advice or preferential products because  hes an existing customer.  
And, as Mr G has said, this wasnt the first time hed reinvested his funds with Atom after the 
end of a fixed  rate. Whilst I can see Mr G genuinely thought hed receive  different options  on 
25 December 2018 I havent found Atom misled him. 
As the adjudicators said, Mr G wouldve been broadly aware of when his fixed rate was due 
to end when he signed up for it. And I can see that Atom sent Mr G messages well in 
advance of the maturity date to say it was due to end. From what Ive seen I think  Atom took 
Ref: DRN32529702reasonable steps to let Mr G know when his fixed rate would end. I dont think  the messages 
Mr G received from Atom were misleading  or that they meant he wasnt able to look at 
options with different providers. 
The terms for Mr Gs account with Atom say it will contact customers before the maturity 
date with their available options.  Customers can then select  a new product via a smart 
phone application  and on the day of maturity their selection will be put in place.  I appreciate 
Mr G feels he wasnt given enough time but Atom  has acted in line with its terms in the run 
up to maturity. I cant tell Atom how to operate or whether it can send  product  options to 
customers on a bank  holiday. Atoms confirmed it will still send out the product information 
on bank holidays and weekends  and its entitled to take that approach.  I havent  found 
Atoms treated Mr G unfairly by sending him his options on 25 December 2018.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr G but, for the reasons  Ive given above, Im satisfied Atom gave 
reasonable warning  that his fixed rate was coming to an end. I havent found Atom  sent 
misleading information or induced Mr G not to look at his other investment options when it 
contacted him in December 2018.  Atom  can decide  how to operate, including when to send  
information about new products to customers. As I havent found any evidence  of a mistake 
by Atom Im not telling it to take any further  action to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsamn
Ref: DRN3252970