K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ts complaint against Perspective (North East) Limited is about  the advice it gave
her to transfer the benefits out of her occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal
pension plan. 
background
One of our investigators  sent his assessment of the complaint to Mrs T on 21 September  
2020. He set out the background to the complaint in that assessment. But in brief,  Mrs T met 
with an adviser from the firm in February 2007.  A Transfer Value Analysis was completed 
which compared the benefits available  through her employers pension scheme with what  
Mrs T might have  been able to achieve  by transferring the benefits to a personal pension 
arrangement.
The report  showed  that her employers scheme would provide an annual pension of
£1,644 a year at retirement date. And that she was offered a transfer value of £12,266 if she 
wanted to transfer  the pension. It said that if she transferred, the funds would need to 
achieve an investment  return  of 8.3%  a year to be able to replace the benefits of her 
employers scheme based  on a number  of assumptions.  
A Pension  Transfer Report  was sent to Mrs T on 21 February 2007.  This explained the 
transfer value  she was being offered had an enhancement of £5,146. And she was offered a 
further enhancement of £928  that could be taken  as a cash  lump sum. The report also set 
out her objectives  and the options that were available to her.
The adviser said that he couldnt  recommend that Mrs T transfer  to a Personal Pension  Plan 
and The benefits within the [employers  pension scheme] are promised at retirement, 
whereas an investment growth of 8.3%  would be required in order  to exceed those benefits. 
The adviser felt investment growth  of 8.3% was too high.
Mrs T signed a declaration to say she wanted to transfer her employers pension on 21 
February 2007. The adviser wrote back to confirm that she had decided not to take his 
advice. The letter said:
I am writing to confirm you have decided to not take our advice and instead transfer from 
the [employers  pension scheme] into a personal pension plan. You have done this because  
you want the cash incentive. The letter also reminded Mrs T that Perspective wasnt 
recommending the transfer.
A further  letter was sent to Mrs T on 23 February 2007. This also confirmed that Mrs T had 
decided not to take the advice she had been  given, and instead  she wanted to transfer  her 
pension. 
The investigator didnt  think that Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld.  He noted that the firms  
employees general understanding was that it was better for their employer if they 
transferred their pension,  and that there was risk of people losing their jobs if they didnt.     
Mrs T had also confirmed  this during a telephone call. They had been offered enhanced 
transfer values  and cash incentives  to do so. And there appeared to be a risk of job losses if 
they didnt.
The employer had told employees to obtain  financial  advice before deciding about whether 
to transfer. But it had also provided  other information about the funding  difficulties many UK 
Ref: DRN32614652based pension  schemes were  facing and its own potential difficulties. The investigator 
thought Mrs T had been encouraged to consider  taking up the offer of an enhanced transfer 
value and cash incentive.
The investigator said the documentation  clearly  showed that the adviser hadnt 
recommended the transfer. He said he understood why Mrs T had transferred despite being  
advised against it given the potential problems for the employer and the risk of job losses. 
He thought that even if Perspective hadnt facilitated  the transfer Mrs T would still likely have 
gone ahead  anyway given the circumstances. Perspective hadnt  recommended  the transfer 
and, overall, he didnt think it would be fair to say Perspective was responsible for any 
financial losses Mrs T had incurred as a result of transferring her pension.
Mrs T didnt  agree with the investigators findings. She said she found the whole thing very 
stressful and unfair. She asked for the complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator, and largely  for the same reasons.
I understand Mrs Ts feelings  about the matter given that some of her colleagues  received  
compensation following the review  of the advice theyd been given but she didnt. Mrs T has 
said other employees whod been  employed for less time than her, had left in the 1980s  or 
were part-time had received significant payments. 
However as the investigator explained, we arent  able to consider how that review was 
carried out. And although I understand Mrs T may think her circumstances are the same as 
colleagues, or hers make  it more likely that she should have received compensation, there  
are several interrelated factors that are taken into account and seemingly  minor  differences 
between them can have  a significant impact.  
The transfer report given  to Mrs T at the time of the advice outlined her options  that included,  
as well as transferring, staying in the scheme  and leaving the benefits  where  they were. The 
report also said the employers pension scheme  was 66.6% funded,  but that if the employer  
was to become  insolvent and the scheme  wound  up with insufficient assets to meet  its 
liabilities, then Mrs Ts benefits  would  be protected, to some  extent, through the Pension 
Protection Fund. It said this effectively  meant  90% of her pension would be safe.
The documentary evidence clearly  shows Perspectives  advice  was not to transfer because 
the adviser felt the investment growth  of 8.3%  was too high. However thats not the end of 
the matter. As the investigator said, Perspective went onto arrange  the transfer.  Perspective 
should have treated Mrs T as an insistent customer   a technical  term for someone who 
insists on pressing ahead with a transaction despite being advised by a firm against it. 
Its not entirely clear  to me that Perspective  did treat Mrs T as an insistent client. But either  
way, a technical failing doesnt necessarily result in being awarded compensation where 
theres no material impact on the outcome i.e. that Mrs T would have transferred in any 
event. 
One the one hand, Mrs T was putting  a pension at retirement age of about £1,664 a year at 
significant risk. On the other, I think the evidence suggests she, and her colleagues, had real 
Ref: DRN32614653worries about the employers ongoing financial position and their future job security in the 
event that members decided to leave their benefits in the employers scheme.
In this context, and taking everything into account,  I think Mrs T was motivated to transfer 
because of those  worries.  In all the circumstances, I dont think  Perspectives  actions  is the 
cause of any financial losses  that Mrs T has sustained.
my final decision
I realise that Mrs T will be very disappointed  with my decision. However for the reasons I 
have outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3261465