K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  that Virgin Money  plc gave her incorrect  information about her account 
balance. She also complains about how she was dealt with following that mistake.
background
Miss J called Virgin in November 2018 to pay her account balance.  She says she was given 
an incorrect amount and was later told she owed more money. Miss J says she tried to 
speak to Virgin about this but kept failing security  as Virgin had an incorrect  date of birth on 
its records. She also says she didnt receive a number of calls back about  the problem and 
that Virgin kept adding charges and interest to the amount that she was disputing.
Virgin says its advisor  told Miss J the correct balance of £2,505  but at the end of the call 
Miss J said the balance was £2,055 and asked if that was correct  to which the adviser 
agreed. Virgin accepts  it made a mistake and also accepts  it didnt  call Miss J back as 
agreed. Its upheld the complaint in part and refunded the interest and charges and agreed  
to remove any adverse data from Miss Js credit file. Virgin  has offered a gesture of goodwill 
payment of £150  but says Miss J owes it a balance of just over £300.
Miss J brought her complaint to us and our adjudicator upheld  it in part. He thought the 
problems all started with Miss J being given the incorrect  balance  and that she hadnt 
received promised calls back. The adjudicator appreciated there was a problem with the 
date of birth issue and thought Virgin had said it would freeze the account for a month.  The 
adjudicator thought the goodwill offer was fair and reasonable but thought  Miss J should be 
put in the position  Virgin  offered  in its final response letter  in February  2019.  Namely that all 
charges and interest be cleared, leaving the amount Miss J owes of just over £300  to be 
paid and her credit  file updated to that position.
Miss J doesnt accept that view and says the full balance  should be written  off and this 
problem has caused  her health  problems.
Virgin also doesnt accept  that adjudicators view. It says it agreed to refund charges and 
interest in February  2019 but they have been  correctly applied since  then as Miss J hasnt 
made any payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall conclusion  as the adjudicator.
Ive listened to the calls between the parties  and in particular the call in which Miss J is given  
the incorrect information. Im satisfied  she was given the correct information at the start of 
the call but the advisor confirmed the incorrect amount in response to Miss J stating the 
wrong amount.  So I think both parties  should  take some responsibility for what  happened 
and I also think it likely  that Miss J would have had access to her account  statements which  
contained the correct balance in any event.
There is no doubt that Virgin didnt deal with the problem as it should have. I dont think  Miss 
J received the promised  call backs and it took some time for Virgin  to provide its explanation 
in February 2019  about what happened  in November 2018. But Im satisfied that Virgin  
Ref: DRN30094122apologised for what  took place  and agreed  to make what I think is a fair and reasonable 
gesture of goodwill payment of £150 as well as fairly  refund any charges and interest and 
remove adverse date from Miss Js credit  file.
I can see that Miss J then brought her complaint  to us and we looked  into what had 
happened. So in those  circumstances I think the fairest approach would be that Virgin  
removes any late payment charges and interest  for the period we then looked into the 
complaint. I appreciate that Virgin made that offer in February 2019 but I think taking into 
account what had happened it was reasonable for Miss J to want to wait for our outcome 
before deciding how to proceed.
I make  it clear  that Im satisfied Miss J owes Virgin just over £300 and I also make  it clear 
that I cant fairly order any future charges or interest be waived. And no doubt Miss J is 
aware that if the balance is not cleared then its likely adverse  information will be recorded on 
her credit file. I realise Miss J is likely to remain unhappy with my decision but I cant fairly 
order that Virgin write off the account  balance  just because  a mistake was made.  And for the 
reasons Ive explained I think the gesture of goodwill offer fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience Miss J was caused.
Overall I think  it fair that Virgin put Miss J back in the position  she would have been in, that it 
proposed doing in its final response letter. But taking into account  that we have been looking 
at this complaint  since then and that I think that Miss J was under the impression that all 
charges would be frozen until a complaint conclusion  was reached.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order  Virgin Money plc to pay 
compensation to Miss J of £150 and to refund any charges, interest  or fees from Miss Js 
credit card account. I also order it to remove any adverse  information  from Miss Js credit  file 
that it may have registered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3009412