K820x#14complaint
This complaint concerns  the way that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. dealt with a claim under the travel insurance policy taken out in 
the name of Mrs H to cover herself and her older relative Mr H. Another relative who Ill call 
Mr H2 has brought this complaint on their behalf.  
My references to Mapfre include its agents. 
background
Mr H was abroad when  he unfortunately had a heart attack.  Mr H2 called Mapfre  straight  
away. He was very unhappy with Mapfres service.
Mapfre asked for medical reports from Mr Hs doctor abroad and in the UK. When it 
reviewed those reports it said Mr H hadnt  told it about all his existing medical conditions. 
This meant that Mapfre  would pay only a proportionate settlement of 65% of the claim. It 
accepted that it could  have offered a better  level of service and also offered Mr H and Mrs H 
a compensation  payment of £400.
Mr H2 asked us to look into the complaint, on behalf of Mr H and Mrs H. Our adjudicator sent 
a detailed opinion  letter explaining why she thought Mapfres  offer had been a fair one. 
Mr H2 strongly disagreed,  and the complaints come  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to read about  Mr Hs illness abroad. It was clearly a very distressing time for him 
and his family. 
Mr H2 has explained his concerns very clearly. Ive carefully reviewed and thought about all 
that he has said. But Ive decided that Mapfres offer to pay 65% of the claim and £400 
compensation is a fair and reasonable one, for broadly the same  reasons as our adjudicator. 
So for this reason I dont uphold the complaint,  in the sense that I find a reasonable offer has 
been made.
In giving my reasons for this decision  Ill focus  on the points Mr H2 has made in response to 
our adjudicators opinion letter. 
the proportionate settlement
Our adjudicator has explained that the relevant legislation is the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 or CIDRA. Under CIDRA a consumer must  take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation when answering the insurers clear  
questions. If they dont  take reasonable care - and the insurer  can show  it would have 
offered the policy on different terms if the consumer had taken reasonable care - then the 
insurer has a number  of remedies depending  on the circumstances. 
Mr H told Mapfre  about some  of his medical  conditions, including diabetes.  But taking 
reasonable care I think he should  have given Mapfre more information  than he did, and 
I agree  with the reasons  our adjudicator has given. 
Ref: DRN36263952I know Mr H2 strongly feels  that it is wrong for Mapfre to take into account  that Mr H was 
prescribed blood pressure  and cholesterol  medication. He says Mr H had raised blood 
pressure many years ago, with his last blood pressure tests being at normal levels. And 
Mr H was prescribed a statin (used  to control cholesterol levels)  as a preventative measure 
given his age and diabetes diagnosis.
When Mr H told Mapfre about his diabetes  Mapfre asked  him some additional questions in 
connection with his diabetes. These  questions included whether hed been advised to take 
medication for high blood pressure and whether hed been  advised to take medication to 
lower his cholesterol. Mr H had said no to both these  questions.
Mr Hs GP had prescribed Mr H with high blood pressure medication. So the correct  answer  
to the question about medication for high blood  pressure was yes. If Mr H had answered  
yes then Mapfre would have asked  him how many medicines his doctor  had advised him to 
take for high blood pressure, and the answer  would  have been one. Mr Hs GP has said on 
the medical certificate complete  for the claim that Mr H did have raised blood pressure, 
which is why hed been prescribed medication  to control his blood pressure. 
For the cholesterol Mr H should have answered yes to the question  about whether hed 
been advised to take medication to lower his cholesterol. I understand the statin was a 
preventative but I think Mr H should  have told Mapfre  hed been prescribed one specifically 
in connection  with his diabetes, and in response to questions about his diabetes. If hed told 
Mapfre about the statin then it would have asked whether hed ever had raised cholesterol 
levels, and the answer  for that would  have been no. Mapfre has correctly  taken that into 
account when  assessing the additional premium that it would have charged. 
Mapfre has offered to pay 65% of the claim. Im satisfied this is the correct calculation.  If 
Mr H had answered its questions with reasonable care then Mapfre  would have charged a 
higher premium of £187.36 for the cover, instead  of the £121.80 that Mr H actually  paid. This 
is a difference  of £65.56  as Mr H2 has pointed out. But this isnt why Mapfre  has offered to 
pay 65% of the claim.
CIDRA sets out the formula that an insurer can use if a consumer doesnt take reasonable 
care in answering its questions, and where it would have charged a higher premium if they 
had. The formula says that Mapfre can take the premium actually paid (£121.80) and divide 
it by the premium that should have been  paid (£187.36) and then multiply the resulting figure 
by 100. This gives the proportion of the claim Mapfre  can pay  and here thats  65%. 
The reason  Mapfre  can pay 65% of the claim is that it is paying the claim in proportion to the 
amount of premium its actually received  as compared to the premium  it should have 
received. Thats what it is able to do under CIDRA. So I think Mapfres offer to pay 65% of 
the claim is a fair one. 
Mapfres level of service
Mr H2 was dealing with Mapfre  and he told Mapfre at the time he was trying  to avoid Mr H 
having any additional stress,  in what was already a difficult situation for him and Mrs H. 
I appreciate Mr H2 complained to Mapfre both at the time and afterwards about its level of 
service, and the additional time and trouble this caused.
Ref: DRN36263953As Mapfre has acknowledged there were some elements of its service  that should  have 
been better.  I think it could have acted a little more quickly in asking the GP for the medical 
records, given the time of year meant the practice would be closed  for several  days. There  
was some confusion about  the information  Mapfre needed. But even if it had asked the GP 
some questions on the phone it was still entitled to review Mr Hs medical records to assess  
the claim.  
In the meantime, Mapfre continued  to liaise with the treating  doctor about Mr Hs health and 
treatment. And when it received the medical history it assessed  the claim reasonably quickly, 
referred to the underwriters and warned Mr H2 that it was possible the claim  wouldnt  be 
covered or not covered in full. 
Mapfre was working on Mr Hs case in the period that it was waiting  to confirm cover  under 
the policy. There were times  that Mr H2 wasnt kept updated as promised. Mapfres said 
sorry for this. I also think Mapfre could have explained more clearly the policy provisions 
around someone to accompany Mr H home.  Mrs H was with him and she would usually be 
the plus one but I think Mapfre could have  explained the policy cover in more  detail at the 
time. I dont think this was mis-selling  as Mr H2 suggests, but rather  a poor level of service.
Mr H2 says Mapfre didnt  deal with his concern about the policy benefits in the final response 
letter. But I think it did. It said that although it couldnt have known whether the claim was 
covered, it could have  explained more clearly the policy cover for accommodation and travel 
expenses for one individual to stay with Mr H until deemed fit to travel by Mapfre or one to fly 
out from home to be with him. It quoted the policy cover. So I think  the compensation offer 
Mapfre made did include this issue.
I think Mapfre could have  arranged for Mr Hs visit to another  hospital for a required test, to 
include overnight accommodation, even though cover hadnt been confirmed at that point. 
But that would always have been on a disclaimer basis; that is, on the basis  that Mapfre  
could have recovered the cost of the visit if the claim wasnt  covered  at all. Mapfre  
acknowledged this.
Mapfre offered Mr H and Mrs H £400 compensation to reflect its poor level of service.  I think  
that was a fair and reasonable offer. It reflects the impact on Mr H and Mrs H of the poor 
service. As our adjudicator explained I cant award  compensation to Mr H2, because hes 
representing the policy holders rather than being a person eligible to complain to us in his 
own right.  And I acknowledge  hes put in a lot of time and effort both in dealing  with Mapfre  
and in making the complaint. But I think Mapfre offered  a fair settlement in this case, so Im 
not requiring  it to make any further  offer.  I appreciate this will be a disappointment to Mr H2, 
Mr H and Mrs H. They dont have to accept  my findings and if they reject  my final decision 
then its not binding either on them or Mapfre.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I think Mapfres offer to pay 65% of the claim (subject to the 
policy limit and excess) and to pay £400  compensation  to Mr H and Mrs H is fair and 
reasonable. So I dont uphold this complaint  on the basis that a reasonable offer has already 
been made. 
Ref: DRN36263954Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3626395