K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains about the way that FirstRand Bank  Limited,  trading  as MotoNovo Finance, 
has dealt with his account.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr O under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that he signed in December 2014. He complained to this service about some  issues  with the 
car and in October 2016 the adjudicator  concluded  that there was no evidence of the issues 
that Mr O had raised or to show that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality when it was 
supplied to him. She also said that the information  that MotoNovo Finance had recorded on 
his credit file accurately  reflected  the status  of his account. 
Mr O then complained in January 2019 that: MotoNovo Finances communication had been 
incredibly poor; its final response  letter didnt address his full complaint and was inadequate;  
and it had passed his details to at least two other companies without notifying him. He says 
that it should write-off  the outstanding  balance of his account.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that notices 
of default were communicated to Mr O, he missed  multiple payments so charges were  
applied to the account and MotoNovo  Finance  was within its rights to chase him for the full 
outstanding balance, including any fees and charges.
Mr O has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that he sent 
an e-mail  to a director of MotoNovo Finance but it was ignored and he sent an e-mail  to its 
debt collection agent making a settlement offer but that was also ignored.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr O entered into the hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance in December 2014 
and agreed to make an initial payment of £510.99, 58 payments of £360.99 and a final 
payment of £510.99  for a used car to be supplied to him. He complained about some issues  
with the car but that complaint wasnt upheld. He didnt make the required payments under 
the agreement  so he was sent default  notices and the car was repossessed in August  2016 
and the agreement was ended.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that MotoNovo Finance acted 
incorrectly in repossessing the car and ending  the agreement in these circumstances. It had 
applied fees and charges  to the account  and Im not persuaded that those fees and charges 
are unfair or unreasonable  in the circumstances.
MotoNovo Finance has provided a statement for Mr Os account which shows that the 
proceeds of sale of the car of £9,240  were  applied to the account in August 2016 leaving an 
outstanding balance on the account of £8,450.27. It has closed his account  and transferred  
that amount  for collection and has appointed two debt collection agencies to seek payment 
of that amount from Mr O. I dont consider that its acted incorrectly in passing  his details to 
those debt collection agencies. 
Ref: DRN30581492The hire purchase agreement said:
If you miss any payment,  the vehicle may be repossessed and sold at auction,  after 
which you may still have  a financial liability to MotoNovo Finance. A debt collection 
agency could  contact you and/or we may take legal action against you in respect of 
any monies that you owe to us under  the Vehicle Hire Purchase Agreement and in 
respect of the Personal Loan(s). A record of your default will be passed to Credit 
Reference Bureaux and this could make it more difficult to obtain credit  in the future.  
MotoNovo Finances account notes show that Mr O was in contact with a debt collection 
agent from June  2017 and that he said in November 2017  that he wouldnt comply with the 
agent until MotoNovo  Finance replied to his personal e-mail and provided a detailed  
explanation of how his outstanding balance came to be. He was provided with a statement of 
account but he didnt consider that to be adequate and Ive seen no evidence to show  that it 
responded to his personal; e-mail. 
Mr O made  a settlement  offer to the debt collection agent in March 2018  and that offer was 
passed to MotoNovo Finance. The offer was below its settlement limit and Mr O had refused 
to provide it with information about  his income  and expenditure to show  what was affordable 
for him. Ive seen no evidence to show that MotoNovo Finance responded to that settlement 
offer  but nor have  I seen any information  to show that Mr O provided it with the income and 
expenditure information that was required or contacted it about his settlement offer.
MotoNovo Finance should have responded to Mr Os e-mail and to his settlement offer. I can 
understand the frustration that Mr O feels about  its failure to do so  but Im not persuaded 
that an award of compensation  for that would be appropriate in these circumstances. 
I consider that the statement of account together with the information about charges 
contained in the agreement provided  Mr O with enough information  about his account  so 
Im not persuaded that MotoNovo Finance was required to provide him with more detailed  
information about his outstanding balance. 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to 
require MotoNovo Finance to write off the outstanding balance of Mr Os account,  to pay him 
any compensation or to take any other action in response to his complaint. I suggest  that 
Mr O contacts it, or its debt collection agent, to provide information  about his income and 
expenditure so that an affordable repayment  arrangement for the amount that he owes can 
be agreed. If he doesnt do so, I consider it to be likely that further action will be taken to 
recover the debt.  
If Mr O is experiencing financial difficulties he should  contact MotoNovo Finance to explain 
his circumstances.  Its required  to respond to any financial difficulties that hes experiencing 
positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30581493
Ref: DRN3058149