K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc was wrong to refuse cover for his legal expenses 
claim. 
Where I refer to AXA, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
background
In June 2013, Mr B suffered a broken  toe while on holiday  in Mexico. He was treated at a 
local hospital where they put two pins into his big toe. On returning  to the UK, he was told by 
medical professionals that the treatment  hed received was negligent. So in August 2013 he 
made a claim under  the legal  expenses  section of his travel insurance to seek  compensation 
from the tour operator and the Mexican hospital. 
AXA instructed  one of its panel firms  of solicitors to assess the prospects of Mr Bs legal 
claim. There was limited information  available as to the extent  of Mr Bs injury. On reviewing 
the available  evidence, the solicitors  said a claim against the tour operator was unlikely to 
succeed. But they were satisfied  a claim for medical negligence enjoyed reasonable 
prospects of success.  So they wrote to the hospital making an offer to settle the claim. 
The solicitors subsequently said the claim shouldnt  be covered. They were satisfied Mr B 
had a reasonable chance of winning the case,  provided they could establish  that the 
treatment received was below a reasonable standard of care in Mexico. But they were 
concerned it wasnt proportionate  to pursue. This was because  they believed  their legal 
costs to pursue  the case to court would exceed the value of the claim. 
Based on this legal  advice,  AXA decided  in January 2014 not to cover the claim. The 
solicitors sent a letter to Mr B setting out the reasons why cover wasnt available. They 
explained that Mr B could  bring the claim himself and if he chose to do so, he must be 
mindful of the Mexican courts deadline,  which they believed to be one year from the date of 
the incident. 
Mr B did decide to pursue the claim  himself and instructed a firm of solicitors.  They  obtained 
a medical report which  said that the treatment was grossly negligent,  to the extent  it 
bordered on being  criminal. 
Mr B continued pursuing his case through his own solicitors. In 2016 he contacted  AXA 
again to make a further claim on his policy but AXA again refused cover (though it later 
agreed to provide some cover, and paid some  legal costs). 
Mr B complained that the original decision in 2014  to refuse cover  was wrong; and that the 
way AXA dealt with his claim after he contacted them again in 2016  had caused him to miss 
deadlines for taking  legal action. 
The complaint about what happened  from 2016 onwards has been dealt with separately. 
With regard to this complaint, our investigator  said AXA should  have  made further enquiries 
with its panel solicitor before declining the claim.  She thought the assessment  lacked  detail 
and explanation as to why the claim wasnt proportionate, so it wasnt  fair for AXA to rely on 
it. However she said that as Mr B went on to instruct his own solicitors  and proceeded with 
the claim privately, she was satisfied  AXAs decision  to refuse cover had no impact on the 
progress of his case. 
Ref: DRN31944342Mr B didnt agree with the investigator. So the complaint has been passed  to me to 
determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator.
As Ive said,  this decision only concerns whether AXAs decision to reject the claim 2014 
was fair. Im considering his complaint about  what happened  from 2016 onwards separately.
The policy terms say a claim must have prospects of success, which means  it must be more 
likely than not that the policyholder will win their case. The policy also says AXA may refuse  
to provide cover if the costs are not in proportion  to the value of the claim. These terms are 
common in legal expenses policies. They mean  insurers dont have to meet costs for claims 
that are unlikely to be successful or where  the costs  are too high compared to the value of 
the claim.  I think thats reasonable  I wouldnt expect an insurer  to fund a legal action that a 
prudent consumer  would not pursue, if their legal advice was that the costs were  likely to be 
more than the amount they were  claiming.
Id expect an insurer to get legal advice  before  deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects and is proportionate to pursue. And the insurer is entitled to rely on that advice,  
unless its obviously wrong.  Having said that, Id expect the advice to be properly  reasoned 
and have enough detail for the insurer to make  a reasoned decision.
Having looked  at the panel solicitors advice, my view is that AXAs decision wasnt based on 
a reasoned legal opinion.  The section  of the advice  relating to proportionality was very brief,  
and was based solely on assumptions from limited  information:
[Mr B] says that he was still not recovered  two months after the incident and he needed  
surgery because the pins were broken off in his toes causing  him a lot of pain. He says a 
broken toe normally takes four weeks to heal rather  than 16 weeks. He claims loss of 
overtime payments at £600.
I would place his claim as being over £1500 in value but costs will in my view exceed 
recovery.
In my view, this wasnt enough. Id expect some detail about the value  how it was 
calculated, and what that calculation was based  on. And Id expect some  detail about the 
level of costs to be incurred. Without any of this, I dont see how AXA had enough to make  
an informed decision.  So I dont think it was fair to reject the claim in these circumstances. 
AXA needed  more  detailed advice to make  its decision. And if further  evidence  was needed 
to advise properly,  it should have been  requested.
Mr B says AXA should have done more to gather that evidence. When making  any claim on 
an insurance policy, in the first instance  its for the policyholder to show  they have  a valid 
claim. So the onus was on Mr B to provide the evidence  needed  to support his claim; it 
wasnt for AXA to do this. 
Ref: DRN31944343I appreciate that Mr Bs solicitors arranged for further evidence to be gathered, including  
medical reports. But they were acting for Mr B, and getting the evidence he needed to 
pursue his legal  action.  The panel solicitors role was different; they were employed to review 
the information Mr B submitted with his insurance claim and advise whether, in line with the 
policy terms, cover could  be provided
Having decided AXA should not have refused cover  without more detailed  advice, Ive gone 
on to consider the impact on Mr B, and whether  AXAs decision affected his case.
Mr B was told he could pursue this case himself and could, if he wished, seek  his own legal 
advice. And he did that  he employed  his own solicitors to pursue the case. So, while AXA 
should not have declined  the claim without seeking more  detailed advice, I dont think this 
delayed his case or had an impact  on the timescales involved. He had legal representation 
throughout, and his solicitors would have been  able to advise him on pursuing  his case and 
any time limits for doing that. 
Any costs  for initial  work  for example obtaining the medical evidence  would not have 
been covered  by the policy. That was information Mr B needed in order to show  he had a 
valid claim. And AXA did cover legal  costs that were  incurred later on. I wouldnt expect AXA 
to pay for the initial costs  incurred before cover was agreed.
 
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  think Mr B lost out as a result  of the original decision 
not to cover  his claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3194434