K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains as a director of M, a limited company, that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc 
(Barclays) wont reimburse  them for an online transfer they made after they fell victim to a 
scam.
background
In November 2018, M received an invoice for payment via email  from a business they were  
dealing with. Payment  was made  to the account details on the invoice on 26 November 2018 
for £6,248.37.
Barclays say that they were contacted  by the receiving bank (where  the payment  had been  
received) on 20 December 2018, and they were advised that M mayve been the victim of a 
scam. The receiving bank asked Barclays to get confirmation from M if this was the case.  
On 3 January  2019 the receiving bank got in touch with Barclays  again,  chasing a response  
as they hadnt heard  from Barclays. The receiving bank advised  that there were funds 
remaining in the recipients account,  and asked Barclays to respond by 11 January 2019  in 
order to secure the funds.
Both Barclays and M agree that Mr M received a call in January 2019 from Barclays  to verify  
the payment.  Mr M says he confirmed the payment  as valid, not knowing or being told by 
Barclays that there were  concerns around  the recipient  of the funds.
M says that later in January 2019 the business who sent the invoice, contacted  them and 
advised that they hadnt received the payment. So, M got in touch with Barclays. 
It turned out the email  had been intercepted and the account information  changed, resulting 
in M paying funds  to a fraudulent account without being aware. M raised  a complaint with 
Barclays, advising that theyd had been  the victim of a scam and asking Barclays  to refund  
the money.
Barclays investigated and agreed  that they shouldve been  in touch with M when the 
receiving bank first got in touch on 20 December. And that based on the information  
provided by the receiving  bank, if they had responded to the receiving bank sooner, they 
couldve recovered £1,953.73 for M. They acknowledged that the level of service M had 
received had been poor and offered £200 in recognition of this.
Mr M disagreed with Barclays offer. He emphasised that he felt the full funds couldve been 
recovered if Barclays had got in touch  once they were aware  of the potential  scam from the 
receiving bank. Mr M requested that the full payment of £6,248.37 be refunded.  
M wasnt  satisfied with Barclays response, so they brought a complaint  to our service.
An investigator looked into Ms complaint and didnt uphold  it. In summary, they agreed 
Barclays shouldve got in touch with M once notified  by the receiving bank of the potential  
scam. But said that Barclays had already refunded M the funds  that wouldve been  
recoverable if Barclays had done this. And that as M is a company  which cant  experience  
distress in the way an individual can, they wouldnt  be recommending  Barclays  pay anything  
Ref: DRN35394512further as they felt the compensation award  for inconvenience was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
M disagreed  with the investigators opinion,  saying theyd missed the point that Barclays was 
on notice from the receiving bank that the account  they were  sending funds to were  part of a 
scam. M asked for the case  to be reviewed,  so it was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As part of this Im required to take into 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;  codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises  it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services  
Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account.  
But that is not the end of the story:  
the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of 
its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty)
regulated firms  like Barclays are also required  to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6). 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something recognised  
by the FCA in recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February 2016 
report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers 
from Financial  harm  as a result of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice,  which 
a number of banks and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available. 
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
So, taking all of this into account, in this case I need  to decide whether Barclays  acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealings  with M in regards to the payment of £6, 248.37, or whether it 
should have done more  than it did.
Ref: DRN35394513should Barclays have  done more to prevent  the payment
The transfer for £6,248.37 was made via online bill payment  with a new payee set up in 
order to make it. Having reviewed Ms accounts I can see that they regularly  set up new 
payees and regularly made  bill payments from the account, for example:
Date Type of transaction Amount Account Balance 
after transaction
13.11.2018 On-line banking  bill payment to H £8,313.31 £48,233
30.10.2018 On-line banking  bill payment to R £13,371.94 £30,825
16.10.2018 On-line banking  bill payment to J £5,200.00 £44,829
11.10.2018 On-line banking  bill payment to H £8,642.00 £56,087
  5.10.2018 On-line banking  bill payment to A £6,289.20 £71,147
26.11.2018 Transaction to scammers account £6,248.37 £35,166
As the table shows M had previously made online bill payments for the same size or larger  
through online banking. And while the payment affected the balance of Ms account, it didnt 
dramatically alter the balance compared  to the balance on the account  in previous months. 
As a business account its used regularly, often  with several payments and credits on any 
given day, in particular, the payments out of the account, range in value, type and 
destination. Given the volume  of activity on the account I dont think  this payment was 
remarkable for any reason. And there was nothing else about  the scam  payment  that stood 
out as being unusual in its nature, or that I think Barclays ought to have been concerned M 
might be at risk of being scammed. 
So, based  on what Ive seen I cant fairly  say that there was anything about  the payment that 
made it so unusual or out of character  compared to previous  account  use, that I wouldve 
expected it to flag Barclays attention. Therefore, Im persuaded  that Barclays actions to 
process the payment in the line with the account  mandate and its obligations under the 
PSRs werent unreasonable in the circumstances.
could Barclays have  retrieved the funds
Ive also considered whether Barclays couldve recovered more  of Ms funds, once they were  
made aware  of the scam by the receiving  bank.
Barclays have already acknowledged that they couldve got in touch with M sooner, based 
on the receiving bank contacting them in December 2018. But based  on what  Ive seen I 
cant fairly say they couldve recovered any further  funds in addition to the £1,953.73 if they 
had.
The receiving bank  has provided us information  about the beneficiary account, which shows  
that the bulk of the funds were removed  by 28 November 2018. This was done through  two 
transactions, one on the 26 November and one on the 27 November.  This means  that even 
if Barclays had got in touch with the receiving bank in December 2018 when they were  first 
on notice that M had potentially been  the victim of a scam, no further funds wouldve been 
recoverable than whats already been credited  to Ms account.  So, I cant fairly ask Barclays 
to refund M any further funds in relation  to the payment.
Ref: DRN35394514the level of service M received
I appreciate that the level of service M received, wasnt  as high as it shouldve  been and that 
this has been  very stressful. But as a company M cant  experience  trouble and upset in the 
way an individual  can - therefore any award I make cant take that into account. And while  
Barclays have acknowledged  that they shouldve acted  sooner  in contacting M, I cant fairly 
hold Barclays liable  for the actions of the fraudster or the impact that has had on M. Based 
on what Ive seen the £200  already offered by Barclays  is a fair award in the circumstances, 
so I wont be asking  them to pay anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3539451