K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) regarding an application  
he submitted to switch  his account from another provider. The application was rejected and 
Mr H missed out on a financial incentive. He wants NatWest to process his application  
without him having  to complete a new application  and he wants compensation to reflect  the 
incentive he missed. 
 
background
In February 2019,  NatWest ran a promotion  inviting new customers  to switch their accounts 
to NatWest. It offered  an incentive of £150 to successful applicants  who applied  between 7 
January 2019  and 15 February 2019,  who later made a sufficient deposit into the account 
and who accessed  online or mobile  banking. 
On 15 February 2019, Mr H submitted an application to switch  his account to NatWest. 
In his application he used an abbreviation of his first name. 
He subsequently uploaded his identification documents  on 20 February 2019. 
In processing the application, NatWest rejected the application because  the name details on 
the application and identification documents did not match.  Mr H was not updated of the 
outcome of his application, so on 25 February  2019 he contacted NatWest to chase up his 
application. 
NatWest advised  him that his application  had been rejected due to the mismatch on the 
name details, and that he would have to complete a new application if he still wished to 
switch. It said that it was not possible  to update the original application. 
Mr H was not happy about  this and complained to NatWest. He wanted compensation for the 
incentive he felt that he had missed  out on. 
NatWest sent Mr H its final response  letter in late February 2019. It confirmed that his 
application had been rejected on the basis of the mismatch in application  name and 
confirmed it was not possible to amend the application. It confirmed that the cut off date for 
the incentive was 15 February  and did not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Mr H was unhappy with this and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out a view to the parties. This 
was that she did not think  that the business had done anything  wrong  in rejecting the 
application, and in any event NatWest had demonstrated that the application was not 
completed (with the required ID documents)  until 20 February 2019, so Mr H would not have 
been eligible for the incentive even if there had been no discrepancy in the name. 
Mr H was not happy with this view and asked  for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN33069542 I understand Mr Hs frustration in this instance  as he clearly  took time and effort to make  an 
application, in the expectation  that he was within the time limits of the promotion. He 
provided identification documents when requested and agreed to a search of his credit  file in 
order to apply. I do not imagine that he did so lightly. 
I also appreciate that he finds it frustrating  that his application was rejected on the basis  of 
his abbreviated  name, when he considers that they are clearly  the same  name.  
However, I have to consider whether the bank  has done  anything wrong, before I can look at 
what inconvenience or other effect  Mr H has been caused. 
In this instance there is no dispute  that Mr H submitted his application using a shortened 
version of his name. He then submitted identification  documents  giving his name in its full 
version. 
NatWest was entitled to treat this as a discrepancy, and to reject  the application  as not 
matching. Whilst it may not seem a significant detail to Mr H, banks can and should be 
vigilant about  identity checking.  It was therefore Mr Hs responsibility to provide consistent  
information in the application and I do not criticise NatWest for rejecting the application.  
When Mr H had not heard from NatWest  and chased the bank about his application  he was 
advised of the rejection and the reason for it. He asked  if he could amend the original 
application and was advised  that it was not possible for him to do so. Again I do not criticise 
this, as NatWest is entitled  to determine its systems and policies.
By the time Mr H learned of the reason his application as rejected it was by then too late for 
him to be eligible for the incentive.  Whilst I appreciate that will have been  frustrating,  I do not 
think NatWest was wrong to enforce its requirements without making  an exception in Mr Hs 
case. 
As a result, I do not think that NatWest acted unreasonably. 
Mr H is upset that he has incurred a search on his credit file, but he agreed to that search 
being carried out without any guarantee of his application being  accepted.  I therefore  do not 
think that the fact of his application being rejected means that this credit search was unfair. 
For these reasons, and while I appreciate that this will be disappointing  to Mr H, I do not 
uphold his complaint and do not ask National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3306954