K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S (with the assistance of her husband)  complained about the advice and work provided 
by the Prudential Assurance Company Limited  when she looked into transferring benefits 
from an occupational  pension scheme (OPS)
Background
Mrs S sought advice from Prudential in relation  to transferring from her defined benefits OPS  
(of which shed been a member from November 1989 until October 1992). Its understood 
Mrs S would be entitled to an annual pension  of £3,919.78 from her former scheme. That 
amount allowed for increases from the date of leaving and retirement date in line with the 
regulators assumptions (which were not guaranteed).
Prudential completed  a fact find dated 12 December 2016. This recorded that there hadnt 
been any significant changes from a previous fact find but that Mrs S was now looking to 
take advantage of transferring benefits  to a Prudential proposition.  It has been suggested 
this was a particularly good  time for Mrs S to achieve the highest transfer value for her OPS  
benefits. The fact find also set out what her preferred fund choice was following a transfer 
and recorded  this was no doubt  linked to her husbands knowledge. And there  was reference 
to Mr S being very knowledgeable, being  a Chartered Planner himself . 
A transfer  value analysis  report dated  March 2017 was provided.  It included that:
Mrs S was aged 53.
The OPS cash equivalent transfer value (CETV)  equivalent transfer as at 3 March  
2017 was £61,032.14.
The CETV guarantee date was 19 January 2017. The transfer value expiry date was 
18 April 2017.
To replace the benefits  provided  by Mrs S former scheme, she would need an 
investment return to retirement  of 8.5% per annum.
The transfer value  analysis indicated that the required rate of return was unachievable based 
on Mrs S attitude to risk and that she wouldnt be able to achieve the rate required to match  
or improve the benefits offered by her OPS.
Mrs S and her husband didnt agree  with what Prudential said and complained. In summary  
they were unhappy  with Prudentials approach  and that:
There was an overdependence  on the critical yield when making recommendations.
Prudential wrongly failed to adopt  a holistic approach.
Prudential ought  to have by taking  into account other information in reaching  their 
recommendation including; other significant  client assets, soft financial planning facts 
and the wider client objectives.
Since Prudential  had advised  and a further  CETV  was obtained, the value had 
dropped by 8.5%.
Ref: DRN30341522Prudential hadnt dealt with Mrs S properly and there was poor administration and 
delay during the transfer process.
Mrs S and her husband went  on to seek advice elsewhere and its understood a transfer was 
made from Mrs S OPS  in late April 2018 of around £56,295.
Prudential responded to the complaints made  by Mrs S and her husband.  They didnt uphold 
the complaint  made around the factors taken into account during their advice process or the 
conclusion that was reached. They also didnt consider the fall in value  by the time the 
transfer proceeded was something  Prudential  ought to be responsible  for.
Prudential didnt accept  there was a failure  in the regard theyd placed  on the critical yield 
required when providing their advice. They said that due to the complexity of transferring 
any defined benefit  scheme such as this, and the scrutiny under which these are subject to 
by the regulators, [they] must  apply  the same  rigorous parameters to all transfers,  
irrespective of clients' other objectives [albeit they appreciated  Mr S view that]..  this 
diverges from taking a holistic approach to the total of a client's assets  and their financial 
objectives. But in order to ensure [their] process  treats all clients fairly, they must assess 
each case purely on the merits  of the existing scheme, to demonstrate the utility (or not) of 
moving to a Prudential  pension  vehicle.  The assessment of critical yield with respect to your 
risk appetite is only one aspect of this. It is not the defining measurement, but taken  in 
balance with other factors of the ceding  scheme's arrangements. ..and this approach is used 
to ensure all such transfers are assessed  fairly. 
Prudential thought the administration into how the loss of documentation had been dealt with 
wasnt what they would have expected. They also thought the advice against the transfer  
wasnt communicated as quickly as it could have been; but they didnt think  it was as 
delayed as had been suggested.  Prudential accepted the written  confirmation of their 
decision hadnt been despatched until shortly before the expiry  of the OPS CETV. 
Prudential thought that even if their written report had been sent out at the time of the 
decision being made, this still would not have been enough time for another  firm to fully 
assess the CETV and proposed transfer  before the CETV expired on 18 April 2017.
Prudential made  various financial offers in relation to the service provided  during the transfer 
process and other activities. In summary  Prudential offered their apologies and a 
compensation payment of £100  in their letter dated 21 March 2017 and £200 in their letter 
dated 10 April 2017. In their Final  Response letter dated 16 May 2018 they offered £325 
overall.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept what Prudential said and referred Mrs S complaint to this 
service. They told us Mrs S continued  to believe  she had suffered financial loss based on the 
decision not to initiate the transfer. The primary concern is said to be that Prudential  failed to 
give proper and due consideration to all the facts, circumstances and objectives. So the 
approach adopted has been one dimensional and lacking holistic  rigor.
Our adjudicator didnt  agree with Mrs S. He didnt  think  Prudential had done anything  wrong  
here in relation to their approach to the transfer  and advice; and he thought their offer was 
appropriate in the circumstances.
In his view he set out what the regulator (the FCA) had said (in its publication PS18/6: 
Advising on Pension  Transfers  dated  26 March 2018). Namely that an adviser should start 
Ref: DRN30341523from the assumption that a defined benefit  pension transfer will be unsuitable. And that this 
reflected the high proportion of unsuitable  advice  seen in supervisory work.
The adjudicator went on to set out his thinking  in respect of what was said about the 
importance of, and weight to be placed  on the critical yield (the annual investment growth 
rate required  for the new personal  pension  arrangement to match  the value of the benefits 
payable under the final salary OPS until Mrs S scheme  normal  retirement age of 65).
Here the critical yield calculation showed  that even just to match  the benefits provided by 
Mrs S former scheme, an investment  return of 8.5%  per annum to retirement  would be 
needed.
So the adjudicator considered that where, as here, a future annual growth rate of 8.5% per 
annum for the next 12 years or so is required;  where it is well above  current  illustrative 
growth rates, even  on the current high rate, it isnt unreasonable to conclude  a transfer of 
benefits is not viable. And this would be so even for someone with an identified medium to 
high  attitude to risk.
The adjudicator didnt accept the complaint  that Prudential did not adopt a holistic approach. 
He accepted Prudentials explanation on this. He also pointed  to what  had been said in the 
original fact find as well as the final response letter.
The adjudicator also didnt think Prudential ought to be held responsible  for the expiry of the 
original CETV and fall in the transfer value available at a later date.  The expiry date for the 
CETV had been18  April 2017  and the written  confirmation of Prudentials decision was dated 
11 April 2017. But even  if the written report had been sent out at the time the decision was 
made (around 31 March  2017), this would  have left just two and a half weeks  before  the 
CETV expired on 18 April 2017.  There would not have been enough time for another firm to 
fully assess the CETV with a view to transferring the benefits, without incurring a fee to 
request a second CETV (within  a twelve month  period) and a delay to enable  further  advice 
to be provided once the CETV was available.  
The adjudicator set out that he shared Prudentials view on this. This was why OPS transfer 
values were usually  guaranteed for three  months in order to take into account inevitable 
advice and transfer delays. And he didnt think the fall in the CETV would have been 
unforeseeable by Prudential  at the time that the transfer advice was being assessed.
He also thought that if Mr S (and his wife)  believed  that it was likely that the OPS  transfer 
value was almost certain to fall following expiry of the transfer  value guarantee period (as he 
seemed to understand was also suggested); then, as Mr S is a Chartered  Financial  Planner,  
he would  have understood  other options and could have considered requesting  at inception  
that the transfer proceeded on either  an insistent customer  or on an execution only basis.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  agree. They continued  to be of the view that the recommendation not to 
transfer was not in their best interests and a transfer was viable for all the reasons given. 
They asked the adjudicator to refer himself back to the covering  note sent with the original 
complaint. Mr S felt the adjudicator had focused  on a re-iteration of the "hard  facts " rather 
than a full assessment of the "soft" financial planning facts at play. They also thought the 
adjudicator had also given a disproportionate  weight to the critical yield.
Ref: DRN30341524Mr S referred to a case that had appeared in the trade press where he said the FCA found 
fault on a rejected transfer where the critical yield was 15%.  In this case the regulator  
thought the adviser had not taken a holistic approach in fully considering  other assets, not 
factored in the softer facts and not fully appreciated the client  objectives  and what was trying  
to be achieved. Mr S didnt think their position was any different.
Mr S accepted he has some knowledge  of this market but did point out that although 
qualified to an advanced level he is not a practicing  Chartered Financial  Planner.
Further submissions were  made in respect  of recorded data on bonus and monthly  earnings  
which were said to be incorrect. And Mr S stressed that when the transfer did proceed 
(through a firm of advisers), their adviser had agreed with Mr S assessment.
Mrs S complaint was referred for an ombudsmans decision. Whilst it has been waiting to be 
allocated to an ombudsman Mr S has provided  some  further  submissions. He contacted  us 
in July 2019. In this contact he sent us a copy of an article and highlighted the part he 
considered of most relevance. He thought  this demonstrated  the ongoing acknowledgement 
that there  can persuasive reasons to consider a transfer.
Mr S particularly noted this might  apply to people in a comfortable financial position.  This 
highlighted one of the earlier points Mr and Mrs S had stressed.  Their  circumstances at the 
time of the advice  were comfortable and although  Mrs S OPS  benefits appeared to reflect 
the major  proportion of her direct pension  arrangements; their other  arrangements  regarding 
savings and investments  for example ought  to have been balanced against this factor being 
considered, (as they felt), in isolation.
In August  2019  Mr S provided  his thinking  having  considered the recent publication  of FCA 
paper CP 19/25. Mr S said that although  the paper was primarily addressing  the issue  of 
contingency adviser charging  on defined benefit transfers and the potential  conflict of 
interest; he did want to draw attention to a section  which he believes reinforces the case.
Mr S says the relevant section is Annex 2 - "why consumers choose  to transfer and the main  
categories of client suited to a transfe r"; and he wanted this added  to the file for 
consideration. Mr S thinks the first three bullet points are relevant.
There  are some valid reasons why consumers may want to transfer their DB pensions  
there are those consumers, often  more able to afford advice ones, whose preferences 
revolve around wealth  management and inheritance planning. From our work, we consider 
that only a small number of these  clients are likely to be suitable for a transfer.
The main  categories of client suited to a transfer  includes:
consumers in households with multiple  DB or other guaranteed pension income 
sources that is sufficient  to meet their needs so that they can accept investment risk 
to acquire additional flexibility
 consumers in households with significant other  assets, where  a transfer  allows 
better tax planning
consumers in households with significant DC pensions  or other  assets, and the DB 
scheme is not required to meet their needs.
Ref: DRN30341525Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons.
For me to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint here, further than has already been  
acknowledged by Prudential and the adjudicator,  I would need to conclude that Prudential 
had done something wrong in the way they approached  their advice and made  their 
decision. I dont  accept they did.
Overall there is nothing that suggests  to me Prudential didnt reasonably apply their advice 
process. I understand  they have previously  explained their process was fairly  new at the 
time and theyd only recently offered  the process  for defined benefits.
But I think the main thrust  of Mr S complaint on behalf of his wife, is that he doesnt agree 
with the decision  reached by Prudential.  Mr S has highlighted  matters  he feels Prudential 
failed to give sufficient  weight to; and that he thinks they gave undue  weight  to the critical 
yield. 
So in other words, he thinks they ought to have  done things differently, and if so, he thinks  
this would have  led to a different outcome.  And following on from this, if Prudential  had 
concluded they would advise Mrs S to transfer her OPS, she would have been able to obtain 
the higher original CETV provided by the OPS. In addition she would not have had to pay 
additional costs,  including  those associated with obtaining the second CETV. But I think 
some of this logic relies on unforeseeable outcomes that could not be guaranteed. 
I am not saying that it would be necessarily unsuitable or wrong  if Prudential  had decided 
differently. But I dont think it would be right to say thats what they ought  to have done. I 
think this is an area where the regulator has been  sufficiently clear  that caution is required 
when considering transferring, particularly from defined benefit schemes. I also think an 
assessment of the critical yield required to match (let alone exceed) the benefits offered by 
the scheme (particularly where the period of time involved is of some length) is an important  
part of the process.  Here  the critical yield required was significant.
As the regulator  has highlighted, this does not mean that all transfers would necessarily be 
unsuitable. I accept  that the factors highlighted as relevant by Mr S to his wife, are those that 
may be considered  relevant as part of the assessment  and advice process in such cases. 
But that doesnt mean Prudential were wrong  to reach the decision they reached  either.  I 
think the information provided demonstrates  Prudential had the information  on Mrs S 
circumstances; its just that Mr S thinks these  circumstances ought to have be given greater 
weight than he thinks Prudential gave them. 
I dont consider it to be unusual that in the circumstances as they relate to Mrs S a firm 
decided not to advise in favour of the transfer.  But equally that doesnt mean another firm 
might not come to a different conclusion. I also accept Mr S appears to have had sufficient 
experience and an involved approach (no doubt due to his work) with his own financial 
arrangements and those of his wife. I think he would have understood and been well-placed  
to explore alternative options. 
I dont consider it remarkable that the three month guarantee period for the CETV might 
cause a further CETV to be required if the first advisers for example didnt  advise in favour  of 
Ref: DRN30341526a transfer in time. In fact here Ive seen the OPS agreed to honour the CETV for an 
extended period.  In any event I dont think it reasonable for Prudential  to be responsible for 
the drop in the CETV by the time the transfer  took place. The advice outcome was never 
certain; and as Ive set out, I dont consider the advice to be unsuitable here.
Having looked  at everything provided it appears to me the offers made previously by 
Prudential cover a number of different aspects of the process with which Mr S was dis-
satisfied. Here having looked with care, I consider  Prudentials offers to be sufficient.  I dont 
intend to ask them to do anything further.  It appears to me, Mr and Mrs S have  been  paid 
what was offered previously. If I am wrong about that, I dont doubt the sums will be paid. I 
accept here that the written confirmation  of the outcome of the advice could have been 
provided sooner.
Final decision
So for the reasons given, I uphold in part Mrs S complaint about the Prudential Assurance 
Company Limited.  But I dont require them to do anything further than had already  been 
offered before the complaint was referred to this service. 
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject  my decision before 
13 March 2020.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3034152