K821x#15complaint
Miss K says Oakam Ltd (Oakam) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about four instalment loans Oakam provided to Miss K between  September  
2009 and October  2017. Miss Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date  Taken Date Repaid Amount  
borrowedHighest 
Repayment 
AmountTerm of 
loan
1 28/09/2009 28/12/2009 £1050 £141 12months
2 28/12/2009 05/07/2010 £1550 £143 18months
3 05/07/2010 28/06/2012 £1500 £336 18months
Break in lending  start  of new chain
4 09/10/2017 02/03/2018 £450 £66 6 months
In the most recent assessment, our adjudicator upheld Miss Ks complaint in part and 
thought loan 3 should not have been given. The complaint has now been passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN36018522There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Oakam  was required to establish  
whether Miss K could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ks complaint.
Miss K hasnt disagreed with our adjudicators  opinion on loans 1, 2 and 4 so I wont be 
looking at these any further as there is no ongoing disagreement about them. But I will bear 
it in mind when Im looking at Miss Ks other lending.
When Miss K asked to borrow  loan 3, I can see the monthly repayment that Oakam required 
took up a significant proportion of Miss Ks declared monthly income  over an extended 
period of time. In the circumstances  and despite the checks that Oakam carried  out, there  
was a significant risk that Miss K wouldnt have been able to repay the loan without undue  
difficulty or borrowing  further. I dont consider it was reasonable for Oakam  to agree to lend 
based on what it knew about Miss K.
Lending is unaffordable  if its clear the customers disposable  income  wasnt enough to make
the payments  for the borrowing at the time it was taken out. So as well as the above, I can 
also see from what we know about  Miss Ks finances that she also had little disposable 
income when loan 3 was taken. 
In order for loan 3 to be sustainably affordable for her, she needed to be able to make  the 
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments  and without having  to 
borrow again. I can see from the information Oakam obtained before lending  loan 3 that 
Miss K had little income left over after meeting  her usual  monthly  living costs and credit 
commitments.
Miss K declared monthly expenses of between £740  against  a monthly income  of £1,182  
when taking out loan 3. I thought Oakam had enough information to see that Miss K was 
likely to have little disposable income  left to afford the repayments  on loan 3. Or at the very 
least the results shouldve prompted  Oakam to carry out further checks.
From what  I can see of loan 3 Miss K had £442 left after paying her usual monthly 
commitments and then had to make  a payment of £336 to Oakam. That would leave her with 
just £106 for any unexpected expenses and leaves  almost no margin  for error in terms of her 
declared expenditure  which is after all only an estimate.
Ref: DRN36018523Oakam had to make  sure the loan was sustainably affordable.  So I think it ought to have
realised that leaving  Miss K with little disposable income (after the loan repayment) was 
most likely to cause her difficulties. So it was wrong  to give loan 3.
It follows that I uphold  Miss Ks complaint about loan 3 and Oakam  should put things right.
putting things right  what Oakam needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss K paid on loan 3;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 3 from Miss Ks credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to take off tax from this interest.  Oakam  must 
give Miss K a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ks complaint.  Oakam  Ltd should 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2020
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3601852