K820x#14Complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about the charges  Startline  Motor Finance Limited applied for damage  
after he had voluntarily  terminated his hire purchase agreement (HPA).   
Background
Mr H entered into a HPA with Startline in July 2016 to acquire a used car. In March 2019, 
Mr H decided to voluntarily terminate  his agreement and said that although he had paid 
more than 50% of the total amount owed Startline  continued  to chase him for further 
payment. He said his account had been sold and the debt collecting company was 
harassing him for payment. He also said that he had requested his data to be provided 
but this didnt happen.
Following the voluntary termination of the agreement the car was inspected by an 
independent inspection company. The inspection took place in May 2019.  Mr H was 
initially charged over £740 for damages but Startline  agreed  to remove some  of the 
charges leaving  a remaining amount of £206.52. Mr H said that when the car was 
collected he was told there was no damage  and that Startline hadnt provided any proof 
to show he caused the damage. 
Startline said that it had informed Mr H of the costs of collecting the car and that it was 
allowed to charge for arrears. It said an inspection report  was carried  out and this 
showed that there was damage  to the vehicle. It accepted that there  would be some 
wear and tear and it reduced the damage charges to £206.52. The remaining total 
related to damage to the front tyre, rear alloy and upholstery.  It said that that Mr H 
remained liable for these charges.
Mr H didnt agree and brought his complaint to us.
After investigating,  our investigator  concluded  the complaint should  not be upheld.
Mr H doesnt agree.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided this 
complaint should  not be upheld for these reasons: 
The right to voluntarily terminate an agreement such as Mr Hs after paying 50% of 
the total amount payable is set out in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Information 
regarding this was also included  in the HPA. Mr H said that he isnt liable for any 
costs after he exercised his right to voluntarily terminate his agreement.  While I 
appreciate the comments Mr H has made, under  the regulations he would still be 
liable for any overdue instalments and costs  incurred to the point of termination  (I 
note that further  information was provided in regard  to the collection costs). It is also 
expected that reasonable care has been  taken of the vehicle. 
Ref: DRN31004522In order to assess whether reasonable care has been taken of the vehicle it is usual 
for an inspection to take place. I note Mr Hs comments about being  told at collection  
there was no damage but it is reasonable that Startline had an independent  
inspection after the vehicle was returned. This happened in May 2019,  and damage  
was identified. Following  Mr Hs complaint the damage charges were  reduced and so 
I have only considered the damages that Startline  said Mr H remained liable for.
The damages related  to the front tyre, rear alloy and upholstery.  I can see that a copy  
of the report has been  provided  to Mr H. I have looked at the evidence provided in 
regard to these  parts of the vehicle  and considered the damage in line with British  
Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA)  guidelines. Based on this, I accept 
that the damage noted falls outside  of fair wear and tear and so I do not find that 
Startline has acted  unfairly by applying these  charges.
In regard to the sale of the debt to a third party, our investigator provided Mr H with 
information showing that Startline did explain that any outstanding balance would be 
assigned to a debt recovery company. I appreciate the points Mr H has made about 
the contact made but I do not find I can say that Startline did anything wrong by 
transferring his outstanding balance. 
I understand that Mr H has been upset by the impact this has had on this credit file. 
However, as our investigator  explained,  while requests were made for collections 
activity to be put on hold while this complaint was being investigated we cannot 
required a business to do this. 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Startline Motor  Finance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Jane Archer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3100452