K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy with CIS General Insurance Limiteds (CIS)  handling of multiple  subsidence 
claims shes made under her buildings insurance  policy. 
background
Ms B has long-standing concerns about cracking  thats appeared in and around her 
property. She made several claims to CIS between 1999 and 2016, all of which  were  
declined after inspections had been  carried out, as no evidence of subsidence was found. As 
there have  been  several other  companies  involved so, for ease, any references  I make to 
CIS also refers to other companies.
Unhappy with CIS continual decision to decline her claims, Ms B appointed  her own 
representative to help with her claims and inspect the property. Ms Bs representative 
produced a report which concluded the front wall had partially collapsed and water was 
leaking from the ground floor flat into the basement. He also noted  there  was damp  inside 
the property, cracking on the external render, and the slabs for the front garden path had 
partially collapsed.  He considered the damage could have been caused by a combination of 
the issues Ive summarised  below:
the vegetation at the front of the property could have resulted in clay shrinkage 
subsidence; or
the drainage  system could have been  damaged by subsidence  movement; or
the physical  presence  of the roots from the vegetation at the front of the property had 
progressively grown greater in size and volume; or
replacement water mains service pipes installed through the vault wall could have 
constituted to the collapse of the basement walls. 
Overall, Ms Bs representative concluded the cracking was probably as a result of the above 
causes but could also be as a result  of thermal expansion and contraction.  He also 
concluded the condition of the garden  path and boundary wall could be attributed to the 
above causes.  He also said the deterioration of the walls and ceiling of the basement flat 
could have resulted  in the movement of the paving slabs.  
The damp in the basement was likely,  in his opinion, to be as a result of damp-proofing 
failing, but he said further investigation was needed.  Overall,  Ms Bs representative  said 
there were historic signs  of movement and damage. However, it was his opinion that some 
of the damage  might  be subsidence related. Following the recommendations of Ms Bs 
representative, CIS arranged for a fourth engineers report  to be carried  out in 
November 2016.  Again, no evidence of subsidence  was found. 
However, as Ms Bs representative didnt accept  these  findings, an independent chartered 
civil and chartered  structural  engineer  was appointed by CIS in early 2017 (but selected from 
a list by Ms Bs representative)  to carry out a final inspection. 
In his report, the structural engineer  concluded the main part of the property had suffered 
some historical movement, which was decades  old. However,  his overall finding was that 
there was no evidence he could see of subsidence movement having occurred in the last 20 
years. In terms of the coal hole under front steps, he said there was a noticeable inward 
bulging of its garden side wall, but he thought this was not due to subsidence. 
Ref: DRN38687862In response to the subsidence claims,  CIS issued  two final response letters  to Ms B. The first 
in February 2017  acknowledged there  had been  delays in handling the case and paid Ms B 
£300 in compensation to recognise this. However,  it explained that CIS remained of the view 
the subsidence claims had been  correctly declined. 
The second  final response letter from August 2017  said the decision to decline the 
subsidence claims hadnt changed. However,  CIS acknowledged it ought to have identified 
there had been  a mention  of water damage to the basement floor as far back as 2016. CIS 
said the independent report from 2017  hadnt been conclusive in identifying the cause of the 
water damage but said it would accept the claim under  the water/flood  section  of Ms Bs 
policy. 
In order to settle the claim, CIS said it would make a cash settlement based on what it 
considered to be its liability under the policy. It asked Ms Bs representative to send it two 
quotes for repairs to the basement floor. It paid Ms B £250 in recognition  for the trouble and 
upset experienced  as a result of its delay  in looking into the escape of water  claim. 
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Bs complaint but concluded that CIS had acted 
correctly when considering her claims about  subsidence. She also thought the resolution 
CIS had offered for the escape  of water claim was reasonable  in the circumstances. She 
didnt recommend CIS needed to take any further  action to put things right. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms B and her representative have referred  two complaints to this service about CIS decision 
to decline the subsidence claims. I think its helpful to clarify Ive only considered events up 
to the final response  issued in August 2017.  Ive not considered the report that was carried 
out in 2018. The findings of that report and CIS response to it are the subject  of the 
separate complaint.  
the escape of water  claim
I can see there have been various  references to an escape of water  claim, and water 
damage in the basement is mentioned in several  of the reports.  CIS has accepted the 
escape of water occurred  while Ms B held a policy with it. On this basis,  I dont need to 
decide on whether  or not it should be considering the claim.
In the final response  from August 2017, CIS said when it had received two invoices for repair 
works from Ms Bs representative, it would arrange a cash  settlement in line with its liability 
under the terms  of the policy. 
However, CIS did acknowledge it could  have identified  this claim had been mentioned in 
earlier correspondence, but it had not started investigating this sooner. It made a payment of 
£250 in recognition of the trouble and upset  caused  by the delay  in starting the investigation 
into this claim. I think this is a reasonable amount in recognition of the trouble  and upset 
experienced as a result of this delay.
Im satisfied CIS response is reasonable here on the basis there  hasnt been any definitive 
proof how or when  the escape  of water occurred. Ms B has recently told our investigator she 
Ref: DRN38687863thinks the claim hasnt been  settled in line with the policy terms, and specifically she ought to 
have received a payment for loss of rent. 
I think CIS has made it clear  it accepts the claim and the policy terms and conditions allow it 
to make a cash settlement to the extent of its liability. Ive only considered matters that 
happened up to the final response  letter from August 2017,  and invoices for the remedial 
works hadnt been provided at that date. Im satisfied  CIS has acted fairly up to this point in 
response to the escape of water claim. 
If Ms B or her representative  have  any concerns about the amount CIS should compensate 
her for under  the terms of the policy, these need to be raised with CIS in the first instance, 
thy they havent  hasnt  already done  so. I havent considered these amounts as part of this 
complaint. 
the subsidence claims 
Ill turn now to the main concerns Ms B brought to us, and her concerns about potential  
subsidence in her property. 
Its well documented that Ms B raised  her concerns with CIS on a number of occasions since 
1999. Ive seen the reports from 1999, 2008,  2014,  and 2016,  each of which  was instructed 
following Ms B putting CIS on notice she was concerned  about  the cracking in the property, 
and she suspected subsidence was the most likely  cause. 
While the reports acknowledged  damage to Ms Bs property, the overall findings from the 
reports instructed by CIS between 1999 and 2016 were that there was no evidence of an 
insurable event  having  occurred. They were  consistent in making the finding  there  was no 
evidence of subsidence having occurred,  and most  commented the damage to Ms Bs 
property appeared  to be historic in its nature. The later reports were consistent in making the 
finding that in the basement, the bulging  wall was indicative of the wall not being  substantial 
enough to resist the load of the retained  earth.
I appreciate Ms Bs representative  had concerns  about the level of investigation that led to 
the reports being produced. He said further investigative work should  have been carried  out 
by CIS. He provided  his own report in following his inspection in May 2016,  which  disputed  
the findings of the previous reports. 
Ms Bs representative said further in-depth  investigations should have been carried  out by 
CIS, and had it done so, evidence of subsidence would have been found. Its clear  the 
fundamental difference here is that Ms Bs representative believes subsidence  is the primary 
cause for the damage to Ms Bs property, but CIS says it disagrees, based on the expert 
reports its been provided with.  
On the face of it, CIS instructed engineers to inspect the property on four separate  occasions  
and they produced four separate reports, none of which concluded any evidence  of 
subsidence being the cause of the damage to Ms Bs property. Ms Bs representative 
provided his own report in 2016,  which indicated  subsidence as the likely cause of the 
damage. On the basis there  was no agreement to the claim, Im satisfied CIS took 
appropriate action  by instructing an independent  chartered civil and chartered  structural 
engineer to inspect  the property.
Ref: DRN38687864This report,  completed  in 2017, was comprehensive. However, like the previous reports,  the 
engineers overall  findings were that the property was in poor condition, but there  was no 
evidence of structural movement in the form of cracks or distortions that suggested 
subsidence.
Ms Bs representative has referred to an email  from the independent engineer  whereby he 
says that in his view,  there was no location where subsidence has contributed to the 
structural movement of the property  except  at one minor location in the coal cellar. The 
engineer mentioned a small location where  subsidence might  (my emphasis) be argued, but 
he wasnt persuaded the wall was continuing to move. And it was noted Ms B had been 
advised as far back as 1999 that the wall needed  to be propped or rebuilt, but no action was 
taken for a number of years.  However, the engineers overall conclusion was that there  was 
no conclusive evidence that subsidence  had been  proved to exist. 
On this basis, Im satisfied CIS acted appropriately in responding to the claims made by 
Ms B and her representative. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im think CIS has acted fairly 
in its handling  of Ms Bs claims relating to the cracking in her property. Im persuaded by the 
evidence in the independent reports provided; particularly the 2017 independent engineers  
report which made the overall finding  there was no reasonable case  for a claim of 
subsidence in the property. As a result, Im not intending to recommend CIS takes  any 
further action  in respect of the subsidence  claims. 
In reaching my decision, Ive also considered the compensation CIS awarded for the delays 
that occurred  in its earlier handling  of the claim. Having  considered  the circumstances of the 
claim in their entirety,  Im not intending  to increase this amount, as I think it fairly  
compensates Ms B for the trouble and upset shes experienced as a result of these delays. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3868786