K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained Lloyds Bank plc wont refund him for transactions  he didnt make.
background
Mr P noticed  a transaction on his current account  he didnt recognise so contacted  Lloyds. 
This was an online transfer made on 12 July 2018 for £4,860. He was told it must have been  
done by him as Lloyds sent him a text message  to set up the new beneficiary  that this 
payment required.  They  also noted  that the transaction  came from the same IP address as 
Mr P normally used.  This was on top of an unknown third party  knowing Mr Ps banking 
logon details.
Mr P was adamant  it wasnt him and he hadnt used his computer to make this. He works 
nights so was asleep at the time of the transaction.  After Lloyds said they wouldnt reimburse 
him, Mr P brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
It was clear during  the investigation  that Mr P believed Lloyds had stolen his money. He 
didnt believe he could  be held liable  as it wasnt clear what  the beneficiary account  details 
were for this payment. He thought this meant it couldnt be him. Our investigator didnt think  
this was the case. She couldnt see how someone  else could have used Mr Ps details and 
account to make the payment. She did however note that the account  the funds were  sent to 
was closed about two months  later as the recipient of potential  fraudulent  payments  after 
Lloyds were notified of this by another bank. She wasnt going to ask Lloyds to do anything 
else.
Mr P continued to disagree. He didnt understand how he could be held liable for this 
transaction when  there were no obvious sort code  and account details on his statement 
narrative. He asked  an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 7 May 2020. This followed further investigations with 
both Lloyds and Mr P. I also didnt uphold the complaint. However I did believe there was 
more going on here that Mr P wasnt explaining.
Mr P continued to disagree with the outcome. He insisted  hed not made the transfer  so 
didnt understand  how he could be held liable for the loss of his money.
Lloyds didnt respond. I now have all I need to complete  the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as outlined  in my provisional  decision. Ill explain why.
I was in touch with Mr P before completing the provisional decision to ask him further 
questions about  what may have occurred. He was unable to provide any further information. 
He continued  to insist hed not made this payment. I specifically  pressed him on whether 
hed allowed someone else to use his account or had been  asked  to make a payment  on 
behalf of anyone else. He denied this had happened.
I also contacted  Lloyds on a few occasions  to ask them to clarify certain issues.
Ref: DRN32745082The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
else thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here. So when we look at 
whether a bank  has acted  fairly  in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we 
consider is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed them  to be 
made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt ask the bank  to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transaction, as well 
as what both Lloyds  and Mr P have  told us.
I think the following  facts  are relevant to how Ive considered this complaint:
When the new beneficiary was set up on 11 July 2018 the IP address used was the 
same as Mr P used just over a week earlier.
A text was sent to Mr Ps mobile  asking him to get in touch if hed not set the new 
beneficiary up. Mr P accepts he received  this text but as hed not set anything up, he 
ignored it  which  was the opposite of Lloyds intention of sending this text. Mr Ps 
first language isnt British  so he may have  misunderstood the nuance  of the 
message. A four-digit  code was also sent to his mobile which needed  to be input 
when the payment  was made.
A payment of £4,860  was sent on 12 July 2018 to the recipient set up the previous 
day. This instruction included the reference  of XXX (the same as Mr Ps surname) 
which showed on Mr Ps next statement. A sort code and account number were  used  
to complete the payment.
Although Mr P works  nights, he would have been home when both the beneficiary 
was set up and when the payment was made.
Lloyds doesnt  have data showing which device was used on 11 and 12 July. They 
suggest this means it must be a laptop.  This is disappointing but isnt crucial  in the 
decision Im making  here. Mr P has a laptop but says he didnt use it to make this 
payment.
For an unknown third party to have made  this transaction, theyll  have needed to 
know Mr Ps Lloyds  online  banking  logon details; to have been able to access  his 
mobile to get the four-digit code; and to be using the same IP address as Mr P. This 
requires a lot of information  to be compromised without knowing how this can have 
been done.
Its certainly not Lloyds as Mr P has suggested. Its possible  although Mr P denies 
this  that he provided these details to someone  else or made the payment himself, 
but on the behalf of someone else. Ive questioned Mr P about this but he continues 
to say he had nothing to do with this.
Ive also considered that there  were two further  attempted payments after the £4,860 
transaction. These attempts took place  slightly more than four hours later on 12 July. 
Both payments  were rejected because there  were  insufficient funds. If Mr P was 
making these transactions, Id have expected him to know what  money  he had in his 
account. Following  these unsuccessful transactions Lloyds sent a text to Mr P.
Mr Ps evidence  has remained consistent throughout our investigators  and my investigation. 
I appreciate he cant explain what happened. And its certainly true we wouldnt expect 
someone in Mr Ps position  to know how a fraud took place.
Ive also reviewed the way Mr P used his account. It seems he was living quite frugally and 
was saving his money.  This also confirms that what happened seems out of character. I 
Ref: DRN32745083appreciate there is evidence I cant explain   but it is not my role to decide how someone  
else could have got hold of Mr Ps logon  details, made this transaction or to investigate  who 
that potential fraudster may be. Just to consider  whether theres enough  evidence  to show it 
could have been someone  other than Mr P whod done this.  
The test under the PSRs isnt whether there was an opportunity for his account  to be 
compromised; rather whether the payment services user (Mr P in this case) authorised  the 
transaction. 
I do need to believe  there  are scenarios  which explain how someone  could have used Mr Ps 
account without  his consent. This is difficult when I see what  limited  information Mr P has 
been able to share with us. To state the obvious, I cant be sure what  exactly  happened  here 
so I have to make a decision  on the balance of probabilities.
There are aspects of what happened which suggest  this wasnt  him. This includes:
His testimony.  
The lack of data about which device logged on to Mr Ps account.
The account the money  was paid into was closed just over a couple  of months later.  
Someone else complained to their bank that money  had been  taken without  their 
authorisation. Their  bank asked Lloyds for the money back  which resulted in Lloyds 
closing that recipient  account. This seems to suggest to me theres  a pattern where  
that account was used  for funds after defrauding other innocent parties, including 
potentially Mr P. 
Mr P moved £5,000  of his money  into his savings account  five days later. This 
suggests he may have been shielding his funds.
Banks often say to us that theyd expect  fraudulent  attempts to be made   either  using a 
card or by other payment  mechanism  after the fraud has been  noticed and the card,  for 
instance, cancelled.  The parallel here is that later on 12 July there were two further  attempts 
to transfer funds from Mr Ps account. These failed because there were insufficient funds. As 
stated above,  I think  Mr P  even  if hed been doing this as first-party fraud  would have 
known there  werent  sufficient funds in the first place.
Overall I believe Mr P did authorise the transfer  of £4,860. I wont  be asking Lloyds to refund 
him. I think the most  likely scenario is that Mr P allowed  someone  else to make the payment 
from his account. He may have done  this on the understanding he was to be refunded or 
that Lloyds would refund him when  he complained.  Or he may simply have made the 
payment himself in error, although hes never said this to us.
I can see no immediate reason why Mr P would be targeted  by a third party  fraudster unless 
someone had become  aware that he ran a relatively  healthy balance on his account. And 
then would they have known how to access Mr Ps account without him sharing details?
I have considered this complaint carefully.  There is supporting evidence for Lloyds 
assertion; likewise there is evidence  in support of Mr P. I have to decide this case  on the 
balance of probabilities, and considering the case overall and on balance  I have decided the 
evidence supports the outcome as outlined above.
Ref: DRN32745084my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Ps complaint against Lloyds 
Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3274508