K822xcomplaint
Mr W is unhappy that St Jamess Place Wealth Management plc (SJP) didnt make him 
aware of a CETV  (cash  equivalent  transfer  value) offered by a former employers pension  
scheme and which is now no longer available. 
background 
Mr W met with SJP in July 2017. He wanted advice  about some missed  pension 
contributions from his employer who Mr W was leaving. Mr W says he also asked about his 
deferred benefits in a former employers pension scheme.  
On 15 August 2017 Mr W emailed letters of authority to the adviser so he could get 
information from the former employers scheme and from the provider of a personal pension  
Mr W had.
On 14 November 2017 SJPs adviser received information from Mr Ws former employers 
scheme. It included a CETV - £197,679.04 guaranteed until 31 January  2018. The adviser 
didnt share  the CETV with Mr W. 
On 20 November 2017 Mr W emailed  the adviser.  Amongst other things Mr W asked the 
adviser to let him know when he received the information from the personal  pension provider 
and his former employers  scheme so that Mr W could decide  what  to do. He added that hed 
had previous advice to leave the deferred pension where it was. But he wanted to know what 
SJPs adviser thought,  once the figures were known. The adviser responded  saying hed 
rather have all the facts  and figures from both pension  arrangements and then make an 
assessment. He said hed let Mr W know.
On 28 November 2017 the adviser  issued a suitability letter  setting out his advice to Mr W 
about his (current) employers pension scheme and the outstanding contributions.  
In mid January  2018 Mr W received an announcement about his former employers scheme 
 the sponsoring employer was insolvent  and had gone into compulsory liquidation. He 
contacted SJPs adviser who made  enquiries. The scheme administrator  confirmed  that no 
transfers out could be accepted. 
Mr W complained  to SJP. He said the adviser should have disclosed the CETV received in 
November 2017.  And, had that happened, Mr W would have requested a transfer out which 
would have been honoured and wouldnt have been affected by the employers subsequent  
insolvency.  
SJP didnt uphold  the complaint. It did make an ex gratia offer of £500 for the trouble and 
upset caused  to Mr W by not disclosing the CETV.  But SJP said:
There was no evidence that Mr W was considering a transfer when he first met with 
the adviser in July 2017. Mr W wanted a plan into which employer contributions could 
be invested. Mr W intended to leave his employment  and didnt  want to miss out on 
the contributions  he was entitled  to. It wasnt possible  for them  to be invested in his 
existing personal  pension. And he wanted an arrangement his new employer could 
contribute to. 
Ref: DRN38525842As a matter of course the adviser  asked Mr W to complete letters of authority so he 
could seek information about Mr Ws existing arrangements. In response the 
administrators of his former employers scheme  included a current CETV.
The confidential financial  review  the adviser completed doesnt  mention any possible 
transfer. The advisers view was that the guaranteed  benefits  from the former  
employers scheme  gave Mr W peace of mind  with any personal pension and the 
proposed SJP retirement account an added extra.  
Mr W did enquire in November  2017  about the advisers views on transferring. But it 
was clear from the advisers response  that he needed all the details before making a 
thorough assessment  and that he wasnt looking into that then.  
Mr W had said his previous adviser had advised against transferring. There was 
nothing to indicate that advice  would have changed. It was reasonable for the adviser 
not to forward the CETV as there was no prospect, at the time, of Mr W transferring. 
When the liquidation of the sponsoring  employer  was announced,  the adviser 
contacted the scheme administrator to find out more details of the impact on Mr Ws 
benefits. It was only then that Mr W said he wanted to transfer.  The adviser made  
various enquiries but it was confirmed that a transfer was no longer possible.  
Defined benefit transfers  require  specialist assessment due to the valuable  benefits 
being given up. Thats why the adviser  said the process could take several months.  
The announcement couldnt  have  been  foreseen. The advisers actions hadnt 
caused Mr W any financial loss. A transfer  may not have  been in his best interests 
due to the valuable benefits  being given up. 
Mr W would have preferred to have received the CETV earlier.  SJP didnt believe this 
that would  have changed the advice. But it was prepared to offer £500 for the trouble 
and upset Mr W had been caused.  
Mr W referred his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators looked into it. But she didnt 
uphold it. She agreed the CETV should  have been  disclosed to Mr W. But in 2015 Mr Ws 
former adviser hadnt recommended a transfer. The transfer value in November 2017  was 
considerably more  about £47,000  higher. But the adjudicator  didnt think that of itself 
meant SJPs adviser would have advised differently. Or, if the adviser had recommended  not 
transferring, that Mr W would have gone against  that advice. 
The adjudicator pointed out that Mr W was required to get advice and there  were  lots of 
factors to be considered. Even if the adviser had disclosed the CETV, hed still have need to 
analyse it and whether  taking it was in Mr Ws best interests. Even  if Mr W had been  made  
aware of the CETV in November  2017  and a possible transfer was being considered by the 
adviser, it was unlikely the recommendation and transfer process wouldve been finalised 
before the insolvency announcement.  
The adjudicator thought  the £500 offered for the trouble and upset caused by SJPs  error in 
not disclosing  the CETV was fair and reasonable.
Mr W didnt agree. Ive summarised  his comments:
Hed signed letters of authority in August 2017.  Not having heard further, hed chased 
the adviser in November  2017. It was clear  from his email that he was interested  in 
transferring. When hed met with the adviser  in July 2017  hed mentioned the earlier  
CETV and asked the adviser what he thought would be best to do. Mr W didnt  get 
any advice and the adviser didnt mention the CETV  he received.  
The adjudicator  had acknowledged  that the adviser should have told Mr W about  the 
CETV and had made an error  in not doing so. The adjudicator didnt think the 
Ref: DRN38525843increase in value  of about £47,000 justified  transferring. But if Mr W had retired  at 60 
and taken the maximum tax free cash lump  sum it would take almost thirty-two  years 
for his pension to match  the CETV  offered. 
The adjudicator  had said the transfer wouldnt have been completed before  the 
announcement. But, as Mr W had told the adjudicator,  his former employers scheme 
was honouring  transfers applied for before  then.  Any independent financial advice 
hed have got would have  come to the same conclusion as he had about  transferring. 
Hed been notified that another  scheme employer might be prepared to step in with 
his benefits being  transferred to a different  section of the scheme.  But he hadnt 
received a formal  transfer offer so he couldnt  quantify any loss based  on the CETV 
offered in November  2017 and what he might get now.  He should  recover any 
shortfall from SJP. 
Since hed complained hed received no correspondence or advice from SJP but an 
adviser charge  was being deducted. Hed also not heard about his personal pension 
and what his options were. 
He appreciated  the offer SJP had made. But it was small compared  to an unknown 
financial loss. Hed spent a lot of time trying to resolve the matter.  It was stressful and 
he was worried about how he was going  to provide for his family  during retirement.  A 
large part of his pension provision was tied up in his former  employers scheme.  He 
asked us to reconsider  whether £500 was sufficient.  
The adjudicator said the ongoing charges  were  a new matter and Mr W would need to raise 
that with SJP. As the adjudicators view about  the CETV not being disclosed hadnt  changed  
the complaint  would be referred to an ombudsman  to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with what the adjudicator  said and with her reasoning. I know Mr W 
will be disappointed. I agree (as does SJP)  that the adviser should have shared the CETV 
with Mr W in November 2017. But I cant say that failure meant Mr W has lost out financially. 
I dont accept all SJP has said.  Mr Ws main focus  when  he first consulted SJP in July 2017  
may have  been  on setting  up a plan into which outstanding employer contributions  could be 
paid. But Mr Ws evidence is that he was thinking about a possible transfer  and that he 
mentioned it to the adviser at the outset.  
Thats supported  by Mr Ws email  of 20 November 2017 which specifically refers to a 
possible transfer. I think its clear  by then at the latest (and by which  time the adviser had 
already received the CETV) that Mr W wanted advice about possibly transferring. And I dont 
think hed have understood  from the advisers  response that the adviser wasnt  looking into 
that at all  the adviser said hed let Mr W know. Id assume a further fee would  have been  
payable by Mr W for such advice and that hadnt  been agreed. But, just from Mr Ws 
perspective, I think hed have thought  the adviser would look into transferring although he 
wasnt in a position to advise Mr W at that stage. So I dont  agree  with SJP that it was only 
once the employers liquidation had been  announced that Mr W said he wanted to transfer or 
raised the possibility  of doing that. 
That said,  I dont think there was any suggestion from Mr W that the issue was a priority or 
that there  was any urgency.  Once he received SJPs advice about setting up a new pension 
Ref: DRN38525844arrangement Mr W doesnt seem to have  chased up any outstanding issues,  including  a 
possible transfer of his deferred benefits. So the adviser may have understood that, for 
whatever reason, Mr W had decided  against pursuing that option. 
But, in any event, to uphold Mr Ws complaint in full, Id still need to be satisfied hed have 
taken the CETV offered  in November 2017.  I dont think I can say that was the case.  
I note what hes said about  the CETV being honoured if hed made  the administrators of his 
former employers scheme aware  he wanted  to transfer before the employers collapse. But I 
dont think Mr W could have given any indication he wanted to transfer before getting advice 
about that. Because of the value of the benefits Mr W would be giving up, he was required to 
take advice. The adviser pointed out that could  take some time. There were  only a couple of 
months between receipt of the CETV and the employers  collapse. I dont think  Mr W would  
have been in a position to say he wanted  to transfer out before the employers liquidation. 
Especially as it didnt  then appear there  was any urgency. 
Further, I dont think the advice would necessarily have been to transfer. SJP says its 
adviser would  have advised Mr W to retain his deferred benefits in his former employers 
pension scheme. 
The CETV is the cash value a scheme is prepared to offer in exchange  for the member  
giving up his rights  in the scheme. It calculated by the scheme actuaries and will involve a 
number of assumptions about  future  events affecting the scheme and the members 
benefits. Any CETV will need careful  analysis to see if it represents  good value. 
I appreciate Mr W regards  the higher CETV offered  in November 2017 as very attractive. 
Hes pointed  to the time it will take to exhaust the CETV based on the annual  pension hell 
receive. But the CETV isnt a straightforward multiplication of the initial annual pension.  It will 
take into account factors such as escalation (increases to the pension  that will be paid) as 
well as the cost of providing a spouses pension and any other  dependents  benefits. 
When advising a client who is considering taking a CETV (and who, like Mr W, has 
safeguarded benefits)  the starting  position (see the regulators Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook and specifically COBS 19.6.1G) is that a transfer wont  be suitable:
(2) When a firm is making a personal recommendation for a retail  client  who is, or is eligible 
to be, a member  of a pension scheme  with safeguarded benefits  and who is considering 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by assuming that a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out will not be suitable.
(3) A firm should only consider a transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly 
demonstrate, on contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the 
retail clients  best interests .
I note Mr W had advice in 2015 against transferring. Theres  nothing  to suggest his 
circumstances had changed or that there was any other reason why the advice might have 
been different.  The CETV was of course  higher but I dont think  that means the advice would 
necessarily have been different.  
Id assume, if Mr W had been advised  against, hed have heeded that advice and not 
transferred. I dont think its unreasonable to assume most consumers who take (and pay 
for) financial advice will accept it. And thats what happened in 2015.
Ref: DRN38525845If Mr W was advised  against transferring but wanted to go ahead anyway, that would have 
complicated matters. Hed have needed to proceed  as an insistent client  that is one who 
wanted to go ahead  despite advice  to the contrary and who wanted the firm to facilitate the 
transaction. Not every  firm will be prepared to act on an insistent client  basis.  And not all 
providers will be prepared  to accept a transfer where advice against has been  given. 
Where theres a dispute about what would have  happened  if things  had been  done 
differently I reach a finding on the balance of probabilities, that it what  I think is likely to have 
happened. For the reasons Ive set out I cant say, if Mr W had been told about the CETV in 
November 2017,  that hed have  been advised to take it or that if he was advised against  hed 
have gone ahead anyway. 
I can understand that whats  happened since has worried  Mr W and reinforced his belief that 
hed have taken  the CETV on offer in November 2017. But Im not judging  the matter  with 
the benefit of hindsight.  I dont think what happened in January 2018  was foreseeable. 
So although  (as it accepts) SJP did make an error in not sharing the CETV with Mr W Im not 
upholding the complaint  on the basis that Mr W would have taken the CETV had he been  
told about it at the time. 
I think SJPs offer (which  as far as Im aware hasnt yet been  paid to Mr W) is fair and 
reasonable. So Im not going  to ask SJP to do any more.
my final decision
St. Jamess Place Wealth Management plc has already  made an offer to pay £500 to settle  
the complaint  and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that St. Jamess Place  Wealth Management plc should pay Mr W £500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3852584