K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Virgin  Money  plc removed  a promotional  offer from his credit  card 
account following  a late payment.
background
Mr G made  a payment  to Virgin on 13 November 2018 instead of the due date of 11 
November 2018.And  as a result, Virgin removed a promotional offer from his account and 
charged him a late payment fee. Mr G says 11 November 2018  was a Sunday and that, and 
the absence of a paper  statement were confusing. He says as a result  of what happened he 
transferred his credit card balance to a different  provider but has incurred transfer fees. Mr G 
would like the promotional  offer reinstated  and his transfer fees refunded as well as the late 
payment fee. He would  also like any adverse information removed from his credit file.
Virgin doesnt accept  making a mistake  and says it made Mr G aware  of the payment  date 
on the account statement. It says as Mr G made a late payment,  it correctly removed the 
promotional offer and that  Mr G selected  online statements as his preference  when he 
opened the account online.
Mr G brought his complaint to us. But our investigator didnt uphold  it and thought  Virgin had 
acted in line with the account terms and conditions. And in line with the information on the 
account statements  by removing the offer where  there was a late payment. The investigator 
thought the previous account  statement  told Mr G when the next payment was due and 
didnt think the late payment  had been recorded on his credit file. The investigator  also 
thought that Mr G must have been  aware the statements were available online as he hadnt  
missed a previous  payment.
Mr G didnt accept that view and says Virgin has engaged in sharp practices by changing the 
date of the due payment. He says he doesnt  recall signing up for online statements and 
Virgins policy isnt consistent  or fair. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr G will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr G would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And I can see that those terms and conditions  made  clear  
that any promotional  offer would be withdrawn if there is a late payment and that a late 
payment fee will be charged. I can see that information is also repeated on the account 
statements.
There is no dispute here that Mr G made a late payment. So I dont  think Virgin  made a 
mistake or acted unfairly  by ending the promotional offer or by charging a late payment fee. I 
appreciate the payment was only two days late but I dont think that matters.
I appreciate that Mr G says he doesnt recall signing up for online statements. But having 
looked at Virgins  notes I think he selected  the option to receive  online statements  or that it 
was the default setting.  And I think Mr G did receive  those statements on line in the months 
leading up to the missed payment. I also think that Mr G could have changed  that preference 
Ref: DRN33399222to paper statements if he wished. But I think the important  point  is that he must have seen 
those online  statements as I can see that he made  all of the previously  required payments  
which were due on different times of the month.
I also appreciate Mr Gs point about a changing payment date and a date due on a Sunday.  
But I make  clear to Mr G that we are not the regulator of Virgin  and so its not our role to tell 
a business what  its commercial practice should  be on this sort of issue. For the reasons Ive 
explained Im satisfied Virgin told Mr G when he needed to make his monthly repayment and 
it was then up to him to make that payment.
Overall I find Virgin didnt  make a mistake or act unfairly and so I cant  fairly order  it to repay 
the late payment  fee, transfer charges or reinstate the promotional offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3339922