K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1997 
alongside a store card. The PPI was added to the account at the same  time that Mrs F took 
out the store card in person in store.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs F says FICL mis-sold  her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint. Mrs F 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs F says the PPI was added  without her knowledge or consent. But based on the 
evidence Ive seen  I think FICL  made it clear that Mrs F didnt  have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand if she cant  remember  this. I say 
this having seen a copy of the application  form Mrs F saw and signed in store.  In this 
there is a section for PPI where Mrs F ticked the box to say yes to PPI and has signed in 
this section to agree  to take out the cover. But theres nothing here to suggest she had to 
take out the PPI. Mrs F then signed the application  form - so I think this reflected what 
she wanted at the time.  
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs F so it didnt have to check  if the policy  was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs F got the information she needed to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Mrs F says she wasnt aware  of the terms and conditions of the policy. And from what  
Ive seen I think the information FICL gave Mrs F about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs F chose to take out the policy - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. And based on what shes told us about circumstances at the time it doesnt  
look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Ive also thought about the fact that Mrs F wasnt entitled to any sick pay from her 
employer. She has said she had savings at the time, but I havent seen any evidence of 
what these savings  were. In any event, upon  a successful claim the PPI wouldve paid 
15% of Mrs Fs outstanding monthly  balance for up to 12 months - which  wouldve been  
in addition to her existing savings. So these  funds  couldve  been used for other 
expenses. 
So overall, for the reasons Ive outlined above,  I think the PPI wouldve been useful for 
her and I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover.
Ref: DRN31020462   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mrs Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs F to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3102046