K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about a whole of life plan sold to her by Sun Life Assurance  Company of 
Canada (U.K.) Limited (Sun Life)  in 1993.  Mrs M also raises  concerns about a recent 
review and says the premium increase  required is unaffordable for her.
background
Mrs M took out a whole of life policy in 1993 called a flexible protection plan, with cover of 
£75, 000 at a premium  of £31.50 a month. At the time Mrs M had a young family and wanted 
to put in place some  protection for her children in the event she died. 
The policy was reviewed  in 2003 and 2008, on both occasions no adjustment  was required 
to the premium. At review in 2013,  a small increase in the premium was required in order  to 
maintain cover at £75, 000. Mrs M chose to maintain  her premiums at £31.50 a month and 
as a consequence her cover dropped  to £71, 000.
A review in 2018,  identified that a premium increase to £113.11 was required in order  to 
maintain the same level of cover. Mrs M says this increase makes the premium unaffordable  
for her. She decided not to increase her premiums  and accordingly, her cover has dropped 
to £21, 375.
Mrs M thought the premium would remain the same  with the same level of cover for life. 
Whilst she was aware  of the possibility of reviews, Mrs M thought  they were for her to 
choose how much she wished to pay in the future. Mrs M feels  strongly that it is unfair to ask 
her to pay more now for the same cover. She had always intended to keep the policy  in 
order to benefit  her children when  she died.
Sun Life have consented  to us considering the complaint. They maintain that the policy was 
suitable for Mrs M as it gave her the level of cover she wanted and was affordable for her. 
They rely upon the notes  from the time and the policy document to show  that Mrs M was 
advised about the reviewable nature of the policy. Further Sun Life rely upon the review  
information provided to Mrs M in 2003, 2008, 2013  and 2018.  They  explain that the cost of 
life cover has increased over time and is now well in excess  of the monthly  premium  paid by 
Mrs M, which is why a premium increase was recommended at review.  
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and decided  not to uphold it. He thought Mrs M 
hadnt been misled about  the nature of her whole of life plan when she took it out in 1993. 
Further, he also didnt think the business had breached  the terms and conditions  of the plan 
in terms of the reviews  conducted.
Mrs M disagrees  and feels that the outcome of the recent review  was unfair, she would like 
to retain  the higher level of cover  for £31.50 a month.
The matter  has now come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN34885612Mrs M believed that the premium and cover on this policy  were  fixed for the duration of her 
life. She recalled this from the information  given  at the time of sale. But Ive taken into 
account that memories  as to what was said over 25 years ago, will likely have faded.
The limited  documentation from the time states that Mrs M wanted to protect  her 
dependants, so that in the event of her death  there  would a cash  payment for them to share. 
The notes say the premium of £31.50  was the most Mrs M could  afford and she favoured the 
facility to review the level of the sum assured to meet her needs throughout her life. The 
notes go on to say that the review procedure was discussed  with her along with the possible 
effects of such a review.
Under the terms of the policy, no review took place for the first ten years, thereafter the 
policy was reviewed every five years. The policy document explains that the reviews 
consider the plan benefits, the performance of the fund and the cost of life cover.  
Guarantees could not be given covering the whole policy period and there was a risk that 
contributions would increase in the future. 
At each  review, the letters explained  that the premiums could change  over time and the 
policy review information  document  gave further details about why a premium increase  may 
be recommended. Whilst no increase was required over the first twenty year period, Mrs M 
was aware from the 2013 review that the premium  and level of cover could change. Taking 
everything into account, theres  nothing to show that Mrs M was misled about reviewable 
nature of the policy.
An illustration from the time also shows that different options were  presented  and 
presumably discussed, so on balance it seems likely that Mrs C wanted  this particular level 
of cover.  It doesnt  appear that she could have afforded a non-reviewable policy or policy  
taken on the standard basis for the same sum assured, which  would have been more  
expensive. On the basis of the information  before me, I consider that the policy met Mrs Ms 
objectives at the time and was affordable for her. Im satisfied that Mrs M was aware that the 
policy would be reviewed  in the future. 
As Sun Life have set out in correspondence, initially the cost of life cover  was less than the 
cost of the premium  and the balance of that premium (less any charges) was invested  into a 
managed fund. The fund was intended to grow over time so as to absorb the increasing 
costs of the plan.  Mrs M acknowledges  that the performance of the investment could  go up 
or down,  so the level of growth was not guaranteed.  Over time,  the cost of life cover  has 
increased, so that it is now well above  the cost of the £31.50 premium. These additional 
costs have been met from the managed fund. As our adjudicator has explained,  the fund has 
been supporting  the cost of life cover since 2010, which  is why the investment  has depleted. 
By review in 2018,  a significant increase in premium  was required to maintain the same  level 
of cover due to the increasing costs and reduction  in the fund. I appreciate this was 
disappointing news for Mrs M and I dont  underestimate her strength of feeling about it, but 
the risk of an unfavourable review was always a possibility, so I cant fairly say that Sun Life 
have done anything wrong.
Understandably, Mrs M is concerned about  further changes  in the future. Sun Life are 
unable to make any guarantees but they have confirmed that the policy benefits cannot be 
reduced below 75% of the total premiums paid into the plan (up to the age of 75), no matter 
how high the life cover costs rise in the future.
Ref: DRN34885613Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs M but Im not going to ask Sun Life to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3488561