K820x#14Complaint
Mr Ds complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) sold to him by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) alongside a loan.
Background
In the 1990s Mr D took out 3 loans  with Lloyds and in 2019  he complained he had been    
mis-sold PPI associated with his loans.
Lloyds looked  at Mr Ds complaint and agreed  with his first loan, ending 4160, he had taken 
out a PPI policy. But it said with loan 2 (ending 6073) and loan 3 (ending 3382) its records 
showed no PPI had been taken.
Lloyds agreed  to uphold the complaint that the PPI with Loan 1 was mis-sold. It also said     
Mr D appeared to have  refinanced Loan  1 with Loan  2, so as Loan 1 had been  settled  early  
some of the premium for the PPI added to Loan 1 had been  carried  forward  to Loan 2. 
Lloyds worked out the compensation due to Mr D on the basis  that all the costs  of the PPI he 
had paid whilst paying for Loan  1 were refunded plus the amount hed paid for the PPI cost 
that had been carried into Loan 2. In total Lloyds offered £1,911.81, after tax, in compensation.
Mr D wasnt happy with the offer so he brought his complaint to this service. He said it hadnt 
been shown by Lloyds that there  was no PPI sold with Loans 2 and 3 and also that he had 
been paying for Loan 2 for far longer  than Lloyds said and had paid much more. 
Our adjudicator said they thought what Lloyds had offered in all the circumstances was fair. 
Mr D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr D first brought his complaint to this service it was principally because  he thought 
Lloyds had failed  to evidence whether PPI had been applied to Loans 2 and 3 and also 
failed to show the redress offered for the PPI sold with Loan  1 was accurate. He also 
expressed concern  that although it appeared Lloyds  were saying Loan 2 ended in November 
1998 he had made substantial  payments after this to Lloyds for his Loans and this 
suggested the compensation due for the PPI should be more,  as his repayments were made 
for longer than Lloyds had included in its calculations. 
I would like to clarify  in this decision I am only considering the issues surrounding the PPI 
compensation and I shall deal with Mr Ds concerns about the PPI with the various loans  and 
the compensation offered  in more detail below. 
With regard to the point about when Loan  2 ended and any ongoing payments Mr D made I 
am not addressing this is any detail. Mr D has during the course of this complaint investigation 
raised a number of further issues about his loans, what Lloyds has done with these, how much 
he has repaid to Lloyds for the loans  and how he has been treated. These points need to first 
be raised with Lloyds and if Mr D is then unhappy  with its response he may be able to bring  a 
separate complaint to this service  about the issues unrelated to the PPI compensation. 
Ref: DRN31789942With reference to Loan  2 I would say that the information provided indicates  Mr D defaulted 
on this loan in November 1998  and it was passed to Lloyds' debt management team. I shall 
comment later on whether I think any PPI that may have  formed part of this loan has been 
refunded to Mr D. But what happened to any debt he had and how Lloyds dealt with seeking 
repayment does  not form any part of my decision as it doesnt affect the PPI in this case.
which loans had PPI?
Lloyds has provided  copies of its computer screen  shot records from its archives  to show 
what information it has about the loans  and the PPI. These records indicate  that Loan  1 was 
taken out in June 1994 and was settled in full in January 1996.  It is also shown that a PPI 
policy was taken out alongside  this loan and paid for by a single premium  which  would have 
been added  to the amount Mr D borrowed.  
The records  additionally indicated that no PPI policy was sold with Loans 2 and 3. Loan 2 
seems to have refinanced  Loan  1 as it was taken out in late December 1995 with Loan 1 
showing as fully closed  in early January 1996.  Loan 3 appears  to be a standalone loan taken 
out in May 1995. Both Loan 2 and Loan 3 are shown as ending in November 1998 but it 
seems this was because Mr D defaulted on the loans and they were both referred to the debt 
management team after this point. 
I have no clear information about  how much  Mr D borrowed for his own use with Loans 2 
and 3. So how he much  he repaid  in total for his borrowings  does not affect my decision 
about the PPI compensation.  I am only looking at how much of the PPI premium may have 
been carried into Loan 2 from Loan 1 and what interest may have been paid on that amount 
whilst part of the loan.  I address this in more detail below.
I have to reach a fair outcome based on the evidence provided  by both parties. Mr D has not 
been able to provide any written evidence he had to show any information about the loans. 
Based on the evidence  I have seen, think it is most likely that PPI was sold with Loan 1 but 
no PPI polices were taken out alongside  Loans 2 and 3.
calculating fair compensation
Lloyds indicated in its final response  letter to Mr D that as these loans and PPI were taken 
out so long ago it has limited  records  about  them. It therefore, in making  its calculations  for 
the PPI compensation, had to make  some assumptions.
When making his monthly payments for the loan Mr D would also have been paying  for the 
PPI costs, this would be part of the premium in his loan and also some interest caused by 
that premium. The records available do not show exactly how much  Mr D actually took out 
for his loan but there is an indication it was a loan of between £,3000 and £4,999.  So Lloyds 
has assumed the amount borrowed for Mr Ds own use to be £4,259 and the PPI premium 
on that would have been £816.88. The loan amount assumption is based on the average  
amount borrowed,  assessed from a range of data, from similar customers at the time.
It is possible Mr D borrowed  slightly more for his own use than assumed but he could have 
borrowed less. Lloyds' assumption  is towards  the top of the range of the loan indicated  in the 
records. So I think the assumption about the amount borrowed and PPI cost on that amount  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ref: DRN31789943Lloyds has used the assumed figures to calculate  how much Mr D wouldve paid for the PPI 
whilst making  his monthly repayments to the loan.  The computer records show the loan 
started in July 1994 and was supposed to run for 44 months. But Mr D settled this loan early 
and it was fully cleared  in January 1996.  
During the time the loan was running the calculations carried  out by Lloyds show Mr D paid 
£444.55 in total towards  the cost of the PPI, including interest  caused  by the premium being in 
the loan. Lloyds has also worked  out 8% simple  interest on this amount to compensate  Mr D 
for all the periods he was out of pocket. So it calculated and offered £1,126.13, after tax, for 
the PPI costs in this part of its calculation to refund the costs paid whilst Loan 1 was active. 
Mr D settled Loan 1 from the funds he borrowed with Loan 2. As Mr D settled Loan 1 early, a 
rebate of the PPI premiums would have  been applied to the loan to remove some  of the PPI 
which remained in the balance. But some of the PPI cost for the policy  taken out with Loan 1 
would have still remained in the balance. So Mr D would have paid this on settlement and he 
would have borrowed more with Loan 2 to do this. 
Lloyds has in its calculations worked out that Mr D carried forward  £251.96 to Loan 2, and 
also that he would have paid £128.75 in interest  on that amount whilst Loan 2 was running. 
It seems  Mr D defaulted on Loan  2 in November 1998 so did not at that point fully repay the 
loan, so he hadnt fully paid the PPI carried forward from Loan  1. 
Mr D may have  later, during any debt management  process, repaid the PPI cost carried  
forward to Loan  2 in full, but that doesnt affect  the compensation  calculation  as Lloyds has 
refunded in full the carry forward amount and the interest caused by the PPI when it was part 
of the loan. It has also worked  out 8% simple  interest on the total costs in Loan 2 from 
November 1998,  even though at that point  Mr D may not have been out of pocket for the 
total amount.  
For this part of the PPI compensation  that formed part of Loan  2, Lloyds is offering £785.68 
after tax. So I think what Lloyds has offered for the PPI carried into Loan  2 is very fair. 
So in total Lloyds has calculated that £1,911.81  after tax, is the total compensation due to 
Mr D for what he could  have paid for the PPI sold with Loan 1, including anything that was 
carried forward to Loan 2.
summary
Based on the evidence  presented I think that PPI was only taken out by Mr D with his first 
loan ending  4160. As it has been  agreed  this was mis-sold Lloyds needs to pay back to Mr D 
everything he paid for this policy plus some compensatory interest. 
In total Lloyds has worked out and offered £1,911.81 in compensation for the PPI sold with 
Loan 1 and looking at how it has done this I think its offer is fair. If Lloyds has already paid 
this to Mr D it need do nothing more. If it remains unpaid then Lloyds should update  the 8% 
simple interest to the date it makes the payment.
If Mr D has concerns about other matters related to his borrowing and the actions of Lloyds 
in relation to this, as I said earlier, he needs  to first raise these with Lloyds and then if he 
remains unhappy he may be able to bring  a separate  complaint back  to this service. 
Ref: DRN31789944my final decision
I think the calculation  carried out by Lloyds  Bank  PLC to refund all the costs of the PPI taken 
out by Mr D with his loan is fair. Unless Lloyds Bank PLC needs to update  the 8% simple  
interest, if the compensation has not yet been  paid,  it need do nothing more  in relation to the 
PPI mis-sale.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3178994