K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited unfairly increased the 
premium for his multi-car  insurance policy by £170  and took the money  from his account 
without his consent. 
background
Mr Ns multi-car policy  covers him, his wife and his daughter. He said his daughters  car was 
scraped in March  2018, but didnt  report this to Admiral at the time,  as he didnt think there 
would be a claim. Mr Ns policy renewed  in April 2018, but before this Admiral  asked him if 
there had been  any incidents, but he said not. Admiral said Mr N reported the incident in 
June 2018 and so it backdated the increased premium it would have charged  to renewal. 
Admiral said when a policyholder doesnt disclose details such as non-fault  incidents, it cant 
quote correctly  and its fair to charge the correct premium  from renewal. Admiral said it 
appreciated the incident wasnt Mr Ns daughters fault, but it considers these incidents when 
calculating premiums, as policyholders involved in non-fault incidents often make a fault 
claim in the future. It said this is a business  decision its entitled to make. Admiral said the 
incident has since been classified as notification only and neither party  has claimed.
Mr N said when he told Admiral about  the incident  it didnt  tell him about the increased 
premium and he only found out when  it was taken by Admiral from his account.  He said the 
increase wasnt justified and should  only have been  applied at the next renewal. 
Admiral wrote to Mr N and said he could pay the additional  premium for full cover  or cancel 
the policy, in which case it would waive its normal cancellation fee. It refunded the premium  
which it had taken from Mr Ns account without his consent when he complained. Admiral 
also acknowledged that changes to the policy requested by Mr N hadnt been  actioned.  It 
paid him £50 compensation and waived an admin fee and a premium increase of £20 to add 
commuting use for his daughter. Admiral told Mr N the additional premium was still owed.  
Admiral provided us with details of the rate change for Mr Ns policy and showed  the effect  of 
the incident, and the delay in its being reported,  on the premium. It said its claims 
department wouldnt  have known the effect a claim might have  on the premium when Mr N 
called to report the incident. 
The adjudicator said when Mr N renewed  his policy, he hadnt answered Admirals  question 
about previous  incidents correctly. He said Admiral  calculated  the additional premium  
according to its rating criteria and would  have charged this at renewal had it known. 
However, he said Admiral should  have offered  Mr N the option not to pay more premium and 
have any future claim settled proportionately. He said it should offer Mr N this option and pay 
him further  compensation of £50 for taking  the additional premium without his agreement.
Admiral said it doesnt  offer the option  of proportionate settlement of future  claims, as it 
thinks this poses significant risks that policyholders may not appreciate. And it has said if it 
had to offer this option and it was accepted  by a policyholder, it would then cancel the policy. 
It also said, as Mr N did not cancel  the policy, he still owes  the additional premium. Admiral  
doesnt think the further compensation is justified and has requested  an ombudsman review 
the complaint.
Mr Ns policy  ran its full term until April 2019, but he didnt renew it. Admiral has now said 
that it has written off the additional premium of £170  and so this sum is no longer owing. 
Ref: DRN31246692my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has complained about the additional  premium he was charged by Admiral  following 
renewal of his policy  and this being  taken from his bank account without his consent.  I need 
to consider whether Admiral was entitled  to charge Mr N this additional premium. And  in 
doing this  I need to consider the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA), as this covers the obligations of consumers when taking out insurance 
policies and the remedies available to an insurer  if they dont fulfil these obligations. 
A policy renewal is technically starting  a new policy for another  year, as motor  insurance is 
an annual contract. And CIDRA places a responsibility on a consumer to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation to an insurer when they enter into a consumer insurance contract. And 
this includes when they are renewing an existing policy. If a consumer fails to do this and the 
insurer can show this would have  made  a difference  to the terms it would have offered, 
including that it would  have charged a higher premium, the Act states this is a qualifying  
misrepresentation. And it gives the insurer certain remedies.
Before renewal in 2018,  Admiral  has said it asked Mr N, Have  you or any other driver had 
any accidents, incidents, thefts, losses,  claims,  fault or non-fault in the last 3 years?  And its 
said Mr N didnt disclose any incidents.  Im satisfied  based on what its said - that Admiral 
asked this question  and that it was clear. And Im satisfied from Admirals  approach,  Mr N 
didnt declare his daughters incident when he was asked this question. And I think  he ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware that he needed to disclose this. In fact, Mr N told Admiral  
three months later about it, but unfortunately this means that he gave  the wrong information 
when he renewed  his policy. And  because the question he was asked was clear  - I think 
this means he failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
Admiral has said that if Mr N had told it about  the incident at renewal it would have 
increased his renewal premium by £170  for the whole of the year. I think its reasonable for 
an insurer to assess the increased risk demonstrated by the fact an insured  person has 
been involved in a motoring incident; even one which hasnt  led to a claim. And Admiral has 
shown us its rating criteria in support of the higher  premium it said it would have charged  
had Mr N disclosed his daughters incident. And I think this means Admiral has shown the 
misrepresentation Mr N made  was a qualifying misrepresentation. 
But I dont think Admiral  adopted the correct  approach once it had established  this. 
As Ive already  mentioned,  CIDRA  sets out an insurers remedies in circumstances where 
theres been a qualifying  misrepresentation.  And these are based on what it would have 
done had the consumer  not made a misrepresentation. Where the insurer  would have 
charged an additional premium if the consumer hadnt made  the misrepresentation, it can 
proportionately reduce  the payment on a claim that the consumer has made  and on future 
claims not yet made. If it doesnt want to do this on future claims, it can instead cancel the 
policy. But it must still settle any claim outstanding on a proportionate  basis.  
Admiral wrote to Mr N saying he could pay the additional premium for full cover to apply  
moving forward, as opposed  to any future  claims being settled proportionally. And it offered 
Mr N the option  to cancel the policy if he didnt want to pay the premium without paying a 
cancellation fee. 
Ref: DRN31246693But charging an additional premium is not one of the remedies open to Admiral under CIDRA. 
And Admiral clearly shouldnt have  then taken the additional premium out of Mr Ns bank 
account without  his consent. Im pleased Admiral refunded the payment to Mr N. But Mr N was 
clearly concerned about what  had happened and experienced distress and inconvenience as 
result of Admiral charging an additional  premium they werent  actually entitled  to charge. And 
because it then took this without having  Mr Ns consent. So I agree with the adjudicator that 
Admiral should pay Mr N further compensation of £50 to compensate him for the additional 
distress and inconvenience he experienced as a result of this. 
 
I think its worth me making  it clear, that, although  not a remedy available  under CIDRA, I 
see nothing wrong  with an insurer offering a policyholder the option of keeping  the policy  
running in return  for the additional premium  that it would have charged but for the 
misrepresentation. And when that happens, and the consumer  agrees to pay it, the insurer  
will then cover any claims in full. But I think an insurer  should  also either offer the option of 
having the policy continue with future claims settled on a proportionate basis. Or  if it 
doesnt want to do this  it should  say it wants to cancel the policy;  but give the consumer 
the option to do this if theyd prefer to. It is also important Admiral  makes sure the consumer 
understands the implications of Admiral cancelling  the policy.
I can of course understand Admirals concerns about allowing a policy  to continue with future 
claims settled  proportionately. But, as Ive explained, it is a remedy  under CIDRA. Although I 
agree with Admiral  that it doesnt have  to offer this option. It can instead say it intends  to cancel 
the policy. And  to be fair to the consumer, I think it then needs to offer them  the option to 
cancel the policy themselves  and allow a proportionate refund of premium if this is appropriate. 
As Mr Ns policy has now ended  and Admiral has waived the additional premium, it now 
wont need to give him the option to cancel it. And Ive already explained why it should  pay 
additional compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr N experienced because it 
didnt do this when  his misrepresentation came to light. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is upheld. 
I require Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited  to pay Mr N further compensation of £50 for 
the distress and inconvenience  he experienced as a result of it not explaining the position  
correctly to him and taking the payment of the additional premium  without his agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3124669