K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that when  he called  Virgin Money plc (Virgin) in September 2018  to enquire 
about the interest charges  and the direct  debit repayments on his credit card account,  he 
was told by their agent that if he paid the minimum payment per month he would not incur 
interest charges.
background
Mr A held a credit card account with Virgin which hed opened on the 24 August 2018. On 
the 14 September 2018 Mr A called  Virgin and spoke to an agent. He said he asked whether 
he could just pay the minimum amount each month without  being charged interest. He said 
the agent told him that would be OK so he switched his payment to the monthly minimum.
Subsequently Mr A found out that he was being charged interest and so complained to 
Virgin asking them to refund the interest.
Virgin said they didnt  think they had done anything wrong. They said their agent had 
explained to Mr A that he could make the minimum payment if he wished and make manual 
payments, and that he would not be penalised as long as he clears  the balance  in full. They  
also said that their Terms  and Conditions  and the information on their monthly statements 
made it clear  that interest would not be charged so long as the balance  was paid in full each 
month. In addition they said that they had issued statements on the 25 September,  
25 October and 25 November and Mr A had not raised any issue with them  until the 
30 November.
Mr A was unhappy with Virgins response and so an adjudicator  from this service looked into 
the complaint.  She thought Virgin hadnt acted fairly in dealing  with Mr As complaint and 
recommended they refund the total amount of interest Mr A had paid plus 8% simple  
interest. Virgin disagreed  with that view and so the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will not repeat our adjudicators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
In my view the starting point is to look at the reason why Mr A made the call on the 
14 September. It seems  to me that it is very clear that he wanted  to know whether  he would 
be charged interest if he only paid the minimum amount per month. He had a high balance 
and the interest  charges were  high.
The advice the agent gave is not in my view clear  enough.  Whilst one interpretation is that 
Mr A was given all of the information within the call which would  allow him to conclude that 
interest was payable, the impression I am left with from the call, is that making the minimum 
payment would not lead to him being  charged  interest. I can see Virgins  argument that the 
Ref: DRN37226272agents initial response was in fact qualified by further comment that he would need  to make 
a further manual payment, but as our adjudicator  has said,  Mr A never said he wanted to do 
that, since he only wanted to make  the minimum payment. And of course the agent  then 
went on to help Mr A change his direct  debit to the minimum amount which,  given Mr A had 
said he only wanted to pay the minimum and he didnt want  to incur interest, was leading 
him to believe that interest wouldnt be charged.
In addition our adjudicator  found that Mr A would have paid the balance off in full had he 
known interest was being charged,  because when he did find out that is precisely what he 
did.
I have taken account of the fact that the terms and conditions and the account statements 
are state  when interest will be charged, but I think it was reasonable to expect Mr A to have 
disregarded that in the light of the further specific advice the agent gave him. Virgin rightly 
point out that Mr A didnt raise his complaint about the interest until the 30 November and he 
could have done so earlier. I accept that is true, but I also accept that Mr A raised  it within a 
reasonable period and when he first realised interest  was being charged.  
So I agree with our adjudicator. I think that Virgin unintentionally misled Mr A into believing  
that he would not be charged  interest  if he simply paid the minimum payment each month 
from his balance. It was not deliberate but their advice could and should have been  clearer.
So, Im satisfied that Virgin has treated Mr A unfairly, and Im upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do uphold the complaint against Virgin Money  plc.
I require Virgin Money plc to refund the total amount of interest Mr A had paid and also pay 
him simple interest at the rate of 8%.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3722627