K820x#14complaint
Mr P complained about a travel insurance  policy sold to him by AllClear  Insurance Services  
Ltd, after his claim under  the policy was turned down. 
background
Mr P bought a travel  insurance policy online through AllClear,  which  is an insurance 
intermediary or broker. Unfortunately he was later unable to travel on his pre-booked holiday 
due to ill health. He made  a claim but the insurance  company turned it down. 
Mr P complained to AllClear  as he thought  cancellation cover should apply automatically 
because he was unable  to travel for medical  reasons.  Hed not made  a decision not to travel.   
AllClear said that Mr P had bought a policy that didnt  include cancellation  cover  at all, and 
that it had made that clear to him. Mr P came to us. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think AllClear had done anything wrong. Mr P asked for a review  so 
the complaints come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. 
Theres no dispute that Mr P fell ill unexpectedly,  not long before he was due to depart on a 
pre-booked holiday. He explains he couldnt  travel  because of ongoing monitoring of his 
medical condition.  His claim for the holiday costs wasnt covered because hed not taken out 
cancellation cover. 
Ive looked at the sales process on AllClears website that Mr P followed  when he took out 
the policy online. He was given the options of a policy  with or without cancellation cover on 
the quote page of the policy. This was before he bought the policy.  
Not having cancellation cover is a significant  restriction on the policy cover.  But I think 
AllClear properly brought this to Mr Ps attention before he took out the policy.  The policy  
name itself said that it was excluding Cancellation. He had a choice  to buy this policy  or one 
which included cancellation cover.
The policy schedule repeated the information for Mr P and said that cancellation cover was 
excluded. It asked Mr P to check carefully  that the policy met his requirements. Indeed Mr P 
has confirmed that he was well aware that cancellation wasnt included in the cover, and this 
is why hed read through the small print before hed confirmed. But Mr P says that his 
definition of cancelling is an act which is premeditated and wilful. Thats not the case  here, 
when he was unable  to travel because of an unexpected medical illness.  
I think the sales process and the policy made  it clear  to Mr P that if he selected the policy 
with cancellation  cover, and he wasnt then able to travel because  of unexpected ill-health, 
then he could make a claim under the cancellation  section of the policy. Ive read what hes 
said about being covered  for elements in green print and not covered for elements in red 
print. But the difficulty is that hed opted not to have  cancellation cover at all. So the 
cancellation section  of the policy didnt  apply to him. I dont think  Mr Ps own definition  of 
Ref: DRN36656152cancelling as an act which  is premeditated and wilful is based on anything AllClear  did or 
said when it sold the policy. It didnt mislead him.
Insurance policies  are generally intended  to cover events which are unexpected and 
unanticipated. Its clear  that Mr P couldnt  have known hed fall ill when he did. But I think  
AllClear did enough  to make it clear that if he did fall ill  and be unable to travel  then hed 
not have any cancellation cover under the travel insurance policy.  So I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 June  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3665615