K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that an adviser  for Allied  Dunbar (now Zurich Assurance  Ltd) mis-sold him a 
term assurance policy to cover the mortgage  she recommended  because:
The adviser didnt  inform him that he had the option of not proceeding with either 
product.
He is sure that he was told by the adviser  that the policy was linked to a rising stock 
market which had a positive financial outlook  for many years.
He wouldnt have  bought the policy if he was aware there was no cash-in value for 
the policy when  it ended.
background
Mr P was advised to take out an Adaptable Term  Policy to provide life cover for the 
mortgage he was also recommended.  
Zurich didnt uphold  the complaint. It said it was a condition of the mortgage  Mr P was taking 
out that he had life cover and the policy was a suitable recommendation in the 
circumstances.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but also didnt think  it should be upheld. 
He said that the policy  matched the term and amount of the mortgage and was a condition of 
the mortgage so didnt  think the adviser had done  anything wrong in recommending it.
Mr P didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said although it was 20 years ago he vaguely 
recalls the adviser  saying  the mortgage  he was offered was his last resort for a mortgage. 
He said he had told her he had been rejected by a couple of other lenders and she said he 
had to take out the policy if he wanted the mortgage with the lender and it wasnt  worth  
contacting other lenders as they would also require security.  
He said he understood this may well have been the case but he wasnt  given the option of 
finding out for himself before accepting the policy  because she implied he might  lose the flat 
he was buying  due to the rapidly rising  property market. He said he believed he was coerced 
into accepting the policy and was fraudulently sold the policy.
Mr P also suggested that there was a relationship between Zurich  and the mortgage  provider  
so that he couldnt get the mortgage  without the policy and that this was beneficial  in 
commissions and fees to both firms but not in his interests. He also mentioned  the Supreme 
Court case  of Plevin v Paragon Personal  Finance which he thought  might  be relevant to his 
complaint.
As Mr P didnt agree  with the adjudicator the matter has been  referred  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it is important to make clear that my findings are based on a balance of probabilities  
what is more likely  than not to have happened. So I am not saying what  definitely  did or 
didnt happen.  I make this clear  because Mr P is referring to matters that happened over 20 
Ref: DRN37519212years ago where he is relying on his memory of events  and it is unlikely that memories  
from so long ago will be accurate or reliable.
There is no dispute that Mr P wanted to take out a mortgage to purchase a property at the 
time and his own evidence is that he had already been refused a mortgage  from a couple of 
high street lenders  he has emphasised that he went to Zurich after he had been turned 
down.
So there appears to have  been a clear  issue with him being able to easily obtain a mortgage  
from normal high street providers. In the circumstances it isnt surprising the adviser 
recommended a mortgage from a non-high street  provider.
The fact find the adviser  completed at the time shows that the mortgage  provider was 
recommended because it offered a non-status facility  another phrase for self-certification.  
This meant that it would provide a mortgage without proof of earnings. 
I think it is more  likely than not this is the reason  Mr P was unable to get a mortgage from 
high street lenders. His options would  inevitably  have  been very limited by this and I dont 
think the adviser did anything wrong  in recommending a mortgage from a provider  that 
would give a mortgage without proof of earnings. 
There is also nothing wrong with an adviser recommending  life cover for a mortgage. I would 
expect such a recommendation in most  if not all cases, as it is generally  sensible to have life 
cover for a mortgage.  Even people  without dependents often prefer that the proceeds dont 
go to a mortgage company if they die.
In this case life cover  was actually  a condition of the mortgage, so Mr P had to have life 
cover if he wanted the mortgage. So I dont think the adviser  did anything wrong in 
recommending the policy  given he couldnt  have gone ahead with the mortgage  without the 
policy.
 
Mr P has suggested that there was some  sort of agreement between  Zurich and the 
mortgage company  that wasnt in his interests. In effect what his arguments come  down  to is 
that the adviser recommended the mortgage companys mortgage instead of considering  the 
possibility of other providers and that the mortgage  company in turn made it a condition to 
have life cover for the benefit of Zurich.
There was an agreement  between Zurich and the mortgage company  in that the mortgage  
company paid a fee to the adviser for having  introduced Mr P. But there is nothing wrong or 
unusual in such an arrangement.  There is also nothing wrong with a mortgage  company 
making it a condition of the mortgage that life cover be provided. 
The only circumstance where  I think this might be considered wrong is where  the only 
reason the mortgage company made  it a condition was to benefit  Zurich. I think this is very 
unlikely and I have  seen no evidence this is what happened. I think it is more  likely than not 
that the mortgage company wanted life cover to help protect its own interests and it was 
entitled to impose  such a condition.
Mr P has said the adviser didnt tell him he had the option of not proceeding with either  the 
mortgage or policy. But I dont think the adviser  needed to tell him something which was self-
evident. In other words  he wasnt forced  to take out the mortgage and policy.  He could have 
decided not to purchase the house.
Ref: DRN37519213If what Mr P is referring to is being  misled by the adviser about other options, I dont find his 
recollection of what he was told some 20 years  ago persuasive evidence of what was 
actually discussed.  Even  if he was told that other providers  would  also require life cover   as 
he suggests  I have seen no evidence that this was misleading.
Mr P has also said he thinks  he was told the policy was linked to the stock  market and he 
thought it had a cash-in value. The policy was a unit-linked policy  so could have a nominal  
value. I think it is quite  possible  that the adviser  mentioned the policy  was unit-linked. But I 
think it is very unlikely that the adviser suggested  to Mr P that the policy was some sort of 
investment which  he could cash in. 
That wasnt  its purpose and I think it wouldve been clear to him that it was being sold to 
provide cover for the mortgage and not as some sort of investment,  and that is why he took it 
out.
Mr P made reference to there being the possibility of hidden  PPI in the policy.  But from the 
evidence I have seen  it is clear the policy  only provided life cover.  He has also referred to 
the Plevin case, which in simple terms was a case involving PPI where it was decided  that 
there was a duty to disclose high levels of commission  in certain circumstances. Having 
considered the case I dont think it has any relevance  to the complaint that Mr P has made.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3751921