K822xcomplaint
Mr A says Gain  Credit LLC (trading as Lending  Stream) gave him loans that he couldnt 
afford.
background
Lending Stream gave  Mr A four instalment  loans  between  September  2017 and January 
2018. 
Heres a table showing  the loan details:
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Combined  Highest
Repayment
1 12/09/2017 30/09/2017 6 £80.00 £56.92
2 05/10/2017 26/10/2017 6 £300.00 £127.20
3 29/10/2017 outstanding 6 £480.00 £203.52
4 12/01/2018 outstanding 6 £150.00 £203.60
Mr A complained that Lending Stream acted irresponsibly  when it provided  loans  to him that 
it shouldve realised he couldnt afford  to pay back and that he was using for gambling. 
When Lending Stream looked at Mr As complaint, it first of all said that it had carried  out full 
affordability checks on all the loans and it didnt uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A was unhappy with this response and he brought his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel that hed seen  enough  to say it was unfair  for Lending Stream  to 
provide loans 1 -3 to Mr A. But he thought  that loan 4 shouldnt  have been lent to him  and 
he explained  how hed come to this view.  Our adjudicator also gave some  detailed 
instructions about  the way he thought Lending  Stream should settle the complaint. 
Lending Stream said it accepted our adjudicators view. It sent details  showing it had worked 
out that Mr A still owed  an outstanding  balance to Lending Stream   and said it would work 
with Mr A to help him clear his debt through an affordable payment arrangement.  
We passed this information on to Mr A  but hes told us he doesnt want to settle  the 
complaint on this basis and hed like a final decision.  
So the complaint comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN37794742Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr A could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Lending Stream was required to establish  whether Mr A could sustainably  repay  his loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
For loans 1-3, Ive looked at what it appears Mr A had told Lending Stream  about his 
financial circumstances and the repayment amounts he had to make.  Taking this information  
into account, and bearing in mind  that he was a new borrower with Lending Stream, I dont  
think it wouldve been proportionate for Lending Stream  to ask Mr A for the amount of 
information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing 
these loans. 
Loans 1-3 looked  comfortably  affordable for Mr A  based on what hed said to Lending 
Stream about his finances. So I agree with our adjudicator  that there isnt enough 
information for me to be able to say that Lending  Stream shouldnt  have lent him loans 1-3. 
Ref: DRN37794743Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Lending Stream  to provide loan 4 
without doing  further more  detailed  checks to verify  what Mr A had said about  his financial 
circumstances. And had it done  proportionate checking for this loan its likely that Lending 
Stream would have discovered that Mr A appeared to be using the loans to pay for gambling. 
So it was unlikely that Mr A was borrowing sustainably. 
As Lending Stream has reconsidered its position on loan 4 and accepted  our adjudicators  
view and confirmed it is willing to take the steps hed suggested to put things right for Mr A 
I dont think I need  to say more about this.
I appreciate that Mr A has rejected the proposed settlement. But having looked carefully at 
all the available  information, overall,  I think Lending  Stream was right to acknowledge that 
lending loan 4 to Mr A was unfair.  And the way the adjudicator has suggested  resolving the 
complaint is fair and reasonable.
Lending Stream has already confirmed it will work  constructively with Mr A to come  to an 
agreed plan for paying the outstanding balance he still owes.  
If Mr A feels he needs further advice  on managing  his money problems, then theres  more  
information about how to get free debt advice on our website  or we can provide contact 
details if he gives us a call. 
putting things right  what Lending Stream needs to do 
refund  any interest and charges  Mr A paid on loan 4 and pay interest of 8% simple a 
year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid (if they 
were) to the date of settlement (I understand Mr A didnt in fact make any payments 
towards Loan 4  which  means there wont be any refund owing to him)
I remind Lending Stream that it should take a sympathetic view when seeking to 
agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr A in respect of the money  he still owes  
Lending Stream for his outstanding loans
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr As credit file in relation to loan 4 
when it is repaid.
Ref: DRN37794744 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mr A a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr As complaint about loan 4. Gain  Credit LLC 
(trading as Lending Stream) should  take the steps Ive set out above  to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3779474