K822xcomplaint
Mrs B has complained about advice given by The Falcon Group  Limited (Falcon) to invest in 
the Invesco Perpetual AIM VCT (Invesco  VCT).
Mrs B has also said that she had to take out a loan from two of her and her husbands 
companies to raise the capital to invest.  Mrs B wants Falcon to compensate them  for the 
costs of the loan and interest paid on it.
Mrs Bs husband also invested  in the Invesco VCT and hes made  a similar complaint.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on 30 May 2019.  I set out the circumstances leading  up to 
Mrs B investing £30,000 in the Invesco VCT in March  2005. In summary my findings were:  
I didnt agree with Falcon that the complaint should be dismissed. Falcons 
calculations may have indicated that Mrs B hadnt suffered  any loss, at least  on the 
Invesco VCT itself.  But shed  argued that shed incurred borrowing costs  to invest. 
And even if there was no financial loss that didnt  mean we wouldnt consider a 
complaint about suitability, even if we didnt make an award for financial loss. Nor did 
I agree  that it would be more suitable for the complaint to be dealt with by a court.  
I didnt think Mrs Bs complaint should  be combined with her husbands complaint 
about his investment  in the Invesco  VCT. 
Falcons recommendation  to invest in the Invesco  VCT wasnt suitable for Mrs B.
From  what Id seen I couldnt be sure that Mrs B had borrowed to fund the 
investment. But even if she had, there was nothing to suggest Falcons adviser  
suggested borrowing  or knew about it. So I didnt  think Falcon  was responsible  for 
any losses incurred in respect of the borrowing.
I upheld the complaint saying that if Mrs B hadnt been advised to invest in the Invesco VCT 
she wouldnt  have invested  it anywhere else and it would have remained in her [bank] 
account. 
Falcon had undertaken a calculation which indicated that Mrs B hadnt suffered a financial 
loss as a result of the advice. And it appeared that Mrs B could sell her holding in the 
Invesco VCT if she wished to do so. So I didnt make any award for financial loss. But I said 
Mrs B had suffered  distress and inconvenience  as a result of the unsuitable advice she 
received. I said Falcon should pay her £350  previously  recommended by our service.
Falcon accepted  my provisional decision.  Mrs Bs representative said:
Mrs B had demonstrated that the adviser  had recommended that the investment in 
the Invesco VCT was financed with borrowed money. She didnt understand how a 
different conclusion could be drawn  from the evidence. The adviser had full 
knowledge of and advised on every  aspect of Mrs Bs finances. It was clear that she 
was unable to finance the investment other  than by borrowing. 
It appeared that I was minded to make a decision to the effect that Falcon  should  
indemnify Mrs B against any loss arising from the investment. Mrs B suggested I 
phrase my decision accordingly rather than accepting Falcons calculation as correct  
or current. The calculation was complex and involved volatile and fluctuating  NAV 
Ref: DRN33705922(net asset value). The breakeven to profit or loss is very sensitive and could  tip either 
way. As a result, whether or not a profit or loss has resulted cannot be determined  
until the decision has been issued. A decision assuming no loss would be prejudicial.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As to whether  Mrs B borrowed to make  the investment I set out in some  detail in my 
provisional decision the sequence of events and why I couldnt  be sure that Mrs Bs 
investment was funded by a loan.  Or, if it was, that Falcons adviser suggested that or even 
knew about it.  
I note what Mrs B says about the adviser  having  dealt with all of Mrs Bs financial matters  
and that Mrs B could  only have financed the investment by borrowing. I recognised, in my 
provisional decision, that Falcons adviser  needed  to know  where the money  for the 
investment was coming from in order to give suitable advice, including  about affordability,  
But I explained why, if the adviser didnt know that Mrs B was borrowing,  I didnt think any 
losses incurred in respect of the borrowing were Falcons responsibility. Thats  still my view.  
As to whether  any redress was due (apart from distress and inconvenience) I said that, from 
what Id seen, Mrs B hadnt suffered a financial loss. Thats  not the same as saying that 
Falcon should indemnify her against  any loss she might incur.  Nor was there any 
requirement for Falcon  to revisit its calculations as at the date of my final decision. 
Mrs Bs representative has said that Falcon has made errors in the past.  But hes not pointed  
to any specific issues with the calculation that Falcon has undertaken. Most  of the source  
data is publically available information.  I agree that the calculation  is complex.  But weve  
checked it again and although the share price and the NAV had reduced it still resulted in an 
overall gain, albeit slightly reduced. 
And, if Mrs B wishes to sell her holding, the timing of the matter  is down to her (albeit there 
may be other considerations, such as taxation).  
All in all I still dont think any award  for financial loss (or an indemnity) is warranted.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. 
The Falcon Group Limited should pay Mrs B £350  for the distress  and inconvenience caused 
by its unsuitable  advice. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3370592