K822xcomplaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  him two payment protection insurance  (PPI) 
policies taken out with loans in 1994  and 1999.
background 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the loans were  mis-sold.  Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators 
findings so the complaint was passed to me.
In March 2019 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold Mr Ms complaint,  my main  
reasons were:
After taking everything into account I thought  it is most likely the PPI policies were  presented  
to Mr M as being optional  and he chose to buy them. And even if Nationwide had given Mr M 
all the clear information it shouldve, I still think he would have gone ahead and taken out the 
policies. 
Which meant I didnt think Nationwide had to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI policy sold in 1999  to Mr M 
because: 
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mr M about  that. 
Because Nationwide didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and in my provisional  findings I 
said that thought that offer was fair in this case.
Both parties  have confirmed they received my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Neither Nationwide nor Mr M have replied  with any new information or comments.  So I see 
no reason to change  the findings  I set out in my provisional decision.
what Nationwide needs to do
For the 1999 PPI policy  Nationwide  should  pay back to Mr M the extra he paid each month 
on the loan because the commission and profit  share was more  than 50% of the PPI 
Ref: DRN34201152premium - including any extra Mr M paid if the loan was paid off early.  Nationwide  should 
also pay Mr M 8%* simple  interest on the extra paid each  month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back  the tax if he 
doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that:
The PPI sold in 1994 wasnt mis-sold  and I make no award against Nationwide Building 
Society.
The 1999  PPI policy wasnt mis-sold   so Nationwide does  not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But for the 1999 PPI only Nationwide Building  Society does have to pay back to Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Steve Thomas 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34201153copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr M says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him two payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out with loans in 1994 and 1999.
background
Our adjudicator didnt think the loans were mis-sold.  Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators findings so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Having done so Im not intending to find the policies were mis-sold. Ill explain why.
the 1994  sale
Nationwide hasnt been able to send  all the paperwork  from the time of the sale and has limited  
information about where the sale took place. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the 
time that has gone by since the sale took place.  But where there is limited information, I will make  my 
decision based on whats more likely  to have happened, taking into account  the evidence  available, 
what  both  parties  have  told me and what we know about these types of sale.
The loan was for £6,000 and was intended to be repaid over five years. The PPI policy sold with the 
loan was paid for with regular, monthly premiums  of £27.89.  If Mr M had lost his job it couldve paid a 
monthly benefit of £156.08 for up to 12 months. If Mr M had an accident or became too unwell to work 
it could have  paid the monthly  benefit until Mr M returned to work or the loan term ended.
Mr M told us the PPI policy was sold to him during a branch meeting. Hes said that he was put under 
pressure to purchase the PPI.  
Nationwide hasnt been able to show us the actual paperwork completed at the time but its shown  us 
a copy of the type of credit  agreement it says was in use in 1994. I note the example form is from 
1996, but from what I know  of the way Nationwide  sold loans at the time that its likely  to be the same 
or similar to the one Mr M saw.
The PPI premium  is set out separately to the loan repayments  on the form and is described  as 
optional. So from the example credit agreement it looks like Mr M was given a choice.
I also note that the premiums for the PPI would have been taken  by a separate direct debit to the 
loan, and paid directly to the insurance company. And he would have received separate  
correspondence from the insurer. So if Mr M only took the PPI to obtain the loan, or felt under 
pressure at the time he could  have  questioned the policy premiums or cancelled it at any time.  But 
Ive not seen  any evidence that he tried to do so.
I cant  know  exactly what  was said during the meeting in 1994.  But from what Ive seen I think its 
most likely Mr M was made aware  the policy was optional  and he chose to take it out  although  after 
nearly 25 years I can understand if Mr M cant remember this.
I dont think Nationwide would have given Mr M a personal recommendation to buy the PPI policy  so it 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr M got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Ref: DRN34201154Its possible the information Nationwide  gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he was interested  in this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so he would have  been able to make a claim and the 
policy would have been useful for him if something went wrong. 
Mr M has said he didnt need the PPI as he wouldve  received sick pay from work if he was unable to 
work. But this particular  PPI couldve paid a benefit in addition to any sick pay and potentially for 
much longer than Mr Ms sick pay would last. 
Mr M did have  some  savings, but he was taking out a loan so it looks like his savings were something 
he wanted to keep intact, and the PPI policy would allow him to do that if he were  unable to work.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr M off taking out the cover. 
So taking everything into account I think its likely  the PPI policy was presented to Mr M as being 
optional and he chose  to buy it. And even if Nationwide  had given Mr M all the clear information it 
shouldve, I still think he would have gone ahead and taken  out the policy. So I dont intend to uphold 
Mr Ms complaint about  the 1994 policy.
the 1999  PPI policy
The PPI sold with the 1999 loan was funded by a single premium of £1,360.14 which  was added  to 
the loan of £10,650, meaning Mr M borrowed  £12,010.14 in total.  The loan was to be repaid over 48 
months.
Nationwide has been able to show us more paperwork from the 1999 sale.
Nationwide has shown us a fax dated March  1999 from Mr M to Nationwide.  The fax begins, Please 
find attached a top-up loan application. The fax is signed by Mr M.
Nationwide has also shown us the loan application form which I can see was faxed to Nationwide on 
the same day. The application has been completed by hand and signed  by   Mr M.
So it looks like Mr M applied for the 1999 loan by completing an application form and then faxing it to 
Nationwide.
On the second page of the loan application under the heading Protecting Your Repayments,  a box 
has been ticked beside a statement that reads:
YES, I would like to take advantage of the peace of mind offered  by LoanCare  Cover Payment 
Protection Cover in the event  that I am unable to work  due to involuntary unemployment, accident, 
sickness or death.
Mr M has signed immediately below this wording.
There is a separate box beside a statement that begins, NO, I do not want  to take advantage  of 
LoanCare Payment Protection Cover.   This box has been  left blank and Mr M has not signed  the 
statement.
Similar to the example credit  agreement from the 1994 sale, the cost of the PPI is set out separately 
on the 1999 credit agreement and the PPI is described as optional.
Ref: DRN34201155So taking everything into account I think Nationwide made it clear  the PPI was optional and Mr M 
chose to take it out.
As Mr M completed the application form himself and faxed it to Nationwide,  I dont think Nationwide 
gave Mr M advice. So it didnt  have  to check if it was right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M 
got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide  gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But I think he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he was interested  in this type of cover.  
Mr Ms circumstances  had not changed substantially  since 1994.  Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances in 1999  it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so he would have been able to make  a claim and the policy  would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. 
Mr M had changed employer since 1994 and his new employer also paid sick pay. But the PPI 
couldve paid a benefit in addition to any sick pay and until Mr M returned to work  or the loan term 
ended. 
Mr M did have  some  savings, but he was taking out a loan so it looks like his savings were something 
he wanted to keep intact, and the PPI policy would allow him to do that if he were  unable to work.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put Mr M off taking out the cover. 
So taking everything into account I think its likely  the 1999 PPI policy  was presented to Mr M as being  
optional and he chose  to buy it. And even if Nationwide  had given Mr M all the clear information it 
shouldve, I still think he would have gone ahead and taken  out the policy. 
Which means Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Nationwide will pay back  some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
When the policy was sold, Nationwide  expected  to get a high level of commission and profit  share  
(more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr M about that. Because  Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide has basically  offered  to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
what Nationwide needs to do
For the 1999  PPI policy Nationwide should pay back to Mr M the extra he paid each month on the 
loan because  the commission and profit share was more  than 50% of the PPI premium - including any 
extra Mr M paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide should also pay Mr M 8%* simple  interest 
on the extra paid each month.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to make the following final decision.
The PPI sold in 1994 wasnt mis-sold and I make no award against Nationwide  Building Society.
Ref: DRN34201156The 1999 PPI policy wasnt  mis-sold  so Nationwide  does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr M.
But for the 1999 PPI only Nationwide Building  Society does have to pay back to Mr M any 
commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3420115