K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Welcome Financial Services Limited  mis-sold him payment protection insurance  
(PPI) when he took out a loan in May 2004.
background
Mr B applied for a loan in 2004.  Mr B took out PPI with the loan at the same time.  
The PPI was designed to pay a monthly benefit  equivalent to Mr Bs loan repayment if he 
could not work due an accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Mr B says he was told he wasnt given a fair choice about whether to add the PPI to the 
loan. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. Mr B disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so his complaints  been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Welcome has been able to show us copies  of the paperwork that was completed  in May 
2004 when Mr B applied for the loan and was sold the PPI.
I can see that the credit agreement for the loan refers to the PPI as optional payment  
protection insurance. And the premium for the PPI is set out separately to the main  loan.       
I can see that elsewhere on the credit agreement there is a statement that the PPI was 
voluntary and not a condition of the loan. Welcome has also shown us a copy  of a customer  
declaration form which  includes details of the PPI and has been signed by Mr B.
Whilst I cant know what was said to Mr B during the meeting, the paperwork from the time 
suggests the optional nature of the policy was made clear.  Taking  into account everything 
Ive seen I think its most likely Welcome told Mr B he didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
he chose to buy it. Although I can understand why he might  not recall  this after so many 
years.
Because it looks like the PPI was sold in a face to face meeting, I think  its most likely  
Welcome recommended Mr B buy it. That means  it had to make sure it was right for him. 
And from what Ive seen it looks like it was.
I can see Mr B was eligible for the policy. It didnt cover some things. But it doesnt look as if 
these wouldve affected Mr B. For example he didnt have any medical conditions that 
wouldnt be covered.
Mr B has told us he was entitled  to some sick pay from his employer if he couldnt  work due 
to ill health. But this particular policy couldve paid out a monthly benefit in addition  to any 
sick pay and until Mr B returned to work or the loan was repaid. And it couldve  paid out for 
Ref: DRN35304302up to 12 months if Mr B lost his job. So I think Mr B wouldve found the policy useful  if things 
went wrong.
Mr Bs representative has told us the purpose of the loan was to buy a car and the term of 
the loan was 36 months. The PPI policy was paid for with a single premium upfront which 
was added to the loan.  I note that if Mr B cleared the loan early he wouldnt have got a 
proportionate rebate so he may have  lost out. But Ive not seen any evidence  that Mr B 
intended to repay the loan early or that he had a history of doing so. So I dont think the early  
cancellation terms made the policy  unsuitable  for him.
 
As well as making sure the policy was right for him, Welcome should  also have given Mr B 
clear information about the policy so he could decide whether to buy it. Its possible 
Welcome didnt give Mr B all the information  it shouldve done. But I think its likely  he 
agreed to buy the policy and was interested in this type of cover.  And as the policy appears 
to have been right for him, I dont think any clearer information wouldve put Mr B off taking it 
out. So I dont  think hes lost out because  of anything Welcome  mightve done wrong.  
Mr B has said he did try to claim on the policy  once  when  he left his job, but was told it would 
only cover  him if he was made redundant. Ive looked at the terms and conditions  of the 
policy and it covered Mr B against  involuntary redundancy which  is what Id expect this type 
of policy  to cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint, and I make no award against 
Welcome Financial Services  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3530430