K821x#15complaint
Mr M is complaining about  the way Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) handled a claim he 
made on his car insurance policy. 
background 
Mr M was involved in an accident where  his car was damaged.  So he contacted Tesco  to claim 
on his car insurance  policy. Tesco arranged for his car to go to one of its approved repairers.  
The repairer said that it was likely to cost more  to fix the car than it was worth,  so Tesco  initially  
said that it would settle the claim by paying Mr M the cars  market value, less his excess.  Tesco 
says Mr M initially said that, due to his disability, hed like to keep  his car. Tesco then agreed  to 
repair it. Mr M says that Tesco assured him that the car would  be repaired back to the condition 
it was before the accident. So he says he agreed  to have it repaired.
However, when the car was returned to him, Mr M says that there was additional paintwork 
damage. He also said that there  was an issue with the steering. Tesco  said that the cars  
steering rack needed replacing  which it arranged  to do. It also said it would pay Mr M the 
amount it would cost to rectify the paintwork to enable him to get the work  done himself.
Mr M says that when he received the car back it continued to have  steering  issues. Tesco 
arranged for a further inspection to be carried out on the car. But the inspection said that the 
cars tracking was within tolerance.  So it didnt  think there was any further work needed.  
Mr M then arranged  for his own inspection  to be carried  out at his expense. Tesco  agreed  to 
refund this cost.  Mr M says that Tesco and the engineer told him that it wasnt  possible to 
return the car back to the condition it was before the accident. Mr M is unhappy with this as 
he says he would never have agreed to the repairs had he known this at the outset. And he 
says he would have  asked to receive  the cars market value as a settlement so he could  
have bought a replacement car.
Shortly after this, Mr M says that the cars  head gasket failed. And he thinks that this was 
related to the accident. He reported the issue to Tesco who said it would arrange for the 
engineer to discuss the matter with him. But Tesco says that he didnt do so. Tesco  says that 
it left a number of messages with Mr M and it advised him to contact  the engineer directly 
and it gave him his direct  number. But it says that he didnt do so.
Mr M referred his complaint to this service.  He also reported an issue with the boot as he 
says it had started leaking.
Our adjudicator said that we couldnt  look at whether it was fair for Tesco to repair the car or 
not because she said Tesco  had issued a final response letter  on this issue in October 2017 
giving Mr M six months to refer the complaint to this service. And she said Mr M didnt bring  
it in time. 
The adjudicator thought  we could look at Mr Ms complaint  about  the way Tesco  had 
repaired Mr Ms car. She thought it should  pay him £150 for the distress and inconvenience  
in not repairing the car fairly  at the outset  in particular in respect to the steering rack. She 
also thought that Tesco  should  arrange an independent inspection  of the car to assess  
whether the issue  with the gasket was likely  to have been related to the accident.
Ref: DRN37779642Mr M didnt  think  this was fair because  he said that, due to his disability,  he hadnt been  able 
to bring his complaint in time. He also said that this issue was linked to the complaint  about 
the repairs because  he didnt know Tesco couldnt  fully repair  the car until after the final 
response letter was issued. He also said that he didnt  receive  Tescos  response.
Mr M also didnt  think £150 was fair compensation. He said he was around £2,000 out of 
pocket as hed had to pay to have  the head gasket replaced and other repairs.  He maintains 
that Tesco should have just paid him the cars  market value and never done any repair work.
Tesco accepted  the adjudicators findings.
As Mr M didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  the complaints been  passed to me to 
investigate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partially  uphold  this complaint for the same reasons as the investigator.
was it fair for Tesco to repair  Mr Ms car?
The rules  that this service  must follow are set by the Financial Conduct Authority and are set 
out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. And this also explains the time limits in which a 
complaint must be brought to this service. DISP  2.8.2  says that this service cant  consider a 
complaint which  is brought more than six months after the business final response.
Our rules say that a final response  letter  is a written response where the business sets out 
its decision. The letter  will also explain that the consumer can refer the complaint to this 
service, but they must do so within six months.
Tesco issued a final response letter to Mr M on 5 October  2017  addressing  his concerns that it 
had chosen to repair the car. So Mr M had six months to bring this aspect of his complaint to 
this service  i.e. he needed  to have brought it to us by 5 April 2017. But he didnt do so. I note 
Mr M says that he didnt receive  that letter, but I can see that some  of the emails that Tesco  
sent Mr M, which he provided to this service, referred to this letter.  So, Im satisfied that he was 
aware of this letter so he could  have  asked Tesco to resend  it to him if he hadnt received it.
Our rules also say we can consider the complaint if there were exceptional circumstances 
that prevented  Mr M from bringing the complaint  within  six months. Ive taken Mr Ms 
comments into account about the impact  his disability was having  on him. But I can see that 
he was in continual  communication with Tesco during that time. So I cant say that this 
stopped him from being able to bring the complaint to this service in time.
Given this, I have to conclude that Mr M has brought this aspect of his complaint to us too 
late. And I dont think we can consider  it.
quality of the repairs
While I cant look at whether it was fair for Tesco to repair Mr Ms car or not, Tescos  final 
response letter didnt  address Mr Ms concerns  about the way it repaired his car. So I am 
able to consider  this aspect of his complaint.
Ref: DRN37779643Under the terms of the contract, Tesco was required to repair  any damage caused by the 
accident. Mr M has highlighted a number of issues with the repairs.  Tesco  has accepted that 
it needed to repair the issues Mr M raised with the paintwork and replace the steering rack. 
So I dont  need  to assess whether it was liable for these issues or not. But I have thought  
about the impact  this has had on Mr M.
Mr M is unhappy  with how long it took Tesco  to acknowledge responsibility for this. And he 
said it took Tesco a number of weeks to accept  this. But I dont think it did. Tesco was 
entitled to investigate the matter to assess whether the damage being claimed for was 
caused by the accident  or the actions of the garage. I can see that Tesco  agreed  to carry out 
the repairs around a week  after Mr M raised his concerns about the quality  of the repairs. 
And it provided him with a hire car while the car was being repaired.  So I dont think it did 
take an unreasonable amount of time.  But I think this matter did cause Mr M some distress  
and inconvenience.  
Mr M doesnt think Tesco has returned  the car to the condition it was in before the accident. 
In particular hes highlighted  that the cars  now pulling to the left and the head gasket failed. 
But I havent seen  enough to support that these issues are down to the accident  or a poor 
repair. It should be noted that Mr Ms car was around  nine years  old. And it had travelled 
over 100,000 miles before  the accident. So I think its likely that there may have been some 
parts that would have been  suffering from wear  and tear.
I note the adjudicator has recommended  that a further inspection  would  be warranted. But I 
understand that Mr M has had the head  gasket repaired. So a further  inspection  wont  assist  
with this. I think its unlikely that the accident could have damaged  the gasket. And, taking  
into account the number of miles  the car had travelled, I think  its most likely this issue  was 
present or developing before the accident  and it failed due to wear  and tear. So I cant  say 
that Tesco is required to fix this issue.
Im also not persuaded that the issue with the car pulling  to the left is down to the accident. 
Im conscious that both Tesco  and Mr M have paid for reports  to be done on the car. Neither  
report has revealed any issues  with the repairs. And theyve suggested  the cars tracking is 
in line with required tolerance. Tesco has agreed to arrange a further independent  inspection  
on the basis that both parties agree to abide by the findings. And I think  thats fair.
However, I agree with the adjudicator that I think Tesco could have done more  to investigate 
the issues with the gasket  when he reported it. Tesco  said that it had informed  Mr M that he 
needed to contact the engineer and it says he didnt do so. But I think Tesco  could have 
done more to advise Mr M what he needed to do. I can see that it had difficulties with 
contacting Mr M. But this was down  to his disability. Tesco  has said that it could have known 
that Mr M didnt like to use the telephone. And I dont  disagree with that. But it had had a lot 
of difficulty in contacting Mr M by telephone  throughout the claim. So I think  it should have 
done more than leave a voicemail with the engineers number. And I think  it should  have  
also written to Mr M explaining what he needed  to do. Although I do think  Mr M needs  to 
accept some responsibility for this as he could have  contacted the engineer directly himself.
So I do think  Tesco needs  to compensate  Mr M for the distress and inconvenience its 
caused Mr M in not repairing the car satisfactorily  the first time and in not communicating  
with Mr M fairly in respect  to the gasket. Tesco has since agreed to pay Mr M £150 in 
compensation and this in line with what I would have awarded. So I think its fair.
Ref: DRN37779644my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. 
And I require  Tesco  Underwriting  Limited to pay Mr M £150 in compensation. It should also 
arrange an independent inspection of Mr Ms car.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3777964