K822xcomplaint
Mr W, represented by a claims  management  company (CMC),  complains about the 
suitability of investing in a Guaranteed Investment  Bond  (GIB), as recommended by a 
predecessor of Santander UK Plc.
background 
Mr W was advised to start the bond  in 1998. At the time he was aged 60, earning around 
£16,000 a year and hed built up around  £13,000  in savings.  He was advised  to invest  
£10,000 of this into the GIB, which had a term of six years. It matured  in 2004, returning only 
the original £10,000 to Mr W. 
Santander was initially of the view that the recommendation had been  suitable for Mr Ws 
needs and circumstances, primarily on the basis of the capital guarantee and the potential  of 
the GIB to perform better than a deposit account. 
Our adjudicator disagreed, concluding that with Mr W having such limited  funds and the term 
of the GIB going into his retirement, it wasnt suitable to recommend that he took any degree 
of risk with his money. In response, Santander acknowledged  these  concerns and made an 
offer to partly compensate  Mr W, on the basis that he shouldve been  advised to invest a 
smaller proportion of his savings  £5,000. 
This offer was put to Mr Ws CMC but it wasnt accepted. And as the adjudicator remained of 
the view that the recommendation  of the GIB was entirely unsuitable,  the matters  been 
referred to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons. 
In short,  I dont think Mr W was in a position to take any risk with his money. He had only a 
modest income and was approaching retirement.  Hed never invested before, having 
apparently kept what hed managed  to save in a standard Instant Saver type account.
In these circumstances I fail to see why he would  have wanted to run the risk of tying up his 
money for a term that would most likely take him into his retirement. And then potentially  
return to him an amount  worth less in real terms than hed started out with. 
I accept there was the possibility that if the FTSE Share index on which the GIBs return  was 
based had performed positively over the six year term Mr W wouldve made a healthy return  
of up to 80% in total on his investment. But in 1998 returns  from fixed rate products were 
also pretty  healthy   the Bank of England base rate was at 6.75% when Mr W invested.  
While I acknowledge theres a lack of documentary evidence available  from the sale,  the 
promotional leaflet for the product, while highlighting that only the original capital may be 
returned, doesnt really  stress this as a risk as such  that the value of the invested money 
may be significantly eroded in real terms. So it seems  reasonable to conclude that the sale 
of the product was probably based upon  a similar explanation of how the GIB worked. 
Ref: DRN39606692In respect of Santanders  offer to part compensate  Mr W, I think that even if it had only 
recommended investing  £5,000, rather than £10,000, my conclusions  would still be the 
same. I dont think Mr W was really in a position to do anything other than obtain the 
maximum guaranteed  return on his limited funds as he approached retirement.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr W 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice. 
I take the view that Mr W would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given  Mr W's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Santander do?
To compensate Mr W fairly, Santander must:
Compare the performance of Mr W's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Santander  should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional 
interest
GIB maturedaverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Santander 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Ref: DRN39606693why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because: 
Mr W wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  given Mr W's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mr W would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to compensate Mr W as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3960669