K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 18 August 2020. The background and
circumstances of the case and the reasons I was minded to uphold it were  set out in that
decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to
consider. 
Alexander David Securities Limited  didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.  
Mr R said he had nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision attached, my final decision is that I uphold  
Mr Rs complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr R as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN34878842Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr R has complained about  the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background  to the complaint was set out by the investigator in her assessment. In summary, she 
explained that Mr R had said he was cold called by representatives of St Pauls and offered a pension 
review which  he accepted. Mr R said he spoke to the representative on the phone, and they advised  
him to go into the SIPP.
Mr R received a letter from another firm who the investigator understood was involved  in the 
administration of the transfer on 5 May 2016. The letter  said,  amongst other things
 
 "We have information from St Pauls Marketing in relation to an investment you wish to make.  We 
understand you wish to transfer an existing  pension(s)  to fund this investment and that in order to do 
this you have  chosen to apply for the [SIPP]" 
The same  letter contained an application form for the SIPP  and a form to open a stockbroking 
account. Mr R completed and returned the forms. Mr R had two personal  pensions with different 
pension providers. One plan was invested in a UK Equity Index 10 Year  Lifestyle fund and the other in 
a Managed fund. Both plans  were subsequently transferred to the SIPP in early June 2016 with a total 
of £18,795 being transferred. An account with a discretionary fund manager  (DFM) was opened  and 
just under £18,000 was used to buy Just Bridging Loan debentures.
Mr R, through his representative,  complained to Alexander David in August 2018.  I  understand 
Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint.  The representative subsequently 
referred it to us.
Our investigator asked  Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it wanted us to 
take into account. Alexander David said the transaction came through  Mr Rs Independent Financial 
Adviser and was arranged on an execution only basis. It also said Mr R received a 30% cashback on 
the transaction. The investigator said it appeared Alexander David was referring to the circumstances 
of another client  not Mr R. Alexander David provided no further evidence or arguments. 
The investigator said Mr R had provided  a copy of a letter from St Pauls Marketing dated  31 March 
2016 that confirmed they were gathering  information on one of Mr Rs pensions.  The SIPP  provider 
had also confirmed it was St Pauls Marketing who were the introducing  firm. And this was consistent 
with the letter from the other firm involved  in the administration of the transfer dated 5 May 2016.
The investigator noted  Mr R had said St Pauls Marketing had reviewed  his existing pension  plans with 
the prospective Just Loans investment and said the Just Loans investment was performing much  
better. She said given it was clear that St Pauls Marketing had requested ceding information from one 
of Mr Rs pension schemes she thought Mr Rs version of events rung true. She thought  the review  of 
the returns  of the two schemes would constitute a recommendation because  such a comparison was 
always likely to show  that one investment was 'better' than the other.  She said it was difficult to 
imagine a discussion  about  two competing investments without St Pauls  Marketing recommending 
that the 'better' performing one, in this case Just Loans,  be taken.
She said Mr R had said this was what had happened. The two prospective investments were  specific 
to Mr R, because it involved  looking at the performance of his plans in relation  to his objectives. So 
the investigator thought St Pauls had made a personal recommendation to Mr R.
Ref: DRN34878843The investigator said Mr R was a relatively inexperienced investor in 2016.  The two plans constituted  
his entire pension  provision. He had no other investments and only had cash savings accounts  in the 
past.
The Just Loans investment  was issued by a single company which she understood was concerned 
entirely with peer to peer lending and was first incorporated in December 2014.  So when St Pauls  
Marketing approached Mr R it had only been in existence for about eighteen months.  She said it was 
a new company in a fledgling industry, and Mr Rs entire retirement provision had been invested into 
it.
The investigator said this magnified  the degree of risk that Mr R was taking. Mr R said that he had told 
St Pauls  that he was planning to access his pension in a years time. The investigator thought  Mr R 
would only have been willing to take an extremely  cautious  investment risk given his proximity to 
when he wanted  to access these funds. However  the Just Loans investment was speculative and 
unsuitable.
The investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. She sent her assessment of it to 
Alexander David. However it didnt provide  a response. The investigator subsequently wrote to both 
parties on 4 February  2020  explaining that the complaint would be passed  to an ombudsman for 
review and to make a final decision.   No further evidence  or arguments have been provided.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt respond  to Mr Rs original complaint. Neither did it co-operate  with
our investigation. Theres only very limited evidence  available to establish what happened at the time 
of the transaction.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Mr Rs recollection  of
events. Alexander  David hasnt disputed what Mr R said in his complaint to it, or
what the investigator said in her assessment.
Im also mindful  that this is one of a number of complaints  we have received and which I
have seen against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature, involving seemingly
similar circumstances and the same investments.
Clearly I need  to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided in each
particular case. But Ive noted that what  Mr R has said about St Pauls role is consistent  with
what other complainants  have described. So I think what he has said is plausible.  And taking  
everything into account, I have found  it credible. 
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence  that is available that St Pauls Marketing was involved 
from the outset.  Following its input Mr R subsequently transferred his pension to the SIPP and 
invested in the debentures. In my experience  its unusual  for someone of Mr Rs background  and 
experience to want to transfer an existing  pension in order to invest in this type of investment  without 
prompting. I think it was unlikely to have  happened  without the involvement  of St Pauls. Im satisfied 
that it initiated the transfer  and investment in the debenture. It was aware  of where the investment 
was going to be made  and facilitated it. 
Mr R has said he was contacted by St Pauls Marketing and they advised him to switch his existing 
pensions to the SIPP. He said he was promised  returns of 8.25%  and 8.75%  per annum. He said St 
Pauls Marketing didnt  explain the risks of undertaking the transfer.    And that given his lack of 
investment experience the risks should have been clearly identified to him but werent.  The firm hasnt 
disputed this. In all the circumstances and on the balance  of the limited evidence that is available, I 
think its more  likely  than not that St Pauls did advise Mr R to transfer and invest  in the debentures.  
Ref: DRN34878844And given  the significant  risks presented  by the investment I dont think it was suitable  for Mr R in his 
circumstances.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr R I think the evidence  shows it was 
involved in arranging the transaction. It was the promoter for the debenture,  but Im
satisfied, on the limited  evidence available,  that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved  in 
arranging the investment. 
My understanding is that the debentures were a non-readily realisable security.  Conduct of Business  
Rule (COBS) 10 said:
This chapter applies to a firm which  arranges or deals  in relation to a non-readily realisable
security, derivative or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware,  or ought
reasonably to be aware, that the application  or order is in response  to a direct offer financial
promotion.
COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess  Mr Rs knowledge and experience in the investment 
field relevant  to the specific type of product or service offered or demand so that it could assess 
whether the debentures  were appropriate for Mr R. 
The investigator said Mr R had no significant  investment knowledge or experience of
making investments of this nature and Alexander David  hasnt disputed  this. And Ive seen no 
evidence of Mr R having a history of making this type of investment. 
The debenture  presented significant risks and was speculative. In my view it wasnt appropriate for Mr 
R given his background, knowledge and experience  and this should have been clear to St Pauls 
Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances  of the transaction into account, I also dont think  the firm treated Mr R 
fairly or acted  in his best interests as required by the FCAs Principles and COBS 2.1.1. Im satisfied 
that if St Pauls  hadnt advised Mr R to transfer and invest  in the debentures or if it had told him it 
wasnt appropriate for him, he wouldnt have transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls failures caused  Mr R to transfer and invest in a
product that he would  otherwise not have  invested  into. It follows that Im satisfied its failures  caused 
the losses  that Mr R has claimed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I intend to order Alexander David
Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr R on the following  basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr R as close as possible to the 
position he would probably now be in if he had been  given suitable advice. I dont think  he would have 
transferred, but I think  Mr R would have invested differently given  his proximity to his intended 
retirement date. Its not possible to say precisely what he would  have done, but I am satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Rs circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr R fairly  Alexander David should:
Ref: DRN34878845Compare the performance  of Mr Rs investment with that of the benchmark  shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual  value , there is a loss and compensation 
is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no compensation  is payable.  
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities  Ltd should pay into Mr Rs pension  plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should  allow  for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David  Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Rs pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should  be calculated  using 
Mr Rs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement age.
I think  Mr R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at his selected retirement  age, so the reduction should 
equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr R would have been  able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition,  Alexander  David  should:
Pay Mr R £250 for the distress and inconvenience the disruption to his retirement  
planning has caused. 
Provide details of the calculation  to Mr R in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David  Securities Ltd considers  
that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Mr R how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr R a tax deduction  certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)    to
(end date)additional 
interest
SIPP Funds 
withdrawnthe average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate  of 
transferDate the 
funds were 
withdrawn  
from the 
SIPP 8% simple a
year from the end 
date to the date of 
settlement 
Ref: DRN34878846Actual value
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges  incurred  within the plan 
on transfer, would have been worth at the end date had they grown in line with the
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Alexander David  
Securities Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published  by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month.  Those  rates should  be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value  calculation from the
point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted from the fair
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from
that point  on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mr Rs representative has said he was a low risk investor. And Mr R was approaching his intended 
retirement date. I dont  think Mr R would have transferred with suitable  advice. But its not possible to 
say exactly  how he would have invested. So I think  the index outlined above is an appropriate 
benchmark as I think its a reasonable proxy  for the low level of risk that Mr R was willing  and able to 
take given his proximity to retirement date.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3487884