K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr D took out a PPI policy in 2001 at the same time as he applied  for a secured  loan in one 
of the banks branches. He paid a monthly amount for it and the policy  gave him accident,  
sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr D says he did not consent to PPI. I cant know what was said in the meeting but Ive 
thought carefully  about what Mr Ds comments  and looked at the paperwork from the 
sale. On Mr Ds loan agreement it gave  the options to select or to decline PPI side-by-
side, and Mr D indicated that he wanted it. The cost of the PPI was also set out 
separately. The bank cant provide Mr Ds loan application form but Ive seen a sample of 
the document that he is most likely  to have completed. This gave the option  to sign a 
separate section  to say Yes he wanted  to apply  for PPI, or No.
Overall, I think Halifax made it clear the PPI was optional and Mr D chose to take it out. I 
can understand he might not remember this given how long ago the sale was.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr D. I know he feels  strongly  he did not need it. But I 
think it seems  to have been  right for him based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time.  He was entitled to six months full pay and six months  half pay if he was sick 
but the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 60 months for accident and sickness  claims, in 
addition to his work  benefits. It also gave him up to 12 months  unemployment cover.    
Mr D told us he had savings and investments  worth between  six and eleven  months  
salary. But the PPI would have allowed him to use any cash savings to cover other living 
expenses whilst  not working, or to keep them intact  for his future needs. I wouldnt 
consider the investments he held as stocks and shares to be suitable  alternative 
protection as their value can vary, so money may not be available  when needed.  Mr D 
was borrowing quite  a large  amount of money  over a long time, secured against  his 
home. So overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr D if he was sick or lost his 
job.
Ref: DRN36867432Its possible  Halifax didnt give Mr D all the information he needed before deciding  to buy 
PPI. The cost was clear  on the loan agreement.  But I dont know if the bank pointed  out 
the main  things  the policy didnt  cover. However  Mr D doesnt appear  to have been 
affected by any of the main  exclusions. So I dont  think better  information  about the policy  
wouldve changed his mind  about buying it.
It follows I dont think Mr D has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3686743