K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) pressured  her into 
setting up a payment  plan while  she was suffering with mental  health  issues.  Miss R also 
complains that Barclaycard recorded a default  against her as she didnt keep to the payment 
arrangement. 
background
Miss R says she first contacted Barclaycard in September 2017 to explain she was 
vulnerable because of mental health  issues shed been experiencing following the death of a 
close family member. Miss R wasnt able to maintain her credit card payments. 
In March 2018 Miss R called Barclaycard  to discuss her options and explained she wanted  
to sort out the debt. The call handler advised the credit card was five months in arrears  at 
that stage and went through an income  and expenditure assessment with Miss R. A 
payment plan of £34 a month  was agreed and Barclaycard wrote to Miss R confirming that 
before the plan could be formally  arranged  she needed to make  two payments. The first 
payment of £34 was due on 26 March 2018  and the second was due on 7 April 2018.   
Miss R has explained  that she moved home  and that her mental  health  problems got worse  
so she wasnt able to commit  to making  payments.  As a result, Miss R didnt make both 
payments required  to set up the payment arrangement and Barclaycard wrote to her on 
27 April 2018 to explain that the account had been defaulted. 
Miss R contacted Barclaycard again on 25 July 2018 and discussed  a payment plan to repay 
the outstanding balance.  She went on to complain  as she thought Barclaycards decision to 
default the account wasnt fair as she was vulnerable at the time. Miss R also said shed 
been pressured into agreeing the payment plan in March 2018. 
Barclaycard didnt agree itd made an error  or treated Miss R unfairly so she referred  her 
complaint to this service  and an adjudicator looked  at it. They  thought Barclaycards decision 
to default the account was reasonable and that itd treated Miss R positively and 
sympathetically. Miss R didnt accept the adjudicators view so her complaints been passed 
to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from what shes told us that Miss R has been through  a very difficult  time. I 
understand how upsetting  it mustve been  to have found out her credit  card had been 
defaulted. Whilst I understand  why Miss R feels the decision to default her account isnt fair, 
I need to focus  on what  Barclaycard did and whether it treated her positively and 
sympathetically. 
When a customer tells their lender that theyre  vulnerable or experiencing financial difficulties 
the business should treat them positively and sympathetically. Im sorry to disappoint  Miss R 
but from what Ive seen Im satisfied  Barclaycard  did that. And I appreciate that Barclaycard 
Ref: DRN38819732took the decision to default Miss Rs account but I think  that was a reasonable step to take. 
Ill explain  why. 
Miss R told Barclaycard about  her mental  health issues and bereavement during 2017  and 
stopped making  payments to her account.  After  Miss R told Barclaycard about her 
circumstances it supressed collections activity and waived various charges and interest. 
Barclaycards systems show it spoke with Miss R in December 2017 and following the call 
continued to supress  interest rate increases and charges. From what  Ive seen I think this 
shows Barclaycard treated Miss R positively and sympathetically. 
Ive paid careful attention to Miss Rs call with Barclaycard  in March 2018 and thought about 
whether she was pressured into agreeing a payment  plan. Having listened to the call Im not 
persuaded pressure was placed on Miss R. From  what I heard, the call handler was 
understanding and explained Miss Rs options  at some length. She completed and income 
and expenditure  assessment to ensure any payment plan agreed was affordable and 
listened to Miss Rs comments. And whilst I appreciate Miss R says she was still in a 
vulnerable position at this time,  she told Barclaycard that she was working  and wanted to 
address the arrears on her account. Im sorry to disappoint Miss R but Ive not found any 
evidence of unreasonable pressure  being  place on her and I thought Barclaycard was trying 
to help. 
Whilst a lender is obliged to treat customers in financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically, that doesnt mean  it cant move to default an account if no way forward  is 
found. Miss R called Barclaycard in March 2018 and agreed a payment plan of £34 a month 
which would have been approved after the first two payments had been received. As Miss R 
didnt make the first two payments  I think Barclaycard was acting reasonably by taking the 
step of applying a default. Regular payments hadnt  been made  for around  six months,  Miss 
R had agreed a payment plan but not kept to its terms and no further contact had been 
made. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied Barclaycard acted reasonably by taking the 
decision to default  the account  at this time. 
Miss Rs told us she thinks  Barclaycard  shouldve  known she was still vulnerable when she 
called in March  2018. But having  listened to her call I think  Barclaycard acted reasonably by 
accepting what Miss R said when  she advised she wanted to address the debt and bring  the 
account back into order. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss R as I know shes been  through a really  difficult time but Im 
satisfied that Barclaycards  decision to default her account was fair and reasonable. As Ive 
not found any evidence of an error by Barclaycard Im not telling it to take any further action 
to resolve this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 1 March  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3881973