K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about Society of Lloyds  (Lloyds). 
background
Mr R held buildings cover on a property in Spain. Following an attempted claim Lloyds 
rejected the claim  and refused ongoing  cover due to poor build quality. Mr R complained to 
us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter but didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr R didnt 
accept this, so the case has been  passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the compliant either, for roughly  the same  reasons as the adjudicator. 
Mr Rs policy  clearly excludes problems  caused by faulty design or workmanship. Here 
Lloyds have provided reports that state the foundations of the property arent up to scratch, 
and the steel reinforcement of the concrete has been placed  external to the concrete rather  
than inside it. This seems  to me to be enough  proof that the design / workmanship condition 
has been breached, allowing Lloyds to decline the claim and not renew the policy.  
I appreciate Mr R has asked for some  extra information here about Spanish building  
requirements from the time the property was constructed. But, I dont think it is Lloyds'  job to 
provide this. Lloyds  has to show to a reasonable level that the property design  / build  was 
defective. I think they have done  so. Should Mr R wish to argue against  this it is he who 
must show that the building  was constructed adequately, including in accordance with any 
relevant building regulations. I dont think he has provided any persuasive  proof of this. It is 
not for Lloyds to make his case for him. 
my final decision
Based on the evidence  I have I make no award against Society of Lloyds. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3280817