K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (Bank  of Scotland) mis-sold him a packaged 
bank account  which it called the Ultimate  Reward  Current Account (URCA).
background
Mr M changed from a fee free bank account to an URCA in February 2010.
The URCA provided a range of benefits including phone  insurance, worldwide family travel 
insurance, car breakdown cover, home  emergency  cover and a fee free overdraft of up to 
£300.
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Ms complaint and didnt think  the URCA was mis-sold. Mr M 
disagrees so the case has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  and Ill explain why.
I've started by thinking  about whether Mr M was aware the URCA was optional and whether 
he was given a clear choice in taking  the account.
I think its more likely than not that he was and Ill explain why.
Mr M says he was told by Bank  of Scotland that getting the account was a privilege and it 
told him some things about it, but not that he had to pay a monthly fee for it. 
Whilst I dont doubt  Mr Ms honest recollections, I think  after the years that have elapsed, his 
memory is mistaken. I say this because although he says he only remembers  the mobile 
phone insurance  being mentioned by Bank of Scotland  in the conversation, I think  its more 
likely than not Bank of Scotland  told him about a lot more as it was trying to sell the account 
to him. And even  if hed not been told more, he did subsequently receive a welcome pack  
which has clear highlights  of the multiple  benefits and I think  its more  likely than not hed 
have noticed them. 
So I think he was aware he was receiving a substantial new product. He had previously had 
a fee free bank account with Bank  of Scotland, so he knew how such an account worked 
and what came with it. So I think its more likely than not that Mr M wouldnt  have expected 
to get an account  like the URCA  for nothing. The fees appeared every month on his 
statement, and I think its unlikely he wouldnt have noticed them. If he was unhappy with the 
account he could  have queried the fees and closed the account at any time. But he didnt 
and he still has the account.
So I think Mr M was aware he had a choice  and chose to take out the URCA and pay for it.
Ref: DRN37983742Bank of Scotland says that it didnt recommend the URCA or advise Mr M to take it, but Mr 
M says it did. Ive decided to look at this complaint as an advised sale as it is to Mr Ms 
advantage and doesnt affect the outcome of my decision. So, Bank of Scotland  needed to 
provide Mr M with sufficient information about  the URCA to make  an informed choice. And in 
recommending the URCA, it also needed to take adequate steps to ensure that the URCA 
was a reasonable fit for Mr Ms circumstances.
I dont know what was said at the time of the sale, but I think  the URCA was suitable for 
Mr M. I say this because he had a mobile phone, he regularly went on holiday and he could  
use the car breakdown assistance  and home  emergency cover. Mr M says he had 
alternative arrangements for some of these things. But it wouldve been for him to end that 
and use his account when he was ready. 
As I said above I think its more likely than not that Bank of Scotland  provided a lot of 
information to Mr M about the URCA as it was trying  to sell it to him. And for the reasons Ive 
given above I think it wouldve  been of interest to him. Bank  of Scotland has also provided 
evidence that he registered for the mobile  phone cover in 2010 and for subsequent years.
And from what Mr M has said about his personal  circumstances at the time he took out the 
account, there was nothing that would stop his taking advantage  of the URCAs benefits.
For completeness, Mr M says he tried to close the URCA account but was not allowed to do 
so. Ive not see any evidence to support this from Mr M or Bank of Scotland.  But Bank of 
Scotland has provided its contact record with Mr M and there is no mention  of such  a 
request on it. So I think its more likely than not that Mr Ms memory is incorrect  and he didnt 
make such  a request.
So in my view, Mr M knew he had a choice  about the URCA and decided to take it out. And 
the URCA was suitable for Mr M, and there was no information that he wasnt given that 
would have put him off buying  it.
So I dont  think he has lost out as result of anything Bank of Scotland  may have done wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3798374