K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 13 March 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
I didnt think the PPI policy was mis-sold. Which meant I didnt  think  YBS had to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs K.
But YBS had paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs K because:  
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  which it should  have  told Mr and Mrs K about. Because  YBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS paid back the amount of commission and profit  share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I thought that was fair in this case.
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any further  comments  or information 
that they wished for me to consider.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I now confirm those findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, the PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold. 
So Yorkshire Building Society does not have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy to 
Mr and Mrs K.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs K any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation. 
If Yorkshire Building Society  hasnt paid the compensation it should do so, ensuring it is 
brought up to date.
Ref: DRN32934662Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 May 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN32934663Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs K say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a PPI policy  with a mortgage  in 2001. The policy was free for the first six 
months. After that they paid a monthly amount  of £14.49 for the policy. The policy covered  them  for 
accident, sickness and unemployment with a maximum  claim benefit of 12 months per claim. The 
monthly benefit in the event of a successful claim was £300, split equally and had a 30 day excess 
(waiting) period.  
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. He considered  that as Mrs K had a medical  condition at the 
time of sale,  she might not have been able to claim for everything she would  expect to. So he thought 
YBSs recommendation  wasnt right. YBS disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ks case. 
Im not intending to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs K say they werent  given  any information about the PPI and if they knew it was optional 
they wouldnt have taken it out.
YBS has shown us copies  of Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage paperwork. Within the mortgage application  
that Mr and Mrs K have completed  and signed  for, there is a section called Your mortgage 
requirements and insurance needs.
Under this there is a section for PPI called  Mortgage Risk Payment.  And it states, Do you want  to 
add the Mortgage Risk Payment to your loan amount? There  are three options to choose from,  yes,  
no or N/A. I can see that yes has been  ticked and underneath it there is an additional handwritten 
sentence that says that it is free for the first six months.
A separate PPI application  form also had to be completed which Mr and Mrs K have signed. Within 
this they chose the level of benefit required - £300 and that it was to cover them  for accident,  sickness 
and unemployment when they could  have chosen accident and sickness only or unemployment  only. 
They also chose to split the benefit equally and with a waiting period of 30 days.
So overall, after taking  all the paperwork  into consideration, I think YBS made Mr and Mrs K aware  
that it was an optional  insurance and they had a choice  about  buying the PPI. And they chose to take 
it at the level they required.
YBS says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs K, so it had to provide them with enough 
information about the PPI so they could make an informed  choice as to whether they wanted it. But 
even if YBS had made  a formal recommendation for the policy it seems to have been right for them  
considering their circumstance at the time. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs K say they received 12 months full sick pay from their employers if they were  unable  to 
work because  of an accident  or sickness, so they didnt need the PPI.
Ref: DRN32934664But YBS has provided documentation that Mr and Mrs Ks employers  completed during  the mortgage 
application. Mrs Ks employer says that she received 12 weeks full sick pay followed by half pay for 
another 12 weeks. And Mr Ks employer  hasnt  completed the section about  sick pay. 
I think  it is unlikely that Mr K would have received  the level of sick pay he says he received. From 
what I know, and have seen  of employee benefits across a variety of industries, and given the length 
of time that Mr K had been employed I think it is unlikely that he would have received 12 months full 
sick pay at the time he applied  for the policy.   
Taking a mortgage is a large, long term financial commitment.  If repayments arent met borrowers 
stand to lose their home. The PPI would have covered the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months 
for each claim if Mr and Mrs K were unable  to work because  of sickness or if they lost their jobs.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K say they held some savings they could  have used  to meet 
repayments, but having  PPI meant they wouldnt have need  to use their savings.
All things considered, I think the policy  provided  a useful  benefit.  
The adjudicator considered that as Mrs K suffered from a medical condition  at the time it was possible 
that she would have been affected  by the exclusions relating to pre-existing medical  conditions. The 
adjudicator considered that had Mr and Mrs K been made aware of this they might not have taken out 
the policy.
Having thought about this and what Mrs K has said about her medical  condition  I disagree with the 
adjudicator. 
I say this because Mrs K has said that her condition  was controlled. So, whilst  Mrs K could have 
possibly been affected by the exclusion  meaning she couldnt claim  for his condition,  I dont think 
Mrs K would have thought  at the time that she would  have actually  needed to claim  for that condition 
or that she would be off work for 30 days, which was the excess (waiting)  period before  a claim could 
be submitted.
In response to this provisional decision if Mrs K wants to provide any further information about her 
medical condition she can do so.
Its possible YBS didnt  point out some of the other main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs 
K dont appear  to have been affected by any of those  things, so I dont think  more information about 
this would  have changed their minds  and stopped them from taking the policy.
I cant  be satisfied how clearly the cost of the policy was explained. But I havent seen anything to 
suggest that the PPI was unaffordable  or unsuitable  in Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances. And even if 
everything had been explained clearly, I think its likely that they still would  have bought it. I say this 
because it looks like the policy could have been useful to them as explained  above.
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs K.
But YBS has paid back  some of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs K because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it 
should have told Mr and Mrs K about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs K, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has paid back the amount of commission and profit  share  that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN32934665my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not currently planning on upholding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
I am provisionally minded  to say the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does 
not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI policy to Mr and Mrs K.
But Yorkshire  Building  Society  does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs K any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
I understand it has already  done this, so provisionally, I dont award  any further compensation. 
If Yorkshire Building Society hasnt paid the compensation it should  do so, ensuring  it is brought up to 
date.
I invite both parties to respond to my provisional decision by 13 April 2019. I will then consider 
anything further that anyone sends me and issue my final decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3293466