K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs E took out a mortgage with Santander in 1991.  Over the years she changed mortgage 
products and moved house. In 1998  she was sold a PPI policy  which she then cancelled  in 
May 2000. In 2002 she took out another PPI policy. The policy  would have covered the 
repayments on her mortgage  if she was made  redundant.
This complaint only concerns the PPI policy taken in 2002. Mrs E says that it was added  
without her knowledge or consent and that she didnt need  it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Es complaint should be upheld.  Mrs E disagrees,  so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Es case, 
which I appreciate will be disappointing  for her. Ill explain  why Ive made this decision.  
Mrs E says that the policy was added without her knowledge or consent. Mrs E has also 
intimated that the PPI was misrepresented as an indemnity policy  which wasnt optional.  
There arent many documents available from the time of sale.  Understandably, neither party 
has retained them given  the length of time since  the sale. Mrs E was required to complete a 
separate application form for the policy and a direct debit mandate  form. While there  are no 
remaining copies of these  documents, I dont think it would have been possible for the policy 
to be set up without  them. The PPI was a standalone product, so payment wasnt taken 
along with the mortgage payments.  
Santander explains that Mrs E was sent a Welcome  Pack  containing  a welcome  letter, 
schedule of cover and the policy  documents,  along with the details of the direct debit 
payments to be made. Santander has provided system notes to evidence this. I think its 
more likely than not that Mrs E did receive these. And if, for some reason, she hadnt agreed 
to buy the PPI she would have queried  it at this point. 
Santander has also provided evidence that Mrs E called the insurer as the policy was in the 
process of being  set up to change her cover  from accident, sickness  and unemployment, to 
unemployment alone. This indicates  Mrs E knew that the cover  was optional.
So, on the evidence  available  to me Im satisfied that Mrs E chose to buy the policy  knowing 
she didnt have to. 
In reference to the mention by Mrs E of a compulsory  indemnity policy,  I have discussed this 
with Mrs E and do not think it makes  a difference to this case.  I am satisfied  the PPI was not 
Ref: DRN36144132compulsory and there is no other evidence of any kind of insurance designed to meet 
Mrs Es mortgage repayments.  It is possible Mrs E refers  to a type of policy which  the 
consumer pays for but which protects  the lender from any default. But this is not what  I have 
looked at here and I have not seen  any evidence of its existence.
Santander says it would  have given Mrs E a personal recommendation about the PPI. So 
Santander would have had a duty to take reasonable steps  to make sure it was right for her. 
I cant know how Santander  went about this, but looking at Mrs Es circumstances at the time 
of sale, I think the recommendation was suitable.  I say this because:
Mrs E was eligible  for the PPI and wouldnt have been  affected by any terms which  
might have  made it more  difficult  for her to make a successful  claim, such  as those 
related to self-employment;
Mrs E would likely  have  received some  contractual  redundancy pay. But the policy  
would have paid out in addition  to this, and for up to a year at a time. So I think  it 
offered a useful  additional benefit;
Mrs E says she had substantial savings available  to her at the time of sale,  so she 
didnt need the policy. Mrs E has kindly  provided  evidence of her financial holdings, 
but unfortunately they only go back as far 2015. So I dont know what savings Mrs E 
had at the time of sale, although I think they were likely to be less than Mrs E now 
remembers. The policy would have paid out regardless of any savings Mrs E held, 
leaving her savings  to pay for other uninsured expenses she would  have had if she 
couldnt work;
The cost of the policy was comparable to similar cover available elsewhere in the 
market. It was flexible as it could be amended or cancelled  at any time without 
financial penalty, and Mrs E availed herself of this flexibility.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mrs E all the information she needed  about  the PPI. Im 
satisfied that Mrs E understood the policy would pay her a benefit if she was made 
redundant, but she may not have understood all the finer details. But I dont think  this would 
have made  a difference to her decision to buy the PPI because  it was suitable for her in the 
way Ive described above. So I dont  think Mrs E has lost out as a result  of anything 
Santander might have done  wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Es complaint so it follows  that Santander UK Plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3614413