K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about a chargeback under  section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
which has been declined  by MBNA  Limited.
background
This complaint concerns  a pair of trainers which Mr G purchased whilst abroad.  He says he 
tried the pair of trainers on in a shop and bought them.  However he says he required them  to 
be stretched so the merchant agreed to courier them to his hotel later on. Mr G claims the 
merchant only sent him one trainer  (which was also by a different brand). 
An adjudicator has already looked at this matter.  He wasnt persuaded to uphold  the 
complaint based  on the evidence that had been presented  to our service.
As Mr G is unhappy with this outcome, he has asked that the case now be referred to an 
ombudsman to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I too have  decided  not to uphold this 
complaint, for reasons  already outlined by the adjudicator.
Im aware Mr G contacted  MBNA on 14/07/2018. MBNA advised Mr G to contact the retailer  
directly and to call them back once  the transaction had gone through,  as it was still showing 
as pending. Mr G called MBNA again on16/07/2018. When  Mr G had returned to the UK, he 
posted the package back to the retailer in question.
The merchant has explained to MBNA  that they dont stock the type of trainer that Mr G 
returned to them. The merchant has also provided evidence of CCTV footage  showing the 
pair of trainers Mr G purchased being  sent to him and also a courier  note confirming the 
package was delivered to the hotel Mr G was staying at. 
Just like the adjudicator  Im unsure  why (given the cost of the purchase in question) Mr G 
didnt return to the store whilst he was still in the country to try to resolve the matter. Based 
on all the evidence that has been  presented to our service Im unable to uphold this 
complaint.
Overall I dont think MBNA has acted unreasonably  in how theyve dealt with this complaint. I 
dont think the version  of events presented by Mr G establishes that a breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation occurred. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3751750