K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) provided him with poor service and 
cancelled his motor  insurance policy after promising not to do so.
 
background
UKI wrote to Mr A on 7 March 2019 to ask for details from him needed to validate  his policy.  
The letter said the policy  would be cancelled  on 21 March 2019 based  on the details it had. It 
asked Mr A to provide  the required information within seven days.  It also said if he wanted to 
discuss the cancellation he should call UKI.
Mr A called UKIs validations team on 20 March 2019. The first advisor he spoke to 
explained what UKI needed.  She said Mr A must send in the required  documents  by the next 
day or the policy would  be cancelled. Mr A used abusive language, so she ended the call. A 
second advisor he called refused to open a complaint for Mr A. She also ended their call. 
When Mr A called again, a third advisor said it would only accept written contact from him.
Mr A called UKIs service  team. An advisor told him to email the validations  team  to confirm 
what documents it needed  from him. She said his complaint would be processed. Mr A 
asked to speak  to a manager. The manager said the validations  team  just needed  
documents from Mr A. But she said shed  put a note on the file asking for the policy not to be 
cancelled the next day, as it would take Mr A time to send the documents  through. Mr A 
checked with her that the policy wouldnt be cancelled and she confirmed it wouldnt.  
The next day Mr A drove his car as usual, but he then decided  to check  that the policy was 
still in place. He found it wasnt, so he had to leave the car where hed driven it to. He called 
UKI and was told his complaint had been  closed. He was also told that the managers note 
couldnt prevent  the automatic cancellation set up by the validations team. Mr A was told the 
policy couldnt be reinstated. But UKI agreed  that there had been some  poor service  on its 
part. It offered Mr A £200, which he didnt think was nearly enough.
One of our investigators  considered Mr As complaint. He thought  UKI should  pay £400 
compensation in total to Mr A. He said that would reflect  the poor service during the calls 
and the service managers error. Mr A said that wasnt  enough. UKI said it would raise the 
compensation to £300. Mr A asked for a review  of the complaint by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says UKI can cancel a policy by giving  at least seven days notice in writing if 
theres a valid reason  for the cancellation.  Mr A was given 14 days  notice. UKI thought  there 
were issues  with some of the details Mr A had supplied  when he bought the policy. So I think 
it had the right to ask him for evidence to support what  hed said.  Mr A got the letter, but he 
didnt call UKI until the day before the policy was due to cancel. 
Ive listened to the calls, and I think the first advisor made it clear  that the documents had to 
be provided by 21 March 2019  to prevent the cancellation. I think she had good reason to 
end the call. But I dont think the second advisor  did, as Mr A wasnt  abusive to her. 
Ref: DRN30786052It looks as though it was the second call termination  that led to Mr A not being  able to speak 
to anyone else in the validation team. It may have made no difference  had he been  able to 
do that, as all UKI needed from him were  documents. But it seems  he wanted to clarify 
which documents were  needed, so he found it frustrating. And I think UKI accepts that the 
second advisor should have agreed  to register a complaint for Mr A.
I think its very unfortunate  that the manager  Mr A spoke to on 20 March  2019 gave him the 
impression that shed extended  the time he had to send the documents  to UKI. He relied on 
her assurance that the cancellation wouldnt go ahead the next day. So I can see why Mr A 
was very upset to find hed driven the car that day uninsured, given what could have 
happened. He had to leave it where it was, which was worrying  and inconvenient  in itself. It 
also meant he couldnt take his mother to hospital  later that day when she was injured.
In my opinion, the cancellation was fair in the circumstances. The system doesnt  allow  
managers from elsewhere in UKI to override a decision that has already been made by the 
validations team. I think thats reasonable too. Staff outside that team wouldnt be aware  of 
all the facts. But Mr A had no reason to think that someone he considered to be a senior 
person couldnt  intervene successfully on his behalf.  
UKI thinks £300 compensation is sufficient. Mr A asked for £10,000.  I dont think Mr A was 
blameless, as he caused the first call to be ended. But I think  the second advisor could have 
dealt with the call better.  Had Mr A been  able to talk further to the validation  team,  it might 
have led to the documents being provided  in time. That might have meant  the policy wasnt 
cancelled. On top of that, Mr A found  the complaint that was finally  registered for him had 
been closed without his knowledge. So I think he was very upset even before he realised 
that the service  managers assurance was wrong. 
In my opinion, UKI provided poor service to Mr A in several respects, but I think £400 would 
adequately reflect the level of upset  and inconvenience Mr A has faced.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require U K Insurance  Limited to pay Mr A 
£400 compensation in total for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3078605