K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt follow his instructions properly when he phoned it 
about a bank transfer.
background
Mr S tells us a funds  transfer didnt go through as he expected on 15 August 2018. He 
phoned HSBC  and initially asked for a trace to be put on his funds. He didnt think  the 
advisor had understood his request properly and so he asked for a recall of his funds 
instead. He was told they would be back in his account in 7 days. When that didnt happen 
he phoned HSBC  again and was told the timescale had been misquoted  and to call back. 
When he did that he was told the funds hadnt  been recalled but a trace  had been put on 
them and the beneficiary bank had confirmed the funds had been received. 
Mr S contacted the beneficiary and explained this but was told the funds werent  there. He 
says he phoned  HSBC again  but didnt get very far. Several days later he noticed  his funds 
had been returned into his account.  Its complaints department then phoned him and initially  
offered him £50 compensation and then increased it to £110.  Mr S isnt satisfied with this 
particularly as he says HSBC wasnt responsible for the return  of his money. That was only 
down to the beneficiary bank.
HSBC said Mr S processed the payment online  on 15 August 2018. Later that day he 
phoned HSBC  because the beneficiary  bank hadnt  received the payment. But it accepts it 
processed a payment trace  instead  of a request  to recall the funds. It said this was due to a 
mistake on its advisors part. It could see the beneficiary bank returned  the funds 13 working  
days after Mr S asked  for the recall. And said if itd actioned his request for a recall this 
wouldve taken 20 working days. So it thought he wasnt materially inconvenienced  by its 
mistake. It offered him £50 for giving him the wrong  information on the phone and £60 to 
cover his call costs.
The adjudicator thought  that as the funds had been  returned during the correct timescales of 
20 days HSBC hadnt done anything wrong. And that the £110 HSBC  offered for giving him 
the wrong information was fair and reasonable.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this. He thought  the basis of his complaint had been  misunderstood.  
He said it wasnt reasonable for HSBC to provide misleading information. And he said the 
amount of compensation wasnt enough.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so I would like to reassure Mr S 
that Ive carried  out a new and independent review  of his complaint. Ive looked  again at 
everything he and HSBC has told us. But I know he will be disappointed  when  I say that 
having done that Im not going to uphold his complaint.
Ref: DRN38588972Mr S made an online payment so at that point there didnt seem to be any error by HSBC.  
But later that day Mr S became concerned the funds  hadnt been  received by the beneficiary 
bank. So he phoned HSBC. Ive listened  to that phone call. He explained his concern and 
said he would like to place a trace  on the payment. The operator put him on hold several  
times. She initially said she would have  to forward the details to another team  to investigate. 
But this would take up to 20 days to sort out. She then said it would take 7 working days to 
find out where the payment was and that it was a separate process to get the money back. 
When Mr S asked  her to clarify the timescales  she said it would  take 7 working  days  to get 
his funds back. She then confirmed shed actioned the recall.
In its final response letter  HSBC accepts it made a payment trace instead of a request for a 
refund. But it seems to me that even if itd done  as Mr S asked its unlikely he wouldve 
received his funds  any quicker than he did. I appreciate Mr Ss point that it was the 
beneficiary bank  that was responsible for returning  his funds. But that doesnt change the 
fact that HSBCs mistake in actioning a payment  trace  and not a payment recall  didnt lead to 
any financial  loss. 
HSBC didnt carry out Mr Ss instructions to recall  his funds. In those circumstances we 
would expect it to put Mr S back in the position  he wouldve been in if it hadnt made any 
mistake. As Ive already  said he didnt suffer any financial loss. Mr S says the objective  of 
the transfer of funds  wasnt met but I cant find that was HSBCs fault as there  isnt any 
evidence to lead me to conclude HSBC made any error with the original  transfer. 
HSBC offered Mr S a total of £110 compensation for the way it dealt with his initial  request 
and the inconvenience of the phone calls he made.  Mr S says thats not enough. So I need 
to decide if thats  reasonable  in light of the impact  HSBCs mistake has had on Mr S.
Mr S made several phone calls to find out what had happened to his request for his funds to 
be returned. He was expecting his funds  to be returned in 7 days and they were  in his 
account 6 days  after that. So although  I can understand how frustrating this was, the 
situation Mr S found himself in was resolved after a few days. In those circumstances I think  
the compensation offered  by HSBC is fair and reasonable.  If Mr S would like to accept this 
offer our investigator will help him do this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3858897