K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S have  complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  mis-sold them a home 
insurance policy in that it failed  to make clear that the legal expenses  cover didnt apply to 
contract disputes over building  work  where  the contract was worth  more than £5,000. Mr and 
Mrs S have further complained about  the increase in the cost of their policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S had held a home insurance  policy with UKI for a number of years. The policy 
offered optional cover for legal expenses which Mr and Mrs S had selected.
In 2016, Mr and Mrs S were having  building work done to their home. A dispute occurred 
between them and their builder. Mrs S rang UKI to seek legal expenses cover under  their 
policy. UKI explained that because the building contract  was worth over £5,000  the dispute 
wasnt eligible for cover under the policy.
Mr and Mrs S complained that this limit, which they considered to be very restrictive, hadnt 
been highlighted to them  at the time they took out the policy. They  said if it had been, they 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy but would have instead chosen a policy offering legal 
expenses cover for higher value contracts. They also complained at the increase in the cost 
of the policy  over the years,  particularly as the £5,000 exclusion limit had stayed the same. 
UKI didnt  uphold their complaint. It said the limit, although not specifically highlighted to 
Mr and Mrs S, had been clearly stated  in the policy document. It considered  the price of the 
policy had been  fair.
Mr and Mrs S were  unhappy at UKIs response and referred their complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  In his opinion, UKI 
hadnt been required to highlight the specific exclusion. He was satisfied it had priced the 
policy in a fair way.
Mr and Mrs S didnt  accept the adjudicators findings. The matter  has therefore been  passed 
to me for a decision  to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy document states  that legal expense cover is provided for contract disputes. 
However, it goes on to state:
You are not covered for any claim relating to:
 construction work on any land, or designing, converting or extending any building where 
the contract  value exceeds £5,000 (including  VAT)
I think this is clear.
Ref: DRN35961932UKI accepts  that this exclusion wasnt specifically brought to the attention of Mr and Mrs S at 
the time of sale. However, the legal expense cover is an optional  extra  section of the 
insurance policy for which Mr and Mrs S paid just £15 annually. I recognise  that the £5,000 
limit would exclude any significant building  work  which was being  carried  out at their home  
but it wouldnt be possible for UKI to highlight every exclusion. Im not persuaded the 
exclusion is necessarily significant or unusual  it relates to a small part of the policy and in 
my experience it isnt uncommon for other  policies to apply limits like this one. Mr and Mrs S 
were provided with a copy of the policy document when they were sold the policy and I think  
it was up to them to read exactly  what was provided  for in the legal expenses cover. I dont 
think UKI should have  been expected  to have specifically highlighted this exclusion at the 
time of sale.  
Furthermore, given that the legal expenses is only a small  part of their cover, I cant be sure 
that even if the contract limit had been highlighted it would necessarily have caused them  to 
not take out the policy and instead  get more  extensive cover elsewhere.  I acknowledge  that 
Mr and Mrs S had previously carried out several other building projects at their home  and 
have now chosen  to switch to an insurer offering greater legal expense cover but this is after 
experiencing the problems with the builder.  I cant be sure that the possibility of such  a 
problem would have  been forefront of their mind at the time they took out the policy.
With regard to the cost of the policy, I should explain  we generally take the view it is up to an 
insurer to decide  how much to charge for its policies.  Provided it exercises this discretion 
fairly and consistently,  in line with its internal guidelines,  it is an issue  in which  we dont 
generally interfere.  UKI has given  us information  about how it decided  on the price of Mr and 
Mrs Ss policy. I cant share this with Mr and Mrs S because it is commercially sensitive but 
Im satisfied it has calculated the cost of their policy fairly and accurately.
Mr and Mrs S point  out that the cost of their cover has increased  while  the exclusion limit for 
contract disputes has remained unchanged. It is up to an insurer to decide  what cover to 
offer and for what  price.  UKI was under no obligation to increase the exclusion limit each 
year. Besides, while  the cost of the main  cover increased each year, the premium  for the 
legal expenses add-on remained at £15. 
Overall, despite my sympathy for Mr and Mrs S in finding they didnt have legal expenses 
cover for their dispute with the builder,  I dont  think UKI did anything  wrong at the time of 
sale or in how it priced the policy.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  give above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3596193