K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Welcome Financial Services Limited  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy in 2004.
background
An adjudicator from this service thought the complaint should  be upheld.  They thought Mr A 
had pre-existing medical conditions at the time of the sale which wouldnt  be covered by the 
PPI policy. The adjudicator didnt think Welcome made  this clear to Mr A at the time of the 
sale and that Mr A would  not have bought the policy if it had.
Welcome disagreed with the adjudicators findings. It said Mr A did not mention  the            
pre-existing conditions when the policy was sold or when  he initially complained  about  the 
PPI. Welcome says Mr A only mentioned the conditions when prompted by this service.
The complaint was then passed to me.
In March 2019 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was intending  to uphold Mr As complaint, my main 
reasons were:
Welcome recommended the PPI policy to Mr A so it had to take steps to ensure it 
was right for him.
Taking everything into account  I didnt think the policy  was right for Mr A as I was 
persuaded that he had pre-existing medical conditions at the time.  And I didnt think  
hed have been able to make a claim if he was unable to work due to these 
conditions.
Overall I thought it likely Mr A would have  wanted the flexibility  to re-arrange his 
finances in the future.  
 
The PPI was paid for with a single premium that was added  to the loan at the start. If 
Mr A had wanted to refinance his loan or clear it early he would not have got a       
pro-rata refund for the remaining term of the policy. This made  the policy inflexible. 
So Mr A would have  lost out if he cleared the loan early.
So I thought  Welcome advised Mr A to buy a policy  that wasnt  right for him because  
it was inflexible and contained exclusions that wouldnt allow  Mr A to claim for time 
off related to his pre-existing medical conditions. And I didnt think  hed have agreed 
to buy it if Welcome  had told him that.
I also set out what steps Welcome needed to take to put things right.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN32421872complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Neither Welcome nor Mr A have responded with any new evidence  or comments. So I see 
no reason to change  the findings  I set out in my provisional decision.
putting things right
Mr A borrowed extra  to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr A needs to get back  the extra  he paid. 
So, Welcome should:
Work  out and pay Mr A the difference between what he paid each month on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr A paid each month from when he paid it 
until he gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Mr A made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Welcome  can take off what  he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Welcome to take off tax from this interest.  Welcome  must 
give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mr As complaint and 
direct Welcome Financial Services Limited to pay Mr A compensation as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mr A says Welcome Financial Services Limited mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy in 2004.
Ref: DRN32421873background
An adjudicator from this service  thought the complaint  should  be upheld.  They  thought  Mr A had pre-
existing medical conditions at the time of the sale which wouldnt be covered  by the PPI policy. The 
adjudicator didnt think  Welcome made this clear to Mr A at the time of the sale and that Mr A would 
not have bought the policy if it had.
Welcome disagreed with the adjudicators findings. It said Mr A did not mention the pre-existing 
conditions when the policy was sold or when he initially complained about  the PPI. Welcome  says Mr 
A only mentioned  the conditions when prompted by this service.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Welcome advised Mr A to take out the policy so it had to make sure it was right for him. I dont think  it 
was for the following reasons.
When Mr A first complained  to Welcome  he was not aware of the date the policy was sold to him. Ive 
looked at Welcomes  response to the complaint  and although it is quite detailed it doesnt give the 
date of sale.
When Mr A then brought the complaint to this service he completed a questionnaire. He left the date 
of sale blank  and told us he could not be sure of all the details as he was not aware  of the sale date.
This service then contacted Welcome to ask when  the policy was sold.  It was then that Mr A was 
contacted by us and told the sale date. He was then asked to confirm  his circumstances in 2004.  It 
was at that point that Mr A told us he had several medical conditions at the time of the sale.
So I dont think Mr A told us about his pre-existing medical conditions as a result of being prompted. 
He told us of the conditions at the first opportunity he had after he was made aware of the date the 
policy was sold to him.
Looking at the testimony  Mr A has given  I think it is most likely he had pre-existing medical  conditions 
when the policy was sold to him. 
Welcome has pointed to some paperwork that was completed at the time as evidence  Mr A told them 
he had no medical conditions in 2004 but I dont think it makes it clear  that he didnt.
For example the demands  and needs  form from 2004 states:
That you are not currently off work with a condition  that has lasted more  than 1 month.
Yet the policy  document  states that claims  would not be paid if they made  for:
Any claim due to or arising from any pre-existing medical condition  which persists or returns  during 
the first 24 months of your start date
So I think Mr A could  have answered yes to the question on the demands and needs form if he 
wasnt currently off work but still have been caught by the exclusion.
Ref: DRN32421874Taking everything into account I dont think the policy was right for Mr A as he had pre-existing 
medical conditions at the time. And I dont  think hed have been able to make  a claim if he was unable 
to work  due to these  conditions.
I also note the PPI was paid for with a single  premium  that was added to the loan at the start. If Mr A 
had wanted to refinance  his loan or clear  it early  he would not have got a        pro-rata refund for the 
remaining term of the policy. So hed have lost out.
Welcome has said the possibility of Mr A wanting to repay  or refinance the loan early was remote.
I disagree. Looking at the paperwork from the time I can see Mr A was taking the loan to pay Bills.  
And I can see he had significant other debts. Mr A has confirmed he was taking the loan to tide him 
over  some financial difficulties  he was experiencing.
All this makes me think  its likely Mr A would have wanted the flexibility to re-arrange his finances in 
the future. But the policy  sold to Mr A was inflexible and he wouldve  lost out if he ended  the loan and 
PPI early.
So I think Welcome advised  Mr A to buy a policy that wasnt right for him. And I dont think  hed have 
agreed to buy it if Welcome had told him that.
putting things  right
Mr A borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve been and he paid 
more than he shouldve  each month. So Mr A needs to get back the extra  he paid. 
So, Welcome  should:
Work out and pay Mr A the difference between what he paid each month on the loan and 
what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple  interest to the extra  amount Mr A paid each month from when he paid it until he 
gets it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr A made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Welcome  can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Welcome  to take off tax from this interest. Welcome  must give Mr 
A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to uphold Mr As complaint and direct Welcome Financial Services Limited  to pay Mr A 
compensation as set out above. 
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3242187