K820x#14complaint
Miss C is unhappy with the replacement phone Assurant General  Insurance Limited 
(Assurant) provided after she made a claim on her mobile phone  insurance policy.
background
Miss C made an claim under her mobile phone insurance policy  after her phone  was lost. 
Assurant accepted the claim  and sent Miss C a replacement phone.  The replacement 
phone was the same make and model as Miss Cs original phone and was about as old as 
her original phone.  The phone had been refurbished before it was sent to Miss C. 
Miss C says she wasnt given enough information about the replacement  phone at the time 
of making the claim. She says that had she been  told the replacement phone  would  be so 
old, she wouldnt have gone ahead with the claim.  She also says the phone  is not fit for 
purpose as it is operating  very slow and the camera is not working. 
Assurant considered Miss Cs complaint. It said its policy  provided  cover to give Miss C a 
replacement phone but that the policy did explain the replacement phone  may be a 
refurbished phone, so not a brand new device. Assurant also said Miss C could send the 
phone back for inspection and repairs in relation to device not operating properly and the 
camera not working. So, it didnt think it had acted  incorrectly.
Miss C disagreed with Assurants response and said she wanted her £50 excess  back. Our 
adjudicator looked into Miss Cs concerns  and didnt think her complaint should be upheld. 
He felt it was reasonable for Assurant  to give Miss C a phone  of a similar age as the one she 
lost. He thought  Assurant  acted in line with its terms and conditions  and that it had done 
enough by offering to inspect and repair the phone as it is currently not in fully working order.  
Miss C disagreed so this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.  
The terms and conditions  of Miss Cs insurance  policy states Where we replace the mobile 
device the replacement may a remanufactured (not brand new)  device.  So, I think Miss C 
wouldve been aware it was likely she would be sent a remanufactured mobile  phone  before 
making her claim. 
Miss C says Assurant shouldve informed her that the replacement  phone would be so old as 
she wouldnt  have claimed on the policy if she had known. The replacement phone  was first 
activated in March 2017, but Miss Cs original  phone was also activated in March 2017. So 
Assurant provided Miss C with a replacement phone which was the same make, model and 
similar age as her lost phone. I dont think  this is unreasonable  and I also dont think 
Assurant had to inform Miss C before she paid the excess on her phone. This because she 
received a like for like replacement. Had Miss C received a phone  which  was unlike her 
original phone I would perhaps think it necessary for Assurant to disclose this beforehand, 
but not under these circumstances. 
Ref: DRN36784992Miss C is also unhappy  because the camera on the phone is not working. Assurant have 
offered to have a look at the phone  and repair or replace  it - as needed.  I think this is 
reasonable and I dont  think  Assurant  currently need to do any more  than this.
Based on all the information Ive seen I think Assurant have provided  a replacement phone  
in line with their terms and conditions, and I dont  think they needed to do anything more 
before deducting  the excess for her claim.  Assurant  have  also offered to check the phone for 
faults and repair or replace it as necessary  and I think  this approach is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think this complaint should  be upheld.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3678499