K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible  when  it provided  some 
loans to him.
background
Uncle Buck  is unable to provide any information  about Mr Ws borrowing because  it says  
as the loans were  taken  more than six years ago - it no longer holds the relevant data. Mr W 
has provided bank  statements  from which it seems he took three  loans as follows:
 date takenprincipal 
amountdate repaid
Loan 1 15/06/11 £185 01/07/11
Loan 2 06/07/11 £300 03/08/11
Loan 3 08/08/11 £385 01/11/11
 
Although Uncle Buck  doesnt have any information  about the loans,  it says it objects to this 
Service looking into Mr Ws loans  because he complained too late. Our adjudicator has 
explained why she thought we could look into those loans. Uncle Buck  is aware of our 
approach to this issue and hasnt provided me with anything new to consider. In these 
circumstances, Ive looked into the merits of Mr Ws complaint  about  the three loans 
identified through  his bank statements.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Ws complaint  about  Loan 3 should  be upheld.  Uncle  
Buck doesnt  agree.  As this complaint hasnt yet been resolved, its come to me - an 
ombudsman - for a final decision. If Mr W accepts  my decision  it will be binding on the 
parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Broadly speaking, this all means that Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable steps to ensure 
it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried  out proportionate  
checks to make sure Mr W could  repay  his loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN39884932the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
The regulator at the time Mr W took his loans was initially the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). In 
its Irresponsible Lending Guidance it said that sustainable meant that a borrower should be 
able to repay the credit:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement 
out of income  and/or  available savings
And the phrase without  undue difficulty means  that a borrower  could make  repayments 
whilst also meeting other debt repayments  and other normal/reasonable outgoings  and, 
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable - so a lender shouldve realised that it 
wouldnt be responsible  to provide any further loans. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means  so far as Mr Ws complaint is concerned. 
And based on the information available to me, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about  
Loans 1 and 2. I cant  fairly say Uncle Buck did something wrong  when it provided  those  
loans.
However, by the time Mr W took Loan 3 - his third loan in less than two months for more 
than double the amount of Loan  1 - I think Uncle Buck  shouldve  satisfied itself that he 
wasnt reliant on short term loans  to supplement his income. As Uncle Buck  isnt able to 
show us what information it did obtain,  I cant be sure that it did proportionate checks. 
This sort of loan was intended as a short-term solution to temporary  cash-flow problems. As 
the rates of interest  were  so high, they werent  intended for prolonged, sustained  use. 
But the amount  of Mr Ws loans was increasing  very quickly whilst it seems  there  were  only 
a few days between  one loan being  repaid  and another being taken. So, I think  that there 
was enough for Uncle Buck to realise  that Mr W was most likely struggling with money.  And 
in these circumstances, there was a significant risk that Mr W wouldnt be able to sustainably  
repay his loans.  And this is confirmed by reference  to the evidence which is available to me. 
Ive looked at Mr Ws bank statements to help me understand  what  Uncle Buck  wouldve 
learnt had it done  proportionate checks.  
So far as I can see during  the period before Loan  3, Mr Ws bank account was never in 
credit. He was constantly in his overdraft   usually by well over £1,000. And he exceeded his 
overdraft limit because in July 2011 not only did Mr W pay planned  overdraft charges of £22 
he also payed £20 unplanned overdraft fees. 
I can also see from Mr Ws banks  statements that he was borrowing regularly from other 
short term lenders   and on occasion  these were for significant amounts. So for example in 
Ref: DRN39884933June 2011  in addition  to Loan 1 from Uncle Buck, Mr W borrowed £400 from Lender A, 
£300 from Lender B and £1,050 from Lender  C. And he repaid those three  lenders just over 
£700 at the end of the month. 
In July 2011 Mr W borrowed  £485  from Lender A at the start of the month and £594 from the 
same lender  at the end of the month. And he repaid the three lenders over £800   as well as 
repaying £260 to Uncle  Buck for Loan  1.
Loan 3 (£385) was deposited  into Mr Ws account  on 8 August  just a few days  after hed 
made four repayments to Uncle Buck  apparently for Loan 2  totalling £424.
This is information which Uncle Buck wouldve discovered had it done  proportionate  checks 
at the time it provided Mr W with Loan  3. And it wouldve  concluded that it was unlikely that 
Mr W would  be able to repay this loan sustainably - it was more  likely hed have to borrow  
again to plug any holes left in his finances  by the repayment of earlier credit:  an 
unsustainable situation. So, as a responsible lender - had it done  enough  by way of an 
assessment - it wouldve declined Mr Ws applications for Loan 3 which is why I uphold  his 
complaint about  it.
putting things right
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have provided  Loan 3 to Mr W so I require it to do the following to put 
things right
1)Uncle Buck should add together the total of the repayments  made  by Mr W 
towards interest, fees and charges on Loan 3.
2)It should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W 
which were considered as part of 1), calculated from the date he originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
3)Uncle Buck should then refund  the amounts calculated  in 1) and 2) 
4)Uncle Buck should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit 
file in relation  to Loan 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle Buck  to deduct  tax from this interest. It should give Mr W a certificate showing how 
much tax it has deducted,  if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Uncle  Buck Finance 
LLP in part and require it to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
E J Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3988493