K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained that AWP P&C SA unreasonably refused to pay all of his curtailment 
claim under his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr C went on a three month skiing holiday abroad. He injured his knee after about  three  
weeks and returned  home to the UKI. 
He made  a claim for the curtailment of his holiday. AWP refused to pay it as it said he didnt  
go through the medical assessment team and they didnt  confirm he needed to come home 
as a result  of his knee  injury. It also said he came home for a funeral instead. However, it 
paid the ski club element  of his claim of £375  since he was unable to utilise  it.
Mr C remained  unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. The investigator ultimately  upheld  
it. Unfortunately whilst AWP  said it would respond  to the investigators  view, it didnt. So Mr 
Cs complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Mr C has shown his knee  injury was of sufficient severity to require an operation to repair it. 
Therefore, I consider  because of the medical  evidence he has produced,  he would not have  
been able to continue skiing for the rest of his four-month  trip. 
Mr C also showed that he did contact AWPs claim line after his injury  and whilst he was still 
abroad. He said he followed the procedure for a non-emergency  claim using  the policy 
documents he was supplied  with, when he bought his policy.  He has shown his mobile 
phone bill in support of this. Mr C also explained  his reason for returning  home  wasnt  this 
family funeral (which took place  shortly after his return home),  but simply given his injury  he 
couldnt continue  with his skiing trip. I consider the medical evidence he produced  supports 
this.
Mr C also produced the relevant evidence from his ski operator  showing what he paid and 
for how long his intended trip was. 
On the basis AWP paid his claim for his ski pack, given he couldnt use it due to his knee 
injury, it follows  that it accepted Mr C suffered a loss as a result  of his knee injury.  However  
this was not due to having to return home for a funeral as AWP said when it was refusing the 
more substantial part of his curtailment claim. I dont consider its fair and reasonable to pay 
for the loss of the ski pack but then to refuse to consider the rest of his claim, when its clear 
he talked to AWP at the time whilst he was still abroad.   
Therefore, as AWP didnt  provide any substantive response to the investigators view as to 
why it disagreed with his recommendation  that Mr C complaint should be upheld and that his 
claim should be paid,  I consider its now fair and reasonable  that AWP considers his 
curtailment claim  as valid. And it should  now process it with a view to paying it in accordance  
Ref: DRN32351752with the remaining terms and condition of his policy. This is because Mr C has shown he 
contacted AWP whilst still abroad and that AWP paid his claim for the ski pack.
It should also add interest  of 8% simple per year from the date of Mr Cs claim to the date it 
now pays it. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require AWP P&C SA to do the following:
Consider Mr Cs claim for curtailment as valid with a view to paying it under the 
remaining terms and conditions of his policy.
Add interest of 8% simple per year from the date of Mr Cs claim to the date it pays  it. 
If income tax is to be deducted  from the interest, appropriate documentation should  
be provided to Mr C for HMRC  purposes.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3235175