K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns complaint is that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do enough  to help him recover  his 
funds after he was scammed.
Mr N is representing his business, DD; to keep things simple  Ive referred to Mr N throughout 
this decision. 
background
On 6 August  2018, Mr N made a payment  via online banking  of £2,700 to a scammer  for 
what he thought  was a business  grant.  He contacted  Barclays  on 23 August after he didnt 
receive the grant and was no longer able to contact  the scammer. 
Barclays contacted  the beneficiary bank on 24 August to try and recover Mr Ns funds. 
Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank responded to advise no funds remained. Barclays  
informed Mr N that as he authorised  the payment and it followed his instructions, it hadnt 
made an error in sending  the payment of £2,700 and wouldnt be refunding this. Mr N 
referred his complaint to our service.    
Our adjudicator didnt  think Barclays system  failed in its obligations when it didnt flag the 
payment as potentially  fraudulent. And she felt that Barclays had acted appropriately when it 
tried to recover the funds  from the beneficiary bank.  Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators 
assessment, so the case has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations and the terms and conditions  of the customers  account. And I have 
taken that into account  when deciding  what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
The law recognises that a bank may be liable to its customer if it makes  a payment in 
circumstances where  it has reasonable grounds  (although not necessarily proof)  for 
believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate  the funds  of its 
customer (known as the Quincecare  duty).    
Regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct  their business with due skill, 
care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers (Principle  6).  
Ref: DRN39214622And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  taken 
proactive steps  to: 
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  circumstances, 
including those  at risk of financial exploitation  (something recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers Associations February  2016 report improving 
outcomes for customers in vulnerable  circumstances);  
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of character 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam (something also 
recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017  Protecting Customers from 
Financial harm  as a result  of fraud  or financial abuse  Code of Practice , which a 
number of banks  and trade associations were involved in the development of); and
 
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.     
This means  that there are circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, where a 
bank should, in my opinion,  fairly and reasonably take additional steps, or make additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make  a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm.
  
This is particularly so in light of the environment created by the increase in sophisticated  
fraud and scams in recent  years  - which banks are generally more familiar  with than the 
average customer. 
In this case, I need to decide  whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr N when he transferred £2,700, or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Mr N has said that he authorised the transfer for £2,700 himself. This means that Barclays  
had an obligation  to follow this instruction and make the transfer. But there  are some 
situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer  look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfer, and this is what Ive considered.
After looking at the statements for Mr Ns account,  I dont think the scam payment itself was 
particularly unusual or suspicious when compared  to Mr Ns normal account  activity. So, I 
think the fact that Barclays system didnt flag the payment as suspicious was fair and 
reasonable given the circumstances. I say this because  there  wasnt anything remarkable 
about the payment in terms of either its value or payment type due to the fact that Mr N 
made card and bill payments for similar  amounts on a regular basis. 
Mr N contacted Barclays on 23 August 2018 when he became aware  that hed been the 
victim of a scam. I can see that Barclays raised  a scam complaint and contacted the 
beneficiary bank  the following day to request a return of the funds. Unfortunately,  the 
beneficiary bank  explained that the funds had all been removed  by 13 August 2018,  so no 
funds remained when  Mr N made Barclays aware  of the scam.
I do appreciate that Mr N has been the unfortunate victim of a scam  and I empathise with his 
situation and the effect  this has had on his business.  But after carefully  considering 
everything available to me, I think Barclayss decision not to refund Mr N in this instance was 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It followed Mr Ns instruction to make the transfer 
of £2,700 and I havent  seen any reason why it shouldnt have done  this. And I think  it took 
Ref: DRN39214623sufficient steps to try and recover the funds in a timely manner once it was notified of the 
scam. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 July 2020.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3921462