K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs A says Lloyds  Bank Plc (Lloyds)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think  Lloyds  made it clear  that Mrs A didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember  this. I say this because  Ive 
seen a copy of the credit card application  form which was completed during the meeting she 
had in branch  and this includes a section about PPI  under the heading  optional  features. 
In this section there are boxes to accept or decline to take out the cover and I can see that 
on Mrs As form a printed  cross has been  placed in the yes box. Whilst the cross has been  
pre-printed on the form, I think its likely  this answer  would have reflected the conversation 
she had with Lloyds  in the meeting. Mrs A has signed and dated the form which  suggests  
she agreed with everything  that had been entered.
Mrs A has said that she felt she had to take it out in order  to get the finance.  Ive thought 
very carefully about what she has said but I havent seen anything in the paperwork which  
states that the policy was mandatory  or that her choice  could affect the application for the 
card. And the form included an option to decline to take out the cover  I wouldnt expect to 
see this on the form if the policy was compulsory.  And if Mrs A had been told that the policy 
wasnt optional, I think she would have  questioned  this with Lloyds when  she saw the option 
to decline the cover on the document. 
So, on balance, when taking everything into account, I think Lloyds  made Mrs A aware that 
the policy was optional and she chose to take it, knowing she could refuse  it if she didnt 
want it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs A so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover  Ive noted  that she doesnt recall if she would have received 
any sick pay from her employer  and she doesnt appear to have had any savings or other 
means with which  to meet her repayments if she wasnt working.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
Ref: DRN35643392But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mrs A, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said - including what she has said about being able 
to ask her friends and family to help her meet her repayments. Whilst I appreciate  that her 
friends and family would have wanted to help, support from others cant always  be relied 
upon as a guaranteed  source of funds as their circumstances can also change, meaning 
they cant provide  such financial assistance. So this point doesnt change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs A any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mrs A any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mrs A the difference between 
what Mrs A owes and what she wouldve  owed  if the commission and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mrs A 8%* simple 
interest if she paid off her credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs A can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mrs A any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3564339