K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr C say Yorkshire Building  Society  trading as Chelsea Building Society 
(Yorkshire)- mis-sold them payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
In 1999, Mrs and Mr C arranged a mortgage with Yorkshire. They  declined  to take out a PPI 
policy at that time. Mrs and Mr C took out a policy in 2000 which  was added to their existing 
mortgage. The PPI was in Mr Cs name  and they paid monthly  for it. But Mrs and Mr C feel 
that this policy was mis-sold.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs and Mr Cs case.
After doing that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs and Mr C say they were told they had to have the PPI. From the information thats been 
provided it looks like the policy  was sold via a postal  application   following a telephone call - 
a year after they took out their mortgage. Yorkshire shouldve made Mrs and Mr C aware 
they had a choice in buying the policy. It has provided a copy of the application slip and 
Direct Debit mandate completed by Mrs and Mr C alongside a letter they wrote. The slip has 
options for the type of cover an applicant wants and Mrs and Mr C have chosen the option 
that best suited  their circumstances  at the time and have  signed the slip. There is nothing to 
suggest the PPI was compulsory and the fact Mrs and Mr C had had a mortgage for over a 
year without having the policy makes  me think its likely Mrs and Mr C knew they had a 
choice about whether  to take it out or not.. 
Mrs and Mr C say Yorkshire recommended  they take the PPI. Based on my experience  of 
how Yorkshire usually  sold policies at the time,  I think  its possible during the telephone call 
that is mentioned  in Mrs and Mr Cs letter to Yorkshire,  Yorkshire explained the benefits of 
taking PPI and the possible consequences if they didnt during this telephone call. But I dont 
think its likely it gave them specific advice about whether to buy the policy.  So this meant it 
didnt have to check if the PPI was right for them. But it did have to make  sure Mrs and Mr C 
got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them.  
Mrs and Mr C say they werent told about  the conditions of the policy. Looking  at everything 
Ive been given, its possible the information  Yorkshire gave Mrs and Mr C about  the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at 
the time (as the policy  was only in his name) it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. 
Mrs and Mr C say Mr C had a good  level of sick pay benefits from his employer. But the PPI 
would have paid out alongside these benefits.  Mrs and Mr C had borrowed funds against  a 
large and long term financial commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think 
having the security  that Mr Cs share  of the mortgage repayments would be made if he was 
unable to work would have  been important to them. So it looks like the policy  would have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.
Ref: DRN34207472It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Overall I dont think Mrs and Mr C have lost out by anything  Yorkshire  might  have done 
wrong. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs and Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3420747