K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps complaint is that Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB) closed and re-opened his 
Contracts for Differences (CFD) positions  on 20 July 2018 without his consent, with a 
resulting difference in trade sizes and with a resulting difference in cost basis and increase in 
margin requirement.
background
IB disputes  the complaint.  In the main,  it provided explanations and evidence to say the 
following:
The event on 20 July featured  its application of the rules  for retail clients trading 
CFDs (in terms of margin limits  and close-outs) issued by the European Securities 
and Markets Authority  (ESMA)  which was due to be effective from 1 August 2018.
The ESMA rules  applied to new CFD positions  from 1 August but it provided that 
firms could also apply it, at their discretion, to retail  clients CFD positions opened 
prior to 1 August. This is what IB did in Mr Ps account and in relation to seven open  
CFD positions he had. The terms agreed  for his account gave IB the right to take any 
reasonable action (including closing out transactions) in order  to comply  with 
applicable regulations. 
The agreed terms also absolved  IB from liability for losses in Mr Ps account.  In any 
case, the event  on 20 July did not result in any losses  to him. All seven positions  
were closed  and re-opened at the same prices  and in the same sizes. IB neither 
profited from the exercise nor did it charge any fees for it. 
The exercise was necessary  only in order to recalculate the relevant  margin settings 
 to be compliant  with the ESMA rules.  Mr P continued to be in control of all seven 
positions after the exercise  and he liquidated  some over time thereafter.  In any case, 
events after the exercise are Mr Ps responsibility  and not IBs.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She agreed with IBs discretion to carry out 
the exercise in order to comply with the ESMA rules and that Mr P does not appear to have 
suffered any financial  loss. However,  she considered that IB should have sought his consent 
before proceeding with the exercise. She also referred to guidance from ESMA at the time 
which said a firm exercising its discretion, in terms of applying the rules prior to 1 August, 
other than in accordance with its terms and conditions and without a clients  consent would 
not be acting in the clients best interest. The investigator proposed that £100  should be paid 
to Mr P for the trouble  and upset caused by IBs failure to get his consent. IBs position  on 
this point is that it acted  within its terms and conditions  not other  than in accordance  with 
its terms and conditions .
Mr P accepted that IB was entitled to close his positions  in order to comply with the ESMA  
rules. However, he maintained that he should  be compensated for IB re-opening them in 
different sizes and with an increase  to his margin requirement. The matter  was referred to an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN35475752There no longer appears to be a dispute over IBs discretion  to apply the ESMA  rules to     
Mr Ps account and to his CFD positions prior to 1 August. Mr P accepts  this. For the sake of 
completeness, so do I. ESMAs guidance  provided that application  of the rules  to retail  client  
accounts trading  CFDs  was mandatory from 1 August 2018 (for new positions), but firms  had 
the discretion  to apply them to pre-existing positions. As the investigator noted,  firms  could 
apply this discretion  and remain compliant with the clients best interest if they could do so 
under the relevant terms and conditions  or if they did so with the clients  consent.
I understand and accept  IBs point in this respect. If the terms for Mr Ps account did not 
permit it to carry out the sort of exercise  that happened on 20 July 2018 IB would have 
needed to obtain Mr Ps consent in order to pay due regard to his best interest  as the 
ESMA guidance  provided. However, I consider that the term it relied  upon  was sufficient to 
establish that it could proceed with the exercise without his consent and without conflicting  
with ESMAs guidance. The relevant term allowed it to take any reasonable steps (including 
closing out transactions) in order to comply with applicable regulations.  It could be argued 
that, prior to 1 August,  such compliance  was discretionary, but the point  remains that IB 
conducted the exercise on 20 July for the sole purpose of complying with the ESMA rules.
Having said the above, I retain support for the investigators conclusion  that Mr P should  be 
paid £100 for IBs failure to seek his consent.  Not because  IBs action conflicted with 
ESMAs guidance   as explained  above, I do not consider that it did  but because it would 
have been reasonable  (and good practice) to involve him in the exercise, given that the 
exercise was discretionary and not urgent (as it happened a number of days  before  1 
August). For reasons I explain below, I do not suggest it would have made a difference  to his 
positions, but it would have been the fair and reasonable thing to do. For the trouble and 
upset caused  to him by not being involved in the exercise £100 is fair compensation.
Account activity evidence  confirms that all seven positions were  closed and re-opened at the 
same prices  and with the same sizes. There were  no differences in this respect. Mr Ps 
trading control  over all of the positions  was arguably uninterrupted and there is evidence of 
him continuing to trade in relation to some  of those positions in the months that followed.  
Mr Ps main argument in this respect appears to be that the re-opening of the positions  was 
done at prices that differed to those on which the positions were initially opened, so this 
changed his cost basis for the positions. In addition, he appears  to argue that an increase to 
his cost basis led to an increase  in his margin requirement at the time.
I understand these  arguments, but they do not establish a financial  loss or a basis for 
financial compensation. Primarily, the effect  of the closures and re-openings at the same 
prices and sizes meant that all of the positions  remained opened,  ongoing and unchanged 
(other than the margin settings, due to the ESMA rules) as Mr P intended them to be. I have 
not seen evidence that he planned to close and/or take profit  and/or crystalize  loss in any of 
the positions and was prevented, by the exercise,  from doing so. In this context, no loss was 
caused to him and I have seen no evidence of fees or charges being applied to his account 
by IB for the exercise.
Any change in the cost basis and margin requirement would have  been  a natural 
consequence of the exercise itself  which, as stated  above, IB was entitled  to carry out and 
was done to comply  with the ESMA rules.  In such circumstances I do not consider it 
reasonable to blame IB. In addition and as stated above, Mr P retained trading control of all 
of the positions so he could have mitigated any effect from any changes to the cost basis 
and margin requirement  that he disliked. I have  not seen evidence  that he was prevented 
Ref: DRN35475753from doing this and IB appears to be correct  in asserting that it is in no way connected  to 
anything that happened to the positions after 20 July 2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Ps complaint only in relation to the trouble and 
upset caused  to him by not being involved in the exercise of 20 July 2018. On this basis  I 
order Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd to pay him £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3547575