K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc still have a charging order on his 
property although  he went bankrupt in 2010. Mr B would like NatWest to remove  the charge.
background
Mr B was remortaging his property and became aware that there was still a charge on his 
property which he thought would have been  removed  during his bankruptcy. Mr B contacted 
NatWest and says they agreed to remove the charging order but then asked  for about 
£16,700 to do so. NatWest says that as the charging order  was in place before the date of 
the bankruptcy that it should remain until Mr B paid it off. But NatWest accepted that it hadnt 
provided precise information to Mr B and paid him £96.20.
Our investigator initially upheld the complaint but on review recommended  that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld as NatWests security for its debt survived the bankruptcy. Mr B asked 
that an ombudsman  review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B says that he took an unsecured loan with NatWest and doesnt understand how an 
unsecured loan can be turned into a secured debt without his agreement or that of Mrs B 
who also owns the property.
This loan which  gives  rise to this debt seems to have  been taken out in Mr Bs sole name in 
2008 and due to non-payment of the loan NatWest got a county court  judgement against Mr 
B and then enforced it through a charging  order. I see that a District  Judge  made  the 
charging order in York on 17 June 2010  and the order records  that it heard from the 
Defendant in person. 
This indicates that Mr B was aware of the county court judgement  and the order and if he 
disagreed with either he would have had the opportunity to appeal or challenge it at that 
time. So, the judgement and charging order appear properly obtained and there is no reason 
to question them. I also see that the order applies to the interest of Mr B in the land and not 
the interest of Mrs B so Mrs Bs interest  in the land isnt affected by the charging order.  
Mr B then went  bankrupt in October  2010. Mr Bs unsecured  creditors  would have been 
included in his bankruptcy but Mr Bs debt to NatWest was no longer an unsecured debt. 
The court by granting NatWest a charging  order in 2010 had made  an unsecured debt a 
secured one. Although Mr B went bankrupt, NatWest was now a secured creditor and could 
rely on its security. So, I dont see that NatWest has done anything wrong and I cant fairly 
uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Ref: DRN36934872Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3693487