K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC)  mis-sold him an Advance  packaged  
bank account  in 2010. 
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr Js complaint and didnt think HSBC  had mis-sold the Advance  
account. Mr J disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Js complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  Mr Js complaint. Id 
like to explain the reasons for my decision in more  detail.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr J was given a clear choice in taking this account.  At this 
point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened. When the parties  to a complaint disagree 
about what happened (such as here) and theres a lack of evidence from the time, I have to 
think about what I have  been provided  with, what I do know and the wider  circumstances  at 
the time.  In other words,  what l have  to do, in this case, is decide  what I think  is more likely 
than not to have  happened having  weighed up what both Mr J and HSBC  have been able to 
provide me with.  
  
Mr J upgraded to the Advance account  from a free one. So I think Mr J wouldve known 
HSBC did free accounts. Mr Js says he was told he had to have the account  to have an 
overdraft. But Mr J already had an overdraft with a significant limit on a free account. And  
Mr J hasnt said anything about  what it was he was told had changed in his circumstances 
which meant he now needed to have a packaged  account in order to have an use and 
overdraft hed been able to use on his previous  free account. 
It may also help for me to explain  that preferential overdraft rates were a benefit of the 
Advance account. And given the size of Mr Js overdraft limit, it was always possible that 
hed save more than the monthly fee in overdraft interest alone. As this is the case, I cant  
see why HSBC would mislead Mr J into taking the Advance account in the way hes 
suggested. Overall and having  weighed  everything up, I think  its more  likely than not Mr J 
agreed to upgrade to the Advance  account after he was provided  with a fair choice.  
HSBC says the account was sold in branch during a period of time when it didnt generally 
provide recommendations to consumers. So it doesnt think the Advance  account was 
recommended. On the other hand,  Mr J says the account was recommended.  But I think    
Mr Js argument for saying the account was recommended is based entirely on what  hes 
said about being told about he had to have it to have  an overdraft. And for the reasons Ive 
explained, I cant fairly say thats  what happened. 
Equally I havent  seen  anything to suggest  that HSBC assessed  Mr Js circumstances before 
selling the Advance account  to him, which it what shouldve happened  before any 
Ref: DRN34365692recommendation took place. So overall having weighed  up everything Ive been provided 
with, I dont think that HSBC recommended the Advance  account to Mr J. This means HSBC 
didnt have to check whether  the Advance account was right for Mr J. And it was up to Mr J 
to do this for himself. 
When Mr J was sold the Advance account  the main benefits it included were  preferential 
overdraft rates, fee free overseas cash withdrawals  and travel insurance.  Ive already 
explained why the preferential overdraft  rate is likely to have been useful. Mr J also used his 
card abroad which means that he travelled and benefitted from the fee free cash withdrawal 
benefit too. And it looks like he attempted at least one claim on the travel  insurance as well. 
Ive seen what Mr Js said about having  other insurance. But I think  its likely  Mr J wouldve 
been told about most, if not all, of the benefits  on the account in order to make  it appear as 
attractive as possible. After all HSBC  was trying to persuade him to take a fee paying  
account when  he most  likely knew he didnt have to. The best way to do this wouldve been 
by telling him about what hed get for the monthly  fee. Mr J attempting a claim on the travel 
insurance supports  this too. As Mr J would more likely than not have been told what the 
account included,  I cant hold HSBC responsible if Mr J paid for other  cover  elsewhere.
Overall I think  that Mr J did use some of the benefits included on the Advance account and 
he was eligible for and couldve benefitted from some of the others too. Given all of this and 
while I acknowledge Mr J might not have been  told absolutely everything he needed to know 
about all the benefits, I do think he was told enough  to know  what he was agreeing  to. 
Mr J may now believe  he didnt benefit as much  hed initially hoped  and expected to. And 
given what he mayve  since read and heard about  packaged accounts,  I can understand why 
he may believe his account  was mis-sold. But I think he chose to take the account while 
having a decent understanding of what it included.  So I want to reassure Mr J that having  
looked at everything  provided and thought about what  hes said,  I dont think that his 
Advance account was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3436569