K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
to Mrs K. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004 . The policy was sold to 
Mrs K when she applied  for the card by post.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Barclays  Bank disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion,  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Barclays Bank has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs Ks 
complaint. This is because I dont think Barclays Bank gave Mrs K clear enough information 
about the limitations on claiming for people with a pre-existing  medical condition. There was 
no clear reference to this on the application form, and the information  had to be found in the 
small print of the policy document. I think this would have mattered to Mrs K because she 
had recently been  diagnosed with a long term medical condition.  Barclays  Bank says that 
the medical condition was one which was unlikely to lead to long term harm  if medicated 
properly. However, I think it unlikely Mrs K would  have  been confident that she would not 
need to claim, as her diagnosis had been fairly  recent, and because the potential harm  from 
the illness was significant. So I think shed have doubted  whether the PPI would be worth the 
cost in her circumstances. 
I think Mrs K has lost out as a result of Barclays Bank's failings in this case  I dont think  
shed have taken  out the policy  if shed been properly informed.
fair compensation
Barclays Bank UK PLC should put Mrs K in the financial  position shed be in now if she 
hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Barclays Bank UK PLC should  find out how much Mrs K would have owed when she 
closed her credit  card account  if the policy hadnt been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should then refund the difference between  what Mrs K owed 
when she closed her account and what she would  have  owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN31826912If Mrs K made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays Bank UK PLC can take 
off what she got for the claim from the amount  it owes  her.  
B.Barclays Bank UK PLC should  add simple interest on the difference  between  what  
Mrs K would have  owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she 
gets the refund.  The interest  rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclays Bank UK PLC works  out what Mrs K would have owed each month 
without PPI  Mrs K paid more  than enough to clear  her balance,  Barclays Bank UK 
PLC should also pay simple  interest on the extra Mrs K paid. And it should carry on 
paying interest until the point  when Mrs K wouldve owed Barclays Bank UK PLC 
something on her credit card. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year.
D.Barclays Bank UK PLC should  tell Mrs K what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays Bank  UK PLC to take off tax from this 
interest. Barclays Bank UK PLC must give Mrs K a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if she asks for one.
Barclays Bank may take into account any refund it has already made in respect of 
commission and profit share on this account. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint.  
I require Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay Mrs K compensation in accordance  with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3182691