K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance  Company Limited have  mishandled his 
legal expenses insurance claim.
background 
Mr I holds a legal expenses policy with DAS that covers  his medical practice.  He made  a 
claim in November 2017 because he wanted  to pursue a third party  over a contractual 
dispute. There were terms within the contract that Mr I did not agree to, which resulted in the 
contract being suspended. 
DAS appointed panel solicitors (Firm D) to assess the claim and carry out a prospects 
assessment; but Mr I became increasingly  unhappy  with the way the solicitors were dealing  
with his case. In summary, he alleges that:
He had to contact DAS on various occasions  because Firm D would not respond to 
his messages.
They also would not agree to a face-to-face meeting to discuss  the intricacies of his 
particular dispute, which he felt was imperative given its complexity.
He didnt think the solicitor assigned to his case was properly qualified to oversee his 
dispute. 
Firm D subsequently  referred  the matter to counsel for an opinion, who reported that Mr I 
would need to provide further  documentation  to confirm whether  his case  had sufficient 
prospects of success,  as required by the policy. Mr I complained  to DAS about the conduct 
of Firm D and said they didnt fully understand his claim. He also claimed  that Firm D was 
conflicted as they were  representing the defendant  of an unrelated legal matter in which Mr I 
was the claimant,  so he requested that his own solicitors be appointed.
DAS said they couldnt  comment on the actions or advice  given by Firm D and said that no 
conflict of interest had been  reported by the solicitors. But they offered to appoint  a different 
firm of solicitors  from their panel in any event  given the issues  complained  of; although they 
say Mr I refused this offer. However,  DAS refused to allow Mr I to appoint his own non-panel 
solicitors as his claim was not at the stage  where legal proceedings were necessary.
Unhappy with this, Mr I brought his complaint to this service. In summary, he complains that:
DAS did not properly acknowledge his concerns regarding Firm D and would not 
allow him to use his own solicitor; and neither  would they pass  it to a lawyer who had 
the expertise and knowledge of his type of dispute;
DAS pressured  him to stay with Firm D and accept their opinion/advice.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Is complaint. He didnt think  DAS had acted unreasonably 
or outside the policy terms  and conditions; and he didnt think  their service had fallen below 
that which could  be expected in the circumstances. Mr I disagreed, so the matter was 
passed to me to determine.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in September 2019. I said our service was 
not able to consider the actions or advice of the solicitors as this fell under the remit of a 
different regulator.  But in terms of whether DAS had acted fairly and reasonably, I made the 
following provisional findings:
Ref: DRN35398032I can see that Mr I reported his concerns regarding Firm Ds service directly to DAS. But I 
do not accept  his allegations  that they failed  properly  to acknowledge those concerns, as 
they passed everything he said about  the service he was receiving along  to the solicitors for 
investigation and comment. For example, I can see from their system notes that they tried to 
contact Firm D themselves when Mr I said he hadnt received any response from them. And 
they also wrote to the solicitors on 23 February 2018 raising a complaint on Mr Is behalf.  So 
in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that DAS disregarded Mr Is service-related 
concerns about  their appointed solicitors  or failed to take them forwards  appropriately. 
I can also see that DAS offered Mr I an alternative choice of panel  solicitor when he 
continued to be dissatisfied with Firm D. Mr I disputes the substance of this offer,  however, 
as he says that DAS pressured him into staying  with Firm D. But again, Ive found no 
evidence to support  this allegation because, from what Ive seen,  DAS sent an email to Mr I 
on 10 April 2018 explaining that they could appoint a different firm of solicitors  if he wanted.  
Mr I then responded by letter two days later saying that he was not prepared to accept 
another preferred solicitor. Mr I has not expanded  upon how or why he felt pressured  but 
having considered the correspondence sent between the two parties, Im satisfied that DAS 
gave Mr I the choice  to change to another  panel solicitor, which he refused as he wanted  to 
appoint his own, completely independent, lawyer.
Mr I was also unhappy that DAS would not allow him to appoint  his own solicitors.  However,  
the terms and conditions of Mr Is insurance contract set out that, upon receiving a claim:
if representation is necessary  we will appoint a preferred law firmas your 
appointed representative to deal with your claim.
The policy also sets out the circumstances where the policyholder  may appoint their own 
solicitor:
If the appointed preferred law firmcannot negotiate settlement of your claim and it 
is necessary to go to court and legal  proceedings are issued or there is a conflict of 
interest, then you may choose a law firmto act as the appointed representative.
I am satisfied this policy term appears to be consistent with Regulation  6 of the Insurance  
Companies (Legal  Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990, which provide a policyholder with 
the freedom to choose their own solicitor only in certain circumstances: 
(1) Where  under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer  (or 
other person having such qualifications  as may be necessary) to defend,  represent  or 
serve the interests  of the insured in any inquiry  or proceedings,  the insured  shall be 
free to choose  that lawyer  (or other  person)
(2) The insured  shall also be free to choose  a lawyer (or other person having such  
qualifications as may be necessary)  to serve his interests whenever a conflict  of 
interest arises.
In the circumstances of Mr Is case at the time in question, there  was no legal inquiry and 
nor had proceedings been issued, so he would not be entitled  to choose his own solicitors  
on this basis. Indeed, cover under the policy for his dispute  had not even been confirmed 
given that further  documentation was required for counsel to carry out a prospects of 
success assessment. Mr I does submit, however, that there was a conflict of interest  in his 
Ref: DRN35398033being represented by Firm D, as he says they were  also representing  the defendant of a 
separate legal  matter  in which he was the claimant. Mr I says he made this clear to DAS,  but 
that they ignored his concerns. 
DAS say that it is for the solicitors to check for any potential conflict  of interest  before 
accepting a claim. In Mr Is case,  they say that Firm D did not confirm  the existence  of any 
potential conflict and, because they were not advised otherwise, they were satisfied that no 
conflict existed. In my judgment, such a passive approach  would be acceptable if DAS had 
no reason to suspect  a conflict  of interest. But when  Mr I expressly stated  that he felt there 
was a conflict, DAS ought reasonably to have then made active enquiries with Firm D to 
satisfy themselves that it was still appropriate  for the solicitors  to act on his behalf. So I do 
not think it was reasonable for DAS to continue to take a passive approach in such  
circumstances  and they accept that they should  have raised this with Firm D.
Mr I expressed  his concerns regarding  the potential conflict  of interest  in April 2018. If DAS 
had made  the necessary enquiries  with Firm D when they should have, they would probably 
have identified that there were circumstances present that could give rise to a conflict of 
interest  or at least  the perception of such conflict. I say this because Firm D have since 
confirmed to our service that they were  indeed acting on another  matter concerning Mr I, as 
he had previously explained to DAS. They said that his contractual dispute  was opened in 
December 2017,  and the matter in which Firm D were acting for his opponent was opened in 
February 2018. 
It isnt the role of this service to determine whether Firm D were in fact conflicted or not. But 
giving Mr I the benefit of the doubt, and assuming  that there  was a conflict  of interest or 
perception of conflict, Ive thought about what impact this might have had (if any) on DASs 
liability under  the policy.  But having  considered  this, even  if Firm D were conflicted,  I still 
dont think it means DAS ought  to have appointed a solicitor of Mr Is choosing at the point 
he raised his concerns   and Ill explain why.
If there was in fact a conflict  of interest,  as Mr I has expressed, this would have meant that 
Regulation 6 of the 1990 Regulations  would,  in principle, have been  engaged to allow him to 
choose his own solicitors. In compliance with these Regulations, the policy  also allows  him 
to choose his own solicitors in such  circumstances.  So on the face of it, I believe DAS have 
acted in breach  of the policy and the 1990 Regulations when they did not allow  Mr I to 
choose his own firm.
However, cover under  the policy for Mr Is claim had still not been confirmed at this point, 
because Firm D had not ascertained whether there  were reasonable prospects of success,  
which is a condition precedent to DASs  liability to indemnify under the policy.  And in relation 
to reasonable  prospects, the policy terms and conditions state that for civil cases:
the prospects that the insured person will recover losses  or damagesmust be at 
least 51%. We or a preferred law firmwill assess whether there are reasonable 
prospects.
So although  in principle the 1990  Regulations  may have been  engaged to allow Mr I to 
choose his own solicitor, the policy  terms are clear that DAS would  not have been obliged  to 
use a firm of Mr Is choosing to carry out the prospects assessment, as the policy states that 
this is to be carried out by a preferred  law firm of DASs choosing. I dont consider this to be 
at odds with the 1990  Regulations  either. Regulation 6(2) refers  to the insured being able to 
choose a lawyer to serve  his interests whenever a conflict of interest arises. But I dont think  
Ref: DRN35398034this can be interpreted so widely  as to mean all legal interests (i.e. even the determination 
of whether cover is available under  the policy) because Regulation 6(1) also refers  to serving 
the interests of the insured in the context of any inquiry or proceedings (thus setting out a 
narrower interpretation). So, as I see it, the freedom of choice provided by the Regulations 
can only realistically apply  once legal expenses cover has been confirmed under the policy. 
In Mr Is case, cover had not been confirmed as more  information was required to complete 
the prospects  assessment. And as mentioned previously, in response to Mr Is concerns, 
DAS did offer alternative panel solicitors to take over the claim from Firm D, which  wouldve 
entailed them completing the prospects assessment to confirm  whether cover was available  
under the policy.  If reasonable  prospects had been  confirmed by the alternative panel 
solicitors (and cover  confirmed), then at that point I consider Mr I wouldve been free to 
choose his own solicitors. 
However, Mr I rejected the offer of an alternative firm completing  the prospects assessment,  
which means that cover was never  confirmed under the policy as this condition  precedent  to 
liability had not been fulfilled. So even if there was a conflict  of interest, I do not consider that 
DAS would have  any liability to cover the expenses Mr I may have incurred with his own 
solicitor because, ultimately,  he did not allow them properly to assess whether his claim 
ought to have been covered in the first place.   
Mr I also submits that his contractual dispute  was particularly  complex  and that DASs 
preferred solicitors were  not properly qualified to deal with it. I appreciate that Mr I feels  
strongly that only those  with sufficient clinical knowledge could understand his dispute. But in 
the circumstances, I havent seen enough  persuasive evidence that would suggest Mr Is 
dispute was so complex or exceptional  that DASs panel solicitors would not be capable of 
taking it forwards  or at least undertaking a prospects assessment to confirm cover. So I 
dont think DAS was obliged to allow Mr I to appoint his own solicitor on this basis  either.
But going  back  to Mr Is complaint about  the level of service he received from DAS  and as 
I set out previously  I do not think it was reasonable for them  to take a passive approach to 
determine whether  Firm D were  conflicted  or not after Mr I had brought this to their attention.  
Mr I says that DAS ignored  his concerns,  but while I dont think they ignored them entirely, I 
do think they failed  to investigate the matter appropriately, so Im minded  to uphold Mr Is 
complaint (in part) on this basis and intend asking DAS to pay £250  in recognition of the 
inconvenience this has caused him. But given that DAS were  denied the opportunity  of 
assessing the prospects of Mr Is claim,  I do not intend asking them  to cover his legal 
expenses.
I invited further comments  and evidence from both parties. DAS responded accepting  my 
provisional decision. Mr I submitted  further points for consideration. He confirmed that he is 
a sole trader and his practice is not classed as a partnership or limited  company, and also 
made various points  about the nature of his legal dispute that was the subject of his legal 
expenses claim with DAS, as well as his dealings with Firm D. In summary, he said:
To properly understand his dispute,  it is important  that reference  is had to the 
documents he originally sent to this office on 31 December 2018 and 11 March 2019, 
where it will become apparent that the third-party  officials  he was dealing with 
(against which  he later pursued  his legal claim through  DAS)  were incompetent;  
He refused to accept  the contract with the third-party body in the form it was 
presented to him as it had several contradictory  and counterproductive  clauses;  
Ref: DRN35398035Had Firm Ds solicitor  fully appreciated the nature  of his dispute, he would have 
known that there was no copy of a finalised contract, yet he insisted on having one;
There were  several inaccuracies and false findings in relation to the quality 
assurance visits;
Mr I did not question  the qualifications of the solicitor dealing  with his case, but 
believed his case was very unusual and that a non-clinical person needed  good  
attention and explanations to understand it. He maintains  that the solicitor did not 
understand the papers that were sent to him as he believed there was a finalised 
contract, yet he refused to meet  with Mr I so he could  fully explain the nature of his 
dispute;
He invited the parties involved to have an open debate.
In relation to his complaint  about  DAS, Mr I said (in summary):
Although DAS addressed his concerns by contacting Firm D, what hasnt been 
considered is that this was of no meaningful effect,  as they just passed the same 
response on to him, which was to send more documents  that he didnt have. DAS 
failed to take appropriate action  in light of this;
DAS provided him with an ineffective service in their choice of solicitors,  and failed to 
offer him an alternative firm until later on, and even then a representative  of DAS 
spoke to him and insisted that he stay with Firm D;
He refused to change  to another of DASs preferred solicitors due to his experience  
with Firm D;
Given the way Firm D were handling his claim,  proceedings would never  have been  
issued. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  Mr Is most recent 
submissions, but these  points to do not change the findings and outcome arrived at in my 
provisional decision  for reasons that will become clear.
First, I want to reassure  Mr I that I have considered all the documentation he has sent to this 
office (including all the papers sent to the investigator regarding his dispute) from when he 
first contacted us in January 2019.  I fully appreciate the concerns Mr I had with Firm D, and 
why he doesnt  think they understood the full extent of his dispute. But as I set out in my 
provisional decision, the remit  of this service extends only to considering the actions of DAS 
as the insurer,  and whether they acted  reasonably  and took appropriate action in light of 
Mr Is concerns. 
 
I appreciate that Mr I does  not feel that DAS took appropriate action when  he reported his 
concerns to them. He says their actions had no meaningful effect because all they did was 
just pass on Firm Ds repeated request for documents which Mr I told them  he didnt have. 
But again,  this appears to be a failing of the solicitor to properly address his concerns. As 
I set out in my provisional decision, Im satisfied that DAS took appropriate action when they 
relayed Mr Is complaint  to Firm D and asked that they look into it. The fact that Firm D may 
not have responded in the way Mr I expected  is not something that DAS can reasonably be 
held responsible for, and is something he will need  to take up with the appropriate regulator 
of Firm D itself.  
Ref: DRN35398036Assuming, however, that DAS should  have  done  more at this point  on the basis that the 
relationship between Mr I and Firm D had broken down  or that they were not 
understanding one another  the most I wouldve expected them  to do is to offer Mr I the 
choice of another preferred solicitor  to undertake the prospects assessment  which they 
already did. So I wouldnt have expected them  to have  done anything more  in the 
circumstances. I understand Mr I feels that DAS should have made this offer sooner, and 
there may be some truth in this. But even if that were the case, Ive already awarded  £250 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  by DAS, which I wouldnt look to increase in 
such circumstances as I still consider it to be commensurate to the inconvenience this delay 
would have caused him. 
In my provisional decision,  I said I hadnt  seen any evidence to suggest that Mr I was 
pressured by DAS to stay with Firm D as he alleged. Mr I says that a representative of DAS 
spoke to him on more  than one occasion  in a brusque and dictatorial manner, insisting that 
he stay with Firm D. However, I havent  seen enough persuasive  evidence to suggest  this 
was the case.  For example, Ive seen  no contact notes from DAS to this effect.  But I can see 
evidence that the same representative named by Mr I did email him on 6 April 2018 
(following a conversation  she had with Mr I on 3 April 2018) where she offered the choice of 
alternate panel solicitors.
It also appears that Mr I did not want to choose  another of DASs  preferred solicitors, and 
has said himself that he refused the offer because of his experience with Firm D.  So,  on 
balance, I havent  seen enough  to persuade  me that DASs  offer of an alternative firm was, 
in effect, illusory as a result of any pressure to stay with Firm D. And Im satisfied an 
alternative choice  was offered. 
In terms of Mr I being able to choose his own solicitor, he says I have ignored the fact that 
the way Firm D were handling  the case, proceedings would never have been issued. 
I appreciate Mr I feels he had reached  a stalemate  with Firm D as a result  of him thinking 
they did not properly understand his dispute.  But there is nothing to suggest he wouldve had 
the same  experience with an alternative firm of panel solicitors. An alternative firm couldve 
taken over the consideration of the prospects assessment from Firm D, and ultimately could 
have led to proceedings if such  prospects were  deemed favourable  and cover  confirmed 
under the policy.  And seeing  as DAS did make such an offer to Mr I, Im not persuaded 
theyve acted unreasonably in the circumstances, as they gave the choice to proceed with 
different solicitors. 
So after considering Mr Is recent submissions, they do not change  the reasoning or findings 
reached in my provisional decision. However,  I will still be awarding £250 compensation in 
recognition of the inconvenience caused  by DAS in their handling of Mr Is claim  and their 
failure to properly investigate whether Firm D were  conflicted.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Is complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses  
Insurance Company Limited  to pay £250  compensation  to be paid within 28 days  of Mr Is 
acceptance of my decision being  received by DAS, failing which interest  will start to accrue  
at the simple rate of 8% per year until settlement (less any tax properly deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Ref: DRN35398037Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3539803