K820x#14complaint
Mr D is represented. His representative says Infinox Capital Limited (ICL):
Opened an inappropriate Contract for Differences (CFD) trading  account for him 
around October 2016 and mismanaged the trading  in his account.
Is responsible for an inexplicable loss of around 48,000  Euros from his account  and, 
thereafter, a negative balance of around 45,000 Euros, between  21 and 22 
December 2016.
background
In summary,  the matter  involves an Introducing Broker (IB) firm and a specific  individual  (the 
broker) who appears to have worked for or with the IB; Mr D says he engaged with the 
broker at the outset, that he was led to believe the broker was employed by and worked for 
ICL and that he knew nothing about  the IB until enquiries related to his complaint were  made  
in 2018; he further says his arrangement with the broker was that his ICL account would be 
a managed account, managed/traded by the broker, and that trading was to be based  on the 
total of 51,500 Euros (in addition to a trading bonus) the broker induced him to deposit into 
the account by November  2016;  he says that when the loss and problems arose in the 
following month the broker had departed from the scene and left the account unmanaged.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint and shared a number of views on it. His 
concluding view was that the complaint should not be upheld.  In the main, he noted that 
ICLs service did not include the provision  of advice and the terms for the account  warned 
clients not to rely on any advice they believe they had been provided  as such advice  had 
been given without its authority; that evidence did not show the broker was employed by ICL 
or that ICL held responsibility for him or for the IB; that evidence shows  ICL gave notice at 
the outset that the account  was inappropriate for Mr D but he proceeded with it nevertheless;  
and that ICL gave sufficient  risk warnings, in Mr Ds first language,  about trading CFDs.
Mr Ds representative did not accept this outcome. He said the investigators conclusions 
lacked supporting evidence and he asked  for an ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Appropriateness
There is evidence, within the relevant  client agreement,  that Mr Ds ICL account was based 
on an execution only service and that ICL was not responsible for advising or managing his 
trading. ICL held no responsibility for the suitability of the trades conducted  in the account. 
However, as a regulated firm providing the trading account service, it was obliged to assess 
the appropriateness of that service  for its client (in this case, Mr D).
Appropriateness is assessed,  by a firm, on the basis of information from the client about  
whether the client  has sufficient knowledge  and experience to understand the risks involved 
in the relevant service or product. This includes:
Information about the type of service(s) and investment(s) the client  is familiar with.
Ref: DRN35878472Information about the nature, volume, frequency and length  of the clients  experience 
in the familiar service(s) and investment(s).
A firm is obliged  to warn the client (or prospective  client) if the assessment  concludes that 
the service or product  is inappropriate  for him or her. Its warning can be in a standardised 
format and if, despite the warning, the client decides to proceed with the service or product 
the firm has discretion to do the same  in deciding to do so, the regulator expects the firm to 
have had  regard to the circumstances.
In Mr Ds case, there is evidence from his account  application that some of the responses  to 
the appropriateness assessment questions suggested that the account was inappropriate for 
him; the process  was automated; ICL says the automated process concluded  that the 
account was inappropriate  for him and issued  him with warnings in this respect, which  
prevented the application  from proceeding further unless the warnings were  accepted;  it also 
says that Mr D accepted  the warnings and chose  to proceed with the application, so it 
opened his account on this basis. One of the automated warnings said as follows: 
We note you have limited trading experience. Trading Forex and CFDs carry a high level
of risks and may not be suitable for all investors. Before deciding to participate in the Forex 
and CFD market, you should  carefully  consider your investment objectives, level of 
experience and risk appetite. You should obtain independent advice if necessary. [my 
emphasis]
This does  not explicitly convey a message such as a CFD account is inappropriate or 
something similar but, as I said above, a firms  warning can be in its standard format. The 
message above  was ICLs automated standard format and, on balance, I accept that it was 
sufficient to convey  to applicants that their limited experience meant the account  may not 
be in their interest  in other words,  the account  is not appropriate. The significance of the 
warning is supported by what  appears  to have been an automated  application process that 
would not have continued without the applicant accepting the warning.
It is possible that Mr D was assisted,  in some way, by the broker in completing the 
application process. However, it was an automated process and it would have been based  
on the notion that the applicant was the person stated as being the applicant within the 
process. If Mr D says he was not informed  or properly informed about the application 
process and did not know  any of this, I have not seen enough evidence to support that 
position. Furthermore, it arguably does not defeat evidence that ICL applied an 
appropriateness assessment to his application based on information it received, nor does it 
defeat evidence  of the warnings it gave in the process. I also have not seen evidence  to 
suggest that ICL had reason to doubt that Mr D was involved  in his own application. 
Having given the warnings, and with the automated process registering that they had been  
accepted and that the applicant sought  to proceed with the account  nevertheless, ICL then 
had discretion to either turn down the application or proceed with it. It chose to proceed with 
the application and to open the account for Mr D. The regulators rules  permitted it to do 
this, having regard to the circumstances. I have not seen evidence of wider circumstances 
which ought reasonably to have  stopped  ICL from opening Mr Ds account. I do not suggest 
that it could not have  turned down  the application.  It could  have done  so, but the point  is 
that it was not obliged  to do so.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that ICL was wrong to open the trading account for 
Mr D.
Ref: DRN35878473Alleged mismanaged  trading  and responsibility for loss.
ICL provided neither  a managed nor an advisory account to Mr D. There is no evidence  of 
such a service being offered to or agreed  with ICL. Instead evidence  supports the conclusion 
that it provided an execution only account  service  as I mentioned  earlier.
Mr Ds representatives arguments  are based  on the assertion that the actions of the broker 
and/or the IB were  binding on ICL and that the broker and/or  IB offered, and agreed with, Mr 
D the managed  trading service. In the absence of any such  a binding factor, his claims about  
mismanagement and about the trading and account  balance related events within his 
account cannot reasonably lie against  ICL, they fall away.  
I do not consider  that ICL has a case to answer in this issue. Evidence does not establish, 
on balance, that it was bound by the actions of the broker or the IB. I note the following:
There is no documentary or records based  evidence of an identifiable  relationship 
between the broker  and ICL. The regulators register for ICL does  not list him as a 
present or past individual connected to ICL and no documentary  evidence of an 
employment relationship  or any other relationship  between him and ICL has been 
presented. Reference has been  made  to the brokers use of an email  address with 
ICLs name within it. ICL denies any involvement in this and has referred to its 
termination of business with the IB after learning of cause  for concern about  the IBs 
practices. It is not clear how the broker was able to use the relevant email  address 
but this aspect, alone, falls short of establishing  an identifiable relationship  between  
him and ICL. Furthermore, ICL has argued that the full title/identification of the email  
address displays the trading name for the IB and not ICLs  name.
The Introducing  Broker agreement between ICL and the IB expressly limits the IBs 
function to the introduction of customers to ICL; it expressly  prohibits the IB from 
giving investment advice on ICLs behalf and from issuing communication naming or 
referring to or on behalf of ICL without  ICLs approval; and it expressly prohibits the 
IB from holding itself out as being  ICL or as being an agent for ICL or as being  
associated with ICL in any manner other than as an introducing  broker. I have not 
seen any evidence  of approval from ICL for the IB to have departed from any of 
these prohibitions in Mr Ds case. 
There is evidence of another  agreement between  ICL and the IB  a professional 
services agreement related to the downloading of and technical  support for ICLs 
platform. However this agreement  is also limited   to the platform related functions  
and it expressly says that there is no relationship of employment or partnership  
between the parties and that the IB is not to be considered an officer, employee, 
appointed representative or agent  of ICL. The regulators  register for ICL does not 
list the IB as a firm with any regulated  connection  to ICL and does not list the IB as 
ICLs appointed representative  or agent.
In addition to the above, there  does  not appear  to be evidence of ICL communicating  
with or conducting itself towards  Mr D in a way that could reasonably  suggest  that it 
gave express or implied authority for the IB or the broker  to act on its behalf   or in a 
way which could  reasonably have been  perceived by Mr D as such.
Ref: DRN35878474Overall and on balance, the conclusion  supported by evidence  that remains is 
that ICL provided  Mr D with no more  than an execution only trading account service. 
The alleged trading and management  related  issues in the account  were/are beyond 
its responsibility. The same applies to Mr Ds concerns about what  happened to his 
positive account  balance on 21 December 2016 and about the creation of a negative  
account balance  the following day. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3587847