K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say they were mis-sold a Legal  and General Assurance Society  Limited 
mortgage endowment  policy in 1993.
background
Mr and Mrs S policy started in April 1993  with a target amount of £53,000, was invested  in 
with-profits funds, and had a 25-year term. It matured in April 2018 with a shortfall of just 
under £13,000.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Legal  and General about the sale of the policy and then  after 
Legal and General rejected their complaint  referred the matter onto our service.
Our investigator said the policy  wasnt unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S based on their 
circumstances at the time. He also said the risk of a shortfall was shown in the paperwork 
and the fees and charges  didnt need  to be disclosed. Mr and Mrs S asked for a review  and 
so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs S wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because  I dont think I need  to comment on it in order  to reach the right 
outcome. 
It is not for me to re-advise Mr and Mrs S, or substitute what I think  would have been best 
for them in 1993.  All I can do is look at the evidence and form a view as to whether the sale 
was suitable at the time. I must also not use hindsight in making  a decision. At the time of 
the sale these  policies were seen as low risk. Historically theyd been maturing with tax-free 
bonuses. They were thought suitable  for most  (but not all).
The illustration shows the potential maturity value at three different growth rates. The lower  
shows a possible shortfall and the upper a possible  surplus.  The middle growth  rate of 
8% shows  the policy meeting its target  amount. Mr and Mrs S have said the growth rates 
were optimistic but they were set by LAUTRO (the Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory 
Organisation) not by Legal and General.
The adviser completed a personal financial review form (otherwise known as a fact find). 
One of the sections in this document is Investment attitude which  has nine boxes that could 
be ticked, and three  descriptions above  of cautious,  balanced and adventurous. The fifth 
box has been ticked, which is under the word  balanced.
Its clear from Mr and Mrs S submissions that they were aware the policy  would rely on 
investment performance  and there  was no guarantee it would perform sufficiently well as to 
meet the target amount. Theyve said:
Ref: DRN31132492He mentioned that the endowment  policy was not guaranteed to pay off the mortgage 
in full, but he emphasised that there was more likely  to be a surplus than a shortfall 
based on past performance.  
The illustration  did raise the risk that the policy may not meet expectations,  but the 
minimum illustration provided was optimistic and the adviser was very persuasive in his 
view that a shortfall was highly unlikely
Ive no doubt the policy  was spoken of in very positive terms. Whether that went  too far isnt 
something Ive seen persuasive  evidence of. In any event Id have  to take into account that 
whatever was said at the time of the sale, Mr and Mrs S  by their own admission  took out 
this policy  despite  being aware there  was some risk (albeit they didnt think it would actually 
happen).
Based on Mr and Mrs S recollections theres nothing in those statements that isnt true; 
historically this type of policy  had matured with a surplus rather  than a shortfall,  and a 
shortfall (at that time) was unlikely. But the financial climate  changed  and, as Ive said,  I cant 
use the benefit of hindsight  when  deciding this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have  mentioned the size of the shortfall, and they say the lower  illustrative 
figure at the time of the sale was optimistic. It seems  theyre  saying they were willing to 
accept a risk of a small shortfall (albeit they didnt think  it would happen), but not the much 
larger shortfall their policy matured with. But the size of the shortfall isnt the relevant factor 
in deciding this complaint;  its the chance  of a shortfall - any shortfall - that is the risk. 
Mr and Mrs S have  admitted they took out this policy knowing it wasnt  guaranteed to repay  
their mortgage, and that there was a risk of a shortfall. So I cant uphold their complaint that 
the thing they knew  they were risking could  happen actually happened.
I have to test a complaint against what the law and regulations required at the time of the 
actions (or inactions) complained about. I cant try and apply todays standards  of 
transparency and information to things which happened many years ago. Transparency 
might indeed be a hot topic now but it certainly wasnt  in 1993. It simply wasnt  a requirement 
at the time for the endowment fees and charges to be disclosed and so I cant hold Legal 
and General liable for not doing so.
Mr and Mrs S have  said the advisers notes saying the sum assured was £53,000 was 
misleading, and asked whether it was a requirement in 1993  for the adviser  to detail the 
basic sum assured  and obtain a customers signature against that. To answer the question 
first, no it wasnt a requirement for the adviser to detail the basic  sum assured and obtain a 
customers signature against that, so I cant hold Legal and General liable for not doing that. 
In terms of whether  the adviser was being misleading by putting the sum assured as 
£53,000 I can confirm  he wasnt,  he was using the correct  terminology for these policies. The 
sum assured is the target amount (in this case £53,000),  the smaller amount (which  is the 
guaranteed amount to be paid at maturity, plus bonuses) is called the basic sum assured. 
So by putting the sum assured as £53,000  the adviser was being factually correct.
Finally, Mr and Mrs S have said Legal  and General  denied them  the opportunity to complain 
in 2001/02 and 2006 and had they done so the outcome may have been  different as other 
information may have  been available. Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but the outcome 
would have been the same in 2001/02  and 2006  as the facts of this case are very 
straightforward. This policy  would have been considered suitable in 1993  for anyone other 
Ref: DRN31132493than those not willing to take any risk, and as Mr and Mrs S have admitted they were aware 
there was a risk then theres no way they can say they werent willing  to take any risk. So the 
outcome would always have been  the same.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3113249