K822xcomplaint
The executors of the late Mr Hs estate  complain about Hargreaves Lansdown Asset  
Management Limited (HLAM). The executors say:
HLAM accepted a contribution from the late Mr H towards his self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP), but didnt make him aware  this would cause him to lose fixed 
protection (FP12)  of his pension. 
A representative of HLAM advised Mr H that no action needed to be taken on his 
pension during a meeting in June  2015.
HLAM did not inform Mr Hs representative  of the loss of lifetime  protection until after 
Mr Hs 75th birthday.
HLAM gave an unnecessarily  short deadline to investigate  the loss of FP12 and allow  
him to consider  his options.   
background 
Mr H started a SIPP with HLAM in March  2012. Shortly afterwards, he applied for and was 
granted FP12 by HM Revenue  and Customs. One of the provisions of FP12 was that no 
further pension  contributions could  be made.  
In December 2012, Mr H contacted HLAM  as he wished to make  a further contribution.  He 
phoned HLAM  and spoke to a representative  to discuss his intentions.  In the event, Mr H 
made a further  payment into his SIPP of £40,000.  HLAM called Mr H shortly  afterwards, and 
told him hed lost FP12.
Mr H had a meeting with a representative  of HLAM  in 2015. But he took no action in relation  
to his SIPP at that time. 
Mr Hs son complained to HLAM in April 2017.  HLAM didnt uphold the complaint. It said it 
wasnt responsible  for giving advice as the SIPP  operated  on an execution-only basis. There 
had been a discussion with Mr H in December 2012 about how to make  a further 
contribution. But there  was no mention  of lifetime allowance, and fixed  protection wasnt  
discussed. HLAM  said it wouldnt have been  in a position to question Mr Hs motives for 
making the payment. It said there had only been  an introductory meeting with its 
representative in June 2015,  and no advice had been given to Mr H. So there was no 
discussion about lifetime  protection. 
But HLAM  noted  that Mr Hs son had also complained about not having sufficient time to 
evaluate the options after becoming aware of the loss of FP12.  HLAM  said it was 
unfortunate if this was the case, and offered to pay £200. Mr H then referred  his complaint to 
us. 
Sadly, Mr H died in December 2017. The executors of his estate are continuing with the 
complaint. 
The adjudicator thought  initially  that the complaint should succeed. But she later changed 
her mind  and said it should  be upheld in part. 
The adjudicator noted that Mr H had spoken to HLAM in February 2012 before he started  the 
SIPP, during which  he said he was considering applying for FP12. The adjudicator  also 
Ref: DRN35002782thought Mr H would have been  aware from the conversation that making a further 
contribution after being granted FP12  would cause the protection to be lost. 
The adjudicator also considered the phone call that took place between Mr H and HLAM on 
1 December 2012. She noted that Mr H said he was thinking  about making  a further 
contribution to his SIPP. But while there was some discussion about  whether hed get full tax 
relief, there was no reference to FP12.  Mr H went ahead with the payment a few days  later. 
Mr H had a meeting with a Mr J, who was a representative of HLAM, in June 2015.  But the 
adjudicator thought this was only an initial meeting to discuss  whether Mr H would become a 
client for the receipt  of financial advice. But no advice was given, and Mr H didnt become a 
client. 
But while the adjudicator didnt think HLAM  was responsible for the loss of FP12 claimed  by 
the executors,  she didnt  think  the sum of £200  HLAM had offered Mr H was sufficient.  She 
thought HLAM should pay an additional £300,  when considering the upset  Mr H had been 
caused.  
HLAM said it was prepared to pay the sum the adjudicator had suggested.
The executors didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings, and made a number  of points:
Mr H was informed that FP12  had been  invalidated by the phone  call he received  
from HLAM on 10 December 2012.  His reaction was to then apply for new protection.  
This suggests Mr H didnt want to invalidate FP12 in the first place, and wasnt aware 
that paying the contribution would  do this.
While  HLAM say it sent Mr H a contribution checklist,  its not clear  he received this. 
Also, the impact of making  a further contribution on fixed  protection is far from clear 
on the checklist. 
The adjudicator  didnt think HLAM had provided Mr H with a fair level of service or 
treated him fairly. This was because HLAM didnt  make Mr H aware  he needed to 
send the FP12  certificate. The loss of protection was a direct result of this omission.
Mr H had ticked the SIPP application to confirm he intended to register for FP12. But 
HLAM never followed  this up. 
The executors  dont agree that HLAM  provided Mr H with no advice whatsoever. The 
adviser Mr H met in 2015 told him to take no action  on his pension.  Most people 
would understand this as being advice. If, as HLAM  now claim, this was only generic  
advice, why wasnt this made  clear  to Mr H at the time?  
The meeting  notes also show that advice  was provided, as supported by the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys definition of advice.  
Contrary to what HLAM say, the adviser  did see Mr Hs FP12 certificate at the 
meeting. Mr Hs son was there,  and remembers his father handing this over.   
Only the adviser  knew the significance of the certificate, as Mr H was beginning to 
have cognitive  difficulties. The adviser  said no action needed to be taken.
The adviser was also shown details of Mr Hs other pension plan. He said no action 
needed to be taken as it wouldnt be possible to transfer the plan and obtain the 
same benefits with another provider. Mr H should instead wait until he was closer  to 
his 75th birthday. 
Although HLAM say Mr H confirmed he didnt want to proceed with advice, the 
executors think that it was rather the case that advice was being  put on hold for the 
present.
Ref: DRN35002783HLAM didnt inform  Mr H of the loss of FP12 for nearly two months following the 
return of the certificate in January 2017. Initially HLAM admitted that the delay had 
limited Mr Hs options and offered to pay £200.  But they now say the compensation is 
not for the delay, but for another reason. 
The executors  assume  that HLAM has a duty of care towards  customers  in relation to 
loss of fixed protection, and severe  impact  a loss of this can cause.  As Mr H wasnt  
informed of the loss of FP12  when he made the contribution, and subsequent failing 
when the relevant  tax charge could have been reduced,  this must represent a failure 
on HLAMs part.    
The matter  has now been passed to me for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above,  HLAM operated its SIPP on an execution-only basis. As such, it was 
responsible only for administering the plan correctly, and was not obliged to give Mr H any 
advice on his pension  planning. This would include any advice on whether or not he should 
contribute to the plan, or if so how much he should  pay. These were matters  on which Mr H 
should either have  taken  independent financial advice or made  his own decision. 
When applying for the SIPP, Mr H indicated hed either registered, or intended to register, for 
fixed protection. But as I understand it, he hadnt  actually done  so at the time.  
In order to apply  for FP12 Mr H had to complete the relevant HM Revenue and Customs 
form. The notes that accompanied the form said that if relying on fixed  protection, there were 
restrictions on what he could do with his pension savings.  It was stated specifically that if any 
contributions were made after 6 April 2012, this would normally cause loss of fixed  
protection. 
Im also mindful that Mr H was an accountant. While he may not have been a pension  
expert, I think  its reasonable to conclude that he would have been aware of the importance 
of tax planning in relation to pensions. Further, he would likely have been familiar with 
HM Revenue and Customs forms, and should  have familiarised himself  with the implications  
of applying for FP12.
I therefore think it should have been apparent  to Mr H that if he was granted FP12, hed 
have to stop paying into either of his pension plans. 
But although  Mr H should have been  aware of this, for whatever reason he contacted  HLAM  
at the start of December 2012 to discuss making  a further  contribution. This didnt include 
any aspect relating to fixed  protection  the conversation mainly concerned  how the payment 
could be made by credit transfer. And while  Mr H had told HLAM he intended  to apply for 
FP12, Ive not seen  evidence he then made HLAM aware this had been granted. Further,  as 
I understand it the majority of the pension fund Mr H had accumulated  was held outside the 
SIPP. So there was nothing which should  have made the representative  think  that the 
intended contribution would breach fixed protection limits.  
As HLAM was operating the SIPP on an execution-only basis,  it had no obligation to give 
Mr H advice, such as whether or not he should make  the contribution. This was something  
Ref: DRN35002784for Mr H to decide. So Im unable to agree HLAM is responsible for Mr H losing FP12 in 
December 2012.  
I note that a further conversation took place a few days later, after Mr H had made  the 
payment. During  this the HLAM representative said that if Mr H had applied for FP12 but had 
now made a further  contribution, fixed protection would be lost. Mr H doesnt  seem to have 
blamed HLAM for this at the time.  
As Mr Hs SIPP provider  and administrator, HLAM did have a duty to provide  appropriate  
information. So Mr H could expect  to receive  timely and relevant information  about changes 
to the pension regime which might affect  him, such as changes to allowances.  But I think 
HLAM did provide him with relevant information. It sent him a contribution checklist, which 
explained that making further contributions would invalidate fixed  protection against the 
lifetime allowance. I note the executors say this didnt make the position sufficiently clear.  
But I think the information was sufficient to draw Mr Hs attention  to the possible impact  of 
paying more money  into his pension. Mr H would  have received this information in 
November 2012,  just before he chose to make  the contribution. 
Ive also considered the points made  by the executors about the meeting between Mr H and 
Mr J in 2015. I appreciate  Mr Hs son was also in attendance, and has given his 
recollections. Ive taken these into account. But the only documentary evidence  is the file 
notes made  by Mr J at the time.  
It appears Mr H had confirmed in a phone call with Mr J in April 2015  he was only after 
information, and not advice, at that stage.  He wanted to know  what would happen  in the 
event of his death.  He had a pension with another  provider  valued at about  £1.5m.  He said 
he had FP14 and so was no longer contributing. Mr H was still working, and earning 
between £100,000 and £150,000 a year. Mr J explained that in order to advise on his 
pension plan, Mr H would  need to give authority to contact the provider. Mr H didnt  want to 
commit to a meeting  at that time. But in a later call Mr J said he would like to receive advice 
and that an initial meeting  should be arranged.  
A meeting did subsequently take place shortly after. It was noted that Mr H was enquiring  
about the pension he held with a different provider. This was invested in the with-profits fund, 
which provided a guaranteed minimum growth of 3.5% a year.  It was also noted that Mr H 
had FP12. But as Mr H was not yet 75, and there  was no clear objective to transfer at that 
time, it was agreed that the existing arrangements would  remain  in place.  
So from the evidence  Ive seen, it seems Mr H was seeking advice  specifically about  his 
other pension plan. He wasnt looking for advice about his overall  pension  situation. As there 
was no overriding justification for transferring the pension  at that point, it was decided to 
leave matters until Mr H was nearer  age 75. Ive not seen evidence  Mr H entered  into any 
contract to become  an advisory client of HLAM, such as signing  a fee agreement for the 
work that would be carried out. 
Further, while it seems Mr J was told that Mr H had FP12, its not clear he was shown the 
certificate. And even  if he was, this would have simply  backed-up what  Mr H had said. But 
Ive not seen evidence there was any discussion about this, or fixed  protection generally; nor 
that Mr H was seeking advice about this area of pension planning anyway. So I dont think it 
was reasonable  for Mr H to take any comment by Mr J about  taking  no action as referring to 
this subject. If this was said, I think Mr H should have understood it referred  to the prospect 
of transferring his pension  plan. 
Ref: DRN35002785In any event, by the time of the meeting Mr H had in fact lost the protection  offered by FP12 
as a result  of the payment  he made  in 2012. So there was nothing that could be done  to alter 
this. Had Mr J been aware of the position, the most  he could have done was to suggest Mr H 
apply for FP14  to try and mitigate his position. But for the reasons Ive explained, it doesnt 
appear that Mr H requested advice about  this aspect of his pension  planning.   
The executors have said that Mr H was beginning  to experience cognitive difficulties at this 
time. But I note he told Mr J he was still working. Also,  Mr H only started  the process for 
giving lasting power of attorney in September 2015. Further, Ive not seen evidence Mr J 
should have been aware of any lack of capacity on Mr Hs part. Im also mindful  that Mr H 
was accompanied  by his son, who could also have  assisted  Mr H if necessary. I therefore 
dont think any cognitive difficulties Mr H may have been experiencing have any bearing  on 
the outcome of this complaint. 
As part of its response to the complaint, HLAM said it had fallen below the high standards it 
aims for, and offered  £200 in compensation. But to be clear,  this related to the period when 
Mr H was approaching  age 75, not for his loss of fixed  protection.  HLAM has since agreed 
with the adjudicators proposal that it pays an additional  £300. On the whole, I think this is a 
fair and reasonable outcome. 
my final decision
My decision  is that Hargreaves Lansdown  Asset Management Limited  should  pay the 
executors of the late Mr Hs estate  £500.  If it has already paid the sum of £200 it originally 
offered, only a further £300 is now due.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of 
the late Mr Hs estate  to accept or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Doug Mansell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3500278