K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that MBNA Limited  transferred his debt to a third party  but didnt tell it about 
the reduced repayment agreement that he was on at that time.
background 
Mr A had a credit  card debt with MBNA. He was making monthly  payments of more than 
£400 but contacted  MBNA  in January  2018  because hed had a change  in circumstances. It 
agreed to reduce his monthly payments  to £240.  But he contacted it again in July 2018 
because he says that hed had another change in circumstances and that monthly  payments 
of £240 werent  sustainable for him. MBNA said that it was in the process of transferring  his 
debt to a third party so a review of his monthly payments wasnt  possible and he should pay 
what he could afford.  
Mr A paid £40 (which he says is the amount hed been told by a debt advice charity that he 
could afford  to pay) but he says that when his debt was transferred to the third party  it was 
expecting him to pay £240  each month  and that missed payments and a default have been 
recorded on his credit file. He complained  to MBNA  but wasnt  satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator initially said that MBNA  had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly but she then 
recommended that this complaint should be upheld and that she would ask MBNA  to inform 
the third party  that the agreement that Mr A was on was £40 a month.  But the third party  
hadnt yet recorded a default on Mr As credit  file and she said that there had been no 
financial impact on Mr A so she wouldnt be recommending  MBNA to pay him any 
compensation.
MBNA has asked for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman. It says that there 
was no revised offer of £40 and Mr A confirmed in his August 2018 letter that he was told 
that it couldnt look at a new arrangement and he would have to discuss  future payments 
with the third party but he should make payments of any amount that he could afford until 
then. And it says that it wrote to him and said that if he was struggling to make the agreed 
payments then he should still pay what he could  afford and that the arrangement will be 
honoured by the debt buyer if he continued to meet the agreed payments. It also says that 
monthly payments  of £40 wouldnt have been sufficient to maintain  the arrangement with it 
and it wouldve defaulted the account  prior to selling the debt.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr A 
and to MBNA on 19 September 2019. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Mr A had contacted  MBNA about  his financial difficulties in January 2018  and it 
wrote to him later that month to say:
 we'll reduce your monthly  repayment  to £240 per month, in line with the 
amount you've demonstrated you can afford to pay. This means you're now 
on a reduced payment  programme .
Mr A says that he contacted MBNA in July 2018 because  hed had another  change in 
circumstances and that monthly payments  of £240 werent sustainable  for him. He 
Ref: DRN34184362says that he was told that MBNA was in the process  of transferring his debt to a third 
party so a review  of his monthly payments wasnt possible  and he should pay what 
he could afford until his debt had been transferred  and he confirmed that in a letter 
to MBNA in August 2018.
MBNA replied to say:
If you are struggling  to maintain the agreed  repayments then please  pay 
what you can afford as each payment received will reduce your balance. As 
previously advised,  MBNA reserves the right to sell customer accounts. If we 
choose to sell your account  your arrangement  will be honoured by any Debt 
Buyer if you continue to make your payments as you've agreed and no 
default will be registered. Should you not be able to keep up the agreed 
payments, you should contact the Debt Buyer direct to discuss any worries 
you have regarding the repayment of your balance.
Mr A says that hed been advised  by a debt advice charity that he could afford to pay 
£40 each month to MBNA. Hed paid MBNA £240 in July 2018 but then paid it £40 in 
August and September 2018  before his debt of £11,716.86 was transferred to the 
third party in October 2018. But I dont consider that MBNA agreed with him an 
arrangement for him to pay it £40 each month.  The only arrangement that had been 
agreed was for him to pay £240 and then, when the debt was being transferred, it 
said that if he wasnt able to make the agreed payment he should  pay what  he could 
afford.
I consider that MBNA was entitled  to transfer  Mr As debt to the third party  and that it 
had responded  to his financial difficulties positively and sympathetically  (as its 
required to do). It had agreed a reduced  repayment arrangement of £240 in January 
2018 and then told Mr A that he should pay what he could afford in August 2018.  So 
when the debt was transferred to the third party I consider that the only arrangement 
than had been agreed was for him to make  monthly  payments  of £240  and that 
was the arrangement that transferred to the third party.  
I dont consider that it was unfair  or unreasonable for MBNA to say that it wouldnt 
review his monthly payments as his debt was being transferred to a third party.  And if 
it had reviewed his monthly payment at that time and Mr A was only able to pay £40 I 
consider that it wouldve  been appropriate for it to have defaulted his account  as 
there wouldve been no reasonable prospect of him repaying his debt of more than 
£11,000 by monthly  payments of £40.
I sympathise with Mr A for the financial difficulties that hes experiencing and for the 
frustration that the transfer of his debt has caused  him. But Im not persuaded that 
MBNA has acted unfairly or unreasonably  in these circumstances. So I find that it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require it to remove any adverse information 
that its recorded on his credit  file, to pay him any compensation or to take any other 
action in response to his complaint.
I suggest that Mr A contacts the third party  about  his monthly payments (if he hasnt 
already done so) and its required to respond to any financial difficulties that hes 
experiencing positively and sympathetically. If hes unable to agree a repayment plan 
with the third party he can complain to it and, if he isnt satisfied with its response,  he 
may be able to make a complaint  to this service about the third party. 
Ref: DRN34184363So subject to any further representations by Mr A or MBNA, my provisional decision was that 
I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr A has responded to my provisional  decision  in detail and says, in summary, that:
he has no issue with MBNA transferring his debt;
he doesnt believe that it responsibly carried out any affordability check in January 
2018;
hes asked it for a copy of any income and expenditure assessment that it carried  out 
but hasnt been  provided with it; 
it refused to engage in further  discussions around his payment when he contacted it 
in July 2018 to say that his financial difficulties had worsened;
other financial organisations  came up with reasonable affordable figures  following 
their affordability checks on his circumstances;
MBNA wrote to him confirming that he should  pay only what he could  afford (which 
he says at that point  was £40) and that it would share that information with the third 
party but didnt  do so and it failed to share  with the third party information about his 
deteriorating circumstances;  and
its wrong to say that there was no reasonable  prospect of the debt being repaid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that 
I should change  my provisional  decision. 
MBNAs letter to Mr A in January 2018  said:
Thank you for telling  us about  your financial difficulties. After reviewing your income  
and expenditure,  we can see you're  unable to make the payments requested on your 
monthly statement. Although the amount shown on your statement will continue to be 
due, we're  pleased to let you know we'll reduce your monthly repayment to £240.00  
per month, in line with the amount you've demonstrated you can afford to pay.
And its account notes  show  that an income  and expenditure assessment was made  in 
January 2018  in a call with Mr A in which he provided information about  his financial 
position. Those notes  show  that his outstanding balance at that time was £13,464.86 and 
that he had a disposable income of £1,078 and MBNA says that, pro-rata to his other  debts, 
he could afford to pay £240. So I consider that Mr A had provided  it with information about 
his income and expenditure and that it did consider the affordability of his payments at that 
time.
When Mr A contacted it about his financial difficulties  in July 2018,  MBNA said that it was in 
the process of transferring his debt to a third party  so a review  of his monthly  payments 
wasnt possible and he should pay what he could  afford until his debt had been transferred  
and Mr A confirmed that in a letter to MBNA in August 2018. I dont consider that it was 
unfair or unreasonable for MBNA  to say that it wouldnt review  his monthly payments as his 
debt was being transferred to a third party. And it said that he should pay what he could 
afford and that if he wasnt  able to keep up the agreed payments he should contact the third 
party. I dont consider that theres enough  evidence to show  that he was told that MBNA 
would share  information about his deteriorating  circumstances with the third party.
Ref: DRN34184364Mr A has referred to other  financial organisations responses to his financial difficulties. But 
his complaint is about MBNAs response to those difficulties and Im not persuaded that 
other organisations responses are enough to show that MBNAs response wasnt fair or 
reasonable.
MBNA says that monthly payments of £40 wouldnt have been  sufficient  to maintain the 
arrangement with it and that it wouldnt have agreed  a reduced repayment  of £40 with Mr A 
but wouldve  defaulted the account  prior to selling the debt. Im not persuaded that that 
wouldve been unfair or unreasonable.
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show MBNA has acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably in its response  to Mr As financial difficulties or the transfer  of his debt to the 
third party. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  for me to require it to remove  any 
adverse information  that its recorded  on his credit file, to pay him any compensation  or to 
take any other action  in response to his complaint.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I dont  uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3418436