K820x#14complaint
Mr Es complaint relates  to the claim he made  under his Domestic  & General Insurance Plc 
(D&G) insurance policy. He doesnt think the replacement television he has been offered is 
of an equivalent  specification to the one that broke down.
In settlement  of his claim Mr E would like a replacement television that provides, as close as 
possible, the same quality  picture as the plasma television that was insured. 
 
Background
In 2011 Mr E bought a plasma television,  which he included under an insurance  policy  he 
had for entertainment  and telecommunications equipment. The insurance policy covers the 
items in the event  of faults,  breakdowns or accidental damage.  
In February 2019  Mr Es television stopped  working.  He made a claim and D&G determined 
it was beyond economic  repair.  It offered to replace the television and gave  Mr E details of 
the model it proposed. Mr E says he looked it up on line and was immediately concerned  as 
the television he was being offered was priced at c£350 whereas the one it was replacing 
cost £899 when it was bought in December 2011. 
Mr E says that he subsequently  went to look at televisions  and it became apparent to him 
that none of the LED televisions on display were  a match for the picture quality of the plasma  
one that was being replaced. He explained  to us the difference between the two types of 
television and, therefore, why LED didnt give the same picture quality. In addition,  Mr E says 
that in discussions  with the team at D&G  that replace appliances, he got the impression that 
the amount D&G would pay for a replacement item was linked to the write-off value of the 
damage item. He doesnt consider the write-off  value of the old television is relevant. 
Mr E complained to D&G. It didnt uphold  his complaint. It explained  that Mr Es old television 
had been a 3D plasma  television and that plasma televisions were no longer available  and 
3D was being phased out. As such, it had offered him a slightly larger television with 4K 
resolution to compensate. It considered  the replacement was reasonable and so it didnt  
uphold Mr Es complaint.  He didnt accept the response and so the complaint  was referred to 
this service.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. She spoke to Mr E about his complaint  
and what he wanted  in replacement. He explained that whilst he recognised  the specification 
of the replacement offered was similar to his old television, it didnt match the quality 
because his one used different technology.  He said the true equivalent  of his old television is 
an OLED  television.  However, all the models  of that technology  are too big for his home.  So 
he was willing to accept  a replacement that is LED,  but wants the highest component and 
picture technology specification possible to compensate for the inferior core technology.  
Mr E went  on to explain his old television was the best available at the time. The one he had 
been offered could  be bought for c£325. As such it was in no way equivalent or remotely  
similar. He said that a high specification LED television  could be purchased for roughly the 
same price  he had paid for his old one. He would  consider D&G purchasing such a model an 
acceptable compromise.
Our investigator considered Mr Es comments and explanations along  with D&Gs evidence.  
She was satisfied the television that was offered was a reasonable replacement and so 
Ref: DRN33749952didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr E didnt accept the investigators conclusions  
and reiterated  his comments about  quality  and usage experience. As agreement  couldnt be 
reached, the complaint  has been passed  to me for consideration.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the terms and conditions  of the insurance policy if D&G cant provide an exact 
replacement it is due to replace with a television from the same  or a similar manufacturer  
and of the same or similar technical  specification; it has done  both. In fact, it has actually 
offered a slightly higher specification in some  respects. 
Mr E has accepted the replacement offered is of a similar specification, but is unhappy with it 
as the viewing experience  and picture quality is not as good. However, his insurance policy  
doesnt cover viewing experience. It provides cover for a replacement of a similar technical 
specification. That is what D&G has based  its offer on. Indeed,  it has offered a higher 
technical specification  to compensate for the loss of some features that are no longer 
available. I can understand Mr Es disappointment that the LED televisions dont provide as 
good a picture  as the plasma television he had did, but thats not D&Gs  fault.  
Mr E also appears to be unhappy at the cost of the replacement television hes been offered. 
The technology market  moves on rapidly  and costs can decrease quickly  as new 
technologies emerge and become the must-have  features or existing technologies advance. 
So providing an equivalent television will become considerably cheaper over time, and 
sometimes a relatively  short period  of time.  D&G isnt required to provide a replacement  of 
the same  retail value  as the original purchase  price under the terms and conditions of the 
policy. I also wouldnt consider it reasonable to require it to as the policy  is designed to 
provide an equivalent piece of technology,  not one that cost the same at the time of 
purchase. 
I am satisfied the television D&G offered Mr E as a replacement for his was a reasonable 
match based  on technical specifications, given certain features were not possible to replace.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr E to accept or reject my decision before 6 
March 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3374995