K820x#14complaint
Miss C has complained that BUPA Insurance Limited misrepresented the benefit of a group 
discount applied  to her private medical insurance policy.
background
Miss C held a BupaCare private medical insurance policy. She was a member of a particular 
group which entitled her to a discount on her premiums. BUPA had previously told her this 
discount was 30%.
In 2018, Miss C spoke  to BUPA  because she was concerned about the increasing cost of 
her policy.  BUPA explained it had another policy, Bupa By You (BBY), for which the 
premiums would be cheaper even though Miss C would no longer qualify for her group 
discount.
Miss C complained to BUPA that it hadnt  made her aware that it would be cheaper to switch 
to the BBY policy.  She also questioned what her group  discount  was calculated  against.
BUPA noted  that it had previously made Miss C aware of the BBY policy but that she had 
decided against  switching to this because  it would mean she would have to undergo fresh  
underwriting and thus would lose cover for pre-existing conditions. It clarified that she 
currently received a 27% group discount and a further 10% permanent discount on her 
premium.
Miss C was unhappy at BUPAs response. Given the fact that a new BBY policy  would be 
much cheaper, she felt BUPA  had misled her as to the benefit of her group discount.  She 
referred her complaint  to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  He was satisfied that 
Miss C had benefitted from the application of a discount to her premium.
Miss C didnt accept the adjudicators findings. She said BUPA hadnt explained how her 
premium was calculated.  She considered that if she were an individual  member, her 
premium would be far cheaper.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide how it should price  its policies.  An 
insurer is not obliged  to take the same approach across its entire  range  of products. This 
means it may choose to offer particular discounts on one type of policy  but not on another.
BUPA has explained  to Miss C the factors which it takes into account when calculating  the 
cost of her BupaCare policy. It hasnt explained  the exact weight it attaches to each factor,  or 
the precise formula it uses,  but nor would  I expect it to as this information is commercially 
sensitive. BUPA has explained that after working out Miss Cs notional  premium, it then 
Ref: DRN30236092applies the 27% discount to which she is entitled  by virtue of her group membership, as well 
as the 10% permanent  discount it has agreed to apply. Someone  in Miss Cs position who 
didnt benefit from these discounts  would  have to pay the higher premium. Im satisfied with 
BUPAs explanation and can see no grounds for concluding she has been misled  by BUPA.
Miss C refers to the fact that her discounted  BupaCare policy  is more  expensive than would 
be an undiscounted BBY policy.  This may be the case  but the BBY policy  would require 
Miss C to undergo fresh underwriting and so the risk to BUPA  would be lower. I dont agree 
that the availability of the cheaper BBY policy means Miss C wasnt receiving a genuine 
discount on her BupaCare policy. Miss C had the option of transferring to the BBY policy  if 
she wished but apparently  decided  against  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3023609