K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 1984 Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage and PPI was added  to the account. The policy  
cost £16.50 a month and it provided a benefit to cover their mortgage repayments. Upon a 
successful claim  the policy would have paid out for both accident/sickness  and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
Mr and Mrs Cs PPI policy and the mortgage ended in 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagree  so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Lloyds says this was an advised sale. This means Lloyds had to provide Mr and Mrs C not 
only with good  enough information about  the policy so they could make an informed  decision  
about it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable for them  based on their needs  
and circumstances  at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
did Lloyds make it clear  to Mr and Mrs C that they had a choice about PPI?
Mr and Mrs C cant remember how the policy was sold and theyve said they werent aware  
they even had PPI. Lloyds  says the PPI wouldve  been added because Mr and Mrs C chose 
to take out the PPI.
The only evidence I have  from the sale is what Lloyds and Mr and Mrs C have told us.  
This sale took place  35 years ago. But it seems more likely Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C the 
opportunity to take out the policy or decline it as part of their mortgage application, and that 
they chose to take it out, but have simply forgotten in the years that have now elapsed. I say 
this because this service has no evidence of Lloyds  systemically  telling  consumers they had 
to have PPI at this time and Mr and Mrs C could have cancelled  the PPI at any time but they 
kept it for until they redeemed their mortgage 12 years later. And had they chosen not to 
purchase PPI in 1984, or had it been  added to their account without either  their knowledge 
or consent, I wouldve expected them to query or challenge this shortly afterwards. I say 
because I think its likely  that either the PPI cost was shown separately on their statements 
or it made their monthly repayments £16.50  higher than the monthly  cost of the advance 
they would  have seen in their loan offer. 
So I think it is more likely  than not Lloyds presented the PPI to Mr and Mrs C as optional and 
they chose to take it out. 
Ref: DRN32179162did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs C properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs C lost out?
I dont know what Lloyds  said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C in 1984.  
I also dont know what information  Mr and Mrs C were given about PPI. I dont know whether 
the policys benefits were  explained to them or if they were  told about  the significant  
exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs C agreed to take the cover 
out knowing very little about it, but I dont  know if they received  everything they needed to 
know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Lloyds  
recommended to Mr and Mrs C in 1984 that they take out PPI. I accept Mr and Mrs C may 
not have been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances  and needs in 1984, I think  the policy 
cover was suitable for them.  And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs C would have  acted 
differently and not gone ahead with the cover if Lloyds had provided better information. My 
reasons are as follows:
Mr S was eligible  for the cover and all its benefits.
Mr S was employed and in good health at the time,  so it doesnt appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of the cover such as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms. 
The mortgage provided for their home.  Mr S had some sick pay and redundancy pay 
entitlement from his employer and they both had some savings which could have 
helped them make the mortgage  payments if Mr S was off work ill or lost his job. But 
the policy would have paid out within 60 days in addition to any sick pay or 
redundancy pay and for up to 12 months  for each  claim. So I think  Mr and Mrs C had 
a need for their cover and that it would have been useful to them if Mr S had been 
unable to work. It could have  helped them financially at what  would be a difficult time 
- it could  have helped them protect their home.
I dont know how the cost of the PPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs C but I find it 
unlikely they would have agreed  to something  without having some  understanding of 
the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have  declined  it solely on the basis  of its 
cost had it been made clearer to them. Ive already said they had a need for it and at 
just £16.50 per month it appears to have been affordable.  And as they were paying  
for the PPI monthly, they could  cancel it without further cost if at any stage their 
situation changed or they no longer wanted it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the PPI was sold and Mr 
and Mrs C may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably by Lloyds in its dealings with 
them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because for the reasons Ive detailed above, I think 
Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the PPI and they would have been  in the same position if 
Lloyds had done more and properly  advised  and informed them - I think  they would have still 
taken it out.
I realise that my decision is likely to be disappointing  to Mr and Mrs C. I know  theyve put a 
lot of time and effort into their complaint  and feel strongly it was mis-sold to them. Its always 
difficult to decide  a complaint on very little information. But Ive thought  very carefully  about  
Ref: DRN32179163what Mr and Mrs C have said and what I know of Lloydss sales  processes. And I dont think 
 on balance  I can fairly  and reasonably  uphold their complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs C have not lost out as a result of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3217916