K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) trading as Audi 
Financial Services, has terminated his finance agreement due to him not having  insurance. 
He feels this was unfair  as he was insured. 
background
Mr A took receipt of a new car in September 2017. He financed  the deal through  a two year 
hire agreement with VWFS.
But in February 2018  they wrote to him and said his car was showing as uninsured on the 
motor insurance database.  Mr A didnt contact VWFS but did contact his insurer  and he 
asked them to make  sure the motor insurance database were aware of his insurance.  He 
didnt tell VWFS as he says they didnt ask him to. 
So in March 2018 a further  letter was sent.  This one said that a default would be recorded if 
he didnt insure  the car as it was a breach of his contract with VWFS. Mr A knew he was 
insured and assumed his insurer would sort things out with the motor insurance database. 
So he did nothing more and VWFS  therefore  sent him another  letter  in April defaulting the 
account and terminating the finance  agreement.
Mr A says he didnt receive  this default letter and was therefore surprised towards the end of 
April to receive a repossession order. He rang VWFS and they explained theyd terminated 
his contract because hed failed  to respond and there was no record  of the car being 
insured. They said in those circumstances they couldnt reverse the termination.
Mr A therefore referred his complaint to this service and his insurance company 
subsequently wrote to VWFS to explain theyd made a mistake and hadnt informed the 
motor insurance database  that Mr A had been insured throughout the term of his contract.  
VWFS said theyd  remove the default  from Mr As credit file but didnt think they needed to 
take any further action as they thought Mr A shouldve contacted  them when they wrote to 
him about the missing data.
Our adjudicator thought it was unfair that VWFS would terminate an agreement  because 
Mr As insurance company hadnt  uploaded his details on to a database. He understood that 
it wasnt possible for them to reinstate an agreement on their system  so he suggested;  to put 
things right, they:
return Mr As deposit of £5075.89
unwind the agreement  as if it had never been  entered into and remove all reference 
to it from Mr As credit file
pay Mr A £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mr A had 
experienced in having  to source  a new vehicle
But VWFS disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They said Mr A had failed to respond to 
their letters and they couldnt be held responsible  for Mr As insurers  mistake.  They  
explained that by the time they were told about  the insurance it was too late and the contract 
had been terminated. So they asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN34992792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Its clear that Mr A was insured throughout and its also clear that VWFS would  assume he 
wasnt and werent  aware he was until he called  them after hed received the repossession  
order.
Ive considered the letters Mr A received. The first said that if hed: 
recently taken appropriate action and the vehicle is insured on the motor insurance  
database you need not take any further  action 
It went on to say he could  speak to his insurance provider to correct  any details on the 
database. And thats what it seems Mr A did. So I think his actions were reasonable and 
understandable. He contacted his insurer  and asked them  to make  sure the database was 
updated. 
The second  default letter  said:
you must comprehensively  insure the vehicle  and if the action required by this notice  is 
taken before the date shown no further  enforcement  action will be taken
Again, the letter didnt  ask Mr A to contact  VWFS. He had the car insured so I think  its 
reasonable to suggest he could be expected to rely on the statement that no further 
enforcement action will be taken 
The subsequent letter terminated the agreement  and by then I think its reasonable to say it 
was too late to revoke the decision.  Ive not seen  evidence that VWFS tried to contact Mr A 
by other  means  and I think given the gravity  of the situation they couldve been  expected  to.
If VWFS were able to reverse the termination this situation may have been resolved earlier   
but they cant and thats not Mr As fault. So I think, to put things right, they should  provide 
the redress the adjudicator has suggested.
Ive reviewed that redress and think its sensible in the circumstances. Mr A has had the use 
of the car and so its fair he should  pay for the use hes had. But hes certainly been 
inconvenienced by events and wouldnt have wanted to lodge  this complaint or search for 
another vehicle.  So I think a payment of £250  for distress and inconvenience is fair here. In 
line with this services usual approach VWFS should refund Mr As deposit as well.
Ref: DRN34992793my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I tell Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited  to:
return Mr As deposit of £5075.89
unwind the agreement  as if it had never been  entered into and remove all reference 
to it from Mr As credit file
pay Mr A £250 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience Mr A had 
experienced in having  to source  a new vehicle
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3499279