K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains The Society of Lloyds  (SoL) unfairly voided her home insurance policy  for 
misrepresentation. As a result, it wont pay the claim she made following a burglary.
Mrs A is being represented by Mr A in bringing  this complaint.
background
In November 2014, Mr A set up insurance  on Mrs As behalf through a broker.  During the 
call, the agent asked  Mr A if £35,000 was sufficient to replace  the entire contents of their 
home as new. He confirmed it was. The agent also informed Mr A that the sum insured for 
high risk items such as jewellery, watches and works  of art was £12,500, with a single item 
limit of £1,500. Mr A was asked if that was sufficient and he confirmed it was. 
The policy renewed  every  year with changes in the insurer,  and Mrs A was sent notifications  
of this along with a renewal quote each time. The sum insured for high risk items reduced to 
£8,750 from the 2015  renewal.
On 21 July 2018, Mr and Mrs As house was burgled  and several  items  including jewellery 
were stolen. One of the windows was also damaged during  the incident.  They  made a claim 
on the policy for damage to the windows  and for theft of items.  SoL concluded Mrs A was 
under-insured as the stolen jewellery  alone was valued at over £72,000. It explained it 
wouldnt have offered cover at all had the correct value been disclosed. SoL voided the 
policy (treating it as though it never existed) and refused to deal with the claim. It also 
returned the premiums  Mrs A had paid for the 2017-2018 cover.
Mr A complained to SoL that the voidance was unfair and it should  have  at least covered the 
damaged window and the contents  up to the amount they had insured. But SoL didnt 
change its position.  The matter was referred  us and our investigator thought SoL had fairly 
by voiding the policy. She explained Mr A had confirmed the sum insured for high risk items 
was sufficient, and no questions were raised in the subsequent renewals. 
Mr A didnt agree with the investigators findings  and the complaint was passed  to me for a 
final decision. I spoke  to Mr A to discuss his complaint and he questioned why SoL had only 
refunded the current years premium. He said he was always  under-insured, so SoL would 
never have  paid out  meaning he wasnt on risk, so he wanted all his premiums returned. 
He also complained about the service received when he made his claim.
When I spoke to Mr A I explained  that my provisional thoughts were that we wouldnt ask 
SoL to refund  his previous years premiums. Each policy  year is a separate insurance 
contract  so the rules that meant  he got his premium back  for 2017-2018 didnt apply.  And 
I said I didnt consider it would be fair to SoL to go back  a number of years as hed been the 
one to misrepresent  the risk. I agreed with Mr A that Id put his request  for a full premium  
refund and his concerns about  the service to SoL.
SoL didnt  agree to refund any further  premiums.  And it responded to the customer service 
issues by saying that the dates Mr A had provided for not receiving call backs were  before 
his claim was logged  with it, so it had no records of this. Our investigator confirmed this to 
him in writing. So the case  is now with me to write  a final decision.
 
Ref: DRN39326142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint, as I think SoL was entitled  to avoid the policy. Ill explain why.
The relevant  law is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosures  and Representations) Act 2012 
(referred to as CIDRA or the Act).
CIDRA says that a consumer must take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. 
And it goes  on to say, if a consumer fails to take reasonable  care and the insurer  can show  it 
wouldnt have entered into the insurance contract  at all, theres a qualifying  
misrepresentation. And the insurer will then have the remedies set out in the Act, which  
depend on whether the misrepresentation was careless or deliberate/reckless.  If the insurer  
cant show the consumer  made a qualifying misrepresentation, CIDRA makes  it clear that 
the insurer cant take any action at all.
So, the starting point  in this case is whether Mr A  on behalf of himself and Mrs A  
breached their duty to take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation. Mr A has said 
he wasnt asked the value of his jewellery when he bought the policy,  so how would he have 
known they were under-insured.
I have listened  to the initial call between the broker and Mr A. I accept the agent didnt 
explicitly ask how much the jewellery was worth. But she did inform him what  level of cover 
was included for high risk items like jewellery. Mr A confirmed the sum insured  £12,500  
with a single  article limit of £1,500  was sufficient. I think its reasonable to conclude that by 
saying yes, Mr A was confirming that the total value of the jewellery  and other high risk 
items he and Mrs A wanted  insured wasnt  over £12,500, with each item not being valued 
over £1,500. I also note that on each renewal, Mrs A was asked to check the information  
contained in the renewal  documents and contact her broker if something wasnt  right.  
SoL has also provided a copy of its underwriting criteria, which clearly sets out that it will 
deem a risk to be unacceptable if the total amount of unspecified and specified valuables is 
above a certain  level. And in this case, Mr and Mrs As home did have  valuables  above this 
level. So, Im persuaded it wouldnt have entered  into the contract with Mrs A had the 
misrepresentation not occurred. This means  Im satisfied Mr A made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. And, in the circumstances,  SoL was entitled to void the policy. 
I also agree  with SoL in that I think  Mr As failure to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation was careless as opposed to reckless or deliberate. I dont think he 
specifically set out to mislead SoL. In the given circumstances, SoL is required to refund the 
premiums, which  its done.
I appreciate Mr A believes the premiums for the previous years should be refunded.  But he 
and Mrs A have had benefit  of the cover  during these years as its most likely claims of a 
different nature (for example,  just on the buildings element) would have been covered should  
they have needed to make a claim. And CIDRA  applies to the insurance contract in question, 
which is between them and SoL for one policy year only.  Mrs As cover  was actually 
underwritten by other companies  over the years  she had cover,  meaning SoL is also not 
responsible for her insurance  in some of her previous years.  So overall I dont consider it it 
would be fair for me to tell SoL to return the premiums for the previous years.
Ref: DRN39326143Ive also thought about Mr As concerns about the service he received  from SoL when he 
made the claim. The dates provided  are before SoL received  this claim and it has said it 
doesnt hold any records for these dates. Having given it some thought, I havent seen 
enough to conclude the service Mr A received from SoL fell short  of what Id expect. So, Im 
not upholding this aspect of his complaint  either.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.  
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3932614