K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  Company Limited (LV) unfairly refused 
their claim for storm damage. 
background
In February 2017  part of Mr and Mrs Hs garden  wall was damaged. They  claimed for it 
under the storm  section  of their LV home insurance policy. But LV refused  to pay the claim. 
It said the damage wasnt caused by a one off event like a storm. 
Mr and Mrs H complained  to LV. They provided  information and photos from a builder. LV 
still didnt agree to accept  the claim. It felt instead that ivy had grown over the wall 
weakening it over time. It said because  the damage had happened over time it wasnt 
covered by their policy. But in response  to their complaint about not being told the claim had 
been refused  they paid £300 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  think the main cause of the damage was storm. So she didnt  
recommend LV pay the claim. And she felt LV had paid enough compensation. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt accept her findings.  So the complaint has come  to me for a final 
decision. 
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making LV pay 
the claim or do anything  differently. 
As our investigator said, our approach in storm cases is to ask three  questions:
was there a storm on or around  the date of loss?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with storm damage?   
and were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Its only if we can answer  yes to all three  questions  that we say the insurer  is liable to pay 
the claim.  Its accepted that there were storm conditions. So I dont need to consider the first 
question. But LV doesnt accept the damage is consistent with storm damage.  And it doesnt 
agree that storm conditions were the main  cause of the damage. So Ive considered if the 
answers to the second and third questions  are yes or no. Having done so, Im not making 
LV pay Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs H and LV have provided. This includes photos of the 
wall, a survey, a quote for the repair and comments. From looking at the photos the damage 
to a corner area of the wall doesnt  seem typical of that caused  by storm. The bricks 
themselves are broken through their middles, in half or thirds, across the full height of the 
wall. Thats not what Id expect from a storm. It seems more like impact  damage. But 
damage to a different part, a straight  section where its broken along  a mortar line, does 
seem more typical of storm. 
 
I dont think storm was the main cause  of the damage to either the corner  or straight.  
Mr and Mrs H say ivy was blown down  by the storm and this pulled the wall down. Their 
builder said it was a tree. I accept he made  a mistake with this. The photos show  a plant that 
Ref: DRN35557772looks more like ivy than a tree. But looking at the photos I dont think its likely blown ivy 
would break  the corner bricks in that way. 
Photos show an area of the wall that didnt  come down. That part is sheltered by a shed. Its 
in a poor condition.  It looks  like its deteriorated  over time, perhaps through  foliage  growth  as 
LV suggest. Perhaps the ivy was attached  to the straight parts  of the wall that came down, 
its not clear.  And perhaps it was blown by the storm and part of the wall went with it. But that 
doesnt mean the storm was the main  cause of the damage. 
The poor condition  of the remaining part of the wall makes me think the damaged area of the 
straight area was in a bad way with the storm highlighting that. So if the wall had been in 
good condition  the damage  probably wouldnt have happened.
 
Mr and Mrs H say they were told the claim would  be partially settled at 50%. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think LV said that would definitely happen. It seems it said it was a 
possibility. It hasnt agreed to pay anything towards the wall. Having looked at everything, I 
think thats a fair decision.     
LV paid Mr and Mrs H £300 for how it handled  the claim, including for not letting  them know 
their claim had been rejected. They only found out after contacting LV a few months after its 
surveyors visit. I realise some of LVs communication  must have been frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs H. But I think £300 is enough to recognise that.    
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited  
pay the claim or do anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3555777