K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Society of Lloyds (SOL) has unfairly declined a claim under a building  
warranty for damage caused by water entering his property.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 30 March 2019, part of which is copied below
Any references  to SOL also relate  to the actions of its agents.
Mr P took out a 10 year Premier Guarantee for Completed Housing building warranty policy  
with Society of Lloyds  (SOL) to cover  major  damage  to his property. He says a period of 
heavy rain caused water to enter  his property and this caused  damage both at the ground 
floor and basement levels. So he made  a claim on his policy.
SOL said the policy only covered damage at ground  level and that anything that happened 
below this was excluded, which included the lack of a tanking system in the basement.  SOL 
agreed to pay the part of the claim for the damage  to the ground floor but declined the part 
relating to the basement. It made  a full and final settlement offer to Mr P based on this 
approach which he declined as he thought the basement damage should also be covered. 
He said the damage  to the basement was as a result of watering entering  the property at 
ground floor level and thats  why it should  be covered. But SOL disagreed.
A number  of reports from independent  experts  were  arranged both by SOL and by Mr P. 
These broadly  agreed that there  had been  a failure  in the waterproofing envelope  at ground 
level and this was the cause of the damage on that floor.
But the reports disagreed about  whether this was also the cause of the damage to the 
basement. The reports offered different explanations  as to the likely cause of this damage. 
SOL declined this part of the claim for two reasons. Firstly, it said the lack of a tanking 
system in the basement meant that the water  there  had no means of escape  so the damage 
caused was worse. So the proximate cause  of the damage was the lack of a tanking 
system rather  than the heavy rainfall. SOL said the lack of a tanking system wasnt covered 
under the buildings  warranty as the policy excluded anything to do with waterproofing below 
ground level.
Secondly, it said because the damage  was caused by seepage and this happened  below 
ground, it wasnt caused by an insured peril so it wasnt  covered  by the policy.
Mr P wasnt  happy with this so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator  
considered the complaint and decided  that none  of the reports  offered conclusive proof of 
whether the damage was caused  by the failure  of the waterproof envelope at ground floor or 
by seepage into the basement. 
And she went on to say that without more specialist reports, which  would incur further 
expense and take more time, she thought that a fair and reasonable way for the complaint to 
be settled would be for SOL to pay 50% of the claim for the damage to the basement.
She also concluded that; 
Ref: DRN33838702SOL should pay Mr P an alternative accommodation allowance because  the kitchen 
at the property was unusable
the £800 offered by SOL for the delays in settling the claim was reasonable
the policy didnt  cover the installation of the tanking which Mr P had installed in the 
basement
Mr P accepted these  recommendations.  SOL accepted  some  of them but didnt think it 
should be held liable  for  
50% of the damage to the basement
the alternative accommodation allowance  as it didnt believe the kitchen had been 
unusable and that only slight damage  had been caused to it
And because of this it asked an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role as an ombudsman at this service is to focus  on what I consider to be the crux of a 
complaint so I will only comment  on those  things that directly  relate  to that. In a case  such  as 
this, where the evidence  isnt conclusive I must  reach my decision on the balance of 
probability. In other words, what I think is more likely than not to have happened.
The decisions I need to make here are;
whether SOL unfairly declined  the claim for the damage to the basement
If it did, whether the claim  should  be covered in some part or its entirety  by the policy 
whether the property  was uninhabitable
And having considered everything very carefully  Ive reached a similar  conclusion  to the 
investigator and for similar reasons. But I believe the complaint  should be settled differently 
and will explain  why.
did SOL unfairly  decline the claim for the damage  to the basement?
The policy insures  the housing unit for 10 years against the risk of major damage. In this 
case though, SOL says the following exclusion in the policy applies. 
The underwriter shall not be liable to the Policyholder  for any:
10. SEEPAGE
Loss or damage caused by seepage  of water into the Housing Unit below ground 
floor slab level
SOL accepted there was major damage  but declined  the claim because  it says the damage 
in the basement was caused by seepage  so, in line with the clause above, it says it isnt 
covered by the policy.
Ref: DRN33838703In these circumstances, as SOL is relying on an exclusion, the onus is on it to show  that the 
exclusion applies, rather than for Mr P to show that it doesnt  apply.  SOL can only rely on the 
exclusion fairly if it can show  the sole cause of the damage is seepage.
A number  of reports have  been undertaken and they talk at some  length about the tests that 
were undertaken, the extent of the inspection and the results. Ive only provided  a summary 
here, detailing  what  they concluded about  the likely  cause of the water  damage in the 
basement. However, I confirm I have read all the reports in detail.
Mr P arranged a specialist report from a structural engineer  and this concluded the damage 
to the property appeared to be mainly  as a result  of water penetration under the patio doors,  
down between the cavity walls and into the kitchen in the basement.  It didnt conclude that 
seepage was an issue.
The first report  commissioned by SOL said cracks and fissures  in the external walls had 
allowed water  penetration  into the basement. It didnt conclude that seepage was an issue.
Another report was arranged by a firm of waterproofing consultants. This report said that the 
author believed that a storm led to water entering into the basement  through  the rear podium 
deck, which was below  the patio.  It also said there  was no sign of seepage  at the 
construction joint at the kicker  in the concrete basement wall.
SOL then arranged a report  from a firm of specialists in structural  waterproofing. This report  
concluded the most likely  cause  of the damage in the basement  was as a consequence of 
surface water entering the structure  at ground  floor level. It went on to conclude there was 
no evidence of ground water entering through the basement  walls. So it didnt conclude  that 
seepage was an issue. It acknowledged its inspection was limited  and some  defect might be 
uncovered if a more  invasive inspection was carried out.
SOLs loss adjusters then undertook a further  inspection and reported that there were two 
likely causes of the damp  and water in the basement.  The first being water  entering from the 
ground floor and the second was seepage  of water through the basement. 
It explained it thought that the high level of saturation and standing water  in the basement  
couldnt be solely attributed to the entry of water  from the ground level. It said the most likely 
cause was due to seepage  of water through the basement. And it considered that almost all 
the water  in the basement emanated from seepage and not from entering from the ground 
floor. 
From this I conclude the loss adjusters  do acknowledge  that water entering  at ground level 
played a part in the damage to the basement  even if it was to a small extent as they 
suggest - and that seepage wasnt solely responsible. 
I am mindful  that at this stage there  were already  four other reports  from experts saying 
seepage wasnt an issue. And two of these  were from waterproofing experts,  on whose 
opinion I place evidential  weight. 
SOL went  on to arrange another  report involving a further inspection  of the property and a 
review of three of the previous reports by a firm of engineering consultants. This report, in 
summary, disagreed with the conclusions reached  by SOLs  structural  waterproofing experts  
and concluded  that, in the authors opinion, seepage was the cause of the water in the 
Ref: DRN33838704basement. This was the only report that reached  the conclusion  that the damage  was solely  
caused by seepage. 
The basis  of its conclusions was that there was inadequate drainage system in the 
basement and it was simply  drylined using standard plasterboard. It goes on to say that 
Mr Ps contractor  working on site at the time was aware the damage  to the basement  was 
caused by the lack of a waterproof  membrane.  It also pointed  out Mr P was having a 
drainage system fitted and this wouldnt be required if the entry of water was due to a defect 
at ground level.
Mr P commented that his contractor had strongly  denied making the claim  suggested by this 
report. He also explained hes been advised  that, in order to maintain  the value of the 
property, hed need to provide a warranty covering any future entry  of water into the 
basement, however caused. And the only way hed be able to obtain such  a warranty would 
be to install  a full tanking system. Im satisfied this is a reasonable explanation.
I acknowledge that the report authors have different specialist knowledge and were given 
different levels  of access to the areas  of the house  in question. In summary, though, the 
various experts havent reached one, definitive conclusion about  the cause of the water  in 
the basement. 
The explanations they offer range from entry of water at ground level being  solely  
responsible with no contribution from seepage to seepage being solely responsible  with 
water entry at ground level making  no contribution.
It seems  to me though that the common theme, agreed on by the majority of the reports 
including the two waterproofing  experts, is that entry  of water from the ground floor was 
responsible for some  of the damage  in the basement. But I do also acknowledge that there 
some evidence to say seepage  also played a part. So, on the balance of probability, Ive 
concluded that its more likely than not that both entry of water  and seepage caused the 
damage to the basement.
And for the reasons Ive explained, Im not persuaded  its fair for SOL to rely on the 
exclusion given the conflicting conclusions reached  by the various  experts. Because  of this 
Ive concluded  that SOL acted unfairly when it declined the claim for the damage in the 
basement. Having  reached this conclusion Ive then gone on to consider what SOL should 
do to settle the claim.
should SOL pay the claim for the damage in the basement?
I understand much remedial work  has been undertaken on the basement. I agree with the 
investigator that its possible further  reports  might have been  able to assess the proportional 
impact of each of these  causes. But in the light of the work thats been undertaken, it seems 
this opportunity has been lost.
My role at this service  is to resolve  disputes  quickly and with minimal  formality. With this in 
mind, and in the absence  of a definitive  conclusion from the experts and a practical way to 
assess the exact impact  of each of the causes, I need to find a way for this complaint to be 
settled, fairly  and reasonably.
I acknowledge this isnt an exact science, but bearing in mind everything  Ive said above, Ive 
concluded that a fair and reasonable approach is for SOL to pay 50% of the costs of the 
Ref: DRN33838705expenditure incurred by Mr P specifically relating to the damage caused  to the basement  by 
the ingress of water  at ground  floor level.
But I will be excluding any expenditure I consider  relates to the installation of the tanking 
system and the associated preparatory  and making good works required  to install  it. 
I realise this is more than SOL thinks is right and less than Mr P wants but I consider it 
strikes a balance between the various expert opinions as to the likely  causes  of the water in 
the basement and Im satisfied its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Its clear the reports  including those commissioned  by SOL  reached different 
conclusions. I think it was reasonable  for Mr P to arrange his own reports to shed further  
light on the causes  of the damage and these highlighted the conflicting  views Ive detailed  
above. I have  taken these reports into account in reaching my decision. I think  SOL should 
pay for the reports that Mr P commissioned to investigate the cause of the water in the 
basement. The cost of these was £1,720.80.
SOL took many months to handle the claim and Mr P made three separate  complaints 
during this time. In total SOL agreed  to pay £800  to reflect the trouble and upset caused by 
these delays. I think taking everything  into account this was a fair and reasonable amount to 
pay in the circumstances.
the schedule of costs
Ive then gone on to consider the schedule of costs Mr P has submitted in order to decide on 
whats fair and reasonable to include in the calculation  for what  SOL should pay Mr P.
Mr P was having some additional alterations and external work undertaken, separate  from 
the work  relating to the claim,  and the costs relating to these obviously fall outside anything  
SOL is responsible  for. 
The schedule of costs  includes  the work Mr P had undertaken  to install  the tanking system 
and its been accepted  that this isnt covered under the policy. 
Its likely  the work involved in the installation would have been  extensive and would have 
caused considerable disruption including the digging up of the basement floor and interfering  
with the integrity  of the basement walls and structure. In other words,  I think  its more likely  
than not that many  of the expenses detailed would have been  incurred as a result  of the 
installation of the tanking system and so I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect 
SOL to cover these costs. Mr P would  have had to pay these anyway even  if it wasnt  for the 
water ingress. 
Having excluded these  costs described above I consider it fair for the following to be the 
costs related to the damage caused by water  ingress
Demolition and stripping  out
Woodwork and doors £1,450.00
Kitchen £1,250.00
Floor and ceilings £3,000.00
Walls £3,000.00
Screed and sand  build  up £3,000.00
Ref: DRN33838706Replacement
Flooring (adjusted  figure  - see comments below) £5,000.00
Damaged ceilings  and walls £8,000.00
Lighting and install electrical appliances £6,000.00
Install kitchen (adjusted figure  - see comments below) £5,250.00
Additional items/materials
Replacement kitchen £12,065.91
Replacement doors £1,443.09
Replacement appliances £3,121.65
Replacement skirting boards £417.19
The total of these items is £52,997.84 excluding VAT, so including  VAT the total is 
£63,597.41. 
And as Ive concluded  it would be fair and reasonable for SOL to pay Mr P 50% of this figure  
that would  be £31,798.71.
For the avoidance of doubt this would be in addition  to 100% of the settlement offer SOL 
made relating to the damage on the ground  floor that it accepted  as part of the claim. That 
amount was £28,406.40 including VAT.
Ive made  two adjustments to the figures  included in the schedule.  Firstly  the replacement 
flooring is listed as tiling. The photos  Mr P has supplied show the previous flooring was 
laminate and this is generally cheaper than tiling. Im satisfied SOL is only responsible for 
the costs of replacing the laminate flooring so I have decreased  the figures for the materials 
and installation by 50% as I think  this is a fair and reasonable estimation.
Secondly, I have reduced the cost of the work  on the kitchen by £1,250 as the costs  for 
removing the kitchen are included  twice.  
Having reached  a conclusion on the amount SOL should pay Mr P, Ive then gone on to 
consider whether the property was uninhabitable and so whether SOL should have provided 
Mr P with alternative accommodation.
was the property uninhabitable?
The policy terms states the following 
In addition, in the event  of a claim, the Underwriter will, with its written consent, pay 
within the Limit of Indemnity:
B. Alternative Accommodation Costs 
All reasonable additional costs and expenses that are necessarily incurred  by the 
Policyholder for a period of not exceeding 26 weeks in respect of removal,  storage 
and alternative accommodation whilst the Housing Unit is uninhabitable. 
So the question  here is whether its reasonable to conclude the house was uninhabitable.  
This is often  considered  in the context  of whether cooking or washing facilities were 
available at the property.
Ref: DRN33838707In this case, SOL has said the house wasnt uninhabitable because  Mr P still had access  to 
a toilet on another  floor of the house  and it says the kitchen facilities,  including  the cooker, 
only experienced minor damage. SOL quotes from a report  from one of its experts which  
says the damage  to the hob was limited to some  rusting on the tops of the burners.
In his testimony, Mr P says the hob was permanently damaged by the incident and he was 
advised by his gas supplier not to use it. I acknowledge he has nothing in writing to prove 
this but I have no reason to doubt what he says.
This service generally takes a broad view of what makes a property uninhabitable.  In this 
case, the same report from SOLs experts  states  that when they undertook  their inspection 
of the basement, where the kitchen is located, they were walking in a pool of water and 
saturated sand. I think  it would be reasonable to conclude therefore that the kitchen  wasnt 
practically usable, even if the damage to the hob was only minor as suggested by SOL.
Mr P says that as theyd  been advised  not to use the hob his family had to cook their meals 
on a combination of a gas stove  and in a microwave upstairs  in the living room and an oven 
in the kitchen that was still usable.  They also relied on takeaways at the weekend. This went  
on for approximately  a year.
In this case, Mr P wasnt offered alternative accommodation and I think in light of what  Ive 
said above, he should have been.  Mr P has said living under these conditions for 
approximately a year was extremely stressful particularly as he had a young family. I 
understand why this would have been the case.
Its not possible for me to say with certainty how much time Mr P should have been offered 
alternative accommodation for. Im mindful  that there was major work going on in the 
property and while some  of this was as a result of the water ingress, some of it was because 
Mr P was having the tanking system installed. Clearly this would have  meant the basement  
was unusable  during  the installation. So Im not persuaded  SOL is responsible for providing 
alternative accommodation for the entire duration of the work but I do think  it should 
recognise the inconvenience  Mr P experienced because it didnt offer it at all.
Because of this I think SOL should  make a further payment of £1,000 to Mr P. I consider this 
to be a fair and reasonable  way for it to recognise  the trouble and upset it caused him in not 
offering alternative  accommodation and the consequent inconvenience and stress this 
caused.
the responses to my provisional  decision
Society of Lloyds responded and said, in summary
It would  like me to reconsider my decision in light of various  comments made by its 
loss adjuster and the engineers who provided  one of the reports  SOL relied upon
It thought it should be allowed to make  a further inspection  of the property before a 
final decision is issued. It believes this would show whether seepage was an issue 
now and from this, whether it was likely  it had always  been an issue
It also said it believed the figures I quoted in relation to SOLs settlement offer for the 
damage at ground floor were incorrect as they also included an amount relating to 
the resultant damage to the basement 
Mr P responded and said, in summary
Ref: DRN33838708The laminate  flooring  I identified from the photos of the kitchen was actually laid over 
the ceramic tiles that were  replaced  as part of the work.  And therefore  its not fair to 
reduce the cost of the replacement flooring
Hed like the two separate sums  I detailed included in my instruction  to SOL about  
how much  it should  pay
Hed like the specific date for the commencement of the interest calculation  being 
the original claim date of 5 July 2016  specified  in the final decision 
On 24 May 2019 I let the parties know that these  new submissions would change the way I 
thought the complaint should  be settled. An extract of this explanation is detailed  below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as I did in my provisional  decision  but with a change  to the way the complaint 
should be settled.  Ill explain  my reasoning.
Both parties  have commented extensively on my provisional decision.  Each  has seen the 
others comments about my decision and commented extensively  on those. Its clear both 
parties are a long way apart in their views on the right way for this complaint to be resolved.
I confirm I have read everything thats been said in detail but will only comment on anything 
new that I consider  affects the decision I need to reach now.
the reports about the cause of the water in the basement
SOL has commented in detail about the various  reports provided both by it and Mr P which 
offered different conclusions about why water had entered the basement. It says most  of 
these  including a number commissioned by itself - didnt involve extensive  enough  
investigation. Because of this, it says the conclusions shouldnt  be relied on. 
In essence, it says the only report  which  I should  take account  of is the final one it 
commissioned. SOL pointed out I had summarised  this report  conclusions  incorrectly  and I 
accept my comments were misleading. So, for clarity, this report concluded  that seepage 
was the cause of the water ingress below the basement  floor and the defect at ground  level 
contributed some limited  damage in the basement.
Mr P reiterated his comments that the basement was constructed  using a waterproof 
concrete shell and so when  water  entered the basement from the ground  floor,  it had no way 
of escaping. Hes reiterated his view that the water wasnt there because of seepage.
The internet  links Mr Ps provided show that this type of concrete shell used in the 
construction of his basement  has been  used on many construction  projects  and is commonly 
used in basement construction. He says that it hasnt  been proven that there  was evidence 
of seepage and so SOL should pay 100%  of the repairs. But in the face of the conflicting 
reports Ive talked about previously, Im not persuaded  that the water entering  from the 
ground floor was entirely to blame.  Im still of the view that its more  likely than not that 
seepage played a part.
SOL now suggests  that a further inspection should be undertaken to ascertain whether 
seepage is currently an issue  now the tanking system has been installed. Im mindful that 
theres already  been some seven inspections  of various types and SOL has suggested all 
but one of these  was incorrect in their findings.
Ref: DRN33838709If this new inspection were to show there was seepage now, Im not satisfied it would prove 
the proportional cause of the damage at the time the incident happened, some three years 
ago. Bearing this in mind  and this services role to resolve complaints quickly  and with 
minimal formality Im not persuaded that this is the right way forward.
SOL has reiterated its previous comments that the contractor Mr P was using to install  the 
tanking system was in agreement that there had been extensive seepage. But Mr P has 
reiterated his comments that the contractor denies making  any statements of this kind.  In the 
absence of any evidence  supporting either of these  claims Im not persuaded I can safely 
reach a conclusion on this aspect of the complaint.
Overall, my view remains the same  -  that, based  on all the reports offering different opinions 
about the cause of the water in the basement, its not possible to say with certainty  what  
proportion of the damage was caused  by water entering from the ground floor and what was 
caused by seepage. And for that reason I still think its fair and reasonable for SOL to pay 
Mr P a proportion of the cost of the repairs to the basement.
I acknowledge SOL thinks a 25% contribution would be appropriate and Mr P thinks  100% is 
right. But Im not persuaded  by either parties  comments to change  the conclusion  I reached 
in my provisional decision - that a 50% contribution to the damage caused to the basement 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. This excludes  any of the costs relating  to the 
extra work Mr P was having undertaken unrelated  to the claim.
SOLs existing settlement offer to Mr P
I detailed in my provisional decision that SOL had made a settlement offer to Mr P relating to 
the damage to the ground floor caused by water entering from the patio.  I didnt make  a 
finding on this aspect merely explained that the offer had been made. 
SOL has pointed out that part of this settlement  offer related to damage in the basement it 
accepted was covered by the policy. So that part should be deducted from its offer as Ive 
reached my own figure for the basement damage. That seems fair and reasonable to me.
That would mean SOLs existing settlement offer would be adjusted as follows 
SOLs original offer 28,406.40
Less Basement damage   -7,442.40
Revised offer ground floor damage offer 20,964.00
reduction for flooring replacement
In my provisional decision I said the basement floor looked like it was covered with laminate 
flooring rather than tiles as suggested by the schedule  of works. I therefore made a 
deduction of 50% on the cost of the replacement on the basis that laminate  is generally 
cheaper to buy and install.
Mr P has pointed  out in his comments that the floor actually was tiled, with an underfloor  
heating system installed  on top and laminate laid on top of that. This is confirmed by one of 
the reports Mr P had undertaken.  
He says this approach was adopted as it was the best way of retrospectively installing 
underfloor heating. That seems like a reasonable explanation to me. But Im not persuaded it 
would have been necessary to replicate this method of laying tiling and then laminate when 
Ref: DRN338387010the repairs to the floor were undertaken. So Im not persuaded to change  my view on the 
50% reduction in the cost.
trouble and upset
SOL doesnt  agree  with the figure Ive recommended  for trouble and upset experienced by 
Mr P. Ive acknowledged he was having  other  work undertaken at the time and that I cant  
say with certainty therefore  how long alternative  accommodation should have been  offered. 
But he was living with his family including children  in a property without a working kitchen in 
damp conditions  for more  than a year. Overall Im satisfied  this figure is fair and reasonable 
way of recognising  the impact of this. 
interest calculation
When SOL made an offer to settle the claim,  it did so on the understanding  that if Mr P 
accepted it, his claim would then be closed.  Because Mr P thought the policy  covered more  
of the damage  than SOL was agreeing to, he rejected the offer because accepting  it would 
mean he had no further claim. 
It seems  to me SOL could  have  offered an interim payment to Mr P and allowed him time to 
bring his complaint to this service  for the reminder of the complaint to be considered. 
Because it didnt  do this, Mr P had to use his own funds  to make the repairs so Ive 
concluded SOL should also pay interest  on their revised settlement offer figure too.
SOL says it doesnt  think the calculation of interest should be backdated  to the date of the 
loss. It says that a claim of this nature will inevitably take some time to resolve and because 
of this, interest should only be awarded from the date when  the dispute over settlement 
arose.
When an ombudsman concludes a business  has unreasonably declined  a claim, as I have 
here, its this services approach to tell it to backdate the interest calculation  to the date the 
claim was first made.  Ive not seen anything  to persuade me to deviate from this approach. 
So interest should be calculated from 5 July 2016.
policy excess
SOL points out that the policy  excess hasnt been paid on the claim yet so this will need to 
be deducted from the amount paid to Mr P. I havent  seen evidence  of this, but it seems a 
reasonable approach if this is the case.  
the revised calculation
For the sake of clarity, Ive detailed below the calculation  of the revised  settlement   
SOLs revised settlement  offer* 20,964.00
50% contribution per final decision* 31,798.71
Payment for specialist reports*   1,720.80
Trouble and upset   1,000.00
Total 55,483.51
Then interest at 8% simple per annum on the figures marked  * since the date of the claim 
(5 July 2016)  to the date the settlement is made will be added  by SOL.
From this, if it hasnt already been  charged, SOL will deduct the policy excess.
Ref: DRN338387011Following this further explanation, Mr P indicated hed be happy to accept this approach,  
subject to no new changes as a result of any further  comments from SOL.  
At the last minute, SOL reiterated its suggestion  that a further  inspection  by one of its 
contractors could provide  a definitive  view on the cause of the damage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive previously explained above  that I dont consider a further inspection  would  prove the 
proportional cause  of the damage when the incident happened approximately three  years  
ago. So while I acknowledge its suggestion,  SOL hasnt added  anything new which 
persuades me to change my mind  about this.
Its clear the parties are still a long way apart  in the way they believe the matter  should be 
settled. Ive thought  very carefully about the decision Ive made here and I acknowledge that 
neither party  has got the outcome they wanted.  But in the absence  of any new evidence  or 
arguments, Im satisfied that the conclusion Ive explained above is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
Ref: DRN338387012my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct  Society of Lloyds to pay Mr P the 
following:
SOLs revised settlement  offer* 20,964.00
50% contribution per provisional decision* 31,798.71
Payment for specialist reports*   1,720.80
Trouble and upset   1,000.00
Total 55,483.51
Society of Lloyds should also pay interest at 8% simple per annum on the figures  marked * 
from the date of the claim (5 July 2016)  to the date the settlement is made.
From this, if it hasnt already been  charged, Society  of Lloyds will deduct the policy  excess.
Society of Lloyds must pay the compensation within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it 
Mr P accepts my final decision.  If it pays  later than this it must  also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
If Society of Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr P how much its taken off. It should also give Mr P a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN3383870