K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  didnt carry out sufficient checks  before 
granting her a loan.
background
Mrs M is represented  by an advisor in bringing  her complaint. But, for ease  of reading, Ill 
refer to all submissions as having  been  made  by her directly.
Mrs M applied to Nationwide  for a loan in 2014.  Nationwide say that she applied in person, 
at one of their branches. The loan was granted and was to be repaid over a period of 60 
months, meaning that she would be 73 years old at the end of the term. 
At the time she took out the loan,  Mrs M was working and says that her wages  were  her 
main source of income  as her state  pension was only small. She says that, in late 2016, she 
had to stop working due to ill health and couldnt  keep up repayments on the loan. In 
December 2017,  Nationwide  used funds from Mrs Ms current  account  to clear the balance 
of the loan.
Mrs M complained, saying that Nationwide didnt take account of her age or ability  to 
maintain employment  when  assessing  her loan application. She says her pension isnt 
enough to sustain her financial  commitments  and that Nationwide didnt adequately assess  
her creditworthiness when  granting the loan. She thinks that Nationwide should refund all the 
interest and charges shes paid on the loan.
Nationwide say that Mrs M met their criteria for the loan at the time of her application. They 
say they have strict procedures in place to assess affordability, but that its the responsibility 
of the customer to make sure they can afford the loan for the duration of the term. And they 
say that their Rules and Memorandum allow them to use funds from a customers account to 
pay any debt owed  to them.  
When Mrs M brought her complaint to this service, our adjudicator thought  that Nationwide  
had carried out a proportionate  assessment  before granting the loan. So he thought  they 
had acted fairly. But Mrs M wasnt happy  with his findings, so the complaint has been  
referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before granting the loan to Mrs M, Id expect Nationwide to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of her creditworthiness and to have proper regard to the outcome of that 
assessment. Based  on the information  Ive seen, Im satisfied that they did this. 
Nationwide say that Mrs M initially failed their automatic checks as they didnt have proof of 
her income. But she then provided evidence and Nationwide were satisfied that she could 
afford the loan. They say that they verified  Mrs Ms mortgage repayments and credit  card 
debt with information from the credit  reference agencies and that their checks revealed no 
other debt at the time.  They also say she met their eligibility criteria when she applied for the 
loan and that they ran checks and thought that enough allowance had been  made  for Mrs 
Ref: DRN36560052Ms household expenditure and Council Tax. Im satisfied  that Nationwide had enough  
information, from various sources,  to make an assessment of Mrs Ms creditworthiness.
As part of their assessment, Nationwide needed  to consider Mrs Ms ability  to make  
repayments as they would fall due over the life of the loan. They say that they asked her 
whether her income  level would change and her answer was no.  Mrs M had to stop work  
due to ill health in 2016. But that was almost  two years into the loan agreement and wasnt  
foreseeable by either party at the time Mrs M applied for the loan. So its not something 
Nationwide could have  factored in to their assessment  in 2014. 
Mrs M says that, in light of her age, Nationwide should have considered  the possibility that 
she wouldnt  be able to keep working for the duration of the loan. Its for Nationwide  as a 
business to decide who they lend to and on what basis. What Id expect  is for them  to carry 
out enough checks before they lend,  and Im satisfied they did that here.
Mrs M made  the repayments under the loan agreement until December 2016, which  was 
around the time she became  ill. Nationwides notes show  that she spoke to them in February 
and March 2017 and explained that she was experiencing financial difficulties. At that stage, 
Nationwide stopped applying interest to the loan for three months. It was applied  again from 
June until August 2017, when the account  was put on hold again. Nationwide tried to contact  
Mrs M during August 2017 but werent  successful.  I think their approach was fair here.
 
In October  2017, Nationwide  earmarked  funds  in Mrs Ms current  account for repayment  of 
the loan. But Mrs M said that money  was needed  to clear arrears  on her mortgage, so 
Nationwide agreed  to delay the set off. They asked Mrs M to provide evidence that the 
money was needed  for the mortgage, but none was provided. So they wrote to Mrs M in 
November 2017  setting out their intention to use the funds from the current account  unless  
they heard  from her by a particular  date.  Nationwide say they didnt hear any more  from Mrs 
M so, in December 2017, they used the funds from her current  account to repay the loan.
The terms and conditions  of the loan say that Nationwide  may use money on any other  
account Mrs M holds with them to reduce or repay  the total amount she owes. So they were 
entitled to use the money from her current account  in this way. The terms also say that 
theyll write to Mrs M before doing this and give her a reasonable opportunity to pay the 
outstanding balance. Based on the information Ive seen, Im satisfied they did this.
In conclusion, Im satisfied that Nationwide carried out enough checks  before granting Mrs M 
the loan. And that they were entitled  to use the money from her current account to pay off 
what she owed under the loan agreement.  I realise my decision will be disappointing to Mrs 
M, but I cant ask Nationwide to refund  the interest  or any charges shes paid, because I 
dont think theyve done anything wrong  here.  And Mrs M had the benefit of the money the 
loan provided.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3656005