K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about how Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) dealt with her request 
to withdraw funds during a branch visit. 
background
Miss S went into a Halifax branch to withdraw some money in February 2019. She says she 
didnt have her bank card because shed lost her purse. So she says the Halifax branch 
advisor asked for her date of birth and address which she gave. Miss S says she was then 
asked her to confirm an account  number. She wasnt sure if her account  number had 
changed as shed lost her card,  so said it could be her account. 
Miss S says she was then asked about  the balance of this account. She realised at this point 
that it was in fact her twin sisters.  Miss S says the Halifax  advisor initially did not believe her 
when she said the account was not hers and that shed had to show other  evidence  before 
they accepted what  she said.
Miss S was able to withdraw  money from her own account. But she says there  was a data 
protection breach because she could have  withdrawn money from her sisters account  if 
shed wanted.
When Miss S raised her complaint with Halifax, they looked  into things. But their branch staff 
did not recollect the conversation Miss S describes. So Halifax say they cannot agree any 
error was made.
Our adjudicator thought Halifax had acted  fairly.  He explained that we can only look at what 
happened to Miss S and her account with Halifax. So on the issue of there  being  a data 
protection breach, Miss Ss information wasnt shared  with anyone.  And as he was only 
looking into an interaction with Halifax branch  staff that they could not corroborate took 
place, he didnt think he could uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Miss S does not agree  and so this case has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  Miss S feels  strongly about 
what has happened here. But I do not uphold  her complaint and I shall explain my reasons.
Miss S complains  about a data protection breach. I note that Halifax  branch staff do not 
recollect the events  she describes. But I can only make a decision about what Halifax  have  
done concerning Miss Ss own account  in any event. And no information about her account  
has been shared  with anyone.
Ref: DRN39886252Miss S also says that the Halifax branch advisor  initially didnt believe her when she told 
them that the account shed been  asked about  wasnt hers and that shed had to provide 
evidence to show this. While Halifax branch staff do not remember  the incident,  even  if 
events took place in the way Miss S describes, it wouldnt be unreasonable  for there to have 
been confusion. Miss S and her twin sister have the same surname, address and date of 
birth. And she herself told our adjudicator that when she was initially  asked about the 
account number  she told the Halifax branch advisor that it might be hers.  It was only on 
being told the balance in the account  that she says she realised it was her sisters. 
It seems  to me that the Halifax staff were just trying  to help Miss S access her money when 
shed lost her purse. And even if there was some initial confusion,  she was ultimately able to 
withdraw funds from her own account  that day which is what shed set out to do.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss S, but I wont be asking Halifax to do anything.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 June  2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3988625