K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Vauxhall Finance plc (Vauxhall) were irresponsible in approving a 
a conditional sales agreement for him, because at the time, he says he lacked  the mental 
capacity to enter into the credit agreement and it was unaffordable.  
When I refer to what Mr D has said, and Vauxhall  have said,  it should also be taken to 
include things said on their behalf.
background
In October  2017, Mr D acquired a used car which was financed using a conditional sales 
agreement from Vauxhall. The total cash price of the car was approximately  £24,700. The 
total charge for credit was around £8,000, so the total amount payable  was approximately 
£32,700. Mr D provided a deposit  of £5,000  (value of a car he part exchanged), so the 
monthly repayments on the agreement were around £460 over a 60-month period.
In December 2017, Vauxhall found out that the police had the car as Mr D was in hospital 
and in custody.  Vauxhall repossessed the car and sold it at an auction in February 2018. In 
March 2018, Vauxhall  wrote to Mr D and told him that the car has been sold at an auction for 
£18,500, and there  was a shortfall balance  of around £10,200 remaining to be paid by Mr D.
Since December 2017, when  Mr D was detained  in hospital, he has been represented on 
this complaint by different social workers. The social workers have indicated that in their 
professional opinion Mr D did not have capacity  as defined under  the Mental Capacity Act 
and associated Code  of Practice to enter into a credit agreement  in order  to purchase a car 
in October 2017;  as he was suffering from a severe  manic psychotic episode. They say this 
was evidenced  by Mr D engaging in a series of highly dangerous actions that were  
completely out of character, leading to his eventual arrest by the police.
They say his mindset at the time was clearly chaotic and disturbed leaving him unable  to 
think rationally and, they say, he would not have been able to make reasonable decisions on 
his own at that time. For instance, they say that Mr D part exchanged  two other cars during 
this time, and then used  one in part exchange for the car in question; which  was financed 
using a conditional sales agreement from Vauxhall. They say he was demonstrating some 
highly erratic behaviour which was out of character. They  say he was not able to read the 
credit agreement or understand it at the time due to the relapse of his mental illness. They 
say Mr D is also dyslexic, so he would not have been able to read the credit  agreement.  In 
addition, Mr D was not in a financial position to make payments. 
Vauxhall says that a credit worthiness check was fully completed  and, based  on the 
information available to them at the time,  the credit application was successful. They go on 
to say that they are a responsible lender and have correctly adhered  to their stringent credit 
checks, factoring  in creditworthiness  and affordability. They say the evidence they have 
collated as part of their investigation  has clearly identified that Mr D was worthy of the credit 
at the point of sale and that he signed  a legally binding contract to purchase the car. They 
say that at no time whilst  he was at the dealership, did Mr D give any indication, by either 
speech or action,  that he might be a vulnerable customer. They say they are satisfied that 
they have acted correctly when processing the application.  Regarding  the shortfall balance 
of around £10,200  remaining to be paid by Mr D, they say considering the circumstances Mr 
D finds himself  in, they can offer an affordable repayment plan suitable  for him. 
Ref: DRN33809832Mr D was unhappy with this, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the complaint should upheld.
Vauxhall disagreed  with the investigator. 
So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
After reviewing the case, I issued a provisional decision on 24 February 2021, explaining 
why I thought the complaint should be upheld. In the provisional decision I said:
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Where evidence is unclear or in dispute,  I reach  my findings on the balance of probabilities  
which is to say, what I consider most likely to have happened based on the evidence  
available and the surrounding circumstances.
Amongst other things, I have considered the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
When looking at this type of a complaint I need to consider two main questions  in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. The first question  
is:
1.Did Vauxhall complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy  themselves 
that Mr D would  be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable  way?
a.If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed,  did Vauxhall make a fair 
lending decision bearing in mind the information  gathered and what  they knew 
about Mr Ds circumstances?
b.If reasonable and proportionate checks were not completed, would such checks  
have shown that Mr D would be able to sustainably repay the borrowing?
The second  question I need to consider is:
2. Did Vauxhall act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
And if I think  Mr D has been disadvantaged  in any way by Vauxhalls actions, then I will 
consider what is a fair way to put things right.
Did Vauxhall complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy  themselves that Mr D 
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Vauxhall say that The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) noted that lenders  may have been 
able to assess creditworthiness without relying on income or expenditure at all. They  say 
that Mr Ds application  was auto-approved. They say things that were taken into 
consideration were  that Mr D:
Ref: DRN33809833-Was 53-years-old; 
-Was a homeowner; 
-Was earning £16,000 a year;
-Was with his employer for 5 years;
-Had a prior hire purchase  agreement for £117  a month which  was settled in 2016 
and this had been  paid ok;
-Had one loan recently taken out with no payment history;
-Had two other loans which were settled  (payments of £221  & £140) - both were paid 
ok;
-Had two credit cards - both not using any of the limits;
-Had a current account on which he was not using his overdraft  facility;
-Had a debt to income  ratio of 34.7%; and 
-The car payment  would be approximately £460.
Vauxhall says that the above  factors indicated a stable  credit profile. Additionally,  they say 
Mr D was placing a sizeable £5,000 deposit  into the transaction, and that the total amount 
financed was not excessive in relation to the valuation of the car. They  go on to say that Mr 
D's credit report was satisfactory with no recorded  problems over a number of years. So, 
they say, that based on these factors and the applicable rules  at the time, they believe it was 
reasonable to conclude  that Mr D was creditworthy and would be able to sustainably 
manage the proposed repayments. They also mention that Mr D signed  the demands  and 
needs agreement  which indicated that he had £500 disposable income after the payment for 
the car. So, they say, that based on their calculations at the time of application the 
repayments would have been  affordable on the stated income provided.
Vauxhall were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate checks of Mr Ds ability  
to repay  the borrowing  in a sustainable  way. These sometimes called affordability checks  
need to be borrower-focussed (considering Mr Ds specific  circumstances)  and, in addition,  
to a creditworthiness assessment,  to see if he could have afforded to repay the borrowing in 
a sustainable  manner. So, Vauxhall needed  to consider the impact of any credit payments 
on Mr D and not just the likelihood  of getting their money back.
There is no set list of checks  Vauxhall  needed  to complete. But the checks should  have 
been proportionate to the circumstances, and what is reasonable and proportionate will vary 
depending on a number of factors such as, but not limited to the:
-Amount of credit;
-Duration (or likely duration) of the credit;
-Frequency of the repayments;
Ref: DRN33809834-Amounts of repayments;
-Total amount  payable;
-Total charge  for credit; and
-Consumers individual  circumstances.
The list above is not exhaustive, and what is considered proportionate may vary as any of 
the above factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable  and proportionate check  
ought to be.
I have considered that the total amount  repayable, before  deducting the £5,000 deposit 
(value of the car that was part exchanged), was approximately  £32,700. And the monthly  
repayments were around £460 over a 60-month period, which was a large proportion  of Mr 
Ds declared income of approximately  £1,333  monthly (£16,000 per annum). And 
considering this was a relatively long-term commitment,  and significant size of borrowing, I 
believe that the assessment of affordability ought  to have been relatively thorough.
I have seen a copy of the credit information  Vauxhall  had, and relied on, at the time of 
making the lending decision. It shows that Mr D had:
-One credit card with a credit limit of £1,200;
-One credit card with a credit limit of £1,000;
-One credit facility (most likely a current account  overdraft) with a current  limit of 
£2,000; and
-A loan with a current balance  of £14,300 with 60 payments remaining.
Most of Mr Ds credit commitments were  managed  ok. But Vauxhall, in addition  to a 
creditworthiness assessment, needed  to see if Mr D could have afforded  to repay the 
borrowing in a sustainable manner considering his circumstances.  
I understand that Vauxhall feels that because Mr D signed the demands and needs  
agreement which indicated that he had £500 disposable  income,  they say the repayments 
would have been affordable based on his stated  income (£16,000 annually). But it is 
Vauxhall that were  required  to carry out a reasonable and proportionate checks  of Mr Ds 
ability to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way, so I do not think  it is reasonable for them  
to rely solely  on the information given by Mr D, and this does not absolve  them  of their 
responsibility to carry out appropriate and proportionate checks.
Vauxhall have  said that Mr Ds debt to income ratio was only 34.7%, but that is only taking 
into consideration the monthly payment for the car and no other  expenditures based on an 
income of £16,000  annually  (around  £1,333.33 monthly). From the credit report  that Vauxhall  
had at the time, they spotted that Mr D had recently taken out a loan for £14,300, but it does 
not seem  like they have  taken this repayment  of the loan into consideration. I think it would 
have been reasonable  for them to find out how much the monthly repayments on this loan 
were going  to be. Considering that that the loan was for a 60-month  period and only taken 
out approximately a month prior to Mr D taking out the conditional sales agreement in 
question, I think  it is reasonable to assume that there would still be 59 or 60 payments left. 
Ref: DRN33809835So, if we take the outstanding balance of the loan and divide it by 60 payments, without even  
taking interest into consideration, the payment would be approximately £240. This payment 
added to the monthly payment for the car would already  put Mr Ds debt to income ratio 
above 50%. 
Vauxhall also did not take into consideration  the other credit that was available  to Mr D at the 
time. For example, I note that they did not take into consideration a repayment  figure  
towards two of Mr Ds credit cards  and, mostly  likely what was, his current  account overdraft; 
which all appear on the credit check they carried  out. These credit facilities  had a total credit 
limit of around £4,200, so I think a reasonable estimate of what a sustainable repayment on 
these might have been around £200. Adding this amount to the car payment and the loan 
payment would leave Mr Ds disposable  income at about £433. This figure is already lower 
than the £500 disposable income declared  by Mr D, so this should  have raised  some  flags.  
But most of all, the £433 does not take into consideration any other expenditures that he 
most likely had at the time. So, I think this would start to raise  some concerns.
But I think Vauxhall ought to have done more to understand Mr Ds other commitments and 
expenditures because, outside of his credit commitments, Vauxhall  did not know what other 
committed expenditure Mr D had. Vauxhall has not provided our service with a copy of the 
credit application,  but they told us what information  was taken into consideration, and, as 
part of this, there is no mention of them taking note of how much he was spending for things 
such as car insurance,  maintenance,  road tax, petrol, food and other  living essentials. So, I 
do not think without  this information  Vauxhall  could reasonably conclude that the credit 
agreement was affordable and sustainable for Mr D. 
Also, the above calculations are based  on Mr Ds declared income of £16,000 annually 
(around £1,333 monthly). However, it is not clear  if this declared income was net or gross of 
tax. Our service  asked  Vauxhall to provide a copy of the credit  application form, submitted by 
the dealership  to them at the time. But they said that the application was put through  on an 
old system  on which they, unfortunately, can no longer view any documents.  But they said 
that they have  given  us the key information from their read-only screen. So, it is possible that 
Mr Ds income  could  have  been  gross  hence the figure would have been even lower  once 
we account for tax deduction. But for the benefit  of doubt, even if, I use the higher monthly 
figure of around  £1,333, it does not change the fact that Vauxhall should have attempted to 
understand what other commitments and regular expenditure  Mr D had on top of his credit 
commitments.
Also, four days prior to entering into the credit agreement in question,  Mr D purchased a car 
(Car B), at a different  dealership, for approximately £6,200. During  that transaction he part 
exchanged another car (Car A) that was valued at around £7,400.  So, he received  
approximately £1,200 back from this transaction. Then four days  later he part exchanged 
Car B when he bought the car which was financed using  a conditional sales  agreement  from 
Vauxhall. The social workers helping Mr D with his complaint  have questioned how this did 
not flag that something might not be right.
Vauxhall provided our service with a document which they say confirms New keeper  
section of the V5C  that was issued to Mr D four days prior,  upon collection of that car. They 
say that, upon  collection  of the car, the supplying dealer would have filled in the remainder of 
the V5C and sent it off for a change of keeper. So, they say Mr D did not have the full copy 
of his V5C when part exchanging the car with them, as it was being  processed by the 
DVLA. But they provided another  document, which is a purchase invoice from the other 
dealer where  Mr D bought Car B and part exchanged Car A. They say this document was 
Ref: DRN33809836provided to them by Mr D to accompany  the New keeper V5C document as proof of 
ownership. They go on to say that although Mr D only purchased the car four days  prior, all 
necessary checks were completed on the car. They say they carried  out an RAC/HPI check 
on the car that was part exchanged. They  say nothing  stood  out as unusual when dealing 
with Mr D and all the checks  came  back with no issues. 
I think Vauxhall ought to have done  more to understand the circumstances around these 
prior transactions. When Mr D part exchanged Car A and purchased  Car B, he received 
£1,200 back, so this may have raised questions why he needed the extra  funds. And four 
days later,  when he part exchanges Car B for the one he buys  using the credit agreement 
from Vauxhall, he only receives £5,000 - a loss of approximately £1,200 in a very short 
period. It is also possible  that if further checks were done, Mr D might have given a plausible 
explanation to Vauxhall for these, but I think these transactions  should  have raised  flags that 
something might not be right. And considering, as I mentioned above that Vauxhall did not 
know what other committed expenditure Mr D had, even  more so, I think, this should  have 
given Vauxhall  reasons  to carry out further checks to get a better understanding of Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time. 
Also, I think it would have  been reasonable for Vauxhall  to have verified  Mr Ds income. As it 
seems that Vauxhall only knew  that Mr D was employed for five years and making £16,000. 
So, they decided  to lend a vast sum of money, with significant monthly  repayments  without  
appearing to know anything  about  his employer or the type of income he was receiving.  This 
means they could  not have known whether Mr D would be able to sustainably  repay  a 
borrowing over the five-year term.
Overall, I do not think Vauxhall  carried out reasonable  and proportionate  checks  to satisfy  
themselves that Mr D would be able to repay  the borrowing in a sustainable way. 
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mr D could sustainably  repay  
the borrowing?
I think it would have  been reasonable for Vauxhall to find out more information about Mr Ds 
financial circumstances at the time. I cannot  be certain what evidence,  information or what 
questions Vauxhall  would  have asked and reviewed.  However, I have been provided with a 
copy of Mr Ds bank statements from the time of the borrowing,  and I have reviewed these 
along with Mr Ds credit file to get an understanding of what his commitments  were likely to 
be. In the absence of anything else, I think the information available from the bank 
statements were a reasonable indicator  of the type of evidence or information Vauxhall 
would have likely found out about Mr Ds income  and expenditure, had they completed 
reasonable and proportionate checks at the time of borrowing.  
The bank statements show that Mr D had an income  of around £1,145 per month which  was 
less than Mr Ds declared income of approximately £1,333 monthly (£16,000 per annum). In 
any event, I do not think  it matters which monthly  figure Vauxhall  would have  used had they 
verified income, as I think the car finance  loan was unaffordable even if the higher figure  of 
£1,333 was used. So, when answering  the question  of would reasonable and proportionate 
checks have shown  that Mr D could sustainably repay the borrowing, I will use the higher  
amount (the declared  income amount) for this calculation. 
From the bank statements I can also see that he had several commitments that he was 
regularly paying.  These included  some  regular direct debit payments for things such as 
phone bills, insurances, bank account fee, and various memberships/subscriptions. It 
Ref: DRN33809837appears that these  ongoing commitments together totalled around £270 a month.  To this we 
need to add the £240 repayment (as estimated above) for his £14,300  loan. And £460 
payment for the Vauxhall conditional sales agreement - which  brings the total to £970 a 
month. Considering  his declared monthly  income  was approximately £1,333, Mr D would 
only have £363  per month in disposable income.  But we also have to take into consideration 
the other credit that was available  to Mr D at the time - two credit cards and the current 
account overdraft  - total credit limit of £4,200.  As mentioned above, I think a reasonable 
estimate of what a sustainable  repayment on these Mr D might have been required  to make 
would have been around £200, which means he would have only £163 of disposable income 
left. So, he would be left with little money  to cover his car insurance, tax, maintenance and 
fuel. And little or nothing would be left to spend on other essential day to day expenses like 
food, clothing  and shelter.
Taking everything into consideration, had Vauxhall  done more to establish Mr Ds
financial circumstances by carrying out reasonable and proportionate  checks,  I do not think 
they would  have lent to him. From the above  it is clear that Vauxhall  conditional  sales  
agreement was not affordable, and Mr D could not sustainably  repay  this borrowing. 
Did Vauxhall act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Social workers, who are/were helping Mr D with this complaint  have said that his mind set at 
the time was clearly  chaotic and disturbed  leaving him unable to think rationally, and they 
say he would not have been  able to make reasonable  decisions on his own. They  go on to 
say that Mr D was not able to read the credit agreement or understand it at the time due to 
the relapse in his mental illness and due to him being dyslexic.  
Vauxhall say that Mr D did not give any indication, at any time whilst at the dealership, by 
either speech or action, that he might  be a vulnerable customer. They  say that at no stage in 
the sale of the car was the sales executive  specifically asked to read out any of the relevant 
documentation relating to the sale because of a vulnerability/disability. They say the 
dealerships standard protocol would be to ask customers, who exhibit  any such signs,  or 
otherwise expressly  state that they are vulnerable, to fill in vulnerability forms which  would 
be provided to relevant  compliance teams. They go on to say that under the FCA guidelines, 
it is assumed that all borrowers  have the mental capacity to make  informed  decisions  about 
entering into a finance  agreement. And had the dealership or Vauxhall suspected 
vulnerability, they would have needed  to have raised  this internally and logged it on their 
systems, but they say there was no such express or implicit indications of vulnerability. 
I do not know what was discussed and what Mr Ds behaviour was like when he was at the 
dealership purchasing the car. And while I accept  that it is possible that Mr Ds behaviour 
was showing some signs of a vulnerability/disability, I have not been presented with anything 
persuasive to make  me think it is more likely than not that he did. On that basis I do not think 
it would  be reasonable for me to conclude that Vauxhall  acted unfairly or unreasonably in not 
treating Mr D as a vulnerable consumer. 
Putting things right
In December 2017, Vauxhall found out that the police had the car as Mr D was in hospital 
and in custody.  They reposed the car and sold it at an auction in February  2018  for £18,500, 
and there  was a shortfall balance of around £10,200 remaining to be paid by Mr D. 
Ref: DRN33809838But, as I mentioned above, I do not think that Mr D should have been given this credit 
agreement, so I think the position needs to change to one where the agreement  would never  
have been entered into in the first place. So, I think the credit agreement should  be ended  
with nothing further to pay. However,  Mr D did have use of the car, but it was less than one 
month, prior to him being stopped by the police, so I think it is fair he pays for that use. But I 
am not persuaded that monthly  repayments  from the credit  agreement,  of approximately  
£460 a month,  is a fair reflection of what a fair usage  would be. I say this because a 
proportion of that repayment went towards repaying interest. Having said that, there is not an 
exact formula for how to calculate what a fair monthly repayment  might be. So, in deciding 
what is fair and reasonable I have taken into account, the amount of interest charged on the 
agreement, Mr Ds overall usage  of the car (including the mileage  covered), and what  his 
likely costs to stay mobile would have been if he had not entered into this agreement. I have 
also taken into consideration that most  likely Vauxhall could have received a higher  amount 
for the car had it been returned in a bit better  condition. Considering  all of this, I think a fair 
amount Mr D should pay is £700.   
If Mr D already paid back more than £700,  Vauxhall should treat any excess  as an 
overpayment. They should then refund those overpayments to Mr D, adding 8%
simple interest per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement. They 
should also refund Mr D his £5,000 deposit in full plus add 8% simple  interest  per year on 
the same  terms.
In addition, considering that I do not think that Mr D should have been  given this credit 
agreement, I think  that it would  not be fair or accurate  to record  any adverse information on 
his credit file. Also,  the agreement  should not be recorded as satisfied, as it may give 
potentially misleading  impression to future lenders. So, I think  Vauxhall should arrange  to 
remove the credit agreement from his credit  file entirely.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I intend to uphold  this complaint and direct Vauxhall  
Finance plc to:
1.End the finance  agreement with nothing further  to pay.
2.Refund any payments  Mr D has made minus £700 to reflect  his usage and 
condition of the car.
3.Refund the £5,000  deposit.
4.Add 8% simple interest per year to points 2 and 3 above; from the date of
each payment to the date of settlement.
5.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation
to this credit  agreement.
If Vauxhall considers  tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it
should provide  Mr D with a certificate  showing how much they have taken off so he can 
reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so.
I asked both parties to provide me with any additional comments  or information  they would 
like me to consider  by 10 March 2021.     
Ref: DRN33809839Mr D replied and said he has nothing further to add. And Vauxhall replied and said they have 
nothing further  to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so and considering neither 
Mr D nor Vauxhall had any further  comments to make, I see no reason to reach a different 
conclusion to what I reached in my provisional decision (copied above).
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I uphold this complaint and 
direct Vauxhall Finance  plc to:
1.End the finance  agreement with nothing further  to pay.
2.Refund any payments  Mr D has made minus £700 to reflect  his usage and 
condition of the car.
3.Refund the £5,000  deposit.
4.Add 8% simple interest per year to points 2 and 3 above; from the date of
each payment to the date of settlement.
5.Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in relation
to this credit  agreement.
If Vauxhall considers  tax should be deducted from the interest element of my award, it
should provide  Mr D with a certificate  showing how much they have taken off so he can 
reclaim that amount, if he is eligible to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Mike Kozbial
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3380983