K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1998 
alongside a mortgage. Ms P says Bank of Scotland plc, Halifax  at the time, mis-sold  her the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms P says she wasnt  made aware the policy was optional and it was just added  without her 
knowledge. Halifax says the optional nature of the policy wouldve been made clear to Ms P 
before the sale was concluded. And it has sent me a copy of Ms Ps mortgage application 
from the time. This shows there  was a separate section for PPI where there  is a tick in the 
yes box to agree to the cover, and Ms P has signed  in this section to confirm  her selection. 
But there was also a no box available on the form, so I think Ms P wouldve known she 
didnt have to take out the policy.  
Ive also seen a copy of a separate PPI application form which was completed and signed at 
the same  time as the mortgage application.  This form sets out the amount of cover Ms P 
wanted and the approximate cost of the policy. Ms P signed  this document  as well, 
confirming she wanted the PPI policy. 
So based  on the evidence Ive seen  I think that Halifax made it clear  that Ms P didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms P so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems to 
have had a need for the cover.
Ms P says she was entitled to some  sick pay from her employer and couldve sold her house 
if needed  so she didnt need this cover. But having the policy  in place  meant that she didnt 
need to sell her house  to make her repayments  if she was suddenly unable to work. Ive 
thought about what Ms P said about her sick pay, but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to 
this and for longer. So these funds couldve been used for other expenses. Ms P was solely  
responsible for her repayments  so I think  having  the policy in place provided her with some 
additional security, and I still think  the policy was suitable for Ms P.
Ms P says she wasnt  given any information about  the policy and wasnt told what  the
PPI would cost. But looking at the PPI application  form I can see that the approximate cost 
of the policy  was clearly  set out as well as the monthly benefit. So I think Ms P wouldve 
known roughly what the policy wouldve costed  her per month before agreeing to the cover.
Ref: DRN39504072It is possible some of the other information  Halifax gave Ms P about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for her if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
This means  Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms P. But 
Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms P because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms P about that. Because  Bank  of Scotland didnt 
tell Ms P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms P.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Ms P any commission and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3950407