K820x#14complaint
Mrs B and her daughters Miss B1 and Miss B2 complain that Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited unfairly charged an additional premium for an incident involving Miss B1s car. 
background
In early 2016 Miss B1s car was parked  outside her and Mrs Bs house. A neighbour left a 
note on Miss B1s car saying they might  have scraped the car accidentally. Mrs B phoned 
Miss B1s insurer  (which Ill call G) to notify it of a possible claim. But there  wasnt  any 
damage so Miss B1 didnt  need to make a claim.  
Miss B1 then added her car to Mrs Bs multi car policy with Admiral. The renewal  date was 
July each year. 
In December 2017 Mrs Bs other daughter Miss B2 wanted to add her car to the multi-car 
policy. Admiral  agreed to this and quoted  a price to start on 18 December 2017.  
But between the acceptance date and the policys start date Admiral says it found  out about  
the January 2016 incident,  which G had logged on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) database. As a result,  Admiral said it would increase the multi-car premium  it had 
quoted from the policys  new start date of 18 December 2017,  to account for this new 
information.
Mrs B thought this was unfair. She pointed out Miss B1 hadnt been  in the car at the time of 
incident, and theyd reported  it to G only because she thought thats  what  she would have to 
do for a potential claim. Miss B1 hadnt  made any claim.
Admiral said that even though there  hadnt been  a claim, the incident meant there  was a 
higher risk of a claim  under the multi-car policy in the future. It did offer to waive the 
cancellation fee if Miss B2 wished to cancel her insurance under the new multi-car policy. 
Miss B2 didnt cancel.  
Mrs B complained to us, and both Miss B1 and Miss B2 have  joined the complaint. 
Our adjudicator concluded that Admiral  had shown that it had been entitled  to charge more 
for the multi-car policy when it found  out about  the January  2016  incident. He thought it had 
calculated the additional amount in line with the approach Admiral would use for any other 
customer in the same  position. So he didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B didnt agree and 
asked for a review.
developments
After an initial review  I asked our adjudicator to investigate the complaint further. This was 
because Mrs B had also complained to us that Admiral had backdated the additional 
premium for Miss B1s car, from the date her car had been added  to the multi-car policy. It 
wasnt clear that Admiral had responded to that part of Mrs Bs complaint, although  shed 
included it on her complaint form. 
After looking into it our adjudicator told Admiral  hed be likely to uphold the complaint about 
the backdated premium.  This was because the relevant consumer law didnt allow  for 
Admiral to charge  a backdated premium. Following  an exchange  of correspondence Admiral 
Ref: DRN30783592offered to refund the backdated premium it had charged because  of the incident with 
Miss B1s car  an amount of £241.68   plus 8% simple interest. Mrs B was pleased about  
this and said it resolved  this part of the complaint.
But Mrs B said that she still wanted  to pursue  the complaint about the increase in premium 
(£56.03) between  the early December 2017 quotation and the start date. While  it was a 
smaller amount than the backdated premium she still felt this was unfair  given Miss B1 didnt  
actually make a claim for the January 2016 incident. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The multi-car policy gives discounts when  more than one car is insured under the policy.  In 
December 2017  Admiral gave a quote to add Miss B2s car to a new multi-car policy.  But it 
then increased that price  because it found out about the January 2016 incident. This is the 
additional premium  it quoted of £56.03.
I do appreciate that Miss B1 didnt make a claim for the January 2016. Mrs B notified her 
then insurer G because  the neighbour said they might have scratched her car. Its likely that 
this was a requirement  under Miss B1s policy, as its a common term in motor insurance 
policies that any incident be reported. 
But even a non-fault incident of this type is one that most motor insurers will take into 
account when  they assess the risk for a motor insurance policy.  And in this case  Im satisfied 
that Admiral has shown it increased  the premium based on the correct  information about the 
January 2016  incident. Our adjudicator explained that Admiral doesnt  differentiate  between  
non-fault and incident only when calculating the premiums.  So it didnt act unfairly when it 
looked at the information  recorded about the January 2016 incident.  It treated  Miss B1 the 
same as any other customer in her position.  
In response to Mrs Bs complaint Admiral  did agree  that the new December 2017 policy  
could be cancelled without charge,  because  of the increase  in premium between  quote and 
acceptance. I think this was a fair approach because it gave  them the opportunity  to take a 
policy elsewhere without  any additional cost. 
As our adjudicator has explained,  the relevant consumer law  The Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012  doesnt allow  Admiral  to charge a backdated 
premium when it later finds out about information  it says it should have been told about at 
the time the consumer applies for the policy. Admiral has properly agreed to refund the 
backdated element  of the premium, together  with 8% simple  interest.  This is fair, and I see 
that Mrs B has accepted  its offer resolves this part of the complaint.
my final decision
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  has made  a fair offer to resolve the complaint about the 
backdated premium, by offering to refund £241.68 together with 8% simple interest. For the 
reasons Ive given  I dont  uphold the complaint about the increase  in premium between  the 
quote and the acceptance in December 2017. 
Ref: DRN30783593Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B, Miss B1 
and Miss B2 to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3078359