K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs H payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1988. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect  someone to recall  in detail everything that 
happened so many years ago when the application  was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs H have said pressure was put on them to take PPI, as they were  told it would 
help with their mortgage application. However,  I dont have strong evidence to show that 
Bank of Scotland failed to make Mr and Mrs H aware the PPI was truly optional; or that it 
didnt ensure that they freely chose  to take it. Without stronger evidence,  it wouldnt be fair 
for me to say that Bank of Scotland acted  wrongly in that way.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Being unable  to pay 
a mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mr and Mrs H received any employer  sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would 
have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put 
off the time when  they would need to fall back on any savings or other means of paying their 
mortgage. This all would have put Mr and Mrs H in a more secure position, if they eventually 
lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been told anything  to 
suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out.
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think full and clear information  about the costs would have affected 
whether Mr and Mrs H took the PPI.
Ref: DRN30246762Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have been  affected by any of these. Its likely they were 
eligible for the policy, and theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time 
without further  cost if their situation  changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 June  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3024676