K821x#15complaint
Mr G says that Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Sunny approved 5 instalment loans for Mr G between August 2017  and December 2017.  Mr 
G said that he was in financial difficulty and the lending made his difficulties worse.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Sunny  shouldnt have continued to 
lend to Mr G from loan 4 onwards as he appeared to be in difficulty  managing  his money and 
wouldnt be able to repay any further borrowing sustainably. Our adjudicator recommended 
that Sunny put things right for Mr G by refunding all interest and charges incurred on loans 4 
and 5. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion  and in particular said that Mr G was 
required to repay only a small amount of his declared income towards  his repayments. It 
said that there was no evidence  that Mr G was struggling to manage his money. Sunny 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr G could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN39637452I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.  
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr G. It asked Mr G for details  of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Gs credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr G loans 1 to 3 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Sunny to agree to lend. As Mr G 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one to 
three, I dont  think that I need to say more  about  them.
At the point of loan 4 I agree with the adjudicator that Mr Gs borrowing pattern was a cause 
for concern. Mr G had taken out loans in August and September  which had not been fully 
repaid. He asked  to borrow again  14 days after taking out loan 3. Taking out this many loans 
within such a short time frame should have  prompted Sunny to consider whether  this lending 
was sustainable  for Mr G. His pattern of borrowing suggested that he was reliant on short 
term credit  and not managing his money  responsibly. I think that Sunny shouldnt  have  given 
Mr G loans 4 and 5.
Ive taken into account what Sunny has said about the nature of this product  and the 
flexibility it provides for borrowers. But in the context of Mr Gs complaint I think his 
borrowing pattern  was a cause  for concern and appeared to be at odds with the level of 
disposable income he had declared. I think that Sunny  should  have done further checks at 
the point of loan 4 to establish why Mr G needed  to borrow  so often. If it had done, it would 
have realised that Mr G wasnt managing his money  and further borrowing was 
unsustainable. 
Mr G has been unable  to repay loan 5 which further  suggests that the borrowing was 
unsustainable for him.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr G towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  it 
has already refunded.
Ref: DRN39637453B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr G which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr G originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr G as though  they had been 
repayments of the principal. If this results in Mr G having made  overpayments  then 
these should be refunded  with 8% simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" and move 
to step "E".
D.If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in "A" and "B" 
should be used  to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results 
in a surplus then the surplus should be paid to Mr G. However if there  is still an 
outstanding balance then you should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with 
Mr G.
E.Remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Mr Gs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3963745