K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Aviva  Insurance Limited  is responsible for poor service under a 
home emergency policy.
background
Mr S had a policy in the name of a home  assistance company. It covered breakdown of his 
gas central heating.  From  February 2018  Mr S agreed to pay an annual premium  of £222.00 
by monthly instalments of £18.50. As Mrs S shared the home, she also had the benefit  of the 
policy.
Aviva was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where I refer to Aviva or the 
insurer I include the home assistance  company, its engineers and others for whose actions  I 
hold Aviva responsible.
On 31 October, Mr S called for help because his radiators werent working properly. The 
insurer sent a plumber on 6 November. But he said Mr S needed  a gas heating  engineer.   
The gas heating engineer suspected sludge in the system and he took a water sample. 
There was a delay  until December in getting the results of an analysis of the sample. The 
home assistance company told Mr S he had to pay for work to clean the system. It later 
cancelled the cover.
Mr S complained that the company had wasted  his time, taken too long to get the water 
sample analysed  and charged him for cover he no longer had.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that:
The company  hadnt made a mistake in sending a plumber on 6 November.
The company  had accepted full responsibility for the delay and had offered Mr S 
£250.00 compensation.
The company  told Mr S on 18 December that the policy would be cancelled  if the 
work wasnt carried out within 28 days. It took the last payment on 28 December. It 
hadnt charged Mr S unfairly because he was still covered by the policy until 16 
January 2019.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs S and to Aviva  on 23 May 2019. I summarise  my findings:
Mr S paid about £200.00 for cover  and the home assistance company paid him 
£250.00 compensation in relation  to the central heating. 
Notwithstanding the delay  in getting  the test results to prove it, it was sludge  and 
scale that caused the problems with his heating and hot water system. That wasnt 
covered by the policy.
Ref: DRN31056542Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs S or from Aviva, my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct  Aviva Insurance 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S havent responded to the provisional decision.
Aviva says it has nothing to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
The policy excluded routine maintenance and sludge scale and rust within the central  
heating system. The policy  provided as follows:
maintenance work can include circumstances where there is a build up of 
sludge/scale/rust resulting in your boiler/and central heating system  needing  cleaning  
As this maintenance work is not covered under this policy, it is your responsibility to 
have it completed.  We will notify you and confirm by letter that this work needs to be 
completed. Until the maintenance  work is carried out we will be unable  to offer any 
cover for the affected part of your system.  To avoid you paying  for cover you no 
longer have, you should get this maintenance work completed as soon as possible 
Please provide us with evidence in writing of the work having  been completed in 
order for us to reinstate your cover 
From the file Im satisfied that on 31 October Mr S described a problem with his radiators 
and the insurer  said it would send a plumber.  I dont think there was any suggestion  that 
there was a problem  with the boiler or that a gas heating engineer would be required.  
There was a slight delay  between until 6 November. But Mr S hasnt shown that this was 
caused by the availability of the plumber  as opposed to his own availability. I think  he had 
to take time off work  to be at home  on 6 November.
Unfortunately, the plumber couldnt  help. So Mr S was disappointed and suffered a waste  of 
time. But I dont find the insurer  couldve avoided this or was responsible  for it. 
The plumber arranged for a gas engineer to visit the next day. The engineers  notes say that 
he cleared a cold feed.  Mr S says that the engineer used a pipe or rod to push a blockage 
out of a pipe instead  of doing  a power  flush. 
But the policy didnt  cover sludge  or scale. And  from the cold radiators and later analysis of 
the water  samples  - I find it likely that there was already sludge and scale in the radiator 
system. I havent seen  enough technical  evidence to show that the engineer made  it worse.
The engineer took a sample of water  from the radiator system. I accept that he shouldve 
sent the sample for testing so that the results were  available by about 14 November. But 
there was a delay  so that the testing company didnt receive the sample until 11 December. 
On 13 December the insurer got the results showing that the system  needed  a clean. That 
wasnt covered b the policy.
Ref: DRN31056543Throughout November  and well into December Mr S and his family had no effective radiators 
and intermittent problems  with hot water. I can see that they blame the insurer for this. But I 
find that their problems were caused by sludge  and scale not covered by the policy.
From its file Im satisfied that Mr S spoke to the home assistance company on 18 December.
It offered  £250.00 compensation. Thats more  than I wouldve awarded.  Im satisfied that it 
told him that he needed to pay for a flush.
Ive seen a copy  of a letter dated  19 December correctly addressed to Mr S. It said that he 
needed to pay for a flush within  28 days otherwise it would cancel the central heating cover. 
Mr S sent us a copy of that letter on 11 January. So Im satisfied that the company posted  it -
and that he received it.
The company kept taking  the monthly  instalments  until 28 December. I find this fair and in 
line with what Mr S had agreed.
On about 16 January 2018 the 28 days had expired without Mr S providing evidence  of a 
flush. So the company sent a further letter cancelling the cover.  
Overall, Mr S paid about £200.00 for cover and the home assistance company paid him 
£250.00 compensation in relation  to the central heating. 
Notwithstanding the delay  in getting  the test results to prove it, it was sludge  and scale that 
caused the problems with his heating and hot water system. That wasnt covered by the 
policy. So I dont find it fair and reasonable to order Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs S any 
compensation or to do any more in response  to this complaint.
my final decision 
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3105654