K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial findings on it, can be found  in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms a part of this final decision.
In summary  however,  I concluded  QuickQuid shouldnt have given Ms W any of the loans  it 
had agreed for her. I invited Ms W and QuickQuid to comment  on my findings.
Ms W said she accepted my findings. QuickQuid said it didnt  agree  and made a number of 
points the most important  of which could be summarised as follows:
There didnt appear to be any documentary evidence on which to base Ms Ws 
claims that the loans  were  unsustainable.
It didnt make sense to have considered Ms Ws difficulties repaying  loan 1 when 
deciding whether or not to give her loan 2, when loan 1 had been repaid more  than 
six months before she applied for loan 2.
Ms Ws repayment  difficulties on loan 2 had been small  and wouldnt have raised 
major concerns. She had only had a single late payment.
The case  has now been returned to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Having done so, my view of the case remains unchanged. Ill explain why.
While it is correct that Ms W appears to have been  unable to provide documentary  evidence, 
this doesnt mean that its not possible to get a good  idea of her financial situation from other 
sources of evidence such as her own recollections,  her repayment patterns, and the email 
conversations she had with QuickQuid at the time. I dont think  its unreasonable to draw on 
these sources of information to come to the conclusions I expressed  in my provisional 
decision.
I also dont think the gap between Ms W repaying  loan 1 and taking loan 2 is so long that her 
difficulties with the first loan were no longer of relevance when deciding  whether it was 
responsible to grant her the second one. As I explained in my provisional decision,  it had 
taken Ms W a year to repay a one month loan, and shed told QuickQuid she had lost her 
job. I outlined in my provisional  decision why I thought  QuickQuid should  have  suspected 
Ms W was still unemployed when  she applied for loan 2. And in light of this I dont think  
QuickQuid could assume that, just because some time had passed,  Ms Ws financial 
situation would have been much  better  than it had been when she was struggling to repay  
loan 1. 
Ref: DRN30643362Ultimately I think  QuickQuid should have been more robust  in its checks before agreeing 
loan 2  and Ive explained  in my provisional decision what  I believe more robust checks 
would have discovered and that I dont think QuickQuid should have lent on that information.
Finally, I dont share QuickQuids analysis  that Ms Ws repayment problems on loan 2 were 
minor. I think her problems here need to viewed in the context of her already having had 
difficulties with her previous loan. When viewed in this way, her problems with loan 2 served 
as confirmation  that whatever financial problems she had were probably still present. I think  
its also worth pointing  out that although  Ms W only had one late payment on loan 2, she had 
previously put off making that repayment  by agreeing with QuickQuid to defer it in exchange 
for a fee on two occasions. So in reality,  there  were  three occasions  during loan 2 when 
Ms W was unable  to make her repayment  as agreed.
Had QuickQuid interpreted the situation accurately I dont think it would have given Ms W 
loan 3. The pattern of borrowing and repayment  up to that point had shown Ms W was 
unlikely to be in a position to afford  to repay  even small amounts of credit  in a sustainable 
way.
QuickQuid doesnt  appear to have made  any specific arguments  in respect of its decision to 
give Ms W loan 1, so I wont go over that again. Ill say only that my findings  in relation to this 
loan remain the same.
Ref: DRN30643363putting things right
QuickQuid shouldnt have  given Ms W any of loans 1 to 3, so its not right that she should 
have paid interest, fees or charges on these, or have them  affect her credit file in a negative 
way. So to put things right I direct QuickQuid to:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms W towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Ms W which  were  
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms W originally made the payments,  to 
the date the complaint is settled.
C) Pay Ms W the total of A plus B.
D) Remove any adverse  information  recorded  on Ms Ws credit file in relation to the upheld 
loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to deduct tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms W a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Ws complaint for the reasons given above and set out in my attached 
provisional decision, and direct  CashEuroNet UK LLC to take the actions set out in the 
putting things right  section of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30643364COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Ms W complains CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid) lent to her irresponsibly.
background
Ms W took three loans  with QuickQuid between March 2014 and March  2016.  Ive included some of 
the information weve  received about these loans in the table below.
Loan Date Date Repaid AmountHighest 
RepaymentReported  
IncomeReported  
Expenditure
1 01/03/2014 30/03/2015 £150.00 £194.25 £925.00 Not taken
2 19/11/2015 26/02/2016 £150.00 £166.80* £543.00 £275.00
3 31/03/2016 07/10/2016 £50.00 £55.60* £543.00 £275.00
*Ms W was expected to make two repayments the same  month for loan 2, meaning she had £186 to 
pay in December 2015. For loan 3, Ms W was expected to make three repayments in a 28 day period, 
meaning she had £69.12 to repay over one month.
All of the loans were repaid late and Ms W entered various repayment plans  with QuickQuid over the 
period of time she borrowed  from them.  Ms W took a year to repay her initial loan (which was 
supposed to have lasted  one month),  and then extended her second loan twice before entering a 
repayment plan to pay it off over a longer period.  Ms W made the initial payment on her third loan but 
then made  no more repayments for another five months. She then entered  a repayment plan under 
which she repaid the remaining balance  in one month.
Ms W complained that QuickQuid had been wrong to lend to her because  the loans had been 
unaffordable. She said shed  been stuck in a cycle  of borrowing and was taking loans  to pay for 
essential bills.
QuickQuid didnt agree  with the complaint. It said it had carried  out affordability checks before lending 
to Ms W, which she had passed. It also said that the loans had been small and Ms Ws borrowing 
pattern did not suggest she was dependent on short-term loans.
Dissatisfied with QuickQuids response, Ms W brought her complaint to this service, where it was 
looked into by an adjudicator. Our adjudicator  concluded QuickQuid had been wrong to give Ms W 
loan 2, but there wasnt enough information  to conclude it had been wrong to provide  loans 1 or 3. 
QuickQuid maintained its position on the complaint   noting that it had changed its lending policies in 
2015 and that it was essentially  confident that it had got things right when  lending to Ms W. It did not 
agree with our adjudicator.
The case has now been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.
Ref: DRN30643365QuickQuid had to assess Ms Ws applications for borrowing to check  if she could afford  to pay back  
the amounts shed borrowed  without undue difficulty. It needed  to do this in a way which  was 
proportionate to the circumstances. It then needed to assess  whether  based on the information it 
had gathered from its proportionate checks  Ms W could afford  to make her loan repayments 
sustainably. The industry regulator at the time Ms W applied for her loans had explained that 
repayments are sustainable  if theyre  made from income  or savings, while meeting other financial 
commitments. 
QuickQuid asked Ms W to declare her income  for all of her loans, and her expenditure for loans 2 and 
3; these declarations can be found in the table  at the start of this decision. QuickQuid also carried  out 
checks with a credit reference  agency  before agreeing each  loan, but its not provided  the results of 
these checks. QuickQuid  has said it attempted  to verify Ms Ws income  for loans 1 to 3, and her 
expenditure for loans 2 and 3, by comparing what shed  declared to data held by the credit  reference 
agency, and averages provided  by the Office of National Statistics. 
were QuickQuids  checks proportionate for loans  1 and 2?
For loan 1 I think QuickQuids  decision  just to check Ms Ws income was not a proportionate one. This 
was a fairly small loan, but Ms W had declared a low income and, as a proportion  of that income  the 
expected repayment was quite high. It was also likely that she would have at least  some expenditure 
as she had declared on her application that she was renting. In view of this I think  QuickQuid should 
also have asked  Ms W about her monthly expenditure to establish whether  she was likely to have  
enough disposable income to make her repayment sustainably.
Loan 2 was taken a little over six months after Ms W had repaid loan 1, and the repayment terms 
gave her one lower repayment before she was expected to repay  the largest  repayment  of £166.80. 
But Ms W reported a very low income  of £543 per month, which was significantly less than shed 
declared for loan 1 around a year and a half previously. 
Ms Ws obvious payment  difficulties on loan 1 indicated  she had struggled to repay a loan of the same 
size while she had almost twice the income, and while its possible Ms Ws circumstances had 
improved in some other way since loan 1, I think this information would have concerned a responsible 
lender. I think  it would  have been proportionate against this background  for QuickQuid to have  made 
a more  robust attempt to verify Ms Ws financial situation than it did. This would most likely  have 
involved obtaining documentary evidence  of her financial position, for example her bank statements,  
and asking her some  more detailed questions about her situation.
loan 3
When Ms W applied for loan 3, about a month after repaying loan 2 late, I think there was already 
ample evidence in front of QuickQuid that she was likely  not in a position to be able to repay even 
small amounts of credit  in a sustainable way. Bearing this in mind,  I dont think QuickQuid should  
have approved her application for loan 3  it wasnt responsible of it to do so.
what would proportionate checks  have shown  for loans 1 and 2?
Ms W has provided a description of her circumstances at the time of taking her loans from QuickQuid.  
We asked  Ms W for some documentary evidence  to support this account  but shes not provided  this, 
so Ive had to make  a decision on the limited information available.
I note that when Ms W began struggling  to repay loan 1, she emailed QuickQuid to say that she had 
lost her job and was in the process  of claiming  income  support. She doesnt seem to have updated 
her employment details  for subsequent applications  and this, combined with her testimony that she 
was unemployed suggests to me that she was probably unemployed when she applied for loans 2 
and 3. I think  its likely the income  figure  of £543 per month on the loan 2 and 3 applications  is 
accurate as it is consistent with someone whose  only source of income was benefits. The income  
Ref: DRN30643366figure Ms W declared of £925 per month for loan 1 also seems consistent  with her being in part-time 
employment prior to losing her job.
Ms Ws expenditure  is more difficult to determine. Shes said this came to £850 per month, including 
£305 on household  bills and £505 on food and travel, along with £40 of miscellaneous outgoings. 
Shes also said that, at the time, she had three children and had more  money going  out than she had 
coming in.
These figures dont  appear  to be unrealistic for a person  with three children,  and I have  no reason to 
doubt their accuracy.  Its true that about 18 months later Ms W declared much lower expenditure, but 
her circumstances were different  then  it seems she no longer had a job and I think  its reasonable  to 
assume that she would have reduced her expenditure as well.
Taking all of this into account I think its likely Ms W would have  declared expenditure  of around £850 
for loan 1 had she been asked about this. This would have left her with about  £75, which was not 
enough to make her expected  repayment. So I think this loan would have appeared unaffordable and 
QuickQuid was wrong to grant it.
For loan 2 I cant be sure of exactly what QuickQuid would have found out  in terms of Ms Ws 
income and expenditure   if it had carried out more thorough checks. This is due to the lack of 
documentary evidence. I do think however, that it would at least have found  out about her general 
situation, such  as her lack of employment and having three dependants. 
Having considered  all this, I dont think QuickQuid should  have given Ms W this loan. Ms W was 
expected to pay £186  over two repayments, in a single month.  Based on what  shed told QuickQuid, 
Ms W had £268 left over each month to make repayments to loan 2. So after paying  £186 shed have 
had £82 to cover  any other expenditure.  Because Ms W had three children, the likelihood of her 
encountering unexpected expenses  was, to my mind, relatively high. So taking into account  the 
limited amount she was left with after repaying QuickQuid, I think there was also a high chance that 
her repayments would  be unsustainable and she would either struggle to make them or she would  
need to borrow again. As Ive said above, there was already  evidence, from loan 1, that Ms W had 
difficulties repaying small amounts of credit.  Ultimately  I think QuickQuid should  have recognised the 
risks here and not given Ms W loan 2.
Ref: DRN30643367putting things  right
QuickQuid shouldnt  have  given Ms W any of loans 1 to 3, so its not right that she should have paid 
interest, fees or charges on these, or have them affect  her credit file in a negative  way. So to put 
things right Im intending  to direct QuickQuid to:
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms W towards interest,  fees and charges on 
these loans.
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Ms W which were  considered 
as part of A, calculated from the date Ms W originally made the payments,  to the date the complaint 
is settled.
C) Pay Ms W the total of A plus B.
D) Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Ws credit file in relation to the upheld loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  QuickQuid to deduct tax from this interest.  It must give Ms W a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has deducted,  if she asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  explained above I intend to uphold  Ms Ws complaint  and direct  CashEuroNet UK 
LLC to take the actions outlined in the putting things right section.
I now invite  both parties to the complaint to send me any comments, arguments and evidence they 
want me to consider. They need to make sure these reach me by 12 April 2019 I will then consider 
the complaint again.
Will Culley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3064336