K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains Allianz Insurance Plc has unfairly  declined  a claim she made  on her pet 
insurance policy. She also complains the policy was mis-sold as she wasnt  aware of certain 
policy terms.
background
In September  2018 Ms Ds horse, P, was put down. Ms D says Ps previous operation to 
resolve an issue with his hind leg hadnt worked and so the decision was made to have him 
put down.
Ms D made a claim  to Allianz for death  and disposal  but Allianz didnt agree to cover the 
claim. It said Ps condition  hadnt  met the British Equine Veterinary Association (BEVA) 
guidelines for humane destruction,  so wasnt covered under the policy.
Ms D complained to Allianz. She said there  was no other possible treatment option available,  
so she had no choice  but to have  P put down. She also said her other horse  was insured by 
a different insurer, and it had confirmed to her it would have offered cover under  its policy  for  
Ps situation. She said the BEVA criteria  wasnt made clear  to her when  she took the policy 
out so thought it had been  mis-sold. 
Allianz still didnt  agree  to cover the claim,  but it noted one of its advisors  had given Ms D 
misleading information suggesting  the claim could be covered. So it offered £150 
compensation for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt  think the information provided from Ms Ds vet showed P met the 
criteria to be covered under the policy. So he didnt think Allianz had acted  unfairly in 
declining the claim.  He also said he didnt  think Allianz had mis-sold the policy. He said 
the exclusion was clear enough  in the policy and that Allianz  didnt need to do anything  more 
to bring it to Ms Ds attention. 
Ms D didnt agree. She said the policy  information  wasnt clear, and had she known she 
wouldnt be able to make  a claim for the death  of her horse, she would  have got cover 
elsewhere. 
As Ms D didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator. Ive explained  why below. 
The policy terms state that for euthanasia  to be covered under the policy, the BEVA 
guidelines must be met. The guidelines say:
 The insured  horse  sustains an injury or manifests  an illness or disease that is so 
severe as to warrant immediate destruction to relieve incurable  and excessive  pain 
and that no other options of treatment are available to that horse at that time. 
Ref: DRN38065062When Ms Ds vet completed the claim form, there  is a section which  asks if the horse met 
the guidelines set by BEVA for immediate destruction.  The vet ticked the box marked  no. 
So the vet was essentially saying the horse  didnt have an injury or condition  so severe as to 
need immediate  destruction,  with no other treatment available.
So it seems  the policy  term wasnt met and so Allianz can decline the claim under its policy 
terms. Based on what Ive seen in this case, I think it has acted reasonably  in refusing the 
claim.
Allianz reviewed vet notes  and videos provided by Ms D of P before his death. It also sought 
clarification of Ps condition from Ms Ds own vets. The vet said initially  P had made  good  
progress after his operation in July 2018,  but it was inconsistent. He also said:
I believe that given  sufficient time, there  were reasonable prospects that P would 
improve to a level of soundness permitting low level work. However,  the degree and 
duration of pain he would have had to endure  before reaching  this point remains an 
unknown quantity.
Based on this Allianz didnt think it should  cover  the claim and I dont think  thats  
unreasonable. Allianz has said it would still consider paying  a claim for euthanasia if it 
considered the BEVA guidelines would be met within a period soon after. But it didnt think  
Ms Ds vet had shown this was likely  to be the case. Ms Ds vet did later say there  were  no 
treatment options  available, but Im satisfied based  on the above that Allianz hasnt acted 
unreasonable in declining  the claim. Ive also explained below why I think the policy term 
was clear, so I think Allianz  is entitled  to rely on it in this case. 
I understand she acted  in the best interests of P, but that doesnt mean its fair and 
reasonable for it to cover the claim.
Allianz accepts it gave misleading  information about  when it would consider a claim. And its 
offered compensation of £150  for the unnecessary distress  and inconvenience  it caused Ms 
D. I think thats a fair offer, theres no doubt it caused additional upset at an already difficult  
time, but Allianz  corrected its misleading advice  when  Ms D later complained.  
Ms D says the BEVA guidelines for destruction are unusual; shed never  heard of them  and 
has spoken to many people who were  also unaware  of it. She said this hadnt  been brought 
to her attention at the point of sale and if it had been, she wouldnt have bought  the policy. 
When selling  the insurance to Ms D, Allianz  didnt  provide advice. But it did need to make 
sure its information was clear, fair and not misleading in order for Ms D to make an informed 
choice about whether  the policy was right for her. Having looked at the policy documents, I 
think Allianz did this.
From other policies Ive seen, the BEVA guidelines for destruction of horses are a common  
feature. Our service would expect that unusual or significant terms are highlighted 
sufficiently in the policy. I dont think the term is unusual or more  restrictive than others on 
the market. Even if I accepted its a significant exclusion given the costs that can be involved 
in the euthanasia of a horse, I think Allianz has done  enough  to bring it to Ms Ds attention.
The exclusion is in the key facts section at the start of the policy. The key facts section is 
there to bring certain conditions and exclusions to the attention of its policyholders, with 
further detail found later on in the policy. So I think Allianz has done enough to highlight it.
Ref: DRN38065063Ms D said she took the policy out over the phone and the BEVA  criteria  wasnt discussed. 
Allianz hasnt been  able to provide a copy of the call, but I accept its possible this wasnt 
discussed at this stage. But I dont think this means Allianz has mis-sold the policy.  There  is 
a responsibility of Ms D to check the policy documents  to ensure she knows  what  she has 
cover for. And I think the documents are sufficiently clear for her to be able to do that. So I 
dont think Allianz  mis-sold  the policy. 
I realise this has been a very difficult time for Ms D, but based on the reasons above  Im not 
going to ask Allianz to do anything differently.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
. 
Ref: DRN3806506