K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of work  and delay  with repairs  to his adapted vehicle by 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  Plcs  (RSA) repairers following a claim under his motor  
insurance policy. 
background
Mr C leased a car which was adapted to his medical  requirements. He had an accident and 
his claim was accepted  by RSA who arranged for the relatively minor repairs  to be carried 
out. Mr C said while  his car was with RSAs repairers the mileage  increased  and they failed 
to make a proper repair and caused  further  damage. He said after three visits and many 
months the repairs still werent  completed properly and there  was a white substance  in his 
boot.
RSA agreed to Mr Cs request for £1,200 compensation in full and final settlement of the 
complaint. RSAs repairers said Mr Cs car was roadworthy, but there were some repairs  it 
still wanted to complete,  but Mr C wouldnt return it. 
Mr C said the courtesy  cars from RSAs  repairer had caused him pain. He said he was then 
promised a like-for-like  courtesy car, but this wasnt available.  RSAs repairers said they 
cant offer an exact replacement and despite its request Mr C hadnt provided evidence of 
his medical requirements.  It said it had tried to find a suitable  replacement, including an 
upgrade, but it hadnt found a car acceptable to Mr C and so the repairs  are still outstanding. 
Mr C returned his car to the dealer saying he had lost confidence in the car and got a new 
car which cost him £850. He requested compensation  for this and his stress, and the 
mileage he said had been added to his car by the repairers, but RSA declined  his request.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said Mr C hadnt told 
RSA about his specific requirements for a courtesy car and the policy  doesn't give an 
entitlement to a like-for-like replacement. She said the cars RSA had offered and its offer to 
reimburse Mr Cs taxi fares was reasonable. 
The investigator said RSAs repairer  hadnt  put unnecessary miles on Mr Cs car and only 15 
miles was unaccounted for. And it wasnt  responsible for the cost of Mr Cs new car as it 
offered to rectify its mistakes and offered alternative means of transport. She said RSA had 
apologised for its mistakes and offered £1,200 compensation which is fair. 
Mr C disagreed saying  he had discussed his medical requirements with RSAs repairers. He 
said the repairers agreed to make the repairs and clean a substance off his car three times, 
but didn't do it and got oil on the drivers seat. He said the repairer caused delays and had 
put 15 miles on his car when it said the car never  left the garage. He said RSA should pay 
the £850 cost of his new car for the lies and incompetence they were  responsible  for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its accepted by both parties that Mr C has had a very poor experience  with the repairs  to his 
car and the delays  and stress  he has been caused.  Over  a period of several months RSAs 
Ref: DRN38073802repairers made three attempts to repair his car, but failed to do so properly. Im pleased that 
RSA has apologised  to Mr C for the poor repairs and service he received and the length  of 
time this had taken.
RSAs repairer offered  to rectify the problems that remained after previous attempts with 
Mr Cs car. This is what Id expect it to do in the circumstances,  but Mr C didnt want  the 
repairer to do the work and said the courtesy  cars offered werent  suitable  for his needs. 
Mr C has now disposed of his car. This means theres nothing further that can be done  about 
the outstanding issues and the white substance he says he found in his boot.  However, I 
have thought about these  issues and the 15 extra miles Mr C says the repairer  put on his car 
alongside the overall treatment he received from RSA, when considering the 
appropriateness of the compensation it has paid him.
I can see that the problem with the repairs was made worse for Mr C by the lack of a suitable  
courtesy car. For the follow-up repairs RSAs repairers offered a similar  courtesy car to the 
previous one provided to Mr C. However, Mr C said this wasnt suitable for his needs and 
had made  his condition worse.  Mr C said that RSAs repairers had promised  to provide him 
with a like-for-like courtesy car.
RSA said Mr C didnt provide medical evidence in support of his specific  requirements  for a 
courtesy car. Mr C said he discussed his medical needs with RSAs repairers. I havent seen 
a record of this conversation, or of the promise Mr C says he was made about receiving a 
like-for-like courtesy car, but Ive no reason to doubt  what he says. 
Businesses need to make  reasonable adjustments for policy  holders with medical 
requirements although Mr Cs policy doesnt  require a like-for-like replacement from RSA.  Its 
unfortunate that a car wasnt available  to meet Mr Cs needs, but I have seen  that RSAs  
repairers suggested several types of car that it thought might be suitable for Mr C, but 
unfortunately none were. From what Ive seen I think RSA has acted  within the terms of Mr 
Cs policy and made best efforts to try and meet Mr Cs needs for a courtesy car. 
Mr C says RSAs repairers cant account for 15 miles on the total mileage of his car. The 
repairers said they havent misused his car, and I think the compensation paid to Mr C 
adequately covers the small amount  of unaccounted mileage on his car.
I think Mr Cs inconvenience would have  been  greater had his car not remained roadworthy. 
I dont think it would  be fair to require  RSA to reimburse Mr C for the acquisition  of his new 
car as I dont think he had to do this.
This whole unfortunate episode has caused Mr C considerable upset and inconvenience. 
Its right that RSA compensates Mr C and it has paid him a total of £1,200  for the effect the 
problems its caused have had upon him. This is a substantial amount, and in all the 
circumstances I think its fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Ref: DRN38073803Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3807380