K820x#14complaint
Mr B believes ReAssure  Limited has been overcharging him on his pension  policy  as it 
cannot explain to his satisfaction  how the charges are calculated.
background
Mr B is saving  into a pension plan with ReAssure,  made up of three  separate  policies. Each  
policy is invested in a number of funds  with different charging structures. The policy  ending  
700 is made up of two funds  Managed  (Type  1) 4 Star (Series 1) which has an annual 
management charge  (AMC) of 0.75% and 5 Star with an AMC of 0%. 
ReAssure has explained that each policy has charges which  it describes  as implicit or 
explicit. Explicit charges are deducted  from the value of the policy and include policy  fees, 
(which for this policy is £4.53  per month),  and the bid/offer  spread  (the difference  in price 
between buying  and selling units). Implicit (or embedded) charges are deducted from the 
price of the units invested, and include the AMC which  is the cost of administering  the policy, 
which is expressed as an annual percentage but deducted on a daily basis.  And the 
Investment Management Charge (IMC), which covers the costs arising from trading the units  
(such as stamp duty and commission).  
Mr B previously complained about  the information  he was given, including the charges  hed 
be liable  to pay, when the plan was set up (with a predecessor business  of ReAssure). This 
was resolved by an ombudsmans decision in 2017  not upholding the complaint. The 
ombudsman found  the business  had given Mr B adequate  information,  in line with the 
requirements of the time.
Mr B has continued to raise the issue of charges with ReAssure since then. This complaint 
was prompted  when he received his annual statement in August 2018  showing a charge of 
just over £309. Mr B believes hes being  charged too much and that ReAssure isnt 
transparent about its calculations. Mr B performed his own calculations  based  on his 
understanding of ReAssures  methodology  and came up with a lower  result.  Which 
ReAssure said was because hed only used the bid price on 8 August 2018, whereas the 
charges are calculated on a daily basis,  so fluctuate  according to the unit values on each 
day. Mr B performed a recalculation using the figures for each day and he still got a lower 
result (around £284).  He wants a clear and precise explanation of how the charges are 
arrived at. And if this cant be provided he wants his charges reduced in line with what he 
thinks they should be. 
ReAssure initially objected to this service investigating Mr Bs complaint, as it felt he was 
revisiting the same issue as the complaint in 2017. Our investigator  determined that the key 
issue with this complaint  isnt the original information  provided, but the lack of clarity around 
the charging structure and Mr Bs belief hes being overcharged. 
But our investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he said its not our role to double  check  a 
businesss calculations. And as far as he could see, ReAssure had been clear  enough  about  
how the charges  were  calculated.
Mr B is still unhappy that ReAssure hasnt provided  a plausible explanation to challenge  the 
figure he arrived at. So he thinks this means he must  have been  overcharged.  
As agreement couldnt be reached its been passed to me to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN31620292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold it 
for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. I realise this will be disappointing  news  for 
Mr B so let me explain why.
Mr B is looking towards his financial situation in retirement. So I understand why he pays 
close attention  to the performance of his pension plans,  and in particular to anything which 
has a negative impact on the valuation, which will include charges. He wants  ReAssure to 
provide him with a clear  calculation  to show how the sum of £309  is arrived  at, as when he 
performs what  he thinks is the same calculation he gets a significantly lower figure. I can see 
hes done his best to understand how the charges work and has gone to considerable 
trouble with his calculations.  
ReAssures letter of 14 October 2019  included  two tables which  represented the calculation 
for the charges to the 4 Star (AMC  0.75%) and 5 Star (AMC 0%) funds for Mr Bs policy from 
August 2017 to August  2018. But for brevity and simplicity the charges were calculated on a 
monthly rather than daily basis. The table gave four totals  the AMC and IMC for the 4 Star 
fund, the IMC only for the 5 Star fund and the bid-offer charge for each of the two funds,  
which relates to the difference in price for which units in the fund can be bought  or sold.  
These four figures totalled just over £310, so slightly more than Mr B had actually been 
charged, which ReAssure explains is due to the monthly rather than daily calculations. 
ReAssure feels it has provided Mr B with all the information it can to explain how the charges 
have been calculated, as further  detail would be commercially sensitive. But Mr B doesnt 
understand why he has to pay the bid-offer  spread charge as ReAssure has told him it isnt 
physically deducted  from the plan value  but is given a cash value for illustrative  purposes . 
Ive looked at the original terms and conditions document  given to Mr B when he took out the 
plan, and which explains the charges and plan valuation. The wording isnt as clear as a 
similar document would be nowadays, but it does  explain  under point 2.5 that the fund will 
be valued once  a month, and 2.6 explains that the bid price  will be used. 
Although its not a charge  which is deducted, the bid-offer spread does affect  the value of 
Mr Bs policy. As units are purchased at the higher offer price  but the fund is valued at the 
lower bid price. So if, for example, his fund purchased  some  units at an offer price of £100,  
when they are absorbed into the fund those units are valued  at the lower bid price  which  
might be £95. So the act of purchasing  the units results in a paper loss of £5, even though 
this isnt physically  deducted from the plan. The percentage  charge shown in the table 
accounts for this on a daily basis. So thats why ReAssure describes it as an illustration. 
I think ReAssure could  have reassured  Mr B by giving  him a simple explanation  about the 
bid-offer spread earlier in the process.  And while I can see Mr B has done his best to 
calculate the charges himself, I think he should  accept  a large organisation such as 
ReAssure will use sophisticated algorithms which it would be difficult  for a layperson to 
replicate. 
As our investigator explained, its not the role of our organisation to check  how a business 
works, as thats done by the regulator. We look at the outcomes of individual  complaints. 
Whilst we cant precisely  check calculations of the sort ReAssure has carried out in 
answering Mr Bs complaint, in my view the calculations  do appear to be reasonable, and 
support ReAssures explanation of how the charges are applied.  Ive seen nothing which 
Ref: DRN31620293suggests ReAssure  hasnt charged  Mr B in line with the terms and conditions of his policy,  or 
that hes been overcharged.   So Im not going  to ask ReAssure to refund any charges to 
Mr B or reduce the charges going forward in line with what  Mr B thinks  they should be.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3162029