K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies. 
Mr V says The Co-operative Bank  Plc (Co-op) mis-sold the policies to him and the            
late Mrs V.
background
Mr V and Mrs V took out a mortgage  with Co-op  in 2006. At the same  time they were  sold a 
PPI policy. The policy covered Mr V only and the premium was £15.84  per month.  The policy  
would have paid a monthly benefit of £263.76 for up to 12 months  if Mr V was unable to work  
due an accident,  sickness or unemployment. The policy was free for the first six months.
In 2007 Mr V and Mrs V took out a separate home owner loan. At this time they declined  a 
PPI policy  to cover the additional borrowing.
In 2011 Mr V and Mrs V re-arranged their mortgage. The original PPI policy  was cancelled 
and they were sold a new policy. The new policy again covered Mr V only. The monthly  
premium for the new policy was £23.85  per month.  The policy  would have paid a monthly 
benefit of £818.00 per month for up to 12 months  if Mr V could not work due to accident or 
sickness. The new policy did not provide cover against unemployment.   
An adjudicator from this service didnt think the policies were mis-sold. Mr V disagreed with 
the adjudicators  findings, so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policies were not mis-sold because:
Mr Vs representative has told us Mr V and Mrs V were not given  a fair choice about whether 
to take out the policies. Mr V believed  the policies were part of the mortgage  applications  
and not separate, optional, policies that could be declined.
Ive thought about this but Co-op has been able to send us copies of most of the paperwork 
completed at the time of the sales as well as later correspondence. I can see that both PPI 
policies were applied  for using  separate applications forms to the mortgages.
Both the 2006  mortgage offer and the 2011  offer stated that Mr V and Mrs V did not have to 
take out any insurance arranged by Co-op.  And the 2006 mortgage  offer referred to the PPI 
as being optional.
I also note that annual PPI statements were sent from 2011 which referred to the PPI as 
being optional. 
In 2007 when Mr V and Mrs V applied for additional  borrowing  they signed a declaration  
declining PPI on that home owner  loan. So at that stage I think they knew  they didnt have to 
take PPI to obtain a mortgage.
Ref: DRN35380312I think it is likely the Co-op  representative told Mr V and Mrs V that they should  take out PPI 
to protect  their mortgage repayments. But that is not the same as being  told they had to.
Taking all this into account, I think it is most likely  Mr V and Mrs V were  told the policies were 
optional and chose  to take them out, but after so many  years its understandable if Mr V 
cant recall this.
Co-op recommended that Mr V and Mrs V take out the PPI policies. So it had to make sure 
the policies were right for them, and from what Ive seen I think  they were, I say this for the 
following reasons:
The policies were  set up to cover Mr V only. As he was the sole wage-earner the policies 
were set up to cover  the right person.
Mr V was working and was eligible for the policies. And Mr V wasnt affected by any of the 
policies main limitations or exclusions. For example  Mr V didnt have any medical conditions  
that would  not be covered. So Mr V would  have been able to make a claim if he had needed  
to.
Mr Vs employer  would  have paid him sick pay for up to three months if he had an accident  
or became too unwell to work. But the policies sold to him could have paid a monthly  benefit  
for up to 12 months per claim.  So Mr V would have found the policies useful if he couldnt 
work, particularly if he was off work for a lengthy  spell.
The 2011  policy  didnt  provide cover  for unemployment. But the 2006 policy could have  paid 
a benefit for up to 12 months if Mr V had lost his job.
Mr V and Mrs V had some savings. But they chose to keep their savings rather  than take a 
smaller mortgage. So it seems they wanted  to keep their savings intact.  And the PPI policies 
would have meant they didnt have to use savings to pay mortgage if Mr V could not work.
Mr V has told us he had other  insurances  in place but has not been able to give us any 
details of these  so I cant fairly say they duplicated the PPI cover.
I dont know what information about  the policies Mr V and Mrs V were given at the time of 
the sale. Its possible that Co-op  didnt give all the information it should  have  done.  But thats 
not enough to uphold  this complaint. I next need  to decide whether or not Mr V and Mrs V 
would have changed their mind  about  buying the policies if they had been given better or 
clearer information. I cant say they would have  done. I say this because  they chose to take 
out the policies so I think they were interested in this type of cover.  The policies seem to 
have been right for them and Ive not seen anything to make think  they were  unaffordable.  
In summary  I think its most likely  Co-op made  it clear the policies were optional  and            
Mr V and Mrs V chose to take them out. I think  the policies Co-op recommended were  right 
for them and even if Co-op had given them all the information it shouldve, I still think  they 
wouldve bought  the PPI policies.
Ref: DRN35380313my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against              
The Co-operative Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3538031