K820x#14complaint
Ms L has complained  about Zenith  Insurance  plcs handling of her car insurance policy.
Reference to Zenith includes  their agents.
background
Ms L had car insurance with Zenith which started on 25 May 2016. She took the policy out 
through an insurance broker.  Zenith  recorded  two incidents against  Ms Ls policy  that were 
said to have occurred  during the policy year in April and May 2017. Ms L said they were both 
fraudulent claims.  Zenith also recorded  the two claims on a shared insurance  database  
which insurers have access to.
When Ms Ls policy came to an end on 25 May 2017, the broker  arranged her new policy 
with another insurer  as I understand  it was cheaper  than Zeniths. But within days of the new 
policy starting, Zenith informed the broker of the two recent  claims against Ms Ls policy.  And 
once the broker  told the new insurer about  the claims, the new insurer cancelled  the policy  
as they felt the risk of insuring  Ms L was too high. The broker then arranged  a new policy  
with Zenith  which  started on 1 June 2017.
The premium for the new 2017 policy with Zenith was almost double the cost of the policy  for 
the 2016 policy year. Zenith  investigated  the two claims  and decided that they should  be 
removed from Ms Ls policy and from the shared  database. As a result of removing the 
claims, Zenith said they refunded  Ms L around £260  (Ms L said it was around  £200). But 
Ms L wasnt happy because, despite the refund, her new policy  was almost  £400 higher than 
the previous policy  year.
Zenith said the refund they paid Ms L was correct, so they didnt uphold her complaint. But 
they accepted that they should have removed one of the two claims from the shared 
insurance database sooner than they did. In connection with that, Zenith paid Ms L £200 
compensation. 
Ms L didn't think that she had been treated fairly,  so she brought  her complaint to us. One of 
our adjudicators looked into it. She felt that the refund Zenith made was correct. As Ms L 
didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Ms L, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
When an incident is reported, either  by the policyholder or by a third party, its industry  
practice for an insurer to record the incident against the policyholders  policy and on the 
shared insurance  database. Even  where,  as in Ms Ls case, the policyholder feels  the claim 
is fraudulent the insurer will record it as an open  claim  until they conclude their investigation. 
In Ms Ls case, once  Zenith investigated  the two claims they decided  to remove them  from 
Ms Ls policy and from the shared insurance  database.
But while the claims remained open, Ms Ls 2016-2017  policy came to an end. Her broker  
arranged cover with another insurer which only lasted a few days before it was cancelled. So 
Ref: DRN36532422cover was arranged  for Ms L again with Zenith  on 1 June  2017. As there was an intervening  
policy with another  insurer, albeit for a short period of time, Ms Ls policy  with Zenith  that 
started on 1 June 2017 was a new policy and not a renewal. And as Zenith  hadnt  yet 
concluded their investigations into the two open claims by the time the new policy started, 
they took into account the two claims when  calculating  Ms Ls premium, which is something 
all insurers  I know  of would have done.  Within the insurance industry open claims are 
usually treated as fault claims for the purposes of calculating a premium.  So the two open  
claims caused Ms Ls premium to be higher. But, the expectation is that, once the insurers 
investigation is concluded and the open  claim is removed, as happened with Ms L, the 
insurer will recalculate the premium  from the start of the policy  as though  the claims never 
happened and make a refund.
From the information Ive seen, the refund made to Ms L was correct.  But Ms L didnt  think 
that was right because  her premium for the 2017  policy year, after the refund was made, 
was almost £400 higher than her premium  for the 2016 policy  year. But the 2017 policy was 
a new policy  and it was taken out over a year after the 2016 policy. And Im aware that 
insurers review their risk ratings  (what they base  their premiums on) regularly. So even 
though Ms Ls circumstances  may not have changed between  the two policies, its possible 
that Zeniths ratings  did. To give an example, the risk level of a certain  model of car on 1 
February 2017 may increase  on 3 February 2017. That may be because  on 2 February  2017  
the insurers updated statistics show the particular model to be a higher risk. Equally,  risk 
ratings on factors may decrease. But Im satisfied that Zenith would have treated any other 
customer with similar circumstances  to Ms L in the same  way had they also applied  for cover 
at the same  time. So I think  Zenith  have  treated  Mr L fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.   
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3653242