K820x#14Complaint
Mrs H says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  for a mortgage.
Background
Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 2001. Mrs H paid for the PPI with a regular  
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered her in case she lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.  
Ive decided that Mrs Hs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
From what  Ive seen of Santanders  sales process from the time, it looks like in order to get 
the policy Mrs H wouldve had to specifically apply for it, separately to applying for the 
mortgage itself.  And the PPIs cost wouldve been set out separately to the cost of the 
mortgage, rather than as something that was necessarily included.  The insurers  notes 
record that Mrs H got in touch with them  at various points, such  as to change the direct debit 
date and to ask for a claim form in case she lost her job. So it looks like she knew  she had 
PPI at the time  even if, understandably,  she no longer  remembers  this after so many  
years. Mrs H said if shed known about  the PPI she wouldve  claimed on it in 2008. But she 
cancelled the policy in 2004,  which would explain why she didnt claim in 2008. Overall,  
I think its most likely  that Santander  made Mrs H aware she had a choice about buying  the 
PPI, and that she chose  to take it at the time.
Its not clear whether  Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs H, or not. The requirements 
were stricter  on Santander if they did recommend it, so to be fair to Mrs H, Ive assumed 
they did. That means Santander  had to check the policy  was right for her. And based  on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  it looks  like 
Mrs H was eligible for the cover and wasnt significantly  affected by any of its main  
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs H only had very limited redundancy cover through work,  and the PPI covered  her for 
much longer  and wouldve  paid out on top of her work benefits. While  Mrs H had other 
insurances, from what shes  told us it sounds  like they covered different things to the PPI 
and werent relevant here. I also understand she couldve sold off assets, but the PPI meant 
she could protect her assets and wouldnt have to go to such  extremes.  I understand Mrs H 
had people who wouldve been willing to help her, but the mortgage was her sole 
responsibility, so I dont think it wouldve been  suitable for Santander to have advised she 
rely on other  people  to pay it. Ultimately, its worth bearing in mind that if Mrs H lost her job 
and fell behind  on her mortgage payments, she couldve lost her home. It looks like the PPI 
couldve really been useful for her in protecting her home and giving some peace of mind. 
Ref: DRN38188902Its possible that the information Santander  gave Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  But as I explained above,  Mrs H wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for her in case  something  
went wrong. The policy was competitively  priced  given how much it would pay out in a claim. 
And the PPI was paid on a rolling  monthly  basis, so Mrs H could cancel it at any time without 
a penalty. Overall, I dont  think  that better  information was likely  to have put her off taking out 
the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 September 2019
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3818890