K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs unhappy about the length of time it took it HSBC UK Bank  Plc to resolve problems he 
had when making two payments to another country.  He wants  about  £6,000  compensation 
for the losses he says hes suffered dealing with matters.  
background
Mr B attempted to make  two payments to an account in a foreign country. 
The first for £1,000  on 16 January 2018  was sent as hed requested.  The next day the 
receiving bank asked  for more information  which HSBC says Mr B provided on 31 January. 
HSBC sent this on to the receiving bank on 2 February 2018  but it returned  the money a few 
days later.  HSBC credited this to Mr Bs account  on 13 February 2018.
The second  payment for £1,679.35 was sent on 29 January  2018.  The next day the 
receiving bank asked  for more information  and this was provided by Mr B on 2 February and 
HSBC sent on the other bank on the same day. The receiving bank asked  for information 
again on 5 February.  HSBC tried to contact Mr B but he was unavailable. The money  was 
returned on 20 February 2018.  Mr B asked HSBC to resend the payment  on 21 February  
and it did so the next day. But the receiving  bank again asked for more  information. On 3 
March 2018 Mr B asked  HSBC to recall the payment and the money was returned to HSBC 
and then onto Mr B on 27 March 2018.
HSBC said in its final response that thered  been no bank error  in processing either 
payment. And the payments can be held with no timescales to be completed. So, it cant 
cover the requested £6,450 payment for psychological damage.  But it will pay Mr B £100  for 
the 12 day delay  in returning  the money on his second payment. 
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
It was reasonable  for HSBC to ask Mr B for more information as it was needed to 
ensure the receiving  bank would accept the payments. HSBC  tried to comply  with the 
receiving banks  requests. It asked  Mr B for the information needed  in a timely 
manner. 
HSBC doesnt  have specific timescales in which it must credit a consumers  account  
with returned money.  However it says it would usually expect this to take five working 
days. In this case it couldve credited the money  returned on the later payment 
sooner than it did.  
HSBC has offered Mr B £100 for this 12 day delay in his account being  credited with 
the returned second payment. Thats fair and reasonable. 
Mr B says the HSBC  free phone  number didnt work in the country abroad but HSBC 
says its had no reports of it not working. HSBC said if Mr B provides evidence of the 
cost of his calls it would consider reimbursing him for them. But it isnt clear from 
what hes sent in how much he was charged for his calls with HSBC.  So, she cant 
tell it to reimburse anything to him.
Mr B doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says he had to call HSBC 
many times and £50 to cover his costs  is reasonable as his mobile provider has confirmed  
Ref: DRN36181562the numbers called  were chargeable. He also wants  the offer of £100 compensation 
reconsidered. He also says the total delay was around 41 days  not the 12 day period HSBC 
acknowledges and offers  compensation for. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
I dont think HSBC made any error processing  the two payments Mr B wanted  to make. The 
delays appear  to have been caused by the receiving bank requiring more information, as its 
entitled to do, and thats not something  HSBC has any control over or can be blamed for.
HSBC responded  appropriately and in a reasonably timely way to these requests for 
information by asking Mr B for what was required and then sending  it onto the receiving 
bank.
But there was an unacceptable delay in the money HSBC  received when the resubmitted  
second payment  was returned, being credited  to Mr Bs account.  Mr B says that this was a 
delay of 41 days but I dont agree. I think it was no more than the 12 day period HSBC  
accepts and has offered  compensation  for.
Mr B wants  some  £6,000  compensation  but that is far too much.  Although Mr B has suffered 
stress and some inconvenience  dealing with HSBC I think  most  of this relates to the 
demands and actions of the receiving bank, not HSBCs delay in paying back the returned 
second payment  money.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think that the £100  
compensation offered by HSBC is fair and reasonable for that delay. And although I 
understand Mr Bs frustration I havent seen anything that suggests this amount should be 
increased not least as Mr B cannot provide evidence of the actual  costs  of his calls to HSBC.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Bs strength of feeling I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.  I simply leave him to decide, if he hasnt done  so 
already, whether he wants to accept HSBCs offer of £100  compensation.
Mr B also says he is now unhappy about other aspects of HSBCs service including  that he 
hasnt been sent a bank  card and its still writing  to his fathers address. Those are matters  
which Mr B must raise  with HSBC in the first instance and I cannot comment on them  in this 
complaint. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3618156