K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, will not refund a disputed  
transaction.
Barclaycard says it is satisfied Mr P authorised the payment.
background
Whilst on holiday, Mr P says he was in a bar.  He bought himself and others a drink,  used 
his Barclaycard and entered his PIN.  However, days later,  he noticed the transaction was 
for an amount just over £1000.  He says he did not spend that much and complained  to 
Barclaycard.  He told Barclaycard he had already spoken to the bar and had been told he 
had purchased some expensive champagne  hence the cost.
Barclaycard told Mr P he needed  to resolve the matter with the bar directly  as he had 
accepted entering  his PIN for the purchase.  He  also said he had not looked  at the terminal  
for the amount before entering  his PIN.
In its final response in December 2019,  it told Mr P it was holding  him liable.  Rather 
confusingly, it said it had made this decision because Mr Ps genuine card and PIN had been 
used to make the transaction. This meant Mr P had either made the transaction himself or 
had not kept his security details safe which had allowed another  party  to make the 
transaction.  However,  it did offer £150  for the delay in dealing with Mr Ps complaint.
But Mr P had always accepted he had made the transaction   his complaint  was that he 
hadnt received  the goods the bar said he had paid for.  So, he brought his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator did not think she could ask Barclaycard to do anymore so the matter was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests Mr P made or authorised  this payment, 
Barclaycard is entitled to hold him liable  for it.
Authorisation has two elements  authentication and consent.  What that means is that 
Barclaycard needs  to show Mr Ps genuine card and PIN were  used  in the transaction 
(authentication) and that Mr P consented  to the payment being made.   Consent  has its 
ordinary meaning  of allowing something to happen.
There is no dispute over authentication.  Mr  P accepts using his card and entering  his PIN.  
But it becomes  a bit more  complicated when I look at consent.  
The Payment Services Regulations 2017, which are the relevant regulations  here, say that a 
customer can consent to a payment without actually knowing the amount of the payment.  
They just need  to have the knowledge that a payment is being made.  I think thats  what  has 
Ref: DRN38216952happened here.  In  fact, Mr P acknowledges he didnt look at the terminal before entering his 
PIN.
I dont think I can fairly  say Barclaycard should be liable for this payment.  The  dispute,  
essentially, is between  Mr P and the bar where the transaction was made.
In the circumstances, I am satisfied Mr P consented  to the payment and can therefore be 
said to have authorised the transaction.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 January 2021.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3821695