K820x#14complaint
Mr As unhappy that Nationwide Building Society  blocked his credit  card when he used it 
even though hed told it he was going abroad.  
background
Mr A says he told Nationwide  he would be abroad for some six months. But after being 
abroad for only two days, and after having  already  used his card for some transactions,  it 
blocked his credit card. This caused him distress and embarrassment.  He says Nationwide  
didnt help him and its not assisted him in resolving matters or closing the account. It says 
he must return to the UK to sort things out. He wants  the account  closed  immediately and 
the cash back amount  released. 
Nationwide said in its final response that Mr As card was blocked  as its security system felt 
that a transaction was potentially fraudulent. It had blocked the account in line with its terms 
and conditions. It received  several phone calls which led it to place a security  block  on the 
card. That will not be lifted or the account closed  until Mr A visits a branch with two forms of 
identification. Its sorry for the inconvenience caused  but its followed the correct process to 
protect Mr A and his account. But Mr A was given some wrong information and his calls 
couldve been shorter. So its arranged for £100  compensation  to be paid into his current  
account. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
A transaction was picked up as suspicious activity and Nationwide restricted Mr As 
card. He understands this mightve been frustrating and embarrassing for Mr A but 
the terms and conditions of the card allow this.
Mr A called Nationwide but as he gave  some incorrect information  it reasonably  didnt 
carry on with the call. Its required to verify who it is talking to before going  through 
any account related  information. 
In a later call Mr A also provided incorrect information and he couldnt immediately 
provide other information requested. And the advisor wasnt  able to continue with the 
call as she couldnt verify Mr As identity.  He was asked to go into a branch to prove 
his identity and before the restrictions on his account are lifted. This isnt 
unreasonable given what had happened and is a requirement set by Nationwide.  And 
he cant ask it to change its processes. 
But Nationwide accepts it didnt provide  correct  information on the phone and its paid 
£100 compensation for this. Thats fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN30742842Mr A remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. In summary he says the 
incorrect information he provided on the calls was due the distress of the situation  and this 
happens every time he uses  the card abroad. He did offer the correct information  at one 
point after he realised  his mistake.  Nationwide knows who he is and it can verify his identity. 
Its being pedantic  asking him to go into a branch. Hes been given multiple pieces of 
incorrect information. Its preposterous to suggest he flies back  to the UK to go into a branch. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has provided detailed arguments and submissions to support his complaint. Ive read 
and considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they 
focus on what I think are the main  issues.
Mr A says he told Nationwide  of his trip abroad but despite this it blocked his card.  But it 
doesnt appear the decision  to block the card related  to it being used abroad.  Rather it was 
because Nationwides  systems identified a suspicious and potentially fraudulent transaction.
When Mr A contacted it on the phone Nationwide was required to verify his identity. But 
unfortunately on a number of occasions  he gave incorrect  information  in response to its 
questions. Even though he mayve given  correct information on one occasion I think it was 
reasonable for Nationwide  to take additional  steps to verify his identity and when his 
responses werent largely correct to take steps to restrict or block use of the account and 
card.
Nationwide is also entitled to ask a customer to go into a branch to verify their identity  and 
information before the block or restriction is lifted if it considers this is necessary. I think  
thats fair and reasonable. Its important  that businesses like Nationwide  have processes and 
procedures in place  to try and identify payments that arent genuine. Its in the nature of 
processes like these that genuine customers may be inconvenienced by them,  but thats not 
to say that Nationwide shouldnt have  them  in place or that it shouldnt have followed them 
as it did here. Its unfortunate if Mr A remains abroad but that isnt Nationwides  fault.
I recognise Mr As frustration. But its up to Nationwide to decide how it operates  its security  
procedures and what security information  it requires. The simple fact is Mr A repeatedly 
didnt answer the security  questions in a way that satisfied Nationwide and as result it asked 
him to go into the branch with identification.  That doesnt seem  unreasonable  in the 
circumstances.
Furthermore this service isnt a regulator  and we cant require a business  to change  its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  industry  works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Having to deal with Nationwides security procedures, including  having his card use blocked 
and being asked to go into the branch, has no doubt  been frustrating for Mr A. But I dont 
think in the circumstances it has been  unreasonable for Nationwide  to act as it did and ask 
him to provide  his identification verification in branch before it will deal with matters  and 
close the account. It was following its processes and I think  it was doing so fairly  here.  
Ref: DRN30742843Nationwide has however accepted it gave Mr A some incorrect  information and that it 
couldve dealt with his calls better at times. And its paid him £100 compensation for this 
including something  towards his call costs.  
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think thats fair and I 
dont think I can reasonably ask Nationwide to pay Mr A any more.  
Overall, although I recognise  Mr As strength of feeling and frustration, I dont  think I can 
fairly or reasonably require Nationwide to do anything  more than its already done. It will be 
up to Mr A to go into a branch when he is next back in the UK to verify his identity. I dont 
see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
Mr A has raised two new issues recently about  the fact that Nationwide is still 
communicating with him on his other accounts and that it shouldve  considered  how it 
treated him and applied its policy as he has social anxiety. But as these issues werent 
raised at the start of this complaint I cannot comment on them here.  Mr A will need to raise 
them with Nationwide  as a new complaint in the first instance if he continues  to remain  
unhappy about them.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3074284