K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy about  the way in which Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  
has dealt with their mortgage  account.  In particular they say:
Halifax has said Mr and Mrs M are in arrears when they do not believe they are;
Halifax failed to change the payment date for their mortgage;
the statements  issued  by Halifax are confusing;
a compensation  cheque  wasnt signed.
background 
Mr and Mrs M have  a mortgage with Halifax. Payment was due was on the 28th of each 
month. Since 2014 the account  has been  in and out of arrears, but only by a small amount. 
From time to time Mr and Mrs M have cleared the arrears,  but then theyve gone into arrears 
again.
Mr and Mrs M have  queried the arrears  situation  with Halifax  a number of times. They dont 
understand why Halifax  keeps  saying  theyre  in arrears  particularly as they were  able to 
take a product switch in 2017, which they dont believe  would have been offered  if their 
account wasnt up-to-date.
Mr and Mrs M say that in 2015  they asked Halifax to change  their repayment date from the 
28th to the 3rd of each month.  Halifax says it has no record  of this. But the request was made 
again in September 2017, following the product transfer. Halifax didnt put this in place until 
January 2018.  Halifax offered compensation of £100  for its error.
Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept this and complained to us. As well as the issues  detailed  above, 
theyre also unhappy that a £25 compensation cheque previously sent to them by Halifax 
wasnt signed. They also think  Halifax should apply the compensation its offered to the 
arrears, rather  than paying it to them. Finally,  Mr and Mrs M say they are confused  by the 
account statements  Halifax has sent them.
An investigator looked at the complaint. She noted Halifax had agreed to reissue the £25 
cheque. She also looked  at the account  history and was satisfied there were arrears. The 
investigator explained to Mr and Mrs M how the arrears had accrued  by missing a single 
payment which  had not been caught up. 
The investigator explained that such a small level of arrears didnt preclude  Mr and Mrs M 
from taking a product  switch in 2017.  Nor was it reported as arrears. But the account needed 
to be brought  up-to-date, and it is still about one month in arrears.
The investigator was satisfied that the offer of £100  for the delay  in changing the payment 
date in 2017 was fair. As this was compensation for inconvenience caused  to Mr and Mrs M, 
she explained that it wasnt appropriate  for this to be applied in reduction of the arrears. She 
also noted that Halifax had agreed to reissue the £25 cheque that hadnt been  signed, which  
was for a previous compensation payment.
Finally, the investigator  was satisfied that the statements set out the position on the account.  
She clarified  to Mr and Mrs M that we cant tell a business how its statements should be 
presented.
Ref: DRN36595732Mr and Mrs M didnt  accept the investigators  findings and asked for an ombudsman  to 
review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I confirm Ive reviewed the account  history. But Im not required to set out every detail of the 
transactions in this decision; the investigator, in two detailed letters  dated  28 March  2019 
and 18 April 2019 has done that. Mr and Mrs M and Halifax have copies  of those letters,  
which set out the chronology of events  and the account payment history.
Having reviewed the file, Ive reached  the same conclusion as the investigator,  for largely  the 
same reasons. I will explain here that it is not the role of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service 
to audit accounts. So my findings are based  on the evidence provided  by both parties, 
including the account statements.
Im satisfied the arrears  arose as a result of a genuine misunderstanding rather  than any 
intention to miss a payment. Im satisfied  that the current arrears date from November 2015, 
as set out in the investigators letter dated  18 April 2019. I think  that they came  about 
because payments were  made by Mr and Mrs M at the start of each month rather  than at the 
end. Although Mr and Mrs M maintain the payment  date had been changed, there is nothing 
in Halifaxs records to show  that this was agreed in 2015. So the account is operating in 
arrears rather  than up-to-date, albeit by a month.
The arrears  are small, and Im satisfied they didnt affect the product switch  in 2017, or 
Mr and Mrs Ms credit files. And I note that the payment date has been switched now to the 
start of the month. 
Overall, Im satisfied Halifax didnt make any error in its application of payments to the 
account. The arrears  are due to be paid to Halifax.
I dont have any power to tell Halifax  how to set out its statements. The regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority, requires Halifax to set out its statements in a certain  way and 
include prescribed information.  The statements I have seen meet  those requirements.
I see that Halifax offered  compensation of £100  for the delay in changing  the payment date 
from when it was asked  in September 2017 to January 2018. I think this is fair. 
There is also another issue of a cheque for £25 for a previous complaint not having been 
signed. Because complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity, I cant comment  on this further, 
except to say that Halifax has agreed  to reissue  the cheque.
Mr and Mrs M wonder why the compensation cant be deducted from the arrears. Usually 
compensation for trouble  and upset is payable to the consumers  direct. But in this case, I 
think a payment of £125 would make a significant  dent in what are fairly small arrears.
In the circumstances, if Mr and Mrs M accept this final decision, Halifax should  apply the 
£125 compensation towards reduction of the arrears, if thats  what Mr and Mrs M want  it to 
do.
Ref: DRN36595733my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  in that Im satisfied the compensation offered 
by Bank  of Scotland plc of £100 for trouble and upset is fair and reasonable. I leave it to 
Mr and Mrs M to decide if they want to accept it  and the £25 from a previous complaint  in 
full and final settlement  of this complaint. 
If Mr and Mrs M decide to accept this decision, they should confirm to Halifax if they want  the 
compensation to be paid to them direct or to be applied towards reducing the arrears.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3659573