K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc didnt do enough to help him deal with his overdraft 
when his account changed  from a graduate  account  to an Everyday account  and started to 
incur fees.  He wants compensation for this.  
background 
As a student, Mr R had a graduate account  with Santander. In July 2018,  he was told that 
his account would be changing to an Everyday account. This would incur charges for his 
arranged overdraft. Mr R had an overdraft  of around £1500 which was his maximum.  
Mr R called Santander. During this call, he was told that his fees would be capped  at £20 per 
month. Mr R says that he was okay with this as he could pay £20 per month into his account 
which meant that, at least, he wouldnt go into more debt. 
He then found that Santander had charged him £1 for every day that he was overdrawn.  He 
ended up paying  £53 more than he thought that he would  have to. 
Mr R complained to Santander.  
Santander looked at his complaint and found that they hadnt  done anything wrong. They 
said that they were  entitled to apply the charges to Mr Rs account in line with their terms 
and conditions. 
Mr R wasnt happy with this so he brought his complaint to us. In particular, he wanted  to 
raise the following points, amongst others:
Santander had started  charging  him fees as soon as his account changed.
He had friends who had been  given longer to deal with their overdraft.
Santander had said that his fees would be capped at £20 per month but they werent.  
Santander werent prepared to help him and had simply referred him to their financial 
help team. They suggested a payment plan that might affect his credit  file. 
Santander had poorly dealt with his complaint.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. She found that Santander had said that the fees 
would be capped at £20 per month. But she found  that this was a mistake  and that 
Santander were entitled  to charge  fees on the overdraft at £1 per day. Because  of their 
mistake in saying the fee would be capped, she thought that Santander should pay £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  and also the £53 that Mr R hadnt realised that he 
would have to pay. 
The adjudicator said she wasnt  considering  what had happened in Mr Rs friends case  
she would  only focus on his. 
She thought  that £153 was fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances. 
Mr R didnt agree so the complaint has now come  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN33004622Im afraid that Mr R wont  be happy with my decision. I think  that £153 compensation is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. I will explain why.
Mr Rs raised  the point that the difference in his treatment  and that of his friend could  be a 
breach under the Equality Act 2010.  I have looked  through Santanders records and I can 
find no evidence of this. I think  that Santander has acted  in their best business interests in 
charging the fees. They were entitled to do this as theyve been  applied in line with their 
terms and conditions. 
I think Santander did give poor customer service when they told Mr R that his fees would be 
capped at £20 per month. But, I think that their offer of £153 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. In particular,  I think that they have acted fairly and reasonably in ensuring that 
Mr R was refunded the £53 that he hadnt  realised he would have to pay after the incorrect 
advice given by Santander. The amount that Mr R thinks  shouldve  been paid to him 
because of this poor service is far above  what we would normally pay in these 
circumstances. 
Santander referred Mr R to their financial help team.  But, other than some  initial  enquiries, I 
cant see that Mr R engaged fully with them. I wouldve expected him to have done more.  I 
cant see what else Santander couldve done if he wasnt willing to engage. 
I see that Mr R asked  for a credit  card instead to deal with his overdraft. I think that 
Santander was entitled to turn him down for this. It was their business decision and not for 
the Financial Ombudsman Service to get involved in this. 
I cant see what more Santander  couldve done for Mr R in dealing  with the overdraft. The 
only error that I can see that they made was in giving Mr R incorrect  information  on capping  
the fee. But I think that the compensation offered is fair and reasonable. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mr R wanted but I hope  that I have explained why I 
have come to this decision. 
Ref: DRN33004623my final decision
Because Santander incorrectly told Mr R that his fees would be capped  at £20 per month, 
which caused Mr R distress and inconvenience, I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr R 
£153 if they havent already done  so. This figure  includes sums that have already been paid 
to Mr R. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3300462