K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Arval UK Limited  unfairly applied  charges for damage at the end of his 
vehicle hire agreement. He wants  the charges to be reduced by half or waived completely.
background 
Mr C tells us he returned his vehicle at the end of the hire period in November 2018. 
Following an inspection,  he says Arvals  charged him £336  for various  items  of damage 
including to a seat and alloy wheels.  He disputes these charges and describes them  as 
borderline or unjustified.
Arval told us the vehicle had been inspected in accordance  with standards  set down by the 
British Vehicle Rental  & Leasing Association (BVRLA).And it said that the damage  identified 
at the inspection had fallen outside  BVRLA  fair wear and tear guidelines. In accordance with 
the terms and conditions of the agreement Arval said Mr C had been charged for this 
damage. It said it had offered to remove  charges in respect of one of the dents and the torn 
seat. But Mr C had rejected this offer.
Our adjudicator issued  two views. In her first view she said that with the exception of the 
charge for the torn seat and a dent to a panel  the charges had been applied  in accordance 
with BVRLA guidelines. As Arval had offered to remove these charges and reduce the 
invoice total to £240 she felt this was fair. Following further representations from Mr C she 
confirmed her view and said that the inspection had been carried out correctly and by a 
suitable qualified  examiner.
Mr C said he didnt agree  with this outcome and as its not been  possible to resolve this 
complaint an ombudsmans been  asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr C would be disappointed to receive  an invoice for charges he felt were 
unjustified. And that he feels these  should be reduced or waived, particularly as the vehicle 
was returned having completed substantially below the contracted  mileage. Not 
unreasonably he thinks this would add residual  value to the vehicle.
Ill deal briefly with the mileage issue and say that theres nothing  in the agreement that 
requires unused mileage  to be offset against any other charge. So I cant reasonably expect 
Arval to make any allowance for this aspect.
Mr C entered the agreement for a three year hire period in October  2015.  In keeping with the 
terms and conditions, the vehicle was inspected  in November 2018 when the damage was 
identified. Ive seen  the inspection report carried out by a company Ill refer to as M. The 
report was accompanied by colour photographs of good quality which  Ive seen.
Mr C queried the qualifications  of the inspector and suggests the interpretation of the 
photographs by our adjudicator was hugely  subjective. Where there are disputes of fact - as 
is the case here - Im required to decide  such  issues on a balance  of probabilities.
Ref: DRN39000412I accept that a two dimensional image  can sometimes  be misleading but I take into account  
that the inspection was carried out by a suitably  qualified  person acting in accordance with 
BVRLA guidelines. Only persons of suitable  qualifications and/or experience can carry 
inspections and certify BVRLA standards. And Im satisfied that the vehicle examiner in this 
case from M, which is a company which regularly  carries out such inspections,  met that 
criteria. The examiner seems to have carried out a thorough inspection of the vehicle. And 
Mr C confirms in an email  of 21 November 2018  to Arval that it took around  40 minutes and 
involved working across the vehicle looking for any indiscretions and carrying out checks.
Having viewed the photographs Im satisfied they show damage to the wheels which fall 
outside the relevant wear and tear guidelines.  The tear to the seat is clearly visible.  And 
whilst the two dents  identified might be viewed as borderline I take into account  the inspector 
had the advantage of examining the vehicle and using the measurement tool directly.  Ive no 
reason to think he made any errors  in measurement  and I find on a balance of probabilities  
this damage also fell outside the BVRLA guidelines. 
I note that Arval has offered to remove the charges in respect  of the seat tear and one dent 
and that this would reduce the total cost to £240.  I think thats fair and reasonable and I 
shant be asking it do anything else. If Mr C wishes to now accept this offer he should 
contact Arval directly.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3900041