K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Miss S says Capital One (Europe)  plc (Capital One)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Capital One made it clear  that Miss S didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this. I say this 
because Ive been given a copy of the script the representative was supposed to follow 
at the time and I can see that the representative  was supposed to only add the cover if 
they got the consumers agreement.  And in asking  for that agreement they were 
supposed to do so in a way that made it clear the cover  was optional.  I havent seen 
sufficient evidence  to find that this guidance was not followed in this case.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Miss S got the information she needed to decide if it 
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy  would cost.  But based on what 
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it seems she was eligible for the policy and it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI 
cover. And Ive considered that Miss S told us she had only modest  sick pay and no 
other means to rely on in the event she was too ill to work,  or if she lost her job. This 
policy could have  paid out for up to 12 months in either event. So I think the policy  would 
have been useful to her if something went wrong. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI and its cost would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But, if it hasnt already done so, Capital One will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to 
Miss S because:  
When the policy was sold,  Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Miss S about  
that. Because Capital One didnt  tell Miss S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has basically offered  to pay back the amount  of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN32397502If it hasnt  already done so, Capital One has to pay back to Miss S any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Capital One should  also pay 
back to Miss S any extra interest  she paid because of that.
Capital One should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Miss S the difference 
between what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission  and profit share  it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Capital One should also pay Miss S 8%* 
simple interest if Miss S paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss S can claim back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Miss S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 December 2019..
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3239750