K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold  them  a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out an MPPI  policy with a mortgage in 2006. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy, which just covered Mr W for being unable  to work due to accident  or 
sickness. 
Mr and Mrs W say they werent told about  the policy. And if they had then they wouldve 
made a claim when Mr W got injured and was unable to work. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because:
The mortgage application form, which Mr and Mrs W signed, states that they wish to 
apply for accident  and sickness  cover for Mr W only. The record of the discussion shows 
that NatWest provided a quote for accident,  sickness and unemployment cover,  but that 
Mr and Mrs W chose  only accident  and sickness cover for Mr W. Mr W signed a 
separate direct debit  mandate in order to pay for the MPPI. And the mortgage  offer 
showed the MPPI on it under the optional  insurance  section. So I think NatWest made 
Mr and Mrs W aware that they had a choice about  buying  the MPPI,  and they chose to 
take it. 
NatWest didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for them.  
The cost of the policy was shown on the mortgage application form, and the level of 
benefit was shown on the direct  debit mandate. So I think  Mr and Mrs W wouldve 
understood how much they would need  to pay for it. 
Its possible that NatWest didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr 
and Mrs W dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ws comments,  including what theyve said about Mr W 
being off work due to an injury. And that he wouldve made a claim if hed been aware of the 
policy. But these points  dont change my conclusion. Ive explained above why I think Mr and 
Mrs W were,  or shouldve  been, aware of the MPPI  at the time of sale. So they may want to 
contact the insurer  to see if they can make a backdated claim now. 
Ref: DRN36614982my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 August  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3661498