K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that a kitchen he bought using finance from Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (trading 
as Hitachi Personal  Finance) was poorly installed by under-qualified tradesmen.
background
Mr H bought a kitchen using a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi  Personal Finance on 
17 June 2017.  He says the initial installation was delayed for which he was offered  £250 and 
the installation  was booked for 16 October  2017.  Mr H says that when he received a call a 
week beforehand  to say the installer couldnt  now do it, he cancelled the whole kitchen and 
installation. But Mr H says a manager  then persuaded  him not to cancel and the installation  
was re-booked for the end of October. However,  he says the installer damaged the new 
worktops and was abusive before  walking  out on the job. Mr H says he complained to the 
retailer several times and requested a full refund, but was refused. Instead Mr H says his 
kitchen was badly  installed by under-qualified workmen. He says he was left with an 
incomplete kitchen, which  was wonky and has potentially dangerous electrics.
Mr H says the furniture ombudsman found  in his favour against the retailer,  but that 
Hitachi Personal Finance hadnt yet provided  its final response,  despite its request to the 
retailer to show its tradesmen  were appropriately qualified (to which it received no 
response).
Hitachi Personal Finance says the retailer advised the installer  was certified  to do electrical 
work, although it couldnt provide copies  of his contract for data protection  reasons. It says 
the retailer also confirmed  that, as it was not allowed to return to the property, it had the 
electrical works checked by a separate inspector who issued a report to confirm the work 
was satisfactory. Hitachi Personal Finance adds that the retailer  is also offering to do a full 
inspection of the electrics.
Mr H remained  dissatisfied with this response as he says it still didnt answer the two 
fundamental questions about  whether the retailer used qualified professionals to install the 
kitchen and carry out the electrical work, both of which it advertised on its website. He added 
that the report was a condition report and specifically excluded  the certification of new 
installations.
Our adjudicator recommended  that a fair outcome  to the complaint would be for the retailer 
to arrange for an electrician appointed  by the National Inspection Council for Electrical  
Installation Contracting  (NICEIC) to inspect  the electrics and issue  a report to confirm  the 
safety of the installation works. He also recommended Hitachi  Personal  Finance should pay 
Mr H £50 for delays in dealing with his complaint.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that the implied terms of the contract were that all the 
installers would be suitably qualified as per their adverts. He says he has not seen any proof 
that that was the case and, indeed, much  of the work was carried  out, unsupervised, by an 
apprentice. Therefore, he says, he has overpaid on the installation costs  and the stress  has 
caused marital issues.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37614252Mr H says he never received a sales contract, but I accept what  he says about the implied 
terms of the contract. That is, I have seen evidence  that the retailer advertised that its 
electrical work would  be carried out by NICEIC registered installers. So, I find that Mr H was 
entitled to rely on that as if it were a term of the contract.
The retailer,  and subsequently Hitachi Personal Finance, has not provided evidence  that the 
installers on Mr Hs kitchen  were  suitably qualified, so I need to consider what would be a 
fair and reasonable outcome given the potential  breach of contract  here.
In such circumstances,  this service strives to put the affected  party  back in the position in 
which they would have been  if the contract  had been performed. In this case,  the electrical 
installation needs  to be to the same standard as it would have been had the work  been 
carried out by NICEIC  installers.
To that end, I consider  a fair resolution  at this stage is for a full independent inspection of the 
electrics to be carried out, as offered by the retailer. If such an inspection then shows  the 
installation to be deficient in some way, Mr H will be entitled to seek  a suitable resolution.  I 
acknowledge Mr H is no longer living at the same  address, but I cant  conclude  that he 
should be refunded a proportion of his installation costs if the works  have  been  carried out to 
the same  standard as would have  been expected had the contract not been breached.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (trading as 
Hitachi Personal Finance)  should:
Arrange for the retailer to carry out a full inspection of the electrical installation, using 
an electrician appointed by the NICEIC,  and issue a certificate, if Mr H wishes that to 
happen;
Pay Mr H £50 for the delays in responding to his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3761425