K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Barclays Bank  UK PLC led them to believe that they wouldnt 
have to repay the capital upon maturity  of their interest only mortgage but that they could  
continue with the mortgage paying off the interest until they were able to pay the capital. Mr 
and Mrs G would like to keep the house that they have lived in for a long time.
background
Mr and Mrs G have lived in their home  for over 26 years. They  took out a repayment 
mortgage with Barclays in 1992 with a term of 25 years. In 2008  Mr G had some financial 
problems and Mr and Mrs G asked for the mortgage to be put on an interest  only basis for 
nine months. But this temporary arrangement  continued until the mortgage term expired in 
October 2017.  In  2015 Mr and Mrs G paid a substantial sum off the capital balance. The 
mortgage term matured  in 2017 with a balance due in excess of £190,000. Unfortunately,  
since then Mrs Gs father has passed  away and Mr and Mrs G hope to pay the outstanding 
balance from Mrs Gs inheritance.
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld  as she felt there was 
no evidence to support  Mr and Mrs Gs belief that they could continue to make interest only 
payments after maturity and that the annual statements would have shown that the capital 
balance wasnt being paid off. Mr and Mrs G disagreed and asked for more  time as they 
were on the point of coming up with a credible  repayment strategy.  
my provisional findings
I issued a Provisional  Decision in this complaint. I summarise my findings as follows:
I noted that what started as an interest only temporary concession for Mr and Mrs G 
in 2008 continued throughout the remaining lifetime  of the mortgage because Mr and 
Mrs G had financial difficulties and couldnt  afford  the contractual monthly payments 
that would  have been due under  a repayment  mortgage. 
I couldnt find evidence to support Mr and Mrs Gs claim that when the mortgage 
period matured that they could continue paying the interest  until they were able to 
pay off the capital. So, I said that I couldnt  fairly uphold the complaint that Mr and 
Mrs G could extend the term of this mortgage  until they were able to repay the 
capital.  
 I noted that Mrs Gs father  died on 1 October  2019 and Mr and Mrs G proposed that 
Mrs Gs share of his estate, estimated in February 2020 to be £211,174, would be 
used to pay off the capital. 
I described the difficulties I had in getting  the full information so I could assess what 
monies would  be available  from the estate  and when the Probate was likely to be 
extracted, because of the problems Mr and Mrs G described as having with the 
limited service provided by their solicitor during the early lockdown period of the 
Pandemic. I also noted that Mr G was unsure  as to whether  it is worthwhile  spending 
Ref: DRN35542142the extra money to obtain the information  I requested, and that Mr G had reminded 
me that his original  complaint was about Barclays harassing and bullying customers 
which he said seemed  to have got lost along  the road.
I said that I reviewed Mr and Mrs Gs complaint  form and noted that they didnt refer 
to harassing and bullying by Barclays. I reviewed the evidence in detail but 
concluded that it didnt support Mr and Mrs Gs view that they had been harassed  or 
bullied by Barclays or that Barclays agreed  an open-ended mortgage term with them. 
So, I said that I didnt  intend to uphold  this complaint. 
But I noted that Mr and Mrs G wanted to stay in the property, and it seemed  that Mrs 
Gs share of her fathers estate might be able to pay off most, if not all, of what 
Barclays is owed and there may be options available to pay off the balance  if there  is 
one. Mr and Mrs G had told both our service and Barclays  that they are happy to look 
into options to repay  any shortfall that might  remain once  the inheritance had been 
paid. They mentioned obtaining a personal  loan or looking  into equity release. I noted 
that Mr and Mrs G were both currently still working,  so I said that I thought it was 
likely they would  have  options to repay a smaller sum on a repayment basis.
I noted that Mr and Mrs G told us that the probate proceedings were being delayed  
due to the current pandemic.  My view was that the inheritance  was likely to put Mr 
and Mrs G in a position where they could at least repay  a sizeable portion of the 
mortgage, without  the need to sell their home, I said that I was persuaded it would be 
reasonable for Barclays to give them more time to exhaust this option before 
continuing with repossession proceedings. 
So given  these  circumstances I said that in  the  event that Mr and Mrs G werent able 
to find a viable way to repay any shortfall left on the mortgage after the inheritance 
had been paid, that  Barclays  should  allow some time for Mr and Mrs G to sell their 
property before continuing with the legal action  to repossess. I recognised that in the 
circumstances then,  settling probate and arranging  the sale of a property were  taking 
longer than they normally would. I believed that a longer  period should be allowed 
than the 31 October that Barclays wanted.  I noted that the assets in the deceaseds 
estate appeared  to be fairly liquid and if the Grant of Probate  issued,  they should  be 
collected within a reasonable time period and Barclays paid. But I recognised that if 
there was a shortfall it would take a further period for Mr and Mrs G to deal with that 
situation.
So, my view was that a fair and reasonable outcome here would be to allow  Mr and 
Mrs G a further period  to repay  the full balance if, for some reason, the monies  from 
the Probate fell short.  But I said that it was reasonable to expect the money from the 
Probate to be released  and paid to Barclays before then. I said I also expected Mr 
and Mrs G to keep  Barclays  informed  as to the progress  in having that money 
released. So, I recommended  an extension on condition that Mr and Mrs G keep 
Barclays informed about the progress in releasing the money  from the estate and pay 
over Mrs Gs share of the inheritance from her fathers estate by 31 December 2020 
towards the outstanding balance on the account.  I also expected that Mr and Mrs G 
maintain the monthly  interest payments  in the meantime. 
I noted that such an extension was not recommended by our investigator but that 
was prior to the pandemic. I invited  submissions from Mr and Mrs G and Barclays  
said that I would consider  them  before I issued  my final decision.
Ref: DRN35542143my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr and Mrs G and Barclays responded to my Provisional  Decision. Mr and Mrs G make  
a number of further  points:
Barclays say they were trying to contact them when there is no evidence  of that.
Why did I accept that Barclays didnt say that they could make  interest  payments until 
Mr and Mrs G were able to pay off the loan?
There was no investigation of why Barclays refused payments during the period  they 
cancelled the direct debits. 
I dealt with the first point  in my Provisional Decision referring to the contact notes  which says 
that Barclays were trying  to contact  them. I revisited  those notes and they disclose that 
between 16 November 2017 and 17 January 2018 Barclays  made six calls to Mr Gs mobile 
without response until Barclays got the letter referred to in my Provisional Decision.
I also dealt with the second point  in my Provisional Decision. After weighing  up the evidence 
I said that it didnt  support  Mr and Mrs Gs claim that Barclays  agreed to amend the terms of 
the mortgage agreement so that Mr and Mrs G could  pay off the interest until the time that 
they were able to pay off the loan. I note that Mr and Mrs G simply restate their belief  but 
didnt bring forward  any further evidence that would persuade me to alter my view.
As regards  the third point. I note that after maturity as the mortgage term had ended 
Barclays refused to re-set  a direct debit as is industry standard in those situations. This was 
explained by our investigator  in her view. So, after reviewing the further submissions made 
by Mr and Mrs G, and the complaint as a whole, I believe that my Provisional Decision 
represents a fair outcome and so I dont uphold this complaint.
Barclays in response  to my suggestion of giving Mr and Mrs G further time to pay off the 
balance has suggested  a review at the end of January and thereafter quarterly reviews and 
say that giving Mr and Mrs G an extended  period to repay the balance  may not be in their 
best interests. 
I recognise Barclays concerns and hope I have addressed  them in the requirement for Mr 
and Mrs G to keep  Barclays  fully informed about the progress  in payments out of the estate 
and in any refinancing that has to be done. Both parties would benefit from the matter being  
dealt with sooner  rather than later.  This mortgage  was to be repaid in 2017  and Barclays 
would have expected to have been repaid the capital then. My intention  is not to delay 
matters but to provide Mr and Mrs G with a fallback position but only if there is a shortfall 
from Ms Gs share of her late fathers  estate that prevents them paying off the full balance  
due to Barclays by 31 December 2020. I note that the Inheritance Tax form shown to me 
disclosed that the assets of the estate  were fairly  liquid  and should be capable  of being 
collected and distributed in a reasonable period and certainly by 31 December 2020. I note 
that Mr and Mrs G havent indicated otherwise and in an email  to us of the 19 August, Mr G 
says that very soon we will be in a position  to pay off the loan.  
Ref: DRN35542144So, I expect Mr and Mrs G to pay over Mrs Gs share of the estate to Barclays very soon and 
certainly by 31 December 2020. As Barclays has had to wait now three years for its money, I 
would expect Mr and Mrs G to provide them with more information than they have  to date as 
to the progress of the realisation  of Mrs Gs share in her late fathers estate from which  
Barclays is to be paid.  
It is only if, after paying this money  over, there is a shortfall between Mrs Gs share  and what 
Barclays is owed, requiring Mr and Mrs G to source  the balance  monies elsewhere, that I 
would expect Barclays to allow  them  a further period of one year from todays  date to finance 
the balance. If there is a shortfall, I would expect  Mr and Mrs G to expeditiously apply for 
alternative sources of finance and keep Barclays fully informed about the progress in their 
efforts to do so.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. But I recommend that Barclays Bank  UK 
PLC withhold  from continuing with the legal  proceedings to repossess Mr and Mrs Gs 
property for one year from today  subject to Mr and Mrs G meeting the following conditions:
1.Mr and Mrs G pay over Mrs Gs share  of the inheritance from her late fathers estate  
by 31 December 2020 towards the outstanding balance due to Barclays.
2.In the meantime, Mr and Mrs G should  keep Barclays fully informed about the 
progress in realising  Mrs Gs share of the estate.
3.If there  is a shortfall and Mr and Mrs G require  money to finance the balance, Mr and 
Mrs G should keep  Barclays  fully informed of how they intend to finance the balance 
and their progress in doing so.     
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 October  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3554214