K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold  a Level Term Assurance  (LTA) policy  by 
National Westminster Bank Plc because  she was told she had to take out the policy to open 
the bank account she wanted  to open.
background
In June 2012 Mrs C took out an LTA providing  £17,643  of life cover  and terminal illness 
cover over a 25 year term at a premium of £6 each  month. The same day she took out the 
LTA she opened  a bank account with NatWest to pay her earnings in to. She cancelled the 
LTA in 2017 but has kept her bank  account.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. I said that I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short  I made 
the following  findings:
The LTA wasnt a condition of the bank  account.
The only evidence that Mrs C was told she had to take out the LTA to get the bank 
account is her statement  to that effect  and I dont  find her evidence persuasive.
She was recently  married and taking out life cover for the benefit  of your partner isnt 
unusual.
The fact the bank account and LTA were sold on the same day isnt surprising and 
doesnt suggest the LTA was a condition of the bank account as someone  opening  a 
bank account  will often be directed to other services.
I wasnt satisfied the bank account  and LTA were sold by the same  person.
It is more likely than not Mrs C was passed  to another person to discuss  the LTA 
after she had opened her bank account.
It is unlikely that the person who opened  the bank account  and the person she 
discussed the LTA with had some agreement to both mislead  her as to the need to 
take out the LTA to get the bank account.
NatWest has said that the person who sold the LTA didnt receive any financial 
benefit but even if that is wrong  the benefit  would be to that person and not the 
person who set up the bank account.
Even if the bank  account and LTA were  sold by the same person I am not persuaded 
Mrs C was misled  about needing  the policy to get the bank account  because;  she 
had an existing account with another bank and wouldve been aware such  a 
condition didnt  apply  to all banks and bank accounts; she had opened another 
account with NatWest the following year with no condition for a life policy but didnt 
raise any issue with what she says she had been told in 2012; she had time to go to 
another bank  to open an account  if she didnt want the LTA;  she kept her bank 
account when  she cancelled the policy in 2017 but didnt discuss  this with NatWest at 
the time.
I wasnt persuaded she was misled  about the cover provided by the LTA.
If the complaint  was being upheld she wouldnt be entitled to the costs  of pursuing 
her complaint.
I gave both parties the opportunity of responding to my provisional  decision and providing  
any further information they wanted  me to consider.
Mrs C didnt agree with my provisional decision and said that I had misinterpreted what she 
had said. In a telephone  discussion  with the investigator she said that she hadnt personally 
Ref: DRN33376452opened the account she already had when  she went to NatWest as this was a student  
account that was opened  for her. She confirmed she had been married for many years 
before opening  the NatWest bank account and that the later accounts she opened  were  
savings accounts  and not current  accounts.  She has provided a 17 page response to my 
provisional decision. I have considered everything she has said but she has repeated  points 
throughout the document and I only set out in summary what  I consider to be the key points 
she has made. These are as follows:
The ombudsman has referred to NatWest saying that the policy was sold on a non-
advised basis and she had signed  a declaration  confirming she hadnt had financial 
advice, but she didnt know the meaning  of the term non-advised  until she spoke to 
the policy provider  in 2017.
The NatWest customer adviser didnt just give her information  but kept compelling 
her to get the policy.
She understands that the general  rule is that a life policy isnt needed to open a bank 
account but that is what she was told and each bank has its own names for accounts 
and own system so when a customer is told they need a policy  to get an account 
they are likely to think that is the NatWest system.
NatWest is the only bank where she has used her marital  name  and she kept her 
existing bank account in her maiden  name because she needed to provide proof  of 
identity and address  due to her immigration status.
She kept asking  for an account  without  a policy but the customer adviser refused to 
open an account without one.
As she was hesitating to open the account he said that other banks  would have the 
same conditions  and when she mentioned her existing bank account didnt need 
such a policy he said that almost all banks had upgraded  their accounts since  she 
opened that account.
What proof does NatWest have  to show that the customer adviser didnt explain 
things in a misleading  manner?
She opened savings accounts  with NatWest after she opened the current bank 
account. This was because she was subject to a fraud relating  to ATM withdrawals 
with regard to her bank account and the savings account didnt allow  ATM 
withdrawals and also because it was beneficial with regard to the visa requirements 
for both her and her mother.
When she opened her saving accounts  in 2013 and 2017 she was an existing 
customer and so it wouldve been more difficult for her to be misled  and she doesnt 
accuse all NatWest staff of misleading  her, only the customer adviser  in 2012.
If there  was no financial incentive to sell the LTA the customer advisers  insistence  
she take out the LTA doesnt  make  sense. Even  if there was no financial reward  he 
wouldve had performance requirements  leading to success  in his career  so wouldve 
benefitted indirectly.
It was the same  customer adviser  that sold the bank  account and LTA and NatWest 
should be able to provide documentary evidence showing this.
She couldve got a life policy  anytime  from her existing bank account provider or 
other sources such as websites so why would she have taken time out of her work 
day to visit NatWest  to take out a life policy?
How can she provide  proof she was told she had to have the LTA?,  she has provided  
the evidence that is available.
NatWest could check its CCTV footage to show  if she saw two different customer 
advisers and can check  the paperwork that was submitted. If the paperwork shows  
Ref: DRN33376453two different advisers  then NatWest will have faked the signatures or the customer  
adviser she saw used two different signatures. 
She wasnt married recently  as the ombudsman had said, but in 2007  and didnt take 
out any other insurance other  than car insurance before 2012  so why would she 
suddenly want life cover  and have not replaced  the life cover  since  it was cancelled 
in 2017.
The ombudsman has accepted what NatWest has said about there being two 
advisers when this isnt the case. It may be the normal  process  for NatWest that 
there are separate advisers for opening a bank account and selling  a life policy but 
this isnt what happened in her case.
The ombudsman should look at the case from the point of view that NatWest  and the 
customer adviser had a financial incentive to sell the LTA to her.
If there  is no incentive to sell life cover  policies then NatWest  would have no reason 
to sell these and the ombudsman should  consider the case from that position.
The account she already had was a student  account set up with the help of the 
university and bank requirements  change over time anyway.  She did not set up any 
other bank account before the one through NatWest and she had no experience of its 
requirements.
The ombudsman has misunderstood  what she has said about  being shown all 
accounts and they all had insurance attached.  She was only talking about  the three 
accounts that met her criteria. She wasnt given details of all NatWest  accounts and 
she didnt say all accounts had life policies attached.
She didnt open a normal current account  but a select account which she doesnt  
know the meaning of.
The ombudsman is wrong  to say there was no urgency to open  the account  as she 
was working in a branch office  for her company and details needed to be sent to 
head office to process her salary  and she was requested to provide  details  as soon 
as possible. She was delayed on the day because the customer adviser  took so long 
and she couldnt  request more  time from her employer  to open a bank  account.
Her existing bank account wasnt  acceptable  to her company as it was in her maiden 
name.
She didnt go into NatWest wanting  a life policy and she accepted what  she was told 
about banks generally  upgrading their accounts since she opened her existing bank 
account.
The customer adviser said the premium was small compared to her salary. He knew  
she was confused.
It isnt fair to blame  her for not walking out.
She doesnt understand on what basis the ombudsman  has said she didnt check 
what would happen when she cancelled the policy  in 2017 and because of this she 
was aware the policy wasnt a condition of the bank account.
The provider has said that NatWest has mis-sold  the policy.
NatWest transferred the policy to the provider  but she doesnt know  when but her 
bank account  wasnt affected by this.
She believed  the policy was a condition of her bank account until she spoke to the 
provider in 2017 and it was only when  she spoke to the provider that she realised it 
didnt meet her needs.
If she didnt visit NatWest between 2013  and 2017 and only dealt with third parties  it 
isnt justifiable to say she didnt  inform the bank before cancelling.
She was misled by the adviser about  the policy  covering her for any accident or 
medical condition  because she was hesitating to open the bank account and 
although the LTA was a condition of the bank account she could still have chosen to 
Ref: DRN33376454not open the account. So she was misled about the benefit of the policy to persuade 
her to go ahead  with the bank account and LTA.
The customer adviser spent along time convincing  her to open the account and take 
out the LTA so must have  had some benefit  from this.
The ombudsman has accepted what NatWest has said even though it is in a position  
to provide documentary evidence but hasnt done so. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C has indicated that she thinks I am suggesting  she has lied about what happened in 
2012 when she took out the LTA because I have not accepted what  she has said and have 
referred to what she has said as being unreliable. So it is clear, I am not suggesting that she 
has deliberately  set out something she knows to be untrue.  But I think her memory of what 
happened isnt persuasive evidence because  she is remembering what happened from 
several years ago and I think  her memory is unlikely to be complete or entirely accurate.
Mrs C has challenged some of my findings and provided arguments as to why she thinks 
these are wrong. I will address what I consider the key points she has made.
I acknowledge that Mrs C may have felt she had to open an account  with NatWest because  
she couldnt afford to take further  time off from her employer to go to another  bank. So she 
may have  felt she had to go ahead with opening  an account with NatWest.  But that doesnt 
of itself provide  any evidence  she was misled.
I also acknowledge that she didnt say that she was shown all NatWest accounts and these 
all had insurances attached. So I accept it is possible that opening a savings account in 
2013 which wasnt conditional may not have made her aware that she didnt need the LTA 
for the current account opened in 2012. 
But she has said that she did ask in 2013 if there was such  a condition and was told no so 
this was something that was clearly on her mind.  And arguably  this wouldve made her 
question why it was a condition for one type of account and not another.
I accept that Mrs C wasnt recently  married but this makes no difference  to my finding  that it 
isnt unusual to take out life cover for a partner.
I also accept Mrs C had not taken out life cover previously and has not taken out cover since  
she cancelled the policy in 2017. But this also doesnt provide evidence that she was misled 
about the LTA being  a condition of the bank account. 
Mrs C has referred  to NatWest transferring her policy to the provider but this didnt happen. It 
mistakenly said that it had done so previously before clarifying this and the evidence  from 
the provider shows  that it, and not NatWest, provided the cover under the policy  from the 
outset.
Mrs C has said it isnt justified to say she didnt inform NatWest  before cancelling the policy 
when she didnt visit it between 2013 and 2017 and only dealt  with third parties. But the point 
I made  about her not contacting NatWest in 2017  was to do with her belief  that the policy  
was a condition  of the bank account.  
Ref: DRN33376455She had no reason to think that her belief the policy  was a condition of her bank account 
was wrong in 2017 as she hadnt discussed this with NatWest and the provider wasnt in 
apposition to say what NatWests requirements  were. So on her evidence  cancelling the 
policy wouldve been a breach of the conditions of her bank account.  There  is nothing  to 
indicate she didnt  want the account to continue given she was using it and continues to do 
so. Given this she could  be expected  to check with NatWest what would happen to her 
account and the money  in it if she cancelled the policy. The fact she didnt  do so suggests  
she already knew  it wasnt a condition when she took the policy out.
Mrs C is adamant that she only saw one person when she took out the bank account and 
LTA. She has suggested NatWest provide  CCTV footage  to establish this and should  have  
documents which shows who she saw. But NatWest has provided  the documents  it has for 
this complaint and I wouldnt  expect it to still have CCTV  footage  available from eight  years  
ago.
The documents that have been provided show the name of the customer  adviser  who set up 
the bank account  which is the same person Mrs C said she discussed the LTA with. But no 
document I have seen  actually provides evidence of who she discussed the LTA with. So the 
documents dont  assist  in showing if she saw someone separately.  NatWest has explained  
that customer advisers that set up bank accounts  were not authorised  to discuss life cover 
so Mrs C shouldve seen  two separate advisers.
It is possible that in Mrs Cs case this didnt happen  for some  reason. But even if she saw 
one person I am still not satisfied that person misled her about  the LTA being a condition  of 
opening the bank account based only on her statement  that this is what happened.
Having considered everything  that Mrs C has said I still think it is unlikely she was misled  
about the LTA being  a condition of the bank account. For me to change  that finding  I would  
have to be satisfied  it is more likely than not that the customer adviser  who set up the bank 
account deliberately told Mrs C something that he knew was untrue. As I said in my 
provisional decision, the only evidence  of this is Mrs Cs statement to this effect and I still 
dont find her evidence  persuasive on this point.
Opening a bank  account is a normal banking  activity that is carried  out every day in most 
high street banks  such as NatWest. I think it is very unlikely that any customer adviser would 
seek to mislead a customer about  life cover being  a condition of opening a bank account 
when this isnt something  that any customer would expect and something  that was likely to 
be challenged.
I note Mrs C has referred to being  confused which could explain why she believed  the LTA 
was a condition  of the bank account,  but I am not satisfied that the customer adviser took 
advantage of this or didnt provide clear information.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above  and in my provisional 
decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Ref: DRN33376456Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33376457COPY  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mrs C complains that she was mis-sold  a Level  term Assurance  (LTA) policy  by National Westminster 
Bank Plc because  she was told she had to take out the policy to open the bank account she wanted 
to open.
background
In June 2012  Mrs C took out an LTA providing £17,643  of life cover and terminal illness  cover over a 
25 year term at a premium  of £6 each month. The same day she took out the LTA she opened a bank 
account with NatWest to pay her earnings in to. She cancelled the LTA in 2017 but has kept her bank 
account.
She complained  to NatWest through a claims  management company (CMC) and then solicitors in the 
first part of 2018. But the complaint was presented as a complaint  about a packaged bank account 
(PBA) - which her bank  account wasnt. NatWest response  was to explain that Mrs C didnt have a 
PBA.
After it was clarified the complaint was about an LTA NatWest provided  a final response to the 
complaint in which it said that the policy  was sold on a non-advised basis and that Mrs C had signed a 
declaration to confirm  she hadnt received financial advice. It did uphold her complaint that the service 
it had provided when she contacted it about her complaint had fallen short of what  it shouldve been. It 
offered her just over £66 for the inconvenience caused to include the cost of telephone calls and visits  
to branch. 
Mrs C referred her complaint  to us and one of our investigators thought  it should  be upheld. He said 
that Mrs C had been sold a bank account  and the LTA at the same time and there was nothing to 
show she had a need  for cover as she had no children, no liabilities and no mortgage at the time.  He 
noted the amount of cover  was based on the lowest premium she couldve paid. He said that, taking 
into account  Mrs Cs testimony that she was told she had to take out the policy  to get the bank  
account and her circumstances, he thought it was likely  she was persuaded  she had to take out the 
policy to get the bank account. He said NatWest should repay the premiums plus interest.
NatWest didnt agree  with the investigator. It said that the investigators opinion wasnt consistent with 
other cases of this nature that we had dealt with and gave an example.  It said that taking out life cover 
wasnt a condition  of opening a bank account and that Mrs C wouldve  been given the terms and 
conditions of the bank  account showing this.
NatWest also said it wouldve been quicker for Mrs C to change her existing account  with a different 
bank to her married name and questioned why she didnt do this. It said,  given her age and the fact 
she already  had a bank account,  Mrs C ought to have been aware of what  to expect  when opening a 
bank account. It pointed out she had opened two further accounts with it in 2013 and 2017 without 
raising any concerns about having been told in 2012 she had to take out the LTA to get an account. 
It said its staff arent paid commission, and that they receive no financial or non-monetary enticement 
to sell life assurance,  either now or in 2012.
The investigator responded  to the points made but didnt change his view. He said that as the original 
policy provider was NatWest Life Assurance Limited he thought it was unlikely there wasnt some 
monetary incentive either to NatWest or the adviser. NatWest responded  and explained that NatWest 
Life Assurance  Limited was not the original provider and this was an error in its FRL.  It did 
acknowledge that NatWest may have received some payment from the provider  for having  arranged 
the policy  but said that this wouldnt have been passed on to the individual who sold the LTA.
Ref: DRN33376458NatWest also said the person who opened the bank  account would  not have been the same person  
who took details from Mrs C as to the LTA. The investigator  responded  and said the bank account 
and LTA were sold on the same visit to the bank and he was satisfied that the same person wouldve  
sold both.
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators  opinion that she should  only get the premiums  back  plus 
interest. She said she should also get back the costs she incurred in making her complaint as set out 
in her statement to us. She also said that she had been caused stress as a result  of what NatWest 
had done. 
As the parties didnt agree  with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I think  it is important to make clear that my findings and decision are made  on a balance  of 
probabilities  what is more likely, than not  based on the evidence provided  by the parties. So I am 
not saying what definitely  did, or didnt,  happen  only what I think  is more likely than not to have 
happened. 
I note that NatWest has referred to the investigators  opinion not being consistent  with the outcome of 
other similar complaints we have dealt with. But it is well aware that, whilst consistency is important, 
each case is dealt  with on its own merits and even similar  cases can have important differences. I 
have not considered any other case in making  my findings.
The obvious  key issue in this complaint is whether  or not Mrs C was told she had to take out the LTA 
in order to open a bank account with NatWest. It would  be very unusual for it to be a condition of 
opening a bank account that a life policy  had to be taken out and NatWest has confirmed there was 
no such condition. 
To uphold  Mrs Cs complaint  I have to be satisfied that it is more  likely  than not that the only reason  
she took out the LTA was because  she was told that she had to do this to get the bank account she 
wanted when this wasnt true. The only evidence that this is what happened is Mrs Cs statement to 
this effect. I have seen no evidence  that supports what she has said and I dont find her evidence 
persuasive.
The investigator referred to Mrs C having no need for life cover. But the information  I have seen 
indicates she was recently married, and taking out life cover so that your partner can benefit  from this 
if you die is not unusual. So I dont think there is anything untoward  in her deciding to take out life 
cover.
I acknowledge that the LTA and bank account  were both sold on the same  day. But I dont think  this is 
particularly surprising or suggests that the LTA was a condition of the bank account. It is not 
uncommon for a customer to be directed to other services a bank offers when they attend their branch 
to open a bank account, or for some other initial reason. So the fact that the LTA and bank account  
started on the same day isnt of itself evidence  that supports what  Mrs C has said. 
Im also not satisfied that the bank  account  and LTA were sold by the same person, as the 
investigator thought.  NatWest has said that customer advisers who open bank accounts dont have 
authority to sell life cover policies. Again I think it is quite normal for a customer  to have one bank  
employee open a bank account  and then be directed to another employee to discuss other services  
the bank provides, such as arranging life cover. I accept what  NatWest has said about  who could  and 
couldnt arrange life cover and I think it is more likely than not that the customer  adviser who opened 
Mrs Cs bank account  isnt the same person  she then discussed the LTA with.
Ref: DRN33376459Given I think that Mrs C saw two different people I think it is unlikely she was told that the LTA was a 
condition of opening her bank account.  I think it is more likely than not that she was passed on to 
another person  to discuss taking out life cover after she had already done what she needed to do with 
the customer  adviser to open her account.  It is very unlikely  that both the customer adviser  and 
person that arranged the LTA had some sort of agreement that involved them both lying to Mrs C 
about the need for life cover  to get a bank account.
I note it isnt entirely clear whether there was any financial incentive for selling life policies. NatWest 
has said that it may have received payment from the policy provider for arranging  the policy  if there 
was no such financial benefit  to it I can see no reason it would have arranged such policies. But it has 
gone on to say that the person selling the policy would get no financial  benefit  or any other benefit  
personally.
Even if it is wrong and there  was some benefit to the individual selling life polices  this incentive  would 
only have been to the person who sold the policy and not the customer adviser who set up the bank 
account. And as I have  said, I think it more  likely than not the customer adviser had already done 
what was necessary to open her bank account before Mrs C discussed  the LTA with someone else. 
But I have also considered the position if the bank account and LTA were  sold by the same person 
and I am still not satisfied Mrs C was misled  for a number of reasons which  I have set out in the 
following paragraphs.
I think  the fact that Mrs C had an existing account with a different bank, which she will have opened 
without any similar condition, has to be taken into account. She has said she had no experience of 
NatWest and its requirements.  But she wouldve certainly been aware from her own experience that 
such a condition  isnt something  that applied  to all banks  and bank accounts and in fact was 
something unusual.
NatWest has referred to Mrs C having opened two other accounts  with it, one of which was only a 
year later, in 2013. The investigator didnt consider  this was relevant  but I think it is. Mrs Cs evidence 
in the letter she sent to us with her complaint form was that the person who sold the bank account  
and the LTA to her explained all of the bank accounts that met her criteria and that each account  was 
connected with an insurance policy with different premium amounts and that she selected the account  
with the lowest insurance premium.
If this is what  she had been  told then I think it more  likely than not when she opened  another  account  
with NatWest only a year later in 2013 which  didnt  require her to take out life cover she wouldve  
questioned why she had been told she had to take this out for the current  account opened in 2012. 
She didnt  do this, which  I think is further evidence  her recollection  of what happened  when she 
opened her account  in 2012 isnt reliable.
She did not have to proceed with opening an account with NatWest. There  was no urgency for her to 
do so given she has said she wanted  to open an account to pay her wages into at the end of the 
month and she opened the account on 16 June 2012. In the circumstances she had ample time to 
open an account with a different bank if she didnt want the LTA and I can see no reason she 
wouldve proceeded with opening the account  with NatWest if she was told she had to have the LTA 
but didnt want this.
I also think  it is of note that Mrs C did cancel the policy in 2017 after she was told it wouldnt cover the 
medical expenses she had incurred. There is nothing to suggest she didnt want to keep her bank 
account, which she still has. If Mrs C believed the LTA was a condition of her bank account I think it is 
more likely  than not she wouldve discussed stopping the premiums with NatWest before she did 
anything. The fact she didnt check  this suggests to me that she was already aware from the time of 
sale that the LTA wasnt a condition of the bank account. 
Mrs C has also raised an issue about having been misled about what cover the policy  provided. She 
has suggested that she was told the policy would provide  cover  if she had an accident or for any 
Ref: DRN333764510medical condition. It is possible that there was some misunderstanding on the part of Mrs C as to 
what the policy covered. But if there was I am not satisfied this is because  she wasnt provided with 
clear information by NatWest or was misled about the cover. 
I also dont think this is consistent with her complaint  she was misled about  the policy  being a 
condition of the bank  account. If she had been told the policy was a condition of opening the bank 
account the adviser  wouldve had no reason  to then go on to mislead her about the cover provided as 
she was bound  to take the policy regardless  of what cover was provided.
Although I am not currently  intending to uphold  this complaint, as this is a provisional decision  I will 
comment briefly  on what Mrs C said about what redress she should get if the complaint was upheld. 
She has suggested that the investigator shouldve  said NatWest  should pay the costs she has 
incurred in pursuing  her complaint. 
But this isnt something  we would generally  award. Also, she didnt need to go to a CMC or solicitors 
before making a complaint. She couldve  complained  directly to NatWest herself. So there is no basis 
for her being  awarded the costs she says she has incurred by involving  a CMC and solicitors. And 
there is also no basis for awarding  her anything for the time spent  dealing with our service.
my provisional  decision
I dont uphold  this complaint  for the reasons I have explained.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3337645