K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Marks & Spencer Financial  Services Plc refused her claim brought  
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. She wants  part of the purchase price  
refunded.
background
Ms H tells us that in 2016 she took out an annual membership with an introduction  agency Ill 
refer to as E. She says this cost £4,595  which was paid through  her M & S credit card. In 
addition she says she paid £1,500  for a personal consultant. Ms S says shes not had the 
service shed been promised and she thinks the product was misrepresented.  She mentions 
that shed told E she was looking  for men of similar age or younger than herself. But that the 
profiles shed seen had been  for older  men.
M & S told us it had been unable to establish that a breach  of contract  and/or  
misrepresentation had occurred.  It said Ms H received a service; met up with matches and 
was given advice  on improving her profile.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that E had made 
clear that narrow criteria  would affect  the number of matches made. He recognised that 
things hadnt moved  on as quickly  as Mr H had wished. But he said he didnt think  thered 
been any misrepresentation or breach of contract.  
Ms H didnt agree with this outcome and maintained shed not received the service shed 
been promised.  As its not been  possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsmans been 
asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms H has brought  her complaint to this service under section 75. Whilst I dont apply the law 
- directly  - I do take it into account. Section 75 potentially provides a customer  - who has 
used certain types  of credit to pay for goods  and/or services - with a "like" claim against  the 
supplier of that credit (M&S) as they would have against the supplier of the goods or 
services (E). It requires there to have been a misrepresentation and/or breach of contract by 
the supplier in relation to the goods/services  supplied.  .
As this complaint  is brought against  M & S, its important for me to explain that Im looking at 
the way in which it dealt with Ms Hs claim.  Im not deciding on the merits  of any underlying 
claim she may have against E. But in determining if M & S has treated Ms H fairly Ill take 
this aspect into consideration.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and suffer a loss as a result  of the misrepresentation. As a misrepresentation 
must occur before an agreement is entered Ive looked closely  at the information Ms H was 
given at around the time of the agreement. And I accept that in addition to written information 
she also had verbal discussions  with Es representatives.
Ref: DRN33926912I think I should acknowledge  that any contract  which relates to the field of personal 
introductions is likely to be subject to numerous caveats and/or exclusions. In some of her 
correspondence Ms H described  the terms and conditions as being rather  vague and 
imprecise. Id characterise the nature of the information which was provided by E as being  
fairly generalised. And Id say that it was designed  to limit expectations.  There was quite a 
lengthy list of criteria  which were  identified - if a customer fell within a stipulated category - 
as likely to reduce the number of introductions which would be available.
Some more specific obligations were contained  within the personal consultant  package. In 
particular this included  a single point of contact; a review of the customers  profile along with 
suggestions for how it might be improved;  and making selections for introductions on behalf  
of the customer.  Im aware Ms H says she wasnt satisfied with the way this service  was 
carried out but as far as I can see the basic elements were  provided. And I dont think M & S 
was wrong to conclude  that thered not been  any misrepresentation or breach of contract  in 
this respect.
I think many  of the same comments apply  to the alleged breaches of contract  regarding  the 
general service provision.  I can see that selections  were made and introductions  arranged  - 
although I believe only one was taken up. I also note that when Ms H hadnt received at least  
eight introductions within her membership  year the term was extended.  This seems to be in 
keeping with the contractual obligation.
Im sorry  that Ms H has had a disappointing  experience. She paid a substantial sum of 
money for assistance  with what was obviously to her an important matter. And I accept  she 
believes the service  she received  fell short of the standard of being supplied with reasonable 
care and skill.
A service which provides  personal introductions is unlike many other services where this 
objective standard is relatively easy to identify.  But the success  or otherwise of such  
introductions is dependent upon  so many  diverse factors.  Its impossible to say whether the 
failure to provide suitable matches is a failure of service or merely that parties dont find 
sufficient compatibility due to personal reasons.
Where its been possible  to identify specific elements  of the service within  the terms and 
conditions, I believe theyve been  supplied. And it seems to be a matter  of chance rather  
than contractual  entitlement whether such a service will eventually lead to a satisfactory 
outcome.
Ive seen the notes which  M&S provided regarding  its enquiry. And I think it properly 
considered all the aspects of Ms Hs complaint that Id expect it to look at. I think  it came  to a 
fair conclusion that there was insufficient  information on which to say thered been any 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Whilst I know it will come as a disappointment  to Ms H, Ive reached the same conclusion  -
and for broadly the same reasons as our investigator - that this complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN33926913Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3392691