K821x#15complaint
Ms C says PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about 1 short term and 5 instalment loans Mr Lender  provided to Ms C 
between December 2013 and August 2018. Details of the 6 loans are as follows:
Loan Date taken Date repaid Instalments Amount Highest repayment
1 22/07/2013 25/09/2013 1 200 270.00
2 29/08/2014 30/01/2015 6 600 280.00
3 30/01/2015 17/07/2015 6 550 219.26
4 18/08/2015 25/02/2016 6 600 212.00
5 09/09/2017 13/04/2018 6 300 106.00
6 13/04/2018 outstanding 6 300 117.20
Ms C deferred her repayment  twice for loan 1 and also twice more  for loan 5.
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Cs complaint in part and thought the loans from loan 2 to 4 
shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender  didnt  agree.  It has however, made an offer to write off 
the balance outstanding for loan 6. Ms C didnt accept that so the complaint has been 
passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
Ref: DRN37014012refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Ms C could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because The Office of Fair Trading  and the FCAs Consumer Credit 
Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons, that there  was nothing to indicate 
Mr Lender needed  to do more when it approved loan 1. This was the first time Ms C had 
approached Mr Lender for credit and the repayment  seemed  affordable to her based on 
what she told it. So I dont think Mr Lender  needed to carry out further checks  at this point.
But when Ms C asked  to borrow loan 2, I can see the monthly repayment that Mr Lender  
required took up a significant proportion of Ms Cs declared monthly  income over an 
extended period  of time. 
In the circumstances and despite the checks that Mr Lender carried out, there was a 
significant risk that Ms C wouldnt have been able to repay the loan without undue  difficulty  
or borrowing further. I dont consider it was reasonable for Mr Lender to agree to lend based 
on what it knew about Ms C. It follows that I uphold  Ms Cs complaint about loan 2 and loans  
3 and 4 also.
There was a gap of around  18 months before Ms C asked Mr Lender  for another  loan. So 
because there was a lengthy amount of time here between loan 4 and 5, I have considered 
the loans taken out by Ms C from this point  forward (loan 5) as a new lending  relationship  
with Mr Lender. When Ms C did approach Mr Lender again and asked to borrow twice more 
(loans 5 and 6), it again did a number  of checks.  It asked her for details of her income and 
her normal  expenditure.  It also gathered data from credit reference agencies.  From the 
information it did gather,  there was nothing to indicate Mr Lender needed to do more  when it 
approved loans 5 and 6. I can see that the repayments would have been affordable for Ms C 
based on what she declared and as I have  already  explained this was early on in this lending  
relationship with Mr Lender. So I dont think Mr Lender did anything  wrong  when it agreed  to 
lend loans 5 and 6.
So Im upholding  Ms Cs complaint about  loans 2-4 and I will now be asking Mr Lender to put 
things right.
Ref: DRN37014013putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms C paid on loans 2 to 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 to 4 from Ms Cs credit file
Mr Lender initially offered to write off the outstanding  balance  Ms C has with regards to loan 
6. This is because Ms C still owes Mr Lender some of the principal  balance  she borrowed on 
her final loan. Mr Lender may deduct this from the compensation that is due to her. But, to 
be clear,  that outstanding  balance should  be recalculated to remove any interest and 
charges, whilst taking account  of any repayments  Ms C has made on that loan as though 
they were applied against the principal sum borrowed.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must  give 
Ms C a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Cs complaint. PDL Finance Limited  
(trading as Mr Lender) should pay Ms C compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3701401