K820x#14The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 1992  when    
Mrs B applied for a credit card by post.  Mrs B says Bank of Scotland  Plc (BOS) mis-sold  her 
the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
BOS doesnt have any paperwork Mrs B wouldve completed at the time, so Ive also thought  
about what I know about how BOS sold these types  of policies at the time. And having done 
this, I think its unlikely  BOS wouldve added the PPI without Mrs B indicating  she wanted  it. 
But I can understand why Mrs B cant remember taking out the policy  now.
BOS cant say if it recommended the PPI to Mrs B, but, to be fair to Mrs B, its looked at the 
sale as if it did. If BOS  did recommend  the policy, it would have had to check that it was right 
for her. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, its likely she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mrs B says she would  have received sick pay benefits from her employer. The policy would 
have paid out in addition  to any employee  benefits,  meaning she could have used those 
benefits to pay for other essential  costs.  As such,  she seems to have had a need for the 
cover.
Its possible the information BOS gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But it seems  likely it would  have been  useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover.
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But BOS  has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:  
BOS got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because  BOS  didnt  tell Mrs B, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, BOS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
Ref: DRN34521722But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3452172