K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the way that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) handled the recovery  
of his funds when he reported  a scam.  
background
I issued a provisional decision in August 2021  to explain why I thought Mr Fs complaint 
should not be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me. This 
is an extract  from my provisional decision:  
Mr F says he has been the victim of a scam.  In 2018, Mr F entered  into an agreement with a 
builder to complete  works on his driveway. Mr F made two transfers  from his account on the 
16 March and 3 April to pay for a deposit towards  the building works and materials  the first 
for £600 and the second for £50. The builder started  the works and removed the existing 
driveway but didnt  return to complete  the work. Mr F was then unable to get in touch with 
him again. 
Mr F contacted Barclays on 4 April 2018 who contacted the beneficiary bank on the same 
day. Unfortunatly no funds remained in the recipient  account. They declined to refund the 
money themselves  as they felt that the payments  werent unusual,  but even if their systems 
had flagged the payments they dont  think intervention would have prevented  Mr F making  
the payments  as the builder had started  work on the driveway. They  suggested it was a civil 
dispute rather than a scam. 
Mr F also contacted the police and action fraud about what  happened, but unfortunately they 
have not continued to pursue the builder in relation to what happened. 
Mr F remained unhappy, so he complained  to our service. Our investigator reviewed what  
happened and recommended that his complaint not be upheld.  They  said this because  they 
agreed that the payments  werent so unusual or out of character  that they should have 
prompted intervention  from Barclays. They also sad that Barclays acted correctly in relation 
to contacting the recipient  bank  in order to attempt to retrieve the funds. Mr F didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision, so it has come to me to decide.  
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am minded  to reach the 
same outcome as our investigator, but for slightly different reasons. 
Mr F doesnt dispute authorising the payments in the first instance  and Barclays  had an 
obligation to follow his instructions in line with the mandate it held on the account. Having 
considered the circumstances of the payments, Im persuaded Barclays acted correctly in 
executing Mr Fs payments to the builder as he initially instructed. 
When Mr F contacted Barclays to tell them what had happened, they needed to consider 
good industry practice to determine  what to do next.  When the claim relates  to a civil dispute 
rather than a scam, they dont need to contact the receiving bank to recover the money. But I 
can see that in this instance, they did  presumably as they were treating it as a scam at that 
point. This would mean that if there was money remaining in the receiving account it could 
be frozen until the circumstances were  clarified.  I think Barclays acted fairly  in doing this  
Ref: DRN33582402and although no funds remained in the receiving account, they did contact  the receiving 
bank on the same day which I think was a reasonable  timeframe. 
Barclays said the payments didnt flag as unusual or out of character on their systems, so 
they didnt need to question Mr F about  the payments. I think this is reasonable  there was 
nothing so unusual  as to have flagged  these payments as they were  both for relatively  low 
values and Mr F had made  similar  or larger genuine payments prior to these. Barclays also 
said that even  if the payments had flagged, the circumstances of the complaint meant any 
intervention wouldnt  have prevented the payments  and that it should be treated as a civil 
matter, rather  than a scam.  I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I say this 
because work on the driveway did start  with Mr Fs old driveway being removed. The 
builder must have spent  time starting  the work  and did complete some  work. The dispute 
only arose when  he didnt finish the work and dropped  out of contact  with Mr F. Whilst this 
clearly wasnt  professional conduct,  it is not the usual actions of a fraudster. And Im satisfied 
that the crux of this complaint is about  the completion of work that had not been paid for in 
full. I note the police have  also said they will not be investigating the matter further. I 
appreciate Mr F feels he has lost out here and I can understand why he is frustrated,  but I 
dont think it would be fair for Barclays to cover his losses.  As it currently stands, Im 
satisfied this is a civil dispute between Mr F and the builder and Barclays  is not liable to 
refund him. 
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I am not upholding this 
complaint. 
Barclays accepted  my provisional decision  and didnt have any further points to add. Mr F 
expressed dissatisfaction with my provisional decision, but didnt have any further points or 
evidence to add. 
 
Given that I have not received any further evidence to consider, I see no reason to deviate  
from my provisional decision.  So, for the reasons I outlined in that provisional  decision, I am 
not upholding Mr Fs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  by 10 October 2021. 
 
Katherine Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3358240