K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to 
Mr P. Allianz didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale.  So Ill 
refer to it as the seller.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1996 alongside a store credit account. Mr P 
was sold the policy at the same time that he applied for the account .
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr P disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr P has said, but Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. This is 
because:
 It doesnt seem that Allianz recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable  for 
Mr Ps individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mr P to decide whether it was suitable.
 However Allianz did need to give Mr P clear  and fair information,  so he could make  an 
informed choice.  This all happened  about  22 years ago and there is no information 
surviving from the time.  So I cant be sure that it did do this. So Ive thought  about 
whether better information is likely to have made a difference. But in Mr Ps 
circumstances at the time, even if hed been given all the necessary information, I dont 
think its likely to have made a difference to his decision. I say this because  its fairly 
likely that the PPI could have paid out for longer than his full employer sick pay lasted. 
And it would  have been in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy pay. Also 
its not clear he had many alternative means  to pay his living expenses and credit 
account for long,  if he lost his income;  and even if he did, he could  have kept those in 
reserve for longer.  So the PPI is likely still to have seemed potentially useful. Also it 
doesnt look like hed have  been affected by any of the significant exclusions  in the 
policy. 
 I dont have any evidence that the PPI was added without Mr Ps consent, or without 
him realising he had a choice.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN30491852Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3049185