K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they have lost confidence  in their mortgage provider 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) to provide them  with accurate information regarding  
payments on their mortgage and redemption figures.
background
Mr and Mrs H had a mortgage  with Halifax. Interest on the mortgage was calculated  on an 
annual interest bearing basis and their annual house insurance premiums were  added to 
their mortgage payments  each year.
Since bringing this complaint to this service Mr and Mrs H have  redeemed  their mortgage. 
During the last year of their mortgage they lost confidence in Halifax to provide them with 
accurate information  and figures.
Mr and Mrs Hs concerns  first arose when they received  a letter  from Halifax  dated 
23 October 2017 that suggested that their contractual monthly payment (CMP) was no 
longer enough to fully repay  what they owed by the end of the term. What then followed 
were: numerous changes to the CMP; a series of responses from Halifax  which  needed to 
be further expanded upon;  and a number of payments of compensation totalling £475.
Two adjudicators looked at this complaint. In the first adjudicators  view she didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the changes to the CMP were  caused by 
recalculations following:  the increase in insurance premiums due; the increase in the interest 
rate; and the recalculation  of interest following the complaint in May 2018.  She agreed with 
Halifax it was wrong  to refer to Mr and Mrs H as having made overpayments  and thought 
this added to Mr and Mrs Hs confusion. She explained why Mr and Mrs H had been given 
three different redemption  figures and why she didnt  think  they had overpaid when 
redeeming their mortgage. She felt the £325 she incorrectly thought they had been  paid in 
compensation (it was actually £475) was fair compensation for the confusion caused.
Mr and Mrs H didnt feel the adjudicators view provided them with the full, transparent, 
detailed, accurate and consistent explanations  of all of the issues  they had raised.  They 
thought that the adjudicator may have confused their concern about the redemption figure 
they paid with their concern about  having overpaid on their monthly mortgage payments. 
They did not say that they thought  they had overpaid on their mortgage redemption;  they 
only said that they did not know  which of the three quotes they were given was correct.  In 
particular they felt they had not been  provided with a clear and precise explanation as to why 
their payments increased in December 2017 to £423.93.
A second adjudicator issued a second  view. In it he said he agreed with the view of the first 
adjudicator but wanted to provide more clarity regarding the area highlighted by 
Mr and Mrs H. He thought  the increase to the CMP to £423.93 following the change to the 
Standard Variable  Rate was due to the fact that the recalculation was done  before Halifax  
received their CMP for November 2017 and because there was only a short term remaining 
on this repayment  mortgage which was operating on an annual basis  any recalculation of the 
payment will have a greater impact on the payment due because the majority of the payment 
is going towards the capital outstanding  as opposed to the interest. He thought £475 was fair 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  by the errors caused.
Ref: DRN31420072Mr and Mrs H dont feel their concerns have been addressed and have  asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. Their key concern is the fact that Halifax increased their monthly 
payments by £93.12 in December 2017  and sustained this increase for five months. They  
feel the explanation of this increase given by the second  adjudicator is inadequate because  
it lacks useful detail;  they cannot accept an explanation that simply says,  in effect, that "the 
CMP increased because  the CMP was recalculated". They dont accept the compensation 
they have received to date to be in any way compensation for financial errors.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have clearly experienced a large  degree of frustration and annoyance at what 
they see as shortcomings in the way Halifax has administered their mortgage account.  They  
wanted more information and a better  understanding of what  was going on, and I recognise  
the strength  of their perception that it has not been  forthcoming to the level they were 
seeking. 
Given Mr and Mrs Hs concerns  I asked Halifax to provide further  evidence  that they hadnt 
overpaid their mortgage. Mr and Mrs H have received this and now seem to accept that they 
havent paid too much to redeem their mortgage. And from all I have seen I cant  see that 
they paid too much  either.
They are still unsatisfied. They say there are several issues  that they have raised that have 
not been answered to their satisfaction. Key amongst them  is the fact that their monthly 
payments were increased by £93.12 in December 2017 and this increase  was sustained for 
five months. They feel the explanation of this increase they have  been  given by this service  
is inadequate because  it lacks useful detail. They have their own explanation which involves 
the misplacing of a decimal point.
This service is an informal dispute resolution service. We are not an auditing or accounting  
service. The way we investigate a complaint reflects our role and responsibilities.
Mr and Mrs H have paid off their mortgage. And, as I said, they dont seem to have paid 
more than they owed. Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that this service  has focussed its 
investigation on the redemption figure. But I think that is where the focus should be when 
looking at a complaint  about a mortgage that has been redeemed  where  there are questions  
about the correctness of recent CMPs. This is particularly so as Mr and Mrs H were offered 
the opportunity  of having the overpayments returned to them  and didnt take this up. This 
indicates to me that the issue for them wasnt that the payments themselves caused them  
hardship at the time but that they wanted to be sure they didnt pay too much. 
Ive looked at the second adjudicators explanation  of the increase to the CMP and I think  he 
has explained the increase to the CMP clearly. As I said we are not an accounting service I 
wouldnt have expected him to have set out his explanation in greater detail. I wont  add 
anything further  other  than to say I think he has given the correct explanation and it wasnt  a 
misplaced decimal point which caused  the increase. I appreciate Mr and Mrs H wont  be 
satisfied with this but  as I have explained  given the mortgage has been paid off I think 
that the correct  focus of our investigation was on the redemption figure and here I am 
satisfied I have seen  no evidence of error.
Ref: DRN31420073Overall I think  the compensation paid to Mr and Mrs H is fair compensation for the errors 
made by Halifax and so I wont  be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 June  2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3142007