K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1989 and another policy  with a different account in 1994. Mr A says HFC Bank Limited
(HFC) mis-sold him the policies.
background
Mr A says he took out a credit card and PPI policy in 1989  to cover him if he was unable  to 
work because of illness, injury or unemployment.
HFC says this account was closed before 1994,  and another  opened in 1994 with PPI. Mr A 
says he does not recall  opening a second  account  and he believes both the 1989 and 1994 
account are the same.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr A disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
On the 29 March 2019, I issued a provisional  decision on this complaint and invited both 
parties to submit any additional  evidence or comments before I issued my final decision on 
the matter. Mr A has submitted further evidence to support his claim that he only ever had 
one account with the HFC and that he paid significantly more  in premiums than previously 
thought. HFC has revised its offer of redress to Mr A  which  Mr A has now said he is 
prepared to agree with. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr As case.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  the following:  
Given how long ago these  policies and accounts were opened, understandably theres very
little information,  documents or evidence  available to help me decide this case. Where there 
is such little information  available, I have to decide what  I think  is more likely  based on the 
evidence that is available  and the wider circumstances.
Ive seen a screenshot of the HFCs computer records  which has a clear note that the 1994  
account was opened in November 1994 via a postal application. But Ive also seen evidence 
that Mr A provided that he did have an account with different account number that was 
opened in November 1989.  HFC has also confirmed that, if the 1989 account was still open  
in 1994, it wouldve been able to find a record of it.
Mr A believes he only ever had one account with HFC and doesnt  recall ever opening a new 
one. Given the time thats passed,  HFC says it no longer has a record  of how or why the 
original account  was closed. It mightve made  a business decision to close  that type of 
account and to invite customers to open new ones (which might explain why Mr A doesnt  
recall closing the original  account and opening a new one),  or HFC says Mr A might asked 
for it to be closed.
Ref: DRN34434972Based on what Ive seen  and heard  from both HFC and Mr A, currently, Im satisfied that Mr 
A did open an account in 1989  but this likely closed before 1994. And there  was a separate 
account opened via a postal application  in 1994.
Mr As 1989 account
HFC no longer has any records of how the PPI and credit card was sold. Because  of this, its 
offered to uphold Mr As complaint  about the mis-sale of the PPI in full. But as it has no 
records, it cannot offer a refund of the premiums  Mr A paid like it normally would  as it does 
not know what (if any) premiums Mr A paid towards  this policy.  It also doesnt know how long 
the account remained open  but as explained above,  it can find no record of it in 1994.
Mr A has provided one statement showing a premium of 94p being  applied and then waived. 
So HFC accepts he likely did have PPI but as explained above, it doesnt know  if he actually 
paid this premium or any other months  premiums.
But, in order  to bring this matter to a resolution, HFC has offered to assume Mr A paid 94p 
per month for every month from January  1990  (the first month after the account was opened  
and PPI couldve been applied) until December  1993.
I recognise that its possible Mr A mightve  paid more PPI in some months, but its also 
possible he didnt pay anything at all in others. So given that weve got no evidence of how 
much Mr A paid in total, or indeed  if he paid anything  at all, and the offer is based  on the 
only piece of evidence  we have  I think HFCs  offer is a fair way to resolve this complaint.
Mr As 1994 account
Currently, I dont think this PPI was mis-sold and Ill explain why
As explained above, this PPI was sold a long time ago now so there is limited information 
available from the time of sale. So I havent for example seen a copy  of Mr As application 
form. Mr A also doesnt recall opening  this account  but he has said generally he didnt know  
the PPI was optional and he didnt  cancel the PPI when he saw it on his statements as he 
thought it was something he had to have.
HFCs records  show this account was opened  via a postal application in 1994   and it has 
sent the earliest sample application  form its got available. This shows  customers  had to tick 
a box if they wanted cover   showing HFC presented it as optional  and customers needed to 
agree to have  it before  it was added  to their accounts. But I recognise this is dated a few 
years after Mr As likely  date of sale.
With such little information available, I havent seen  or heard enough to persuade me that its 
more likely HFC didnt  make it clear the PPI was optional or that Mr A didnt agree to take it.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think HFC advised Mr A to take PPI so it didnt have to 
check if the PPI was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr A got the information he 
needed to decide if it was right for him.
The policy document that applied to Mr As account is no longer available, although HFC has 
sent me the earliest document it has. So Ive looked  at this as well as considered what  I 
know more generally  about how these policies  worked to help me decide this case.
Ref: DRN34434973Its possible the information HFC gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
Mr A was likely to be eligible for the policy and based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances 
at the time it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the likely exclusions  to or limits on 
the PPI cover. For example,  he was employed and hasnt  told us about  any pre-existing 
health conditions.  This means he wouldnt have been affected  by the terms related to 
unusual employment  arrangements  or the terms excluding  cover for known health issues.
Mr A has also mentioned that he did do some online courses in the evening and weekends,  
but I havent seen anything  that suggests  this wouldve made  it harder for him to make a 
claim on his PPI had he lost his job, or been  unable  to work because  of illness or injury. So 
the PPI would have been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable.
Mr A says he did have sick pay provided by his employer but he couldnt remember how 
long they wouldve paid out for. Hes also mentioned  he mightve had some savings he 
couldve used to help him meet his repayments  should he have found  himself unexpectedly 
out of work but he hasnt specified  how much.  Given how long ago this policy  was sold,  I can 
understand why Mr A may not remember the specific details about his wider  circumstances 
 but I accept that as he was employed full time, he is likely to have had some employee 
benefits and some savings too.
But the PPI wouldve paid out on top of his sick pay for up to 12 months if Mr A was unable  
to work because of illness or injury. It also provided up to 12 months of cover for 
unemployment. And having the policy wouldve helped him keep his savings intact or free to 
be used on other outgoings.  So I still think he couldve found the PPI useful and I dont think  
better information about the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means HFC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A. 
But HFC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because:
HFC got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because  HFC didnt tell Mr A, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, HFC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
As explained above, Mr A has sent in a letter from November 1994  which  suggests  the 
original 1989 account was closed  due to a security  breach and a new one opened to replace  
it. So for him, he has only ever had the one account  with HFC. HFC said it was not usual 
practice to open  a whole  new account  due to a security breach but says it is entirely 
possible. As its previously  explained, it has no longer got any records  to be able to explain 
what happened. 
I wrote  to Mr A to explain  that while he may have  believed he had the one account and I 
accept he has only ever used the one account,  the computer record does show  that 
technically the 1994 account  was a separate account. However,  I accepted that its possible 
Mr A only ever went through  one application  process in 1989  and might not have  completed  
a separate postal application in 1994 like HFCs  computer records suggests. So for the sake 
Ref: DRN34434974of completeness, I considered this case as if it had been the one account that was opened in 
1989, to see if it changed  the outcome. I didnt think it did. 
While Mr A has sent in evidence that explains  to some degree  what  happened  after the 
account was opened, Ive still seen  no point of sale documents. So I dont know  what 
forms/documents/information either Mr A completed or was given at the point of sale.  
Where there is a dispute like this, and limited information is available, I have to decide  what  I 
think is more likely  given the evidence available, including both Mr As and HFCs  testimony. 
And I have  to bear in mind that this happened almost 30 years ago now, and even the best 
of memories can fade over that timeframe. So I dont think it would be fair to uphold a 
complaint solely  based  on limited  recollections from 1989. 
So I havent seen  enough to conclude that its more likely HFC didnt make  the optional  
nature of the PPI clear  or that Mr A didnt agree to it in 1989.  So I dont uphold his complaint 
on this basis. 
Mr A has also previously  told me that his employment and wider circumstances were the 
same in 1989 as 1994, so as set out in my provisional decision, I think he wouldve been 
eligible for the PPI, and I dont think he wouldve been caught  by any of the likely major 
exclusions in the policy. I also think he couldve  made use of it had he needed to make  a 
claim. So I dont think  more information about the PPI wouldve have put him off taking out 
the cover. So for the same reasons I set out in my provisional decision, overall, I dont think 
the policy was mis-sold.  
Because I dont think the policy was mis-sold in 1989, Im unable to uphold Mr As complaint 
in full and order  HFC to refund the premiums he mightve paid.
offer from HFC for the period between 1989  and 1994
Mr A has sent in a number of statements from the period between November 1989  (original 
account opening)  and the November 1994  when the account  changeover happened (and the 
likely closure  date of the original account).  This shows he paid more in PPI premiums than 
the 94p that Mr A had previously demonstrated.  
HFC has agreed to honour its offer to uphold this part of the complaint  despite my findings. 
Its offered  to revise  its offer to work  out an average  amount  Mr A has paid in PPI premiums  
from the statements  hes already submitted. It will then assume he has paid that average  
amount for each  month  for the period  the account was likely open  and refund him that, plus 
interest. Mr A has said he is happy  with the offer HFC has now made. 
As this offer is based on the only evidence available, I think its a fair way to resolve  this part 
of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN344349751994 account  PPI onwards  
As Ive explained above, whether I assess this account as a separate  account like I did in my 
provisional decision or as one account that started  in 1989, I havent seen enough to uphold  
this complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So Im unable to order HFC to refund to Mr A 
the premiums hes paid from November 1994  onwards. 
HFCs offer to refund some of the commission  Mr A has paid remains unchanged  from that 
set out in my provisional decision so I dont think it needs to do any more than that. 
Having reviewed this complaint  again  in its entirety,  I think  HFCs offer to refund the 
assumed premiums Mr A has paid between 1989  and 1994, and some  of the commission he 
paid from 1994  onwards,  is fair  and I dont order it to do anything else. 
what the business needs  to do for the 1989 account
for Mr As 1989 account
HFC should  work out an average of what Mr A was charged from the statements Mr A has 
submitted. It should then assume Mr A paid that average amount for each month  the 
account was likely  open. HFC should: 
Pay Mr A the average amount worked out for each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he mightve paid it until he gets it 
back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
what the business needs  to do for the 1994 account
HFC has to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit  share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. HFC should also pay back to Mr A any extra interest he paid 
because of that.
HFC should  re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mr A the difference  between  
what Mr A owes and what  he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. HFC should also pay Mr A 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr A can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
Ref: DRN34434976my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and HFC Bank Limited must do what  Ive said above to put 
things right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3443497