K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 1996. The policy covered Mr B only. Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-
sold them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr and Mrs B have said they 
were told they needed  PPI when taking out any products, but they havent  given  us much 
detail about what  was said. And Lloyds hasnt been  able to send  us any paperwork from the 
sale showing  Mr and Mrs B chose to take the PPI. Due to the amount of time that has 
passed since the sale though, I dont think this is unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs B think  they had to 
have the PPI. So I think its more likely Lloyds made it clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a 
choice about the PPI, and that they chose to take it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to check that it was right for them. 
And, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, Mr B doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the likely exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover. The policy couldve paid out for longer than I think its likely  he 
wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And it wouldve meant Mr and Mrs B didnt need to 
rely on any savings or other means  they had to make their mortgage  repayments if Mr B 
wasnt earning.
As well as checking it was right for them, Lloyds had to give Mr and Mrs B clear  information 
about the PPI. Its possible  the information  it gave them wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. 
But a mortgage is a serious  financial commitment, and Mr and Mrs Bs property couldve 
been at risk if theyd  failed  to make their repayments. So I think  they couldve found  the 
protection the policy offered appealing. And, for the same reasons I think  it was right for 
them, it seems  like the PPI would have been useful for Mr and Mrs B if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mr and Mrs B off taking it out. 
Ref: DRN30911272my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 October  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3091127