K820x#14complaint
In 1996, Mr K took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax  (Bank  of 
Scotland. At the same  time, Bank of Scotland sold Mr K a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. Mr K thinks that Bank of Scotland mis-sold the PPI policy to him and he wants  it 
to give him back the premiums he paid for it, plus interest.  
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Bank  of Scotland had mis-sold  the policy to Mr K and didnt  recommend  that it should  
give him any money back. Mr K disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review  his case, 
so it has come to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr Ks case. Ive looked into everything that Mr K and Bank of Scotland  have  
sent us or told us about the complaint  and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Mr K and Bank of Scotland have agreed  that Mr K bought  the policy during a meeting at one 
of Bank  of Scotlands  branches. I assume that the main  purpose of the meeting was to 
discuss and arrange  Mr Ks mortgage. 
Bank of Scotland has told us that PPI was optional with mortgages like Mr Ks and I 
understand that it normally told customers  that they had a choice to apply for a mortgage 
with or without PPI during its meetings. However,  Mr K has said that Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell him that PPI was optional.
I havent seen  any notes from the meeting and after so many years  have passed I cant tell 
exactly what Bank of Scotland did or didnt say to Mr K. But apart from Mr Ks recollections, I 
dont have anything  else to suggest  that Bank  of Scotland  didnt  follow its normal practice 
and give him a choice  about PPI. I fully accept  that Mr K is trying  his best to remember what 
happened, but I think its likely that Bank  of Scotland let him know that PPI was optional and 
he chose to take it.
Bank of Scotland has also told us that it recommended  PPI to Mr K and advised him to buy 
it. Mr K has told us that Bank of Scotland didnt give him any advice  about  PPI or 
recommend the policy to him. But if Bank of Scotland did recommend  PPI to Mr K, then it 
would have had to check that policy was right for him and tell him about  it fairly and clearly 
so he could decide if he wanted it. So in fairness  to Mr K, Ive considered his complaint on 
the basis that Bank of Scotland did recommend PPI to him. 
Once again, as I have  so little information  from the meeting, I cant  tell what questions, if 
any, Bank of Scotland asked Mr K before it recommended  the policy to him. So Ive looked  
into Mr Ks circumstances  when he applied for the mortgage to see if it was reasonable for 
Bank of Scotland to make  its recommendation. 
From what  Mr K has told us, he met the policys eligibility rules  and he seems to have  been  
able to afford to pay the monthly  premiums.  And I havent seen  anything  to make  me think 
Ref: DRN37551742that he would have been caught out by any of the policys main limitations or exclusions if he 
had made  a claim. 
Mr K has told us that when Bank of Scotland sold him the policy  he had sufficient savings  to 
make his mortgage repayments for quite a lengthy time if he was off work  ill or made  
redundant. Hes sent us some calculations to show how long his savings could  have lasted if 
he spent them on repaying  his mortgage.  Hes also pointed out that the policy  would only 
have paid out a fraction  of his monthly salary. This is correct, but the purpose  of the 
insurance was to protect Mr Ks mortgage  repayments if he lost his salary  through accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
Mr Ks mortgage was a large financial commitment and not keeping up with his repayments 
could have had serious consequences  for him. Obviously, he also had other expenses and if 
he lost his income, the policy  may have allowed him to put some of his savings towards  
some of the costs he normally paid from his salary. I fully accept that Mr Ks savings could 
have been useful for him, but I dont think they made it unreasonable for Bank  of Scotland to 
recommend PPI to him.
Similarly, I understand that if Mr K was off work  sick, his employer would have  paid him sick 
pay for several months.  However, the policy would have paid out over and above Mr Ks sick 
pay. So I still think it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland to recommend PPI to Mr K. 
Mr K has also complained that Bank  of Scotland didnt  advise  him that the PPI premium  
would be added to the loan. However,  I would  like to reassure him that for this particular 
policy Bank of Scotland charged  its customers  on a monthly basis.  It didnt add any cost onto 
to Mr Ks mortgage and he could  have cancelled the policy  at any time without a significant 
penalty. 
I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have explained everything about PPI to Mr K as 
clearly as it should have  done. But, Im satisfied that he was eligible for the policy,  that Bank 
of Scotland gave  him a choice, that it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland  to recommend it 
to him and that he could afford  it. So I dont  think that clearer information  about the policy  
would have stopped Mr K from buying  it. 
I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold PPI to Mr K. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ks complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. Im not going  to tell it to give Mr K any money  back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3755174