K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about American Express Services Europe Limited  (American  Express) 
over issues  he encountered with his former card account. He wants his outstanding  debt to 
be written off and for American Express to explain inconsistencies in its approach. 
 
background
Mr C held an American Express  credit  card account until May 2018. 
He previously had a card, which expired in September 2016.  He did not receive a 
replacement card at that time or subsequently.  
Mr C had left in place  two account subscriptions, which debited his account  in 2017 and 
early 2018.  These transactions  appeared on his statements and Mr C made payments on his 
account immediately  afterwards. He did not flag these transactions  as not authorised.  
Separately, Mr C attempted  to continue a regular  subscription to a third company. This was 
using his old card number, and the payment was rejected. 
Mr C tried to contact  American Express on a number of occasions. He encountered  
difficulties because the voice recognition system  requested card details, but Mr C did not 
have his current details,  having not received  the replacement card.  
Eventually he was able to reach a member of staff and wanted  to raise a dispute. He was 
advised he was not able to speak directly to the disputes team  and his issues could be dealt 
with through the usual customer service team. 
During his telephone calls, Mr C found  the information  provided by staff about  which  
transactions would  continue  on his account and which  would not be authorised inconsistent. 
He found on one occasion he was address  by his title and his first name, which he felt 
showed a lack of attention to detail. 
Mr Cs account was cancelled by American Express in May 2018 with a balance owing. 
American Express sent him a default notice  and advised that it was transferring his account  
to a debt recovery  company.
Mr C has subsequently  received a high number of calls from the debt recovery company 
chasing his outstanding debt. 
Mr C complained to American  Express in summer  2018. He complained that he had not 
been able to access the account using his old card details so he did not understand why 
transactions set up on his account using those  same details  were  allowed to clear  his 
account. He was also unhappy  with the customer service he had received, and that his 
change of address  had not been  confirmed.
American Express sent him its final response in July 2018. This response pointed  out that 
the terms and conditions explain that customers needed to cancel any subscriptions with the 
merchant in order to stop any repeat payments. The response explained that it had no 
record of the attempted transaction to the third party so could not comment  on that, and that 
it had no record of Mr C advising that he had not received a replacement  card.  It confirmed 
Ref: DRN34461172Mr Cs address change.  It also advised that it was no longer responsible  for the debt which it 
had passed on so Mr C would need to speak to the debt recovery  company concerning  its 
actions. 
As a result, American  Express  rejected the majority  of Mr Cs complaint, but it upheld  the 
part of his complaint about  it being difficult to reach a customer  service  agent through the 
voice operated system.  American Express offered an apology  for this. 
Mr C was not happy with that response  and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out her view in detail  to the 
parties. This addressed each point of Mr Cs complaint and concluded that American  
Express had not acted unreasonably. She therefore did not recommend that Mr Cs 
complaint be upheld. 
Mr C was not happy with this and made  some  further comments. Specifically, he wanted 
further copy documentation to demonstrate that there was an inconsistency in the way 
American Express had handled subscription payments. 
The case  was therefore passed for an ombudsman decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should first make  clear  the limitations of this service and its function. Mr C has indicated 
that he wants American Express to be held to account over any inconsistency  in its 
approach. That is not the role of this service. Our role is to look at individual  circumstances 
and whether a customer has been  treated fairly  and reasonably.  Where  we do think  they 
have been treated unfairly, we can direct  that the business take some action to put things 
right. 
In this complaint,  there are a number of issues where Mr C has been caused frustration or 
irritation, but these  are not of themselves indicative of poor service. 
Firstly, Mr C has complained that he did not receive  a replacement card in September 2016. 
I do not doubt this, but there  is no suggestion  that Mr C raised this with American Express, 
or requested another card. American  Express has provided evidence that it sent out a 
replacement card. In those circumstances I do not see any evidence  of a failing.  
The remainder of Mr Cs difficulties seem  to really flow from this issue,  as American Express  
operates a system which uses a customers card or account number to help them  through  
the system. Without  this, Mr C was caused  inconvenience in not being able to reach the right 
people promptly. I accept  that this caused Mr C inconvenience and frustration, but this is a 
symptom of the system  operated  and Mr C not having a current  credit card. I do not consider 
that this is poor service  by American Express. 
In respect of the charges  which continued  to appear on Mr Cs account,  despite the card 
details becoming  out of date  American Express explains  in its terms and conditions that 
subscriptions need to be cancelled  with the merchant in order to stop them  being  charged. I 
have not seen evidence that Mr C did this, or that he actually  disputes  that the subscriptions 
Ref: DRN34461173were authorised. His concern appears to be that the approach was inconsistent with another 
repeat subscription  which was rejected.  I cannot  see that American  Express  has acted 
unfairly in processing  transactions in line with its terms.
I have not seen details of the rejected transaction, but do not doubt Mr Cs account. By his 
account, however,  his old card details were used  and the payment rejected. I do not think 
that it was a failing of American Express to reject  this payment. 
I agree  with the investigators assessment of the calls being handled reasonably.  I 
appreciate that Mr C has said that we have not been provided with all call recordings, but as 
American Express has upheld Mr Cs complaint in respect of his difficulties with the calls, I 
do not think it is necessary to seek further  calls. 
Mr C has also complained  that American  Express has passed his account  debt to a third 
party who he describes  as having  handled things in a heavy handed  manner. As this part of 
his complaint concerns another company I cannot  consider  it further against American 
Express. 
Overall, whilst I understand that Mr C has found  his experience frustrating,  I have not seen 
evidence that Mr C has been treated unfairly  or unreasonably. As a result, I cannot uphold 
Mr Cs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint  and do not ask American 
Express Services Europe Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3446117