K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about mortgage advice they received from an appointed  
representative of Sesame Limited in 2008.
background
Mr and Mrs D wished to raise  capital by re-mortgaging their home.  The property was 
mortgage free and they wanted  to invest in overseas property through  Harlequin  Properties. 
On advice from Sesame  they took an interest only offset mortgage. With the proceeds they 
made a number of investments with Harlequin and also made a loan to their son so that he 
could also invest.
Unfortunately the properties, which were bought off-plan, werent built and Mr and Mrs D 
have lost their money.
Mr and Mrs D say that the mortgage advice was unsuitable because  the repayment  vehicle, 
the overseas properties, was too risky.
The mortgage application records that the purpose of the loan was to purchase overseas 
property. It also records that Mr and Mrs D intended  to use buy-to-let properties  in the UK 
and abroad to repay the mortgage. They had bought two flats as buy-to-let investments 
earlier in 2008.  These  were both subject to mortgages and had little if any equity at that time.
Mr and Mrs D complained  about the advice and the complaint  was referred  to this service. 
An investigator considered the complaint and said it should be upheld.  He said that the 
two flats were not suitable repayment  vehicles  for the mortgage as they were subject to 
mortgages and there  was insufficient equity. This meant that repayment would have been 
dependent on the overseas properties but that was a high risky strategy. There were  specific 
risks including;
The overseas  properties being built without cost overruns,
The value of the pound against the US dollar not falling,
Getting approval for further finance  when  the balance of payment was payable.
The investigator felt that these  factors  made the repayment strategy too risky for 
Mr and Mrs D. He said that the adviser ought  to have highlighted the risks but he didnt. So 
he said the complaint  should be upheld and set out how redress  should be calculated.
Sesame didnt agree and so the case has been referred to me for a final decision.  I 
considered the case and made a provisional decision explaining why I didnt think the 
complaint should  be upheld.  I said:
Im not considering  the investment advice here, only the mortgage advice. It appears 
that Mr and Mrs D had already decided they wanted  to invest  in Harlequin before 
they contacted  the adviser. They had been  introduced to Harlequin  by a friend who 
had also decided to invest. A relative of the friend was the introducer although they 
had not met directly  with them. Overall, I think it was likely that by the time they 
spoke with their mortgage adviser  it was on the basis that they would go ahead with 
the investment  if they could raise the money.
Ref: DRN33565692The adviser recommended an interest-only  mortgage. So, under  the rules  that 
applied at the time, he had to have reasonable grounds to think Mr and Mrs D could  
afford it, that it was appropriate for their circumstances and needs, and that it was the 
most suitable available. That included considering  how they would repay  the 
mortgage.
I am satisfied that the money raised was used  to invest in the Harlequin properties.  
There is no evidence that the adviser  had any direct connection  with Harlequin or 
had any intimate knowledge as to how the Harlequin investments worked. Mr D had 
met the adviser  independently  and he became  a business connection.
The overseas  properties were  being  bought off-plan and so the investment was 
dependent on a number  of factors as the investigator has said. These  included  the 
properties being built on time and to specification,  the local property values  and also 
currency exchange. These were all factors which could  impact  on the success  of the 
investment.
But the Harlequin properties were  not the only stated repayment vehicles. The 
mortgage application also recorded that the two buy-to-let  flats would be used. 
Mr and Mrs D say that there  was no equity  in these properties at the time but I think  
the adviser was entitled to rely on the information provided without needing to 
question it. I think a combination of the overseas properties and the two flats could be 
considered a viable and plausible  repayment  strategy. I said it was relevant that Mr D 
was a professional  with experience in the property  sector and must have been fully 
aware of the liability to repay the interest only mortgage at the end of the term.  
Mr and Mrs D wanted to invest and the mortgage enabled them to invest on terms 
that were financially  viable for them  at the time.
Even if the adviser had decided to warn  Mr and Mrs D of the risk associated  with the 
using the overseas  property as a repayment  vehicle,  its not clear  to me that a 
warning would necessarily have caused them to take a different approach.  I say this 
because they were acting on a recommendation from a family friend  who had also 
invested. I think greater  weight  would have been  attached to that recommendation 
than to any warning from the mortgage  adviser  who had no intimate knowledge of 
Harlequin. And Mr and Mrs D must  have felt the Harlequin investments  were good 
ones given that they bought a total of five properties including  one for their son.
Of the five properties purchased, one was for Mr and Mrs Ds son. This was arranged 
by them  loaning money to him from the mortgage advance. I note that the loan 
amount was not part of the original  complaint  and Im not satisfied that there is a loss 
to Mr and Mrs D in respect of the sum they loaned. That would  be a loss to their son 
and not something  for which this adviser  should be responsible in my view.
Also, two of the five investments were made some time after the original loan 
advance. Im not satisfied that the losses associated with these later purchase could 
be the responsibility of Sesame.  Although  the purchases may have been  
contemplated at the time, they were not specific to the advice. Mr and Mrs D were 
free to invest the balance of the advance as they chose to. The adviser didnt advise  
on the investments.  
So for these reasons I was not minded to uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN33565693Sesame accepted the provisional decision. 
Mr and Mrs D didnt agree. They reiterated the original  grounds of complaint; that there was 
an absence of advice  on suitability when repayment depended on the success of the off-plan 
property, no advice on the high risk nature  of the investment,  the fact that the FCA has 
designated Harlequin as a UCIS,  and that there were other additional  risks, foreign 
jurisdiction, construction  laws, foreign  contracts  and the saleability of the properties  once  
built.
Mr and Mrs D also set out their belief that the stated repayment vehicle  was the overseas 
properties and not the buy-to-lets. They say that this is evidenced  by the documents  from the 
lender, where  the figures and dates tally with the foreign properties and not the buy-to-lets.
They added that the essence  of the complaint related to the high risk nature of the 
investment when it was linked to an interest only mortgage and the strategy for repaying it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted all that has been said in response to my provisional decision but Ive not 
changed my views. I dont  uphold this complaint.
There is some weight  to the point  Mr and Mrs D make about the precise repayment vehicle. 
It could be the case, based upon  the documents from the lender, that the off-plan properties 
were the primary repayment  vehicle.  But even if that were  the case, that factor  alone  would 
not change my view.  And it is clear from the mortgage questionnaire that the buy-to-lets 
were discussed in that context.
This adviser  was not providing  investment  advice.  He was not responsible  for the viability  of 
the overseas properties as investments. As Ive said, it appears that Mr and Mrs D had 
already decided they wanted to invest in Harlequin before they contacted  the adviser. They  
had been introduced to Harlequin  by a friend  who had also decided to invest.  A relative of 
the friend was the introducer although  they had not met directly with them.  
I remain of the view that it was likely that they would have gone  ahead with the investment if 
they could raise the money. I think the extent of the reliance on the recommendation they 
had received from the friend, is demonstrated by the fact that five properties were 
purchased, not just the initial two.
Im not satisfied that it would be fair or reasonable to uphold  the complaint.  I dont think the 
repayment vehicle  recommended, in so far as it was a combination  of the flats and the 
overseas property, was inherently unsuitable.  The adviser was not providing investment 
advice and he had no intimate knowledge of Harlequin. Mr and Mrs D were acting upon a 
recommendation from a friend and they appear to have placed great reliance on this. Mr D 
worked in the property  sector and must  have  been  conversant with the requirements of an 
interest-only mortgage. Im not satisfied that any warning of risk from the mortgage adviser, 
even if he should  have given one, would  necessarily have caused them to change  their 
actions.
Ref: DRN33565694my final decision
For these reasons, and for those in my provisional  decision  as set out above, I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356569