K821x#15complaint 
Mr B complains that AXG  Money Limited failed to ensure that the transfer of some pension  
benefits from an occupational scheme  to a new provider was executed in a timely fashion. 
background 
Mr B had deferred occupational pension benefits that he wanted transfer to a personal 
pension and use to help repay  his outstanding  residential mortgage. He intended to take 
those pension benefits over a couple  of financial years starting from 2017/18 to minimise his 
income tax liability. 
Mr B was provided with advice on the transfer  by AXG, who also took responsibility for the 
request of the transfer from the occupational  scheme administrators. In October 2017 Mr B 
had asked that the transfer of the pension took place before the end of the 2017/18 tax year 
so he could make use of some remaining personal  and basic  rate allowance. But the new 
pension provider didnt  receive the funds until 6 April 2018 which  was too late for Mr B to use 
those outstanding income tax allowances for the 21017/18 financial year.  
AXG didnt agree with Mr Bs complaint. It considered that the nature of these transfers and 
the different  parties involved in the process  meant any delay  was beyond its control and that 
it had returned  the completed documentation  to the pension administrator as soon as the 
documentation had been completed  and signed by Mr B.       
Mr Bs complaint has been  reviewed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that AXG had 
failed to perform a number of the required tasks in a timely manner. Specifically he noted 
that the requested documentation  to preserve  the cash equivalent transfer  value was not 
returned to the pension  scheme administrator until after the deadline that had been set. He 
thought that if the required documentation  been  returned by that date then the scheme  
administrator could have completed the transfer  to the new pension  provider by early 
March 2018. This would have left Mr B with sufficient time to make withdrawals and pay 
down part of his outstanding mortgage  balance which was his original objective.
AXG disagreed and felt that the occupational  scheme administrator was to blame for delays 
in the transfer.  It thought the administrator  had failed to respond  to information requests in a 
timely manner, it should have requested  identification documents  for Mr B sooner in the 
transfer process, and that the administrator should be able to accept documentation sent to 
any of its UK offices. 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process. If Mr B accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN34195722In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr B and by AXG. Where  the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have made  my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to have  happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
There are three parties involved  in the transfer of Mr Bs pension  savings, AXG, Mr B and 
the administrator  of the occupational scheme. It is clear that each of the parties contributed  
to the overall time taken. But what is important here is that the complaint I am deciding  is 
between Mr B and AXG  I understand a separate complaint has been made against the 
scheme administrator. So I will only be looking at whether AXGs actions caused a delay  in 
the transfer. I wont be making any judgement  on the actions  of the scheme  administrator.
Mr B was clear at the outset of the transfer  process that he wanted  his pension benefits  to 
have been moved  before  the end of the tax year. That would allow him to withdraw some of 
his pension benefits using the remainder of his personal and basic  rate allowances  for that 
year. Since that request was made in October 2017  I dont think this was an unrealistic 
expectation. And indeed the transfer  value calculation  that was provided by the administrator 
at that time was only valid for a period  of three  months (as is the norm). So that would seem  
to suggest to me that it would be expected that the analysis to request a transfer could be 
completed well within that timeframe.
It isnt clear to me what progress was made on the transfer between the transfer value  being  
issued by the scheme administrator at the end of October 2017 and a request for an update 
from Mr B at the start of December. That seems  to be an excessive  period  with little 
progress. It appears that AXG considered  it needed  some additional information from the 
administrator and I can see an email request was sent on 14 December. That is another  ten 
days after Mr B had asked for an update and AXG  said it needed  more  information.
I note that the transfer value quoted by the scheme  administrator  was only guaranteed  until 
26 January 2018.  It appears that AXG  didnt send Mr Bs agreement to the transfer until a 
day later,  and even  then it was sent to the wrong  office of the administrator.  I dont  know  
whether the documentation being  sent to the wrong office added a further delay  but I think 
it reasonable to conclude  that it didnt make  the process any quicker.
Overall, Mr Bs pension benefits were  received by the new provider just a couple  of days 
after the end of the tax year. So I think it is clear that there would only have needed to be a 
small amount of unreasonable delay on the part of AXG for me to conclude that was the 
reason for Mr B not being able to take his first withdrawal in that tax year.
Ref: DRN34195723I dont think that AXGs comment that the administrator caused some delays is entirely 
without merit  though to be clear  I am not making  any judgement here about whether or not 
those delays were reasonable and to be expected in a process of this nature. It seems that 
there was a period of around three  weeks (including  the Christmas period) before the 
administrator provided the additional information to AXG. And there  were  some further 
delays before the administrator was satisfied that the paperwork was in order, requiring 
some further  confirmation that AXG was authorised to provide advice to Mr B, and checking 
Mr Bs identity.
But what  is clear to me is that even with the delays Ive noted above as a result  of the 
administrators actions,  Mr Bs deadline  would still have been met if AXG had acted in a 
more timely  manner at the outset, requesting the additional information that was needed to 
complete the transfer analysis. And so I think it is reasonable that I conclude that, but for the 
failings of AXG, Mr Bs transfer would have completed before the end of the tax year. It 
follows that I uphold  this complaint and AXG needs  to put things right.
It has now been some time since these  problems occurred. And Mr B has taken the decision 
to take the withdrawal of all his pension funds  that completed in February  2019.  So I have 
been able to get an accurate picture  of the tax liability he has incurred  as a result  of those 
withdrawals. I think it is reasonable  to assume  that if the transfer had completed  in time Mr B 
would have used  the remainder of his personal  and basic rate allowances for 2017/18 as an 
initial withdrawal. And then Mr B would  have taken the remaining balance  in tax year 
2018/19.
I have included a summary of the evidence Mr B has given me regarding his income  for the 
relevant tax years as an appendix to this decision.  From that information the amount he 
could have taken  without incurring higher rate tax in tax year 2017/18  is around  £40,000.  So 
that would  have left a balance of £12,320 to be taken  the following year. I have calculated 
that the additional tax that he has paid as a result of the delay is £2,940.60. I think this 
should be paid to Mr B by AXG. I also note that the additional tax was due by 31 January 
2020 so I think  AXG should add 8% simple interest to this amount from 31 January 2020  to 
the date of settlement.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct  AXG Money Limited  to; 
Pay the sum of £2,940.60 to Mr B within 28 days of being notified  of his acceptance 
of my final decision.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to this amount from 31 January  2020  
to the date of settlement*.
Pay an additional  sum of £200  to Mr B in recognition of the trouble and upset this 
matter has caused to him
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AXG  to take off tax from this interest. AXG must  give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN34195724Appendix  Summary of Mr Bs Income Tax Position
Actual Position
2017/18 Income  (£) Tax (£)
Tax due @ 0%     4,059.00               -   
Tax due @ 20%               -                 -   
Tax due @ 40%               -                 -   
2018/19 Income  (£) Tax (£)
Tax due @ 0%   11,850.00               -   
Tax due @ 20%   34,860.00     6,972.00 
Tax due @ 40%     8,412.00     3,364.80 
Total 59,181.00   10,336.80 
Proposed Position
2017/18 Income  (£) Tax (£)
Tax due @ 0%   10,350.00               -   
Tax due @ 20%   33,709.00     6,741.80 
Tax due @ 40%               -                 -   
2018/19 Income  (£) Tax (£)
Tax due @ 0%   11,850.00               -   
Tax due @ 20%     3,272.00        654.40 
Tax due @ 40%               -                 -   
Total 59,181.00     7,396.20 
Key Assumptions
Mr Bs other income and tax allowances remain unchanged
No account  has been taken of dividend and interest income  as these fall below the 
relevant thresholds
No allowance  is made for an increase  in investment income  on the pension monies. 
This is most  likely  offset by pension income  being received later and so additional  
mortgage interest being incurred.
Ref: DRN3419572