K822xcomplaint
Miss K complains  that FirstRand Bank  Limited  (trading as MotoNovo Finance)  mishandled 
her purchase of a used  car via a hire purchase  agreement. 
background 
In February 2018  Miss K visited a car dealership. She says the garage didnt have the 
particular car she was interested in but that she had felt pressurised and intimidated while 
there. A hire purchase agreement for five years  had been drawn up in Miss Ks name for 
another used  car.
Miss K says she didnt  sign this agreement though it does have  an electronic signature on it. 
Miss K took the car with her when she left the dealership.
The following  day Miss K says she contacted the dealership to hand  the car back and cancel 
the agreement. The dealership said that to cancel the agreement Miss K would need to 
settle the finance as the 14 day cooling  off period applied only to the finance agreement  
and not to the agreement  to purchase  the car. Miss K didnt cancel  the agreement.
The first payment under the agreement was due in April 2018  and was made up of one 
months payment  and a £199  admin fee. Unfortunately the first direct debit failed on two 
occasions so Miss K paid this first payment  via her debit card. However she only paid the 
monthly premium payment and not the admin fee. This led to a £15 default  charge  and a £5 
fee being added to her account.  Miss K also had a late payment recorded on her account.
Miss K complained to MotoNovo and said she hadnt signed  the agreements  paperwork and 
had felt intimidated over the process. She said she hadnt understood that there would be 
fees added  to the agreement and that shed  been  told all the monthly payments would be 
the same.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Miss Ks complaint. It said it had contacted  the dealership who had 
confirmed Miss K had read through and understood the documents  before signing the 
agreement. MotoNovo said it didnt agree Miss K had been misled.
Miss K was unhappy  at MotoNovos response and complained to this service. She also said 
she was concerned that £100 shed put down as a deposit hadnt been  included in the 
paperwork.
During our adjudicators  investigation of Miss Ks complaint MotoNovo offered to reimburse 
Miss K the fees shed  been charged for the late payment.  Our adjudicator  said that he 
thought that would be a fair settlement. He didnt  recommend that her complaint about being 
misled over the agreement should be upheld.
Our adjudicator said looking  at the hire purchase agreement he could see it had been signed  
electronically which wasnt  unusual.  He said he didnt have any information  that led him to 
believe the dealership had pressurised Miss K into acquiring a car under finance. He said 
Miss K had left the dealership with the car and made payments  under the agreement. She 
hadnt been able to provide an explanation as to why shed done that.
Our adjudicator said he appreciated Miss K had contacted the dealership the following day 
to cancel the agreement and hand  the car back but the dealership had been correct  when  it 
Ref: DRN36106982had declined  to take the car back. He said that under the agreement,  although the finance 
could be cancelled, Miss K was still required  to pay for the car. She wasnt entitled  to cancel 
her agreement to purchase  the car only the finance agreement.
Our adjudicator said that the admin  fees were set out in the agreement and were standard  
costs for this type of agreement. He said by signing the agreement Miss K had agreed to pay 
them.
Our adjudicator said that Miss Ks £100  payment hadnt been a deposit  but a payment to 
secure the car. This amount had been deducted from the cost of the car and so the 
dealership had included this amount by reducing the cost of the car by £100.
Our adjudicator said Miss K had raised that shed had some  problems with the car but hadnt 
provided any evidence  of any repairs or faults.  Neither MotoNovo nor the dealership had 
been contacted by Miss K about  any faults with the car. He said he hadnt  been able to 
investigate this any further.
Miss K disagreed with our adjudicators view. She said she hadnt entered into an agreement 
to buy the car and hadnt signed a direct debit authorisation form.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K says she attended  the dealership with a friend but that they didnt understand finance 
agreements and so werent able to assist her, She says she felt intimidated  and pressurised 
while there. Miss K says she didnt sign the hire purchase agreement nor did she sign the 
form authorising that the direct debit payments for the car could be taken from her bank 
account.
Looking at the documentation I can see there is an electronic signature on both the 
agreement and the direct debit  form. Miss K hasnt been able give any explanation as to how 
these documents  were  signed. And I have to take into account that she left the dealership  
with the car which I dont  think is something  someone would do if they didnt think  theyd 
bought it. Ive also seen this point  has been  raised several times with Miss K but that she 
hasnt given a reason  as to why she drove the car away.
So think  its more likely  than not then not that Miss K signed the documentation and agreed 
to enter  into the hire purchase agreement. And by signing the agreement  Miss K was 
showing shed read and understood the terms and conditions  and was happy to be bound by 
them. I think the agreement is clear that there  are admin fees included and that there  was a 
14 day right to withdraw from the finance  agreement. However, as stated, the right to 
withdraw is only from the credit agreement  itself and not from the agreement  to purchase the 
car. So I cant say the dealership acted unreasonably in declining  to take the car back.
Looking at the fees that have been added I cant say these are unusual or excessive for this 
type of agreement. I cant say that MotoNovo has acted unreasonably by including them  in 
the hire purchase  agreement. 
Ref: DRN36106983The agreement is for five years. The first and last payments are higher as they include 
admin fees. And I think  its clear from the agreement that not every payment is for the same 
amount. Miss Ks first direct debit failed and she had to make a payment using her debit 
card. She didnt  include the fees in this payment and incurred late fee charges. Ive seen that 
MotoNovo has offered  to reimburse  Miss K this amount which I think  is fair as its likely 
Miss K made a mistake about  the amount she had to pay. However, I cant  say that 
MotoNovo would have been wrong to note this late payment on her credit file if it has done 
so as it is under an obligation to accurately reflect the payment history for an account.
Im satisfied that the £100 Miss K paid to secure  the car was put towards the cost by being 
deducted from the cars sale price.
So looking  at the evidence I have for this complaint I dont  have enough to say Miss K was 
pressurised to take the car and I cant accept she didnt know  shed entered  into an 
agreement to purchase the car. I think its reasonable  to say she agreed to the hire 
purchases terms and conditions.
I think the settlement  offer to reimburse the late payment charges and fees of £20 is fair and 
reasonable and Im not asking MotoNovo to do more.
Ive seen that Miss K would not like to settle this agreement. She will need  to obtain the 
settlement figure from MotoNovo and decide if she wants to follow this process.
my final decision
For the reasons  give above Im not upholding Miss Ks complaint. I think the offer from 
MotoNovo to reimburse the £20 charges for the late payment  is fair and reasonable and Im 
not asking it to do more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 January 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3610698