K821x#15complaint
The executors of Mr and Mrs Gs estate complain about Allianz Insurance  Plc (Allianz) 
claim decision and handling  of an escape of water claim on Mr Gs home  insurance  policy.
background
The late Mr and Mrs G had three  properties (property P, Flat A and Flat J). Mr and Mrs G 
spent their time between  Flat A and property P. Flat J, I understand was let. 
On 3 April 2018  an escape of water  claim was registered with Allianz.  There  had been an 
escape of water from the loft at property P.
Allianzs loss adjuster  inspected the property  on 12 April 2018.  The cause of the damage 
was water freezing  in the loft due to sub-zero temperatures during March 2018.  The date of 
the event was likely to be 3 March 2018 and linked to the weather front called  Beast from 
the East.
Allianz declined  the claim  on 17 May 2018.  It said a claim for escape  of water was excluded 
when a property  is left unoccupied. Unoccupied  is defined by the policy as not having  been 
lived in for more than 60 days  in a row and Allianz  had been told the last visit to property P 
was prior to October 2017  several months  before the incident.
A complaint was raised  about the declination of the claim and that the delays  had caused  
further damage to the property. Allianz  issued its final response on 12 July 2018. It accepted 
that the correspondence address was changed in 2007 to Flat A following a telephone call. 
And the renewal documents for property P issued in February 2008 and each year thereafter  
were sent to Flat A. Allianz said these documents contained answers to questions  it asked,  
one of which was:
 Is your home occupied  by you and your resident family and never left unattended  for more  
than 60 days at any one time? 
The answer stated  was Yes. The document also says,  If anything  is incorrect  or you think 
you have omitted to tell us something  important which affects your quote or cover, please 
contact us immediately.
Allianz said whilst the correspondence address was changed on the policy,  this would not 
mean its underwriters would automatically  know property P was unoccupied as a 
correspondence address can be amended or added for a number of different reasons.  It also 
said the policy document states the water should  be cut off and the system drained  if the 
property is without heat in winter or left unoccupied for more  than 30 days  in a row. Allianz 
said this hadnt  been completed  and the pipes  had frozen causing a burst during the sub-
zero temperatures in early March. It therefore maintained its decision to decline the claim 
due to the unoccupancy exclusion.
Sadly, Mr and Mrs G died in October and November 2018. So, the executors have continued 
to discuss their concerns  with Allianz.
Allianz didnt support  the executors claim that further damage had occurred because of the 
delay in investigating the claim. It reviewed the executors report  which stated the damage  
had got worse over time. It said the incident was reported to Allianz a month after it 
Ref: DRN35263382occurred. Mould and fungus had grown  since the leak occurred, but it wasnt  satisfied this 
was solely  due to the three weeks it took to review the loss adjusters report.
Allianzs loss adjuster  said any delay would not have  exacerbated any damage aside from 
the mould / fungus  growth itself. This would not ultimately cause any increase in repair costs 
due to the scale of the existing damage. The hall where photographs have been provided 
shows that the walls / ceiling / flooring were already damaged and would have been included  
in the original scope of works regardless of whether any mould growth was to occur.  The 
loss adjuster also confirmed that the contents  within the property, were classed as entirely 
beyond repair due to the extent, location and amount of time the leak had been ongoing.
Allianz did, however,  acknowledge  delays  in reviewing the loss adjusters report  and offered 
£150 to recognise  these  delays.
Unhappy with the response, the executors  referred  the complaint to our service, they feel 
their late parents had joint occupancy  between Flat A and property P and the insurer was 
aware of this, so it was unfair to decline  the claim. 
Our investigator said Allianz  had fairly applied the terms and conditions of the policy when 
declining the claim.  She felt the £150  compensation offered  for the delay in Allianz  reviewing 
the loss adjuster report was fair. However, the executors also raised that Allianz  had refused 
to speak to one of them  back in 2019  and he had raised a complaint about this. Our 
investigator requested  Allianz to pay an additional  £50 compensation for the delays.
The executors say their parents made the insurer aware they were spending their time 
between two properties back in 1997. They  think  the insurer  shouldve been aware of the 
joint occupancy as it was never rescinded.  So, have asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint.
The complaint has therefore passed  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There have been  many points raised  by the executors, I want  them to be assured Ive taken 
their comments into account, but I may not refer to each individual point as the crux of this 
complaint is the declination of the claim and if there  were delays that caused further damage 
to the property. I also understand the executors  feel strongly  that the insurer  knew  their 
parents had joint occupancy.
Events leading  up to the claim
The executors say the schedules from 1997  for Flat A and Flat J mention Mr Gs joint 
occupancy of Flat A and property P. My understanding  is that when this statement was 
made in 1997,  Mr and Mrs G divided their time between both properties  and therefore  
occupied/lived in both properties. The executors have said the insurers  have  been  fully 
aware all along  that my parents were living at either one or the other of the two properties.
The executors have mentioned how the renewal  documents  from 2018 are unclear but also 
that as Mr and Mrs G lived at Flat A and it would  not have occurred to them to check the 
Ref: DRN35263383renewal documents  for property P. They also said In good  faith my parents had agreed the 
information on this form and similar renewal  information from recent years.  They believed 
the information sent to them, to be correct and reflect  what  they had told the insurers  in the 
past. However, I have  found significant information previously given to the insurers was not 
acted upon and special advice not given to my parents, when it should have been. Had my 
parents received this then they would have known what to do when not residing at one of 
their properties and how it would affect  their cover for water  leakage from pipework
Insurers are obliged to put in the correct information to the best of their knowledge  and to 
confirm with the policyholder that the information they hold is still correct.  At this point the 
onus falls to the policyholder to ensure they look through the documents provided  and inform  
the insurer of any inaccuracies or changes they need to make  to the policy  before agreeing 
to the terms that become binding. I can see on all documents  provided  the insurer has 
clearly said they should  be notified  of any incorrect information on the renewal  documents. 
And this is a common expectation  with most  insurance policies.  I cant see this was done, 
and I therefore  cant hold the insurer responsible if Mr and Mrs G didnt  check  the 
documents.
I understand in 2007, contact was made with Allianz. The result  of this call was that the 
correspondence address for the policy relevant to this claim was changed to Flat A. The 
executors say Mrs G had telephoned the insurers to inform it that they would be using Flat A 
to mainly sleep at rather than property  P. This was because Mrs G was badly troubled by a 
back injury and it was making it difficult to use the stairs at property P. 
Due to the time that gone by the call recording is no longer available  and so I cant say with 
any certainty what was discussed  during that call. But if the call went as suggested and 
Mr and Mrs G said they were  mainly sleeping at Flat A this suggests that they were  to some 
degree still sleeping  occasionally at property P so it could be argued  that both properties 
were still being occupied/lived in. I think this shows that Mr and Mrs G were  aware to some 
degree that it was important to update the insurer of their current  situation. 
By 2010, the executors  say Mr and Mrs G no longer  occupied/lived  at property P. They  
returned occasionally to check the property,  use the garden and collect  the post. The visits 
were around  once every two months however the property  was last visited on 10 October 
2017 due to their ill health. This change  in circumstances wasnt, I understand, disclosed to 
Allianz at the time.
And by October  2017, Mr and Mrs G has stopped  attending property P all together.  From 
what Ive seen, this change in circumstance wasnt disclosed to Allianz  at the time.
The policy renewed  in February 2018.  The renewal forms contained a document that lists 
statements which the policyholder must answer yes or no to. One of these statements was:
Is your home occupied  by you or your resident family and never left unattended  for more 
than 60 days at any one time? The answer  to this was yes
The answer to this statement was incorrect. At the time of answering  this statement, 
Mr and Mrs G had not attended or occupied (lived in) property P, since  October 2017. So, 
while joint occupancy may have existed in 1997, circumstances had certainly changed  
several times in the 20 years since then.  And at the time of renewing the policy  in 2018,  
property P had been left unoccupied  and unattended for more  than 60 days. I appreciate  
Ref: DRN35263384Mr and Mrs G were spending  their time between  both Flat A and property P when they were 
well. However,  having  joint occupancy doesnt  negate from having to adhere to all the 
insurance policy terms and conditions for each property and this includes any occupancy 
clause.
I acknowledge that it was a very difficult time for Mr and Mrs G around the time of policy 
renewal. And, understandably,  insurance  was not their priority. I also acknowledge 
Mr and Mrs G had been loyal customers for a very long time. Despite taking on board these 
points, I dont think its reasonable  to ask Allianz  to act outside  of the policy  terms.
Claim decision
Under the terms of Mr Gs policy, damage caused  by an escape  of water is not covered 
while Loss or damage caused after your  home has been left unfurnished  or unoccupied 
for more than 60 days in a row. Unoccupied is defined by the policy  as not having been  
lived in for more than 60 days  in a row.
As mentioned above the executors confirmed the property hadnt  been lived  in since 2010 
but Mr and Mrs G made frequent visits, but due to the deterioration of their health they hadnt 
attended since October 2017. I also note the executors  point that it was Mr Gs 
understanding of occupancy  would  have been  that the insured does not necessarily need  to 
live/sleep at the property. 
On balance, my opinion is that Mr and Mrs Gs frequent visits, were  just visits and they 
were not living  in the property. As such,  I consider that the property would reasonably  be 
considered unoccupied when the water  damage occurred to it. Under the terms of the policy,  
cover for such water damage is excluded. So, Im satisfied that Allianz has declined  the 
claim fairly based on the terms  of the policy.
I acknowledge Allianzs point that the policy document also stated  the water should  be cut off 
and the system drained if the property  is without heat in winter or left unoccupied for more 
than 30 days in a row. This was a recommended precaution rather  than a requirement of 
Mr and Mrs G, so I dont  feel this is relevant  to the claim determination.
Claim delays
The executors mention  delays on the part of Allianz  whilst investigating  the claim which they 
think caused further damage. Theyve  provided a report from an independent surveyor  dated  
20 June 2018  to support their claim.
There was approximately  one month  between the incident and the Allianz being made aware  
of the claim on 3 April 2018.  Allianzs loss adjuster attended the property on 12 April 2018. 
The outcome of the claim was confirmed on 14 May 2018.
Its fair for an insurer  to be given  time to inspect the property, assess  all claim evidence and 
issue a claim decision.  So, I dont think there  was a seven-week delay as the report  from the 
executors surveyor suggests. I think Allianz couldve communicated the claim decision a 
little sooner than it did but the evidence,  in my view, doesnt suggest a delay of a few weeks 
would have exacerbated the damage  already  done by the escape of water.
Other issues
Ref: DRN35263385In respect of the asbestos embargo,  I agree with the investigator. It wasnt  unreasonable for 
the loss adjuster to have done  this given that it is quite  an old property with artexed ceiling, 
and artex ceilings  usually  contain asbestos. I would  expect  the loss adjuster to air on the 
side of caution.
The executors raised the issue of transference of the policy  from one business to another 
and this could  lead to mistakes. I dont think this affects the claim because  Ive not doubted  
whether joint occupancy existed in 1997   that is Mr and Mrs G divided their time between  
two properties.  But I must  look at the relevant terms and conditions at the time of the claim. 
Even if joint occupancy existed, Mr and Mrs G simply  didnt  occupy property P within 60 
days prior to the claim. So, the exclusion  applies.
I acknowledge the point that despite  being provided authority by Mr and Mrs G, Allianz  didnt 
allow the executors  to deal with claim. There appears to have been some  confusion and it 
took a few days to sort out. I acknowledge this was at a very difficult time and I think the 
conclusion reached  by the investigator and the compensation recommended to recognise 
these failings on the part of Allianz  is reasonable.
my final decision
Overall, taking into account everything thats happened. Im upholding this complaint and 
direct Allianz Insurance Plc to pay £200 to Mr and Mrs Gs estate for the impact of its 
mistakes and inconvenience caused. It may deduct from this any sum already paid.
Allianz should pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which we tell it the 
executors for the estate  of Mr and Mrs G accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this, it 
must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors for 
the estate of Mr and Mrs G to accept or reject my decision  before 2 January 2021.
Angela Casey
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3526338