K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the way that Capital One (Europe) plc has dealt with her credit  card 
account.
background
Mrs M has a credit  card account with Capital One. Shes made previous complaints to it  
and to this service  about the way that its dealt with her account. She complained to this 
service again in September 2018  and this service is able to consider her complaint: that 
interest and charges were applied when she was on a payment plan; that the account was 
defaulted when  it was subject to that arrangement; and about  the way that information about 
her arrears  has been recorded  on her credit file.
Her complaint was sent to Capital  One and it said that: shed  contacted it to set up a 
payment plan after the default notice had been  sent but she hadnt made the agreed 
payments so her account was defaulted; interest and fees automatically  stop when an 
account defaults and the only interest  and charges  applied to her account  were when she 
wasnt on a payment plan;  and that the information it had provided to the credit  reference 
agencies was correct.  
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  She said that she 
was unable to agree that Capital One had treated Mrs M unfairly. Mrs M has asked for her 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that Capital One has incorrectly 
registered a default against her and that, as a result  of the default,  shes had to take a 
mortgage at an interest  rate of 3.99 % rather than 1.7%.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M has clearly  had some issues with her account for some time.  Shes  agreed  payment 
plans with Capital  One  but hasnt made all of the required payments  and its defaulted 
her account.  Shes complained to Capital  One and to this service about the way that Capital 
One has dealt  with her account. In this decision Im only considering the issues  referred to 
above in the first paragraph under the heading  Background. 
Capital One says that it doesnt apply interest  and charges when  an account is on a payment 
plan and that interest and charges automatically  stop when an account is defaulted. It also 
says that, if a payment plan is broken because the required payments arent  made, it will 
then apply charges  and interest to the account. And it says that it has only applied interest 
and charges to Mrs Ms account when she wasnt on a payment plan. Im not persuaded that 
theres enough evidence to show that Capital One has applied interest or charges to Mrs Ms 
account when  it was on a payment plan or after it was defaulted. So I dont consider that it 
has applied  interest  and charges on Mrs Ms account incorrectly.
Capital One sent a formal  demand  letter to Mrs M in July 2016  about the arrears on her 
account and the letter said that she had 28 days to repay the balance or her account would 
be defaulted. She phoned Capital  One in August 2016 - after the 28 period had ended - to 
set up a payment  plan,  but she was sent a letter by Capital One two days  later which  said 
that her account had been defaulted. 
Ref: DRN34213122She says that she thought that the payment plan would stop the account being defaulted. 
But shed missed  the payment deadline  that shed been given and when she phoned Capital 
One it had started  the default  process and the payment plan wasnt  enough to stop it. Capital 
One accepted that Mrs M was provided with incorrect information during that phone  call so it 
offered her £150  compensation.  As Mrs M hadnt  made the payment required in the default 
notice by the deadline I dont consider  that it was wrong for it to continue  with the default 
after shed set up a payment plan.  She was given incorrect information  but it offered  her 
£150 compensation for that  which I consider to have been  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. But that offer wasnt accepted  by Mrs M and it was withdrawn by Capital 
One.
Mrs M has also complained about  the information  that Capital One has reported to the credit 
reference agencies  and the effect of it on her mortgage. Capital One is required to report  
true and accurate information to the credit  reference  agencies.  It reported that her account 
had been defaulted  which was true and accurate. Its for the credit reference agencies  to 
decide how to use that information   and Capital One isnt responsible for the rating systems 
used by the credit reference agencies. I appreciate that the default is likely to have affected 
the credit  thats  available to Mrs M  but Im not persuaded  that Capital One has acted  
incorrectly in recording the default on her credit  file.
For these reasons I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Capital One to 
refund any interest  or charges to Mrs M, to remove the default, to amend the adverse 
information that its recorded  on her credit file or to take any other  action in response to her 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3421312