K820x#14complaint
Miss Ls complaint  is about her discretionary investment account in EFG Private Bank 
Limited (EFG).  She alleges that:
Her account and investments have been  mismanaged in terms of performance and in 
terms of transactions  which were  costly (due to charges/fees) but were  not in her 
best interest (that is, her account  was churned).
Around £20,000 was misappropriated from her account around 2002 and there have 
been suspicious payment activities within her account.
background
Miss L presented her complaint on the basis of her submissions   about the allegations  
and on the basis  of statements about  transactions in, disposals from and earnings from the 
account from 2002 onwards. She says evidence of excessive trading is evident  from the 
account statements, as is evidence of sales that crystalized losses  as opposed  to holding 
the relevant assets until their values increased.  She also says the destination of the missing 
amount (around  £20,000) does not appear to be accounted for in the statements and she 
asserts that EFG must explain where it went. She noted references to different  account 
numbers within the statements  which, she says, warrants explanation too.
EFG disputes the complaint. In the main, its position is as follows:
It had a discretionary role in managing Miss Ls account and it did so in accordance 
with the investment mandate/strategy agreed  with her and the medium/high risk 
profile agreed with her. It made trading decisions within these parameters and it has 
explained the rationale behind  some of those decisions to her. It investigated  her 
accounts activities and could  find no evidence of mismanagement or churning.
Miss L made  a comparison  between  the accounts performance and an account  she 
holds with another provider. It cannot comment on the performance of assets it has 
not managed,  there is a bespoke nature to discretionary investment management. 
However the comparisons are unfair because the comparator account appears to 
have reinvested income  whereas  Miss L withdrew income from her EFG account  
and because the comparator account  appears  to have had a high risk profile so it 
would have had greater scope for growth  than her medium to high risk EFG account.
In its investigation  into Miss Ls accounts activities  it could find no evidence of the 
alleged misappropriation or of the alleged suspicious payment activities. All 
payments out of the account were made to the bank account (in her name)  she 
nominated at the outset, which has not changed since.  It does not make  
unauthorised payments out of an account to third parties  and no such payments were  
made from Miss Ls account. Outflows from her account were  limited to withdrawals 
she requested and dividend and interest payments to her. Furthermore, her signed 
approval would have been  required in order to add new bank account details to her 
EFG account.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He broadly agreed with the points made  by EFG and said he could not find evidence  
of the allegations made  by Miss L. Miss L did not accept this outcome. She asserted that 
evidence in support  of her complaint had not been  properly considered. The complaint was 
then referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN30852492my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am persuaded by the submissions made  by EFG. Available evidence  appears to support 
those submissions more  than they support  Miss Ls allegations. I understand the strength  of 
feeling with which she has pursued  her complaint and with which she stands by the 
complaint. However,  my task is to consider the issues  within  the complaint and to determine,  
on the balance  of probabilities and on the balance  of available evidence, whether (or not) the 
complaint (or any distinct parts of it) should be upheld. Having done this, my conclusion  is 
that the complaint is not upheld.
Mismanagement (performance)
This service does not normally  address  matters  of performance in isolation  especially  
where an investments  performance is subject to risks and is not guaranteed.  However,  we 
can look into allegations that discretionary investment management has been  conducted 
negligently and/or  in conflict with the mandate given  to a firm (and in conflict  with an 
investors best interest). 
Miss Ls case features  such  an allegation   about management in conflict  with her best 
interest, which also relates to the mandate given to EFG. I do not address  Miss Ls allegation 
about performance in isolation, but I address the allegation about  management in conflict 
with her best interest/the mandate  given  to EFG. 
There is evidence of agreement, between both parties, to have the account discretionarily 
managed by EFG in line with an agreed risk profile  for Miss L and in line with her objective  
for both growth and income. A know-your-client (KYC) document  signed  by her in 2004 
confirms mutual agreement on her moderate  risk profile and her mixed objective.  
I do not consider  it unreasonable for EFG to have  interpreted  her risk profile  as being 
medium/high, in practice, given that the same  document confirms that she wanted  to  
gain maximum  return  on capital investment.  It would  not have been unreasonable  for EFG 
to interpret this as indicating a risk profile  at the higher  end of the medium  or moderate level.  
Furthermore, it does not appear that Miss L disputes  this profile or the mixed objective.
Evidence, on balance, does  not indicate  that EFG managed Miss Ls portfolio outside of the 
mandate summarised above. The account statements show  remittances of dividends and 
interests to her as income and, overall, EFG appears to have pursued a strategy for growth 
of the account   and both parties were aware there  were no guarantees in this respect. I 
address the excessive trading and churning allegations separately below, but in terms of the 
wider matter of EFGs compliance  with its mandate for managing Miss Ls account I do not 
consider that the alleged mismanagement has been  established. 
Mismanagement (churning)
A series of transactions that are each suitable  when viewed in isolation may be unsuitable if 
the recommendation or the decisions to trade  are made with a frequency  that is not in the 
best interests of the client. 
Ref: DRN30852493The above,  from the Financial Conduct  Authoritys Handbook (in its Conduct of Business 
Rules), is broadly the regulators definition of churning. The focus is on the frequency  with 
which a firm carries  out transactions for its client and on its clients  best interests. It is also 
important to add the element of agreed  discretion, granted to a firm in a discretionary 
investment management  arrangement,  to the consideration of transactions  carried out by a 
firm for its client and for its clients best interests.
There is dispute over the interpretation of some of the trading activities in the account 
statements  with regards  to the both the activities and the fees they generated. I have seen 
evidence of EFGs charges/fee arrangements and I am satisfied that they were  within  the 
agreement between both parties that led to the discretionary  management arrangement. The 
issue is whether (or not) trading  activity in the account amounted to churning, as defined,  
whereby EFG was guided  more  by generating fees than by Miss Ls best interest.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that there  is enough evidence to establish  
churning in Miss Ls case. It is to be expected that a firm given complete discretion to 
manage a clients  investments in line with an agreed mandate  as was the case  for EFG  
will proceed to do precisely  that. Miss L might consider, perhaps with the benefit  of hindsight, 
that there  were better alternatives  to particular investment decisions made by EFG but that 
does not automatically  conclude  that those decisions were against  her best interest.  
As I said above, I am satisfied that EFG complied with the accounts mandate. With regards 
to its investment decisions within that mandate and in the absence  of evidence of negligent 
decisions that no reasonably minded investment manager would have made, they appear 
reasonable. EFG has explained  its rationale  behind some of them   as highlighted within  the 
complaint  in one example it sold assets to crystalize gains and in another it sold assets to 
help fund a withdrawal that Miss L sought to make. 
Miss Ls reference to holding a loss making  asset  until its fortunes improved is 
understandable. However in the absence of a guarantee, at the time, that a loss making  
assets value will rise in the future I do not consider it fair to say EFGs decision to sell was 
unreasonable. 
I also do not consider  it fair to conduct  a forensic  analysis  of its decision making to the extent 
that Miss L appears  to seek. Having conducted itself within the mandate for the account and 
in the absence of negligent  decision making,  EFGs discretion allowed  it to manage the 
account as a whole in her interest  and based  on its expertise. 
I do not suggest that instances of unnecessary trading  distinct  from frequent trading  
and/or uneconomic trading which could  amount  to churning should be ignored. They  should  
not. However, Miss L does not appear  to have  presented such  a case or such  examples.
Misappropriation and Suspicious Payments
I have considered the EFG account  statements and the details of the bank account Miss L 
registered in the account in 2002.  I have  not seen evidence of alternative bank account 
details being added  to the account and I have  not seen cause to reject EFGs assertion that 
it remitted payments only to the bank account  Miss L nominated  and not to an unauthorised 
third party.
Ref: DRN30852494The remittances from the account  including  income payments  appear  to have different 
transaction numbers,  but not different account numbers as alleged.  The EFG account  
number appears  to remain the same throughout the statements. In addition  to BACS 
remittances there are some  transfer funds  to entries which  refer to a destination based on 
Miss Ls EFG account number. The details of these entries are not clear. However, and in as 
far as is relevant  to the misappropriation allegation,  these entries do not appear to show 
external payments to an unauthorised third party.
Overall and on balance,  I do not consider that enough evidence exists  to support Miss Ls 
allegation of misappropriation and/or suspicious payment activities.  I appreciate  that she is 
likely to be unhappy with this conclusion and that she will likely retain the view that her query  
over the allegedly misappropriated amount remains unanswered. However, this conclusion  
is based on available evidence and the overall implication of that evidence is that 
remittances from the account went into her bank account and nowhere else.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Miss Ls complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or reject my decision 
before 20 December 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3085249