K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  a fixed sum loan agreement he took out with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to 
pay for replacement windows and doors was mis-sold and was unaffordable.  Hes also 
complained about the quality of the installation.
Mr L has been represented throughout but, to keep things simple,  Ill only refer to Mr L. 
background
A representative from a windows and doors  company Ill refer to as A visited Mr L and an 
appointment was made in February 2013  to discuss an installation. Mr L agreed to enter  into 
a fixed sum loan agreement with Hitachi  for A to install seven  new windows, two doors and 
one French door. The cash price of the installation was around  £9,400  but Mr L received a 
discount of around  £900 for taking  out a credit  agreement to fund it. This meant the fixed  
sum loan agreement was for around  £8,500. It was due to be paid back with one payment of 
£276.57 and 95 payments  of £181.57.  So, if it ran its full course,  the total amount payable 
was slightly over £17,500.
A survey was carried out a couple of weeks after the initial  appointment, and the installation 
took place in March 2013. Hitachi and A said that Mr L would have signed  a satisfaction note 
afterwards. 
From what  I can see, Mr L contacted A because of an issue  with one of the doors  in 
June 2013. And A came out to fix it in August 2013. 
Mr L settled the agreement in October 2014.  This meant the total amount paid for the 
windows and doors was just over £11,000.  
Following on from that, in January 2018, Mr L contacted  A regarding an issue with a hinge 
on one of the windows. A came out shortly afterwards to replace the hinge.
Mr L wrote  to Hitachi in January 2019 to complain. It looks  like his original complaint letter 
went missing,  so he sent it again  in March 2019.  In summary, Mr L said he wanted  to raise a 
complaint because:
The windows and doors were mis-sold and misrepresented. 
Hitachi breached  rules around  affordability assessments. 
There were  problems  with the quality of the installation. 
Mr L said he wouldnt have entered into the agreement had it not been for the mistakes of A 
and Hitachi. And so, he wanted the agreement cancelled, a full refund of everything paid 
under the agreement along with 8% simple annual interest.
Ref: DRN35543842Hitachi sent its final response letter to Mr L in May 2019. In summary, after speaking to A, it 
said:
Mr L was wrong to refer to the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules and guidance 
in his complaint  correspondence because the relevant  authority at the point  of sale 
was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). 
Mr L was provided with sufficient information about the agreement, and how it 
worked. He was also given enough  time to consider  everything.  
From  the date the paperwork was signed, Mr L had seven days  to change  his mind  if 
he was unhappy  with the arrangement. And there was a cooling-off period.
Mr L had the option  to use cash to pay for everything up to and including  the date of 
installation. 
Mr L would have  signed a satisfaction  note. 
Mr L decided to refer the complaint to our service. He provided  some more detail of why he 
was unhappy.  In summary,  he said:
A misled him in to thinking  taking out a fixed sum loan agreement  to pay for the 
windows and doors would save him money, which was incorrect due to the interest 
charged. 
Hitachi was negligent because it broke  the rules and regulations  of the OFT 
regarding irresponsible lending. 
A acted  unfairly by not honouring the 10 year guarantee  it offered. Mr L said hed 
contacted A on numerous occasions to report faults  and it didnt respond. 
A deliberately breached OFT rules and undertook unfair business practices by 
offering an unrealistic inducement that coerced him into signing the agreement  with 
Hitachi. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. She thought  Mr L had enough 
time to review the agreement as he was provided  with a cooling-off period.  She thought A 
had given Mr L enough information about the agreement.  
Our investigator thought Hitachi should have  asked Mr L further  questions  before offering the 
agreement. But Mr L hadnt provided  enough  information to show  the agreement  was 
unaffordable.
Based on the evidence  she had, our investigator  thought that A had resolved the quality 
issues as and when  theyd been reported. She said she didnt have enough  evidence  to 
show that A didnt respond accordingly when  Mr L had issues  with the goods. And she didnt 
have enough evidence the goods werent of satisfactory quality or that they hadnt  been 
installed properly. 
After taking everything into account, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr L didnt agree. He said that Hitachi should  at least refund the interest element of the loan 
agreement. He also referred to the ongoing problems with the locks  and handles,  and that 
there was a design fault with the windows because they werent  able to ventilate the property  
properly. 
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.  
Ref: DRN35543843my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account 
relevant law and regulations; regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice; 
and what I believe to have  been good industry practice at the relevant time.  
I also want to acknowledge that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. But I want  to 
assure Mr L and Hitachi that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on 
something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because  Ive concentrated on what  I 
think are the key issues. Our powers  allow me to do this.
Mr L bought the windows  and doors  using a regulated fixed  sum loan agreement. And our 
service is able to consider  complaints  relating to these sorts of agreements.  
Sale of the windows  and doors
When considering  if Hitachi acted fairly in dealing with Mr Ls claim, I take into account  the 
relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  makes  
Hitachi responsible  for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier (A) under 
certain conditions. From  what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made 
under section 75 have been met. 
Ive first looked at the documentation from the point of sale.  Mr L signed  a fixed sum loan 
agreement that sets out:
The description of the goods.
The total cash price.
The advance payment.
The amount  of credit. 
The total charge for credit. 
The amount  of interest  charged. 
The document fee. 
The interest rate.
The duration and details of the payments required. 
The agreement also sets out that Mr L could  have withdrawn from the agreement,  for a 
period of 14 days, which began either  the day after the agreement was made  or, if later,  the 
day after Mr L received  confirmation that the agreement had been accepted. 
Mr L was given an illustration form that sets out details of how much  the windows and doors 
would cost, along with the discount he would receive for taking out finance. The illustration 
also sets out how much Mr L would pay in total if he kept to the minimum monthly payments, 
along with an example  of how much Mr L would pay if he were  to increase his payments. 
The illustration shows that the amount of interest  Mr L would  pay would be reduced  if he 
were to increase  his monthly payments. 
Ref: DRN35543844Mr L was also given  a purchase order with details  of the price  of the windows and doors, the 
discount and the deposit amount.  The purchase order also came with details of Mr Ls right 
to cancel. He would have been  required to send a cancellation slip to A within  seven days  of 
the date of the purchase order to exercise  that right. 
Mr L was required to sign a copy of the survey  that was completed a couple  of weeks  after 
the sales meeting  that authorised A to manufacture  the windows  and doors. 
Hitachi also says Mr L was given  further  documents at the point of sale  such as a booklet  
explaining how the agreement could be paid back.  The booklet includes details of how 
consumers can pay back agreements early   thereby reducing the amount of interest they 
pay. 
Based on all the documentation Ive seen, I think the main  features of the agreement,  
including how much Mr L was required to pay, and the different ways  he could pay off the 
agreement were made fairly clear to him. Ive not found the documentation would have 
misled him.  
I havent seen  the satisfaction note that was allegedly completed by Mr L. But, on balance,  I 
think its more than likely he did sign one because Im told this is what triggers Hitachi 
sending the money  for the windows  and doors  to A. Ive also seen no evidence  that Mr L 
followed up with A or Hitachi after the agreement was signed due to being  dissatisfied  
which mightve indicated  he hadnt  signed  the satisfaction note. The only contact I can see 
between Mr L and Hitachi or A for the next few years  is set out in the background where  
there was an issue with a door, and an issue with a window, which A seems to have  come  
out reasonably  quickly  to resolve. 
Ive then gone on to think about what Mr L has said about the sale of the agreement. He 
says that As representative intimidated  him and misled him into entering  into the agreement. 
Mr L says he was cold called originally, and that the salesperson said the existing windows 
were of an older style and didnt conform to the safety standards  of the time. Mr L says the 
salesperson went  through all the discounts,  but he felt pressured  into entering into the 
agreement. And he says that the way the discount was presented was misleading.
Im very sorry to hear Mr L felt pressured  or misled  into the agreement. A hasnt been able to 
provide an account  from the salesperson that sold Mr L the windows and doors. But thats 
not particularly  unusual given it was nearly six years after the installation that Mr L 
complained. In any event,  it would have been  very hard to get an accurate account from the 
salesperson of what happened at the point of sale given  the time that had passed.  
Im not persuaded theres enough evidence to show A misled  Mr L into entering  into the 
agreement. I also dont think that providing  a discount on the cash price for paying  for the 
goods on finance in and of itself is unfair. Mr L didnt have to take out the fixed  sum loan 
agreement and he was able to settle it at any time. Taking the discount and settling the 
agreement early mightve been  the most cost-effective way for a consumer to pay for the 
installation. 
Ref: DRN35543845Furthermore, like Ive said above, both the purchase order  and credit  agreement had the 
option to withdraw  or cancel once signed  and this was intended for consumers who felt 
pressured into signing agreements and then later regretted that decision.  This cancellation 
or withdrawal was intended to allow those consumers to reconsider their position once the 
sales agent left and then stop the process. I note Mr L says he felt pressured but think it 
more likely than not that he would have  raised this at the time,  or shortly after, if that was the 
case. A simple message  to Hitachi or A could have facilitated that. 
Quality of goods  (and installation)
Mr L has also said more recently  that the goods  did not conform to a good practice guide set 
out by a federation that represents certain companies that manufacture,  supply or install 
glass and glazing products. But other  than his opinion, hes not given us any other evidence  
to show the goods were  not of satisfactory quality, or that the repairs  that were completed 
didnt bring the contract back to conformity.  Hes also not given us any evidence to show that 
A hasnt  been  willing  to carry out repairs or to honour the 10-year guarantee. 
Furthermore, it was early 2019  when Mr L complained to Hitachi  almost  six years after the 
windows were installed. Its curious theres no record of Mr L contacting Hitachi  or A sooner 
if there were  other issues with the windows not relating to the two visits mentioned  above (or 
if he felt he was misled into entering into the agreement). I also understand that Mr L now no 
longer lives at the property. So even  if I were to find the windows  or doors  werent of 
satisfactory quality, remedies such as repair or replacement would not be possible. 
Considering this, I dont  think  Hitachi acted unreasonably by declining the claim in relation to 
the quality of the goods.  
Affordability
Mr L says that Hitachi didnt carry out a reasonable assessment of affordability when it gave 
him the fixed  sum loan. Hitachi said it used information on the application  including income  
and employment  status, along with information provided by the credit reference  agencies, 
before deciding to lend to Mr L. Hitachi said it used a system  to verify Mr Ls income and it 
also estimated some  of his expenditure. 
I think there are two key questions I need to consider  in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the affordability  circumstances  of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did Hitachi complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr L would 
be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a.If so, did it make  a fair lending decision?
b.If not, would  reasonable and proportionate  checks have shown that Mr L could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did Hitachi act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some  other way?
If I think Hitachis actions disadvantaged  Mr L in any way, Ill go onto consider what  I think  is 
a fair way to put things right.
Ref: DRN35543846Like our investigator pointed out, Im not persuaded  that Hitachi  did carry out proportionate 
checks when deciding  to lend to Mr L. At the time Mr L took out the agreement,  the OFT said 
that lenders were required to complete a borrower-focussed assessment of affordability (in 
addition to a creditworthiness assessment) to see if the borrower could sustainably repay the 
lending. Given the amount  of credit was over £8,000  and Mr L may have ended up paying 
nearly £200 per month for 8 years, Im not persuaded  the checks Hitachi carried  out were 
proportionate. Hitachi had details of Mr Ls income  and carried  out a credit check. But, in this 
particular case,  I dont think that simply  estimating  his disposable income really shows  it 
carried out a borrower-focussed assessment of affordability and that it had enough  
information to show Mr L could sustainably repay the agreement. 
That being  said,  Mr L hasnt provided  us with any evidence to demonstrate what  Hitachi  
would have found had it carried out a proportionate  check. So, like our investigator  has 
pointed out, I simply dont have the evidence to say that, on balance, Hitachi would have 
found that the lending  was unaffordable. Indeed, Mr Ls payment  record was perfect, and he 
settled the agreement in full within a couple of years. While I appreciate Mr L said he was 
struggling to make payment, theres  insufficient evidence to suggest the agreement was 
unaffordable. So, Im not going  to direct Hitachi to refund  any of the interest applied to the 
agreement.
All things  considered, Im sorry to hear Mr L is unhappy. And Ive carefully considered his 
letter setting out all the things he thinks went wrong. But I dont have  the grounds to say 
Hitachi irresponsibly lent to Mr L. I dont think theres  enough  evidence  Mr L was misled into 
entering into the agreement. And I dont  think Hitachi  acted unfairly  in declining  Mr Ls 
section 75 claim. So, Im not going to direct  it to take any further action. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2021.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3554384