K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained that her motor insurer, AXA Insurance UK Plc, has wrongly  accepted 
liability for an accident that wasnt  her fault. Miss H wants AXA to restore her premium to its 
former level and compensate her for undermining her integrity and the stress shes  suffered.
background
Miss H was involved in an accident  on 5 March  2017 which  she reported to AXA.  She said 
she was driving with a passenger and had come to a stop at a junction  when  another driver 
swerved and hit her car. She said the other driver  was speeding  and using a mobile  phone  
at the time.
On 28 March 2017 the third partys insurer (TPI) and solicitors contacted AXA and said that 
they held Miss H responsible for the accident. The TPI said that Miss H emerged from a give 
way point on a side road and into collision  with the rear offside of the third partys  correctly 
proceeding vehicle. The TPI said this caused  the third party  to collide  with a parked car. The 
TPI provided AXA with the third partys sketch  and statement about the accident.
On 7 February 2018 solicitors for the passenger in Miss Hs car claimed for her personal 
injuries. They told AXA that the accident was due to Miss Hs negligence. The passenger 
said Miss H emerged from a side road into the path of an oncoming vehicle which was 
correctly proceeding  along the road. The passenger said Miss H was negligent in that she 
failed to keep  a proper lookout  and failed to stop at the give way line at the junction.
Miss H complained to AXA that the third party waited  a year to lodge a claim. And she said 
AXA should  have contacted her to establish  her view, but had wrongly  accepted liability and 
paid the claim. Miss H said her passengers personal injury  claim hadnt been paid as it 
should have been when  AXA held her to blame for the accident. Miss H also complained  that 
since the accident her premiums had increased  unfairly.
AXA said that the third party, the owner of the parked car and Miss Hs passenger thought  
she was to blame for the accident having  pulled out of a side road into collision  with the third 
partys car. AXA said the accident descriptions and damage reports meant it had to accept 
full liability for the claim. AXA told Miss H that the claim had affected her no claim discount  
(NCD) and it said that her premium for 2018 would have increased had she renewed  her 
policy with AXA. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that the third party and 
Miss Hs passenger had said that Miss H had pulled out into the path of travel of the third 
party whilst he was correctly proceeding. She said they both thought  that Miss H had caused 
the accident and so she thought that AXA had determined liability fairly on the available  
evidence. Our investigator said that AXA had considered all third-party claims.
Our investigator said AXA has shown that it calculated Miss Hs renewal premium for 2017 
based on their being  an open claim at the time and this approach  was correct. For renewal 
in 2018 she said AXA correctly calculated the premium taking into account  that there was a 
fault claim, as it had accepted liability for the claim by that time.
Miss H disagreed with the investigator. She said her passenger  wanted to claim against the 
third party and wouldn't have said Miss H was at fault. She asked why AXA hadnt  paid her 
Ref: DRN32554452passengers claim. Miss H said AXA had fabricated the information it has given  to us, and 
she requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H is unhappy that AXA accepted full liability for the claim.  Its not my role to decide who 
was actually at fault for an accident.  Instead,  I must look at whether, in reaching its decision 
to accept liability, AXA acted fairly  and reasonably. Under the terms of the policy,  AXA is 
entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees fit. It also doesnt need Miss Hs approval of 
any decision  to admit liability, settle  a claim or make a payment to a third party.  And this is a 
standard term found in most  motor insurance policies. We think  insurers can rely on this 
term as long as its fair and reasonable to do so in the circumstances.
Ive gone on to look at the facts and evidence in this case to see if, in making its decision, 
AXA acted  fairly and reasonably. Miss H said she hadnt been at fault for the accident,  but 
AXA said despite  its chasing she didnt provide a sketch or details of the accident.  AXAs  
record states that Miss H sent it a video and photos, but it said these didnt prove anything 
about the accident. AXA said that there was no evidence to support Miss Hs contention that 
the third party  had been speeding and using a mobile phone  when they collided.  And it said 
there was no independent evidence  so its one partys word  against the other  as to who was 
to blame. AXA thought  that in this situation an insurer has to decide if it would be able to 
defend the claim  in court and AXA didnt think it could.
I have seen the accident descriptions, photos and engineers report  that AXA considered  in 
deciding to accept  liability for the claim.  The engineers  report describes damage consistent  
with the accident reports from the third party and Miss Hs passenger. Both agree  that 
Miss H was negligent and caused the accident. AXA has told us that its position on liability  
was considered by its solicitors. I havent seen a legal opinion  in support of AXAs decision, 
but Miss H hasnt provided  any compelling  evidence that challenges  AXAs position. I think it 
was fair and reasonable for AXA to accept liability from all of the information available about 
the accident. AXA has settled the claims on a without prejudice  basis  which means  Miss H 
can take legal action about  the claims if she wishes, but this would be at her own cost.
Miss H said AXA hadnt contacted her before deciding  liability to ask her view about  the 
accident. Ive seen the note of Miss Hs initial call with AXA about the claim on 5 March 2017 
when it took a brief description of the accident. AXAs  records show that it tried to contact 
her on 9, 13 and 14 March 2017 requesting full details  of the accident. AXA repeated  this 
request on 18 April and 5 May 2017 when it received photos from Miss H. AXA wrote to 
Miss H on 10 November  2017 urgently requesting details  of the accident, or it said that it 
would decide  liability and deal with the claims. 
AXA said it received  no other contact  from Miss H until 25 January 2018 when she said she 
had been summoned to court by the TPI. AXA said that it never received the detailed 
description and sketch of the accident that it requested from Miss H. From what  Ive seen Im 
satisfied that AXA made  reasonable attempts to gather detailed  information about the 
accident from Miss H before deciding liability.
Ref: DRN32554453Miss H said it took the third party a year to make a claim. In fact, the third party claimed 
within a month of the accident. AXAs records also show that it considered  Miss Hs 
passengers claim.  
Miss H said her premiums have risen  significantly  which she feels is unfair as she is a 
customer of long-standing with few claims. AXA has provided us with information about  how 
it calculated her premium on renewal in 2017 and 2018. Other than the effect from the 
reduction of Miss Hs NCD, I havent  seen a cost increase  to do with the liability for the 
accident. From the information that Ive seen, Im satisfied that AXA calculated Miss Hs 
premium as it would  for its other customers with similar circumstances.
Miss H said that AXA should compensate her for the stress its handling of her claim has 
caused as well as the loss of integrity  she has suffered.  Its not clear to me why Miss H 
thinks that she has lost integrity because of AXAs handling of her claim. Theres  nearly 
always some  degree of stress and inconvenience for a policyholder dealing with a claim 
following an accident  and progress can be slow. Although Miss Hs accident  has taken a 
long time to resolve I dont think that AXA has been  to blame for this. And I dont think  AXA 
has caused Miss H unnecessary stress  or a loss of integrity.
We do expect insurers to ask policyholders  about  their claims and I think AXA has shown 
that it did this with Miss H. Having  looked carefully  at AXAs handling  of the claims against  
Miss H claim  Im satisfied that it has acted and made decisions within the terms of the policy  
and treated Miss H fairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3255445