K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about what HSBC UK Bank Plc did when it closed two of his accounts.
background
Mr G showed us a letter  that HSBC wrote  to him in November 2017,  to say it was closing a 
particular sort of currency account that it had previously offered customers.  HSBC  calls this 
the FCA account, so thats how Ill refer to it. 
Mr G had two FCA accounts, one in euros and one in US dollars. The letter  told him how 
much he had in those two accounts,  when the accounts would be closed, and set out a 
range of options for what could be done with the dollars and euros,  including some things 
that HSBC would do automatically, depending on the other accounts that Mr G held with it. 
HSBC said that if Mr G only had an account  with it in UK pounds, then it would convert  his 
euros and dollars  into pounds, and put that money  in his UK account.  If he didnt have a UK 
pounds account,  it would  still convert  the money,  and send  him a cheque. 
The letter also said Mr G could apply for a new sort of currency  account with HSBC,  so the 
money wouldnt have  to be converted into pounds. Mr G was interested  in doing that.
Mr G said that he tried to contact HSBC, but it didnt reply to his letters.  The first letter  was 
sent to the person whod  written to him, then he tried to follow  this up by contacting  HSBCs 
feedback facility. He said he also wrote to the manager at his branch, but received no reply.
He said he managed to get in touch with HSBC by phone, on what may have been a 
premium rate line, towards the end of January. He asked for his money to be transferred to 
two different HSBC currency  accounts,  and not converted  into sterling. But he was told he 
couldnt open that sort of account, because he wasnt a UK resident. 
Mr G said that the letter  that HSBC had sent in November was very misleading. It didnt tell 
him that he couldnt  simply  open this other sort of currency account with HSBC because of 
where he lived. He pointed out that HSBC sent that letter  to an address outside  of the UK. 
And he said that he had held both of these accounts for a very long time. He didnt think  
HSBC should  be able to close them, and to change his money  to a different currency,  
against his wishes.
Mr G wanted HSBC  to open two new currency accounts for him now,  one in euros  and one 
in dollars, and he wanted his money placed in those accounts. 
HSBC sent us a copy of the letter that Mr G had written  to it in November 2017. That letter 
said that Mr G was interested  in opening two new currency accounts  with HSBC, but he 
wanted more information about the account. HSBC couldnt locate what had been sent to 
Mr G in reply to this. It said it knew that a branch manager  that Mr G had also written  to had 
replied to him in early  January,  but HSBC said it didnt have a copy of that letter  either. It did 
have notes of Mr G calling in shortly after that, when he said that he hadnt received a reply. 
HSBC wrote then to say where he could find details of the new account.  
HSBC said Mr G then applied for the new sort of currency account.  But it hadnt been  able to 
open two of those accounts for Mr G, because he wasnt a UK resident. 
Ref: DRN37839352Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that HSBC  wasnt  able to investigate 
initially whether  Mr G shouldve received  a reply from the branch manager  he wrote to, 
because when he complained about  that, he didnt tell HSBC  which  branch hed been writing  
to. But HSBC did provide Mr G with the information that he had been asking for when it 
wrote to him about  that complaint, in early  January. And that information was also included  
on the banks  letter of November 2017 about  account closure.  
Our adjudicator said that HSBC acted in line with the terms and conditions  of Mr Gs 
accounts when  it decided to stop providing those older  FCA accounts.  And it had restricted 
the new currency account it was offering to UK residents only. Our adjudicator  said that she 
had checked the letter that HSBC sent,  and she thought it provided  enough  information  for 
HSBCs customers  to be able to arrange alternative  options. 
Finally, our adjudicator said that she didnt think that the UK number that Mr G had called 
from overseas was a premium rate number. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that HSBC had done  anything wrong. 
Mr G replied. He said that he was given over two months notice  of the accounts  closing, but 
he only found out he couldnt open new accounts a couple of days before the deadline.
Mr G said he hadnt received a number of letters that HSBC said it had sent him. And when 
he wrote  to someone in HSBC, he said that person should reply,  or if they werent  the right 
person, then they should least make sure the right person did reply. 
Mr G also said that our adjudicator had referred to a web link in the letter he was sent from 
HSBC. That link explained that the new currency account HSBC offered was only available 
to UK residents.  Mr G said that this information shouldve  been included in the FAQs in the 
letter itself,  particularly as the letter was sent to a customer living  abroad. 
Mr G also told us about a lengthy correspondence he had had some  years ago, to try to 
identify which UK phone numbers were  premium rate lines. He hadnt been  able to find that 
out then, so he had decided not to call the bank  again. He said that he had to do this 
recently, because he had received no response  from HSBC  to the letters  hed sent. 
Our adjudicator didnt  change her mind. She said that although  Mr G hadnt received a reply 
from the person  who wrote the first letter  telling him his account would be closed, it was 
acceptable for someone else from HSBC to reply. She said that HSBC had replied to Mr Gs 
complaint, and she sent him a copy of that letter. She also said that HSBC  has now shown 
that the branch manager did reply  to Mr G, it just cant  show us what  was in the reply.  
Our adjudicator repeated that there  was a link in the letter  that HSBC sent to Mr G about 
account closure, which included the information he needed. And the phone number that 
Mr G rang to contact HSBC definitely wasnt more expensive  than an ordinary UK number. 
Our adjudicator said she knew  HSBC  wrote to Mr G at an overseas address, but just 
because someone  has an overseas address,  doesnt mean that they arent a UK resident.  
Mr G asked whether the bank had used its selling rate or its buying rate when it converted 
his euros  and dollars to pounds. Our adjudicator contacted HSBC, who sent us the euro 
exchange rate it had used. Our adjudicator passed that on to Mr G, who said he wanted to 
know the details  of the rate and how it was worked  out. He also wanted time to compare this 
Ref: DRN37839353rate to the exchange rate on the day. And he wanted to know  why HSBC hadnt supplied  the 
dollar exchange rate. He said he had a lot more money in his dollar account. 
Mr G also said that he wanted this complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.  
I then asked our adjudicator to tell Mr G the rate that was used to convert  his dollars  into 
pounds. Mr G pointed  out that he didnt receive the dollar money  until late February, and the 
euro money  in late March.  HSBC has confirmed that this was the money  from the FCA 
accounts. Mr G said he thought that hed lost money, because, based on the average  rate 
available at those  times,  the exchange  rate had dropped.
HSBC said that that there were some  delays when it closed all of the FCA accounts for all of 
its customers. It said that was because  of the amount of work involved.  It said that it placed 
each account  in a queue, depending on the currency  involved, and worked  them in turn, so it 
took longer to get to one of Mr Gs accounts  than to the other. 
Mr G then said that he wasnt complaining about  the delay in processing the transfers.  He 
said that he was complaining about the rate that HSBC had used when it transferred the 
money. He still thought  HSBC had creamed off money when it did this. Mr G said that he 
wanted to see what the historic  rates  on those  dates were, but HSBC wouldnt tell him. 
I then asked for this complaint to be passed  to me, for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-It seemed to me that the core of Mr Gs complaint  was about HSBC deciding  to close two 
accounts that hed held for some time, and about  the rate that HSBC used to exchange 
his money from euros and from US dollars  to UK pounds. 
-First, I looked  at HSBC closing Mr Gs account.  HSBC told us it had taken  a business 
decision to close these. HSBC  is a business, and its up to it to take its own business 
decisions about the type of accounts  it offers. So HSBC doesnt have to keep providing a 
particular account type, even if its done so for some time. I didnt think that HSBC  did 
anything wrong  when it decided not to continue to provide the FCA currency account that 
Mr G held. I could see it gave him over two months  of notice of this change, which  is in 
line with HSBCs terms and conditions, and what  I would expect in this case.
-Then I looked at the exchange rate HSBC used  when  it converted  Mr Gs money  from 
euros and from dollars. Mr G says that the rate was much worse than he couldve got 
elsewhere. 
-I said that currency exchange rates offered by high street banks often arent  the most 
competitive rates  available. People  can often  get better rates by using a specialist 
currency company. But, in turn, those companies often dont have the same levels  of 
protection for the money held there that high street banks do. So customers need to 
make their own choices about  what they want to do when changing money.  
Ref: DRN37839354-So I thought  that it was likely that Mr G couldve got a better rate elsewhere, perhaps  
with a specialist  currency company. But I still didnt think that I could uphold his 
complaint on this point. Essentially, the exchange  rate that banks set is a commercial  
decision for them. HSBC has told us that it uses a market  rate, and then adds its own 
margin. Its not unfair or unreasonable for HSBC  to do this, both to cover its costs, and 
potentially to make some profit out of these transactions.  And its up to HSBC how much 
profit it chooses to make out of a transaction like this.
-But I thought  that there were other things which have gone wrong in this case.  I said Id 
explain what I thought  those were, and what I thought  HSBC  had to do about them.
-I agreed with Mr G that the letter that HSBC wrote to tell him it was closing his FCA 
accounts was unhelpful. That letter said that people could apply for a different HSBC 
currency account if they didnt want their money to be converted into pounds.  It didnt say 
that this account  was only available to people who were UK resident.  That information 
was only available  through a web link, which of course Mr G couldnt  just click on, in a 
written letter. Mr G said it shouldve been  in the FAQs that HSBC  included with the letter. 
And he pointed out that HSBC had sent this letter to an overseas address.
-I thought that information about a requirement  of UK residency wouldve been important 
for many of the people who might be receiving  these letters.  I thought  it was reasonable 
to assume that people  who have accounts with a UK bank in a non-UK currency will 
have strong links with the country  or countries  where that currency is used. So, even if 
they were UK resident  when that account was opened, I thought that HSBC shouldve  
realised that a number  of people it was writing to might  not be UK resident  now. I thought 
that when it mentioned that new accounts  might be available,  it should also have 
mentioned this restriction. For these reasons, I thought this information  shouldve been in 
the FAQ sent with the letter. 
-Having not included this information  in the letter that was sent to Mr G and others, I 
thought that HSBC  shouldve made  this clear when Mr G enquired about a new account. 
I knew I couldnt see everything that HSBC says it sent to Mr G. But it has shown us a 
letter it sent him on 11 January, inviting him to check currency accounts information  
online. That was also sent to an overseas address.  HSBC apparently  knew  that this was 
Mr Gs home  address, not just a correspondence address, but again, it failed to mention  
any restriction on residency. 
-HSBC said Mr G applied for two new currency accounts on 18 January, over the phone. I 
was satisfied that the numbers Mr G rang for HSBC werent  premium  rate numbers.
-Mr G was turned down for these new accounts, on grounds  of residency. I didnt think 
that Mr G knew  before  then that these accounts  wouldnt be available  to him. I thought 
he shouldve been told that before then.
-Mr G then had until 24 January to give HSBC alternative instructions, or his money  
would be converted  into UK pounds. Whilst thats really not a lot of time to make 
alternative arrangements, I still thought that it wouldve been possible  for Mr G to ask 
HSBC to move his money elsewhere  during this time, and to avoid the money being 
changed into UK pounds. For that reason, I didnt think HSBC  had to change Mr Gs 
money back into the currencies he previously held now.
Ref: DRN37839355-But because HSBC  had failed, between November 2017  and 18 January 2018, to tell 
Mr G that he couldnt  move his money  into different HSBC currency  accounts, I thought it 
did have to pay him some compensation. I thought  that it should pay Mr G £250  to make 
up for this.
-Although Mr G was told that his accounts  would close on 26 January, and the money  
would be exchanged using HSBCs rate for that day, the money  wasnt  actually 
exchanged until quite some time after this. Mr Gs dollars  were  exchanged and paid into 
his sterling account on 21 February. And his euros were exchanged and paid into his 
account on 26 March.  
-HSBC said that this was because the closure of so many accounts  took time. So I 
thought I should consider whether this produced unfairness for Mr G. And I didnt think it 
was likely that it had. 
-I didnt know the exact exchange  rate that HSBC was using on 26 January, which  is 
when HSBC said that Mr Gs accounts  were  closed. But I could compare the historical  
rates online for the planned  closure date, with the dates when Mr Gs dollars and euros 
were actually  exchanged. And, looking at those rates, it seemed likely that Mr G was 
actually slightly better  off on both the dollar  and euro exchanges because of this delay. 
So I didnt think that HSBC behaved unfairly  when it used the later exchange rates. 
-But Mr G still has UK pounds  now, which he didnt want.  And I thought that if HSBC  had 
been clearer, Mr G wouldnt have been  left with such a very short time to make  
alternative arrangements. So I thought that HSBC should pay Mr G £250  in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience that he experienced as a result  of this.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
HSBC said it agreed  with what Id said. Mr G sent a detailed reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mr G said he didnt think hed been given justice in this case. He said that HSBC had sent 
him a misleading letter, and then it had ignored his attempts  to get in touch with it. He 
thought that my decision wouldnt  be enough  to dissuade the bank from its malpractice. He 
said that he thought that the bank  should be asked to pay for the damage inflicted on him, 
and it hadnt been. He said that he was around £1,000 out of pocket and had only been 
awarded £250. Mr G explained that a loss of £1,000  was a lot of money for him. 
Mr G said that he hadnt  asked HSBC to convert his accounts into UK pounds. So he didnt 
think it was reasonable  for a bank to add a margin to a currency conversion that hed never  
wanted it to do in the first place. 
Mr G said that HSBC  had said it couldnt investigate whether  any response was sent to a 
letter hed sent to a branch manager,  because  Mr G hadnt told it which branch hed written 
to. But Mr G said that he would only ever have contacted his own branch  manager, and 
HSBC shouldve known  that. He also queried  why HSBC would say that the branch manager 
had replied, but it couldnt show us what was in that reply.
Ref: DRN37839356Mr G disputed what I had said about being  able to move his money to a different account or 
accounts in the time that he had available, and avoid the currency  conversion. He said that 
he wanted to keep his money in a UK account,  and he only had a UK account with HSBC.  
He didnt think that he had enough  time,  in the six days before  the deadline, to go through  
the background checks and collection of character references that would be required to open 
a new account.  
Mr G said he didnt want £250  in compensation. He said that if I still thought that was the 
right amount, I should award it to HSBC instead.
I understand how strongly Mr G feels about  this case. And Im sorry that Mr G isnt happy 
with what Ive said. But Ive reviewed it, and I still think that the outcome Ive suggested is 
the right outcome for this complaint. 
I dont think that HSBC did a good  job with the letter that it sent Mr G about closing his 
accounts. Ive explained  why I think it shouldve  included information in there  to support 
people who were no longer UK resident. And I also said that, having failed to include that 
information in its initial letter,  Mr G shouldve been told that he wasnt  going  to be able to 
open new currency accounts with HSBC, much  earlier than he was. I dont think that HSBC 
did a good job of responding to his letters, because  it didnt seem to have made that clear.
With regard to the specific letter Mr G referred  to, from a branch manager, HSBC  said it 
couldnt find out if a reply  had been  sent, when Mr G first complained to it. But it has since 
shown us system notes  that say a letter was sent to him. I dont think theres any reason for 
me not to believe that a letter was sent. But HSBC hasnt kept a copy  of that letter.  Thats 
why I havent  been  able to see it, because HSBC hasnt got it, not because its somehow too 
confidential to share.
Mr G said that it was wrong for our service to allow a bank to add a margin to an exchange 
rate, when hed never wanted  his currency exchanged at all. But HSBC has always said to 
Mr G that it would only do this exchange  if he didnt do something  else first. So he didnt 
have to allow HSBC  to do that exchange.
I know that Mr G didnt  realise that HSBC wasnt going to allow  him to open new euro and 
dollar accounts with it until a few days before the deadline. And Ive said I think  its likely that 
this was mainly HSBCs  fault. Mr G has now said that he couldnt  have opened  a new 
account for his euros and dollars in the time available to him. But I still think that there were 
options which could  have been taken,  even in this short time, which wouldve allowed Mr G 
to avoid the currency exchange.  Mr G said that there just wasnt  enough time left for detailed  
background checks and affidavits about  an individuals character. But he also said that he 
wanted to keep the money in the UK. And detailed background checks  and affidavits about 
an individuals character  arent usually a part of opening  an account with a UK bank. 
The compensation that Ive suggested  in this case takes account  of the poor service  that 
Mr G received from HSBC when it told him it was going to close  his accounts, and when he 
enquired about  opening  new accounts  with it. It isnt intended to punish  HSBC, because 
thats not the role of our service. And it isnt intended  to replace everything that Mr G says he 
lost, because I dont  agree  with Mr G that any loss due to currency conversion was entirely  
HSBCs fault. 
Mr G can accept that money if he wishes, and keep  it. Hes told us he doesnt want  to do 
that, because  his principles wont allow him to. If he doesnt want  to accept  the money 
Ref: DRN37839357himself, then he could take it, and donate  it to a charity of his choice. But if he rejects this 
decision, then HSBC doesnt have  to pay it. 
Mr G also said that hed never alleged that HSBC was still using premium rate numbers for 
its contact phone numbers. He has told us that hed been charged a large amount for 
contacting the bank  in the past, when he said it was using premium  numbers, and he said 
that it didnt explain  on his statements that it was no longer charging  these  premium  rates  to 
contact it. I included a note in my decision  about this to reassure Mr G that he hadnt  been 
charged these premium rates now.
my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC Bank Plc must pay Mr G £250 compensation for its poor 
service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3783935