K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs complaint is about Hoist Finance UK Limiteds conduct  regarding an account that 
appeared on his credit  file. 
Mr G didnt recognise the account  and is unhappy  with Hoists attempts to explain why the 
account appeared on his file and with how Hoist  amended the details regarding the account. 
Mr G says Hoists  actions caused,  among other things, a mortgage  application  of his to fail. 
background
Mr G held three debt repayment  plans  with Hoist. 
Our investigator concluded that the unrecognised account was in fact an account that Mr G 
hadnt disputed. It followed that Hoist hadnt  ultimately misstated Mr Gs liabilities. 
The investigator didnt  conclude that any confusion  over the account had caused Mr Gs 
mortgage application to fail. This was because the debt related to an account  Mr G 
acknowledged was his, and because details of another defaulted account rightly appeared 
on the credit  file in any case.
In other  words, if the mortgage  application failed because of what  the credit report contained, 
that hadnt been because  of any fault on the part of Hoist. 
The investigator recommended  Hoist should pay Mr G £100 compensation for the stress and 
confusion caused  by (a) Hoists initial failure  to record  some  account details correctly and (b) 
its poor customer service, including delay and a lack of adequate detail, when responding to 
Mr Gs complaint.
Hoist accepted the investigators conclusions, Mr G did not. Mr G responded making several  
points, all of which the investigator replied to without changing his conclusions.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr G but I find Ive 
come to the same conclusions as the investigator,  and for similar reasons.
When investigating a complaint, we seek to identify what  if anything  the financial business 
has done wrong. If we identify fault,  we then say how we think  the business should  
compensate for it and/or put it right.
Its not the case that we simply make the business  do what  the consumer wants. We dont 
for example automatically make the business provide information the consumer has asked 
for, or automatically obtain that information ourselves. Were not the consumers agent  or 
representative, were  independent.  
Mr G is asking for certain information  from Hoist and, by extension, from the ombudsman 
service. But I consider I have the information I need in order  to fairly  decide Mr Gs 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN32108292Like the adjudicator,  I find the material points are:
There was a degree of confusion in the detail on Mr Gs credit  file, caused by Hoist.
The confusion didnt  result in Mr Gs liabilities being overstated.
In light of Mr Gs queries, Hoist corrected  the details. No financial loss was caused by 
the error,  either before  or after correction.
Hoist should  compensate  Mr G for the stress and confusion caused  by its actions.
I consider £100  is a fair and reasonable amount to compensate for the effects  that Hoist  
should have foreseen its actions would have. 
Ive noted how the investigator replied at length  to the several  points Mr G made in response 
to his conclusions.  I think those replies  were reasonable  and theres nothing  Id wish to add 
to them.  
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Gs complaint and require Hoist Finance UK Limited to pay Mr G £100  
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3210829