K822xComplaint
Ms C has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited has unfairly  increased  the cost of her pet 
insurance policy. 
Background 
Ms C took out a pet insurance  policy in 2009. At its renewal in 2015 Aviva  became the 
insurer. Ms C agreed to switch her Life Plus policy to a Life Premium policy in 2016  because 
- at the time - it was cheaper.  
In 2017 Ms C complained to Aviva  when the premium for renewal had increased from 
£195.11 to £358.20. She asked to switch  back to the Life Plus policy  but was told this wasnt  
possible. She says she is now trapped in a more expensive policy as if she cancelled and 
took out a new policy,  she wouldnt have cover  for any existing medical conditions her pet 
has.
She has also complained  that when Aviva became the underwriter, they changed the extra 
excess for cats 10 years  or older from 10% to 15% of the remaining treatment costs, after 
the fixed excess has been paid. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to start by explaining  that businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for 
the insurance cover they provide, and I dont have the power to tell a business  what  its 
insurance should cost.  I would  be, in effect,  determining or telling a business  how it should  
operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Cs policy is too high, she 
should have been charged  less for the policy or that she should be charged less in the 
future.
While Ms Cs premium  has seen  a significant  increase,  I havent  seen any evidence  to 
suggest Aviva has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell Aviva to charge her a lower premium going  forwards.  I 
know that will be disappointing to Ms C who I appreciate is in a very difficult  position. 
In 2015 when Aviva became the insurer of Ms Cs policy it needed to take reasonable steps  
to make sure the information it provided  was good enough so that Ms C could  make  an 
informed choice about whether to continue with the policy. As well as provide her with 
information that was clear,  fair and not mis-leading.
There are some discrepancies between  what it says in Ms Cs renewal invitation, which 
doesnt include the increase in excess and the certificate of insurance, which  does. It looks 
like Ms Cs renewal  invitation was reissued the day before she renewed.  But Ive not seen a 
copy of this or the email it looks like it was attached to. So I dont know whether  Aviva did 
enough to let her know of the change in excess  before she agreed  to continue with the 
policy. 
But even if Aviva had done enough,  I dont think this would have put her off carrying on with 
the cover  at the time.  I say this because Ms Cs cat was seven years old and there  had been 
Ref: DRN33232612previous claims on the policy. It would  have been three years before Ms C would have been 
affected by the change  in excess  and shes unlikely to have been able to find another policy  
that would  have covered her cats existing  medical conditions. So I think  she would have 
continued with the cover in 2015. 
In 2016 Ms C agreed to switch her policy  from a Life Plus policy to a Life Premium policy as 
the premium at the time was a lot cheaper, for a higher level of cover. She says she only did 
this under the assumption shed be able to switch back in the future. In 2017  the cost of 
renewing this policy  increased significantly - by over 83%. Ms C was then unable to switch  
back to the lower level of cover. 
Ive thought very carefully about what Ms C has said. Its difficult  as I have to think  about 
whats likely to have happened at the time, without the benefit of hindsight. I cant  be sure 
what was said to Ms C when she upgraded her policy. But from the information I have I think 
its unlikely Aviva told her in 2016  that it wouldnt be possible to change  the cover back. But I 
dont think they needed to tell her that, as it wasnt significant information about the policy 
she was buying.  And if it was something  she was concerned about in the future Ms C could 
have asked Aviva about it. It wouldnt be fair for me to hold Aviva accountable for an 
assumption. 
I know Ms C disagrees and thinks its something Aviva  should  have told her upfront.  But on 
balance, even if they had I think its unlikely she would have done anything differently at the 
time - and she still would  have upgraded the policy to benefit from the significantly lower 
premium. I say this because she was unhappy with the premium  quoted  for her Life Plus 
policy renewal and by switching she was getting  a higher level of cover for a much lower  
cost. And at that time I dont think Ms C would have been thinking about switching policies 
again in the future, as I dont think she would have been expecting the premium to increase  
by the amount it did.
However, this leads me on to the fact that I think Aviva should have given Ms C clear 
information about the fact the premium  for the new policy would, almost certainly, increase in 
the future.  Particularly as she had contacted  Aviva  in 2016  unhappy with the cost of her 
previous policy, which  led to the switch.  
I appreciate it wouldnt  have been possible for Aviva to tell Ms C exactly  how much her 
premium would increase  to. But, Aviva,  as the insurer,  would have known the premium 
would go up each year and would increase significantly if Ms C made further  claims.  It would 
also know that the premium would go up each  year, even if there wasnt a claim made,  
especially as her cat got older. And that there was no limit to how much  the premium  could 
be. This information,  or something similar, should have been given to Ms C to allow her to 
better understand the potential long term costs of the policy,  before she agreed to switch the 
cover in 2016. 
Its not clear what information Aviva  gave Ms C in 2016  about the future costs  of the higher 
level of cover she was agreeing to. But its unlikely they would have done enough to allow 
Ms C to make an informed decision about upgrading the cover.  
Ms C has had her pet insurance for many years and I accept she knew that premiums could 
increase. I also accept she might have  understood the premium would go up for reasons 
such as her pet getting older or if she made  a claim.  But I dont think  she understood theres 
really no limit as to what the premium might increase  to, so the potential long term costs  of 
the policy  that she expected to keep for the lifetime of her pet.
Ref: DRN33232613I dont think better information  about  the future cost of the policy would have stopped  Ms C 
from switching policies  in 2016  I still think she would have opted for the much cheaper 
policy. But at least she wouldnt have been  so shocked when her premium increased so 
significantly. And while she wants to switch back to previous level of cover, its not clear  what 
the cost of this would be for her now.  Its possible  this too might  have increased significantly. 
I note Aviva recognise the premium increase would have caused  Ms C some  distress but 
say that it wasnt totally  unexpected  so it doesnt warrant  a high level of compensation. 
Ms C clearly  wasnt  expecting the premium  to increase by as much  as it did and she was 
shocked and upset when she saw how much  it had. Shes unable  to change insurers  without 
losing cover for any pre-existing conditions. So she has to make  the difficult  decision about 
whether to carry on with the policy and pay a premium thats  much  more than she ever 
expected to pay, or cancel it and lose this cover - this isnt a position she expected  to find 
herself in. Better  information about  the policy wouldve meant  that she could  have been  more 
prepared for the possibility that she might not be able to afford to continue  with the policy  
and that her pet might lose cover for their existing medical conditions. 
I want to explain that any award I make  isnt to compensate Ms C for financial  loss or to 
cover the cost of the insurance going forward. Its about the impact that the lack of clear 
information has had on Ms C, both practically  and emotionally. Shes  has been very open  
and honest with us about her personal  circumstances  and how important her cat is in her 
life. Its clear the difficult position she now finds  herself  in was not something she expected  
and it has caused  her a significant amount of trouble and upset.  So,  I think compensation of 
£500 is fair in the circumstances.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Aviva Insurance Limited should pay Ms C £500  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms C to accept
or reject this decision before 16 April 2020.
 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3323261