K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that the Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a 
monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999  in connection 
with a store card. 
background
Mrs M complained to us. FICL has accepted responsibility for the complaint. Our adjudicator  
upheld the complaint on the basis that she was not eligible  to buy the PPI policy.  But FICL  
disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint for the reasons Ive set out below.  
Mrs M says she did not know PPI had been  added to her credit agreement. This was a non-
advised sale so FICL  had to give Mrs M enough  information which  was fair, clear and not 
misleading so she could make her own informed decision about buying  PPI. This includes 
information about whether Mrs M was eligible for the policy.
FICL told us the policy - which  it said wouldve been  in use at around the time Mrs M bought 
the policy  says one of the eligibility  criteria  is that Mrs M must be working   when she 
applied for cover. Ive also seen the full policy terms and conditions  which  defines  working 
as: Working in paid employment for at least 16 hours or more a week in the UK. The policy 
says a consumer  is covered  if the eligibility criteria  are met. 
This is important because Mrs M told us she worked for less than 16 hours per week so I 
dont think there is enough evidence to show Mrs M satisfied  the eligibility criteria for the 
policy  which means the policy would not cover her. So I conclude  FICL did not make  the 
eligibility criteria  clear  to Mrs M in the information  she was given. If this had been  made  clear  
to her, I dont think she would have bought an insurance policy which  wouldnt cover her. I 
think Mrs M has lost out so I think FICL has to do something to put things right. 
Taking everything into account,  I think the fact that Mrs M wasnt  eligible for the policy  at the 
time of the sale is a basic failing and it is a strong enough reason for me to uphold  Mrs Ms 
complaint. So I dont need to consider any other  reasons.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I understand the card account had closed and the PPI has been  
cancelled. So Financial  Insurance  Company Ltd should put Mrs M in the financial position 
shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Financial Insurance Company Ltd should find out how much Mrs M would  have owed 
when she closed her card account  if the policy hadnt  been added.
Ref: DRN34876802So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Financial Insurance  Company Ltd should  then refund  the difference between what  Mrs 
M owed when she closed her account  and what she would have owed if she hadnt had 
PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Financial Insurance  Company 
Ltd can take off what she got for the claim from the amount it owes  her.  
B.Financial Insurance Company Ltd should add simple interest on the difference  between 
what Mrs M would have owed  when she closed her account  from when  she closed it 
until she gets the refund. The interest  rate should be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  Financial  Insurance Company Ltd works out what  Mrs M would have owed 
each month without PPI  Mrs M paid more than enough to clear her balance, Financial 
Insurance Company Ltd should also pay simple interest  on the extra  Mrs M paid. And it 
should carry on paying  interest  until the point when  Mrs M wouldve owed Financial 
Insurance Company Ltd something on her card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D.Financial Insurance Company Ltd should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and 
C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Financial Insurance  Company Ltd to take off tax from this 
interest. Financial Insurance Company Ltd must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much 
tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3487680