K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has overcharged 
administration fees from her personal  pension.
background
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which  is attached 
below.
I explained why I didnt intend  to uphold the complaint. I said that I thought Prudentials offer 
of £350 was fair.
Mrs P responded and said that she didnt agree. She raised an issue from the time of sale of 
the plan. She also said that her policy has not been  adjusted to take account of the 
overcharging and she has not had a statement  since 2016.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered what Mrs P has said in response to the provisional decision.  Ive explained 
that this complaint is about the charges  applied  to the policy  and not about the sale of it. Ive 
also asked that Prudential provide Mrs P with an up to date statement.
Im satisfied that whilst  Mrs P understood that the annual administration  fees were  the only 
deductions that would be made from her plan, that wasnt correct. There were also 
deductions for commission payments which Prudential  was entitled to make.  Whilst there 
may have  been  some  lack of clarity about this, Im satisfied that Prudential could make these 
charges in addition to the annual administration charge.
So Im not minded to change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision, and I 
confirm them  here.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I consider  the offer Prudential  has made to be fair. It should 
pay Mrs P £350 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38673732extract from provisional decision
complaint
Mrs P has complained that Prudential has overcharged administration fees from her personal 
pension.
background
Mrs P has a personal pension plan with Prudential. She started the plan in 1995 through  her 
employer. She left that employment in 1998 and her plan was made  paid-up.
Mrs P says she was told that an annual  administration  fee of £18 would apply  to the pension. Mrs P 
became concerned that she was being  overcharged. Prudential reviewed  its charges and accepted 
that the administration fee hadnt always been correctly applied. It refunded the excess charges. It 
also offered  Mrs P £350 for the distress caused by its errors.
Prudential also confirmed that in addition  to the annual  administration fee there were deductions for 
commission. Mrs P said that she hadnt  been told about this. She said that had she known about 
these deductions she would have transferred  her plan into a less expensive  pension arrangement. 
Prudential clarified that the deductions for commission  would still have  applied even if the plan was 
transferred.
An investigator considered  the complaint and decided that it should be upheld.  He felt that Mrs P 
would probably have transferred her plan if she had been  aware of the full extent of the deductions.  
He set out how Prudential should put things right.
Prudential didnt agree. It said that even with correct information, it was not likely that Mrs P would 
have transferred in 1998. The plan value was then £2,838.07 but the transfer value was only 
£1,919.17 due to the impact of the commission  that would have been  payable. Prudential didnt think  
Mrs P would have given  up almost one third of the value of her pension. It said that she may also 
have had to pay set up charges and advice  fees for a new plan.
Prudential also carried out the calculation the investigator had recommended  but this didnt  show any 
loss. The current plan value was more than the notional value if the plan had been transferred.
The investigator told Mrs P about this calculation  but she didnt agree. She felt that she had been 
overcharged and suffered a financial loss.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different conclusion to the 
investigator. I dont uphold this complaint as I think the offer Prudential has made  is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Prudential has accepted that it made some errors in applying administration fees to the pension plan. 
But Im satisfied that it has corrected those errors.
Mrs P understood that these administration  fees were the only deductions  that would be made but 
that wasnt correct.  There were also deductions for commission payments. Mrs P says that had she 
known of the full extent of the deductions she would  have transferred the pension plan and found a 
less expensive option.
Ref: DRN38673733Having considered  the evidence, Im not satisfied that Mrs P would  have chosen to transfer even if 
she had been fully informed  about the deductions. Thats because  the commission  payments would  
have to be deducted for the full life of the plan even  if it was transferred. Prudential  has explained that 
in 1998 this would have reduced the pension value from £2,838.07  to £1,919.17.  This is a very 
substantial reduction in my view and may have dissuaded Mrs P from transferring. And also, in 1998 
there would  not have  been  any obvious  low cost pension alternative for Mrs P. For example,  a 
stakeholder pension wouldnt  have been available as these werent introduced  until April 2001.
So Im not satisfied that Mrs P would have transferred her pension  if she had been in a fully informed 
position. And, even if she had, I doubt that she would  be better off. The investigator said that 
Prudential should calculate  any loss by taking the transfer value from April 1998,  and calculate 
notional growth by using a benchmark  of the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income Total Return Index  
for half of the investment and applying the average rate from fixed rate bonds to the other half. The 
notional value  could  then be compared to the actual value.
Prudential made this calculation  but it showed no loss. The actual value  was higher than the notional 
value.
Mrs P didnt agree  that she had suffered no loss. I can understand  her point.  Deductions have been 
made from her pension plan that she didnt expect. In that sense she has been  overcharged but Im 
satisfied that the deductions  that were made were correctly applied. There may have  been a lack of 
information at times about the full extent of charges and deductions, but the charges  that have been 
made are correct. So Mrs P hasnt actually been  overcharged.
So for these reasons, Im not currently minded  to uphold  this complaint.  I think  the offer Prudential has 
made is fair.
my provisional  decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint. Prudential  should pay Mrs P £350  if it hasnt already  done so.
Ref: DRN3867373