K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt pay him the proceeds  of a trust fund when it 
was due on his 25th birthday.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 3 May 2019 part of which is detailed below:
Some years  ago, Mr Ms mother placed an insurance policy  in trust for him with the 
proceeds to be paid to him on his 25th birthday. Lloyds acted as trustees  of the trust.
Due to an administrative error at Lloyds, it didnt arrange for payment of the proceeds  to be 
made to Mr M when he turned 25. Instead, it got in contact with him more  than two years 
later letting him know about the oversight. It said it would be making arrangements  for the 
funds to be paid to him.
Mr M complained to Lloyds unhappy about  the delay, saying this had caused him some 
financial disadvantage. Lloyds apologised and offered  him £150 for the trouble and upset it 
had caused. Eventually, it also waived the £617 fee it would have charged for acting as 
trustee.
Mr M didnt  think  this was fair so he complained  to us. Our investigator said she thought 
Lloyds had done enough and didnt ask it to do anymore. Mr M wasnt happy with this and 
asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, Ive reached a similar 
conclusion to the investigator but I think the complaint should be settled  in a different way. Ill 
explain why.
Lloyds accepts it made an error in not paying  Mr M the proceeds of the trust around his 25th 
birthday and theres no dispute thats what should have happened.  What  hasnt been agreed 
on is a way for the complaint to be settled so thats what I need to decide  here.
Mr M turned 25 on 1 November 2015 and the proceeds of the policy should have been paid 
to him shortly afterwards.  Lloyds explained  that its internal diary  system failed and that 
meant it didnt contact the insurance  company at this time to arrange payment of the 
proceeds.
It wasnt until much later it discovered its error. It got in contact with Mr M in January 2018  to 
let him know  what had happened. Following this there were some  further  delays in collecting 
the funds partly caused by the insurance  company. Eventually the proceeds of £41,467.65  
were sent to Mr Ms account on 10 May 2018,  approximately two and a half years after they 
should have been.
So Mr M should have  had the money  earlier than he did. The question  Ive had to consider  is 
whether hes lost out as a result. In other words, what would he have done with the money  in 
the meantime  and should Lloyds compensate  him for any lost return?  
Ref: DRN31310662Mr M has provided evidence of two actively traded share portfolios he had around the time 
the funds should have  been released  to him. He says he would have invested the money 
across these portfolios  and they would have  earned considerably more than the sums 
offered by Lloyds as compensation.
I think the submissions Mr Ms made saying that hed have invested the proceeds in shares 
have been plausible and consistent  and I find them persuasive. But I cant be certain exactly 
how hed have invested and in which particular shares.
Mr Ms investment statements show he made  different  sized  trades in various shares  over 
the relevant period. He might have simply used this money to make the same trades, but in 
bigger size. But I think its equally likely he could have placed other, similar trades  in other 
companies or used  it only towards certain of his investments.
So I dont  think simply using the return he made  on his share portfolio is the right way to put 
things right.
But equally,  I dont  think the fee Lloyds waived and the additional payment it offered fairly 
reflect the financial impact  on Mr M. And I dont  think offering Mr M 8% interest  on the 
amount as he suggested is right either.  
So what  I need to decide on is a fair and reasonable way to settle  this complaint. This will 
need to balance what Mr M says he would have  done with the money against the uncertainty 
of exactly how many shares he would have  purchased, in what  companies, at what  price  and 
how they would have performed.
Its clear any settlement I suggest isnt going to be exact due to the uncertainties Ive 
detailed above.  My role as an ombudsman is to resolve complaints quickly and with minimal 
formality and to decide  what I thinks fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In short, 
complete accuracy  is not required of me when reaching a determination  on how a complaint 
should be settled.
Many of the shares  - although  I accept not all - within the portfolios are listed on the 
Financial Times  Stock  Exchange 100 (FTSE  100).  Mr M has submitted details of the returns 
he received on some  of his share  holdings. I think these could be broadly represented by the 
return on the FTSE. So Ive thought  about  this carefully and concluded it would be fair and 
reasonable to use the performance of the FTSE 100 index over the time period in question  
as a benchmark for how Mr Ms shares would have  changed in value. 
But Im mindful that I also need to take into account  the amount Lloyds has already paid 
Mr M for the delays and inconvenience it caused.
the calculation
So I think Lloyds should pay Mr M the investment growth on the trust proceeds of 
£41,467.65 based on the change in the FTSE 100 index from when it should have paid Mr M 
the money until when  it did.
I think a fair starting point  for this calculation would be one month after Mr Ms 25th birthday 
which would have allowed Lloyds time to collect the maturity proceeds  and pay them to 
Mr M. So I think the start date for the calculation should be 1 December 2015.
Ref: DRN31310663And the funds were  paid to Mr M on 10 May 2018 and so I think this should be the final date 
for the calculation. 
Lloyds should  then deduct this amount  of the fee it already waived (£617)  and pay Mr M the 
difference.
I think the £150 Lloyds offered to pay Mr M for the trouble and upset it caused is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
In his submissions,  Mr M said hed already  fully utilised his ISA allowance for the tax year 
the proceeds were  paid to him. And he intended  to invest  the reminder of the funds in an 
ISA, I assume in the next tax year.  From  what Mr Ms said I cant  see that Lloyds actions 
would have caused a loss related to this but Im happy to consider any further evidence  
Mr M may wish to submit
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr M didnt  ask for any new evidence to be considered.
Lloyds provided  a copy of the valuation of the policy at maturity and this was £35,071.98.  
While this amount wasnt paid to Mr M at the time, the money remained invested and 
continued to attract investment growth  until it was paid to Mr M, by which time it was worth  
£41,467.65.
On 5 June 2019 I let the parties  know this would change the way I thought the complaint 
should be settled.  An extract of this explanation is detailed below.
It wasnt  clear  from the evidence originally  submitted that the bond had continued to attract  
investment growth  from 2015 to 2018  and had therefore risen in value. Its disappointing  this 
evidence has only just been provided  by Lloyds.
Because I didnt have  this information when I sent my provisional  decision, the way I said the 
complaint should  be settled  didnt  account for that increase in value. So I now need to 
reconsider my decision  in light of this.
As a general principle,  I wouldnt allow a consumer to benefit twice from investment  growth,  
that wouldnt be fair. In this case, Lloyds didnt  pay the maturity funds to Mr M when it should 
have. But by the time it did, the value of the bond had increased by £6,395.67.
My original calculation was based on the fact Mr M had been deprived of the investment 
growth he was likely to have achieved if hed able to invest the money in his share portfolios 
in 2015. I said due to Mr Ms share holdings, a fair benchmark for investment growth was the 
FTSE 100 index
I still think that as a broad principle, this is a fair and reasonable approach.  But I will need to 
take account of the £6,395.67 growth Mr M has already benefitted from. I will also need to 
account for the fact that had the money  been paid to Mr M in 2015 hed have had 
£35,071.98 to invest in shares not the £41,467.65 originally suggested.
the new calculation
Taking all this into account Im likely to tell Lloyds to pay Mr M:
Ref: DRN31310664The increase  in value of the £35,071.98 based on the change in the FTSE 100 index 
between 1 December  2015 and 10 May 2018
less the £6,395.67 Mr M has already  benefitted from
less the £617 fee its already waived
plus £150 for trouble and upset if this hasnt already been paid.
If this is a positive figure, then it should  pay the net amount to Mr M. If its a negative figure, 
then its done  enough already and doesnt need  to pay Mr M any more.
Neither party asked  for any other evidence to be considered  after I gave this further 
explanation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about this carefully  and in the absence  of any further  submissions from either 
party Im satisfied the decision I reached above  and my explanation of the amended 
calculation achieves  a fair and reasonable outcome in all the circumstances of this case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to calculate 
the following:
The increase  in value of the £35,071.98 based on the change in the FTSE 100 index 
between 1 December  2015 and 10 May 2018
less the £6,395.67 Mr M has already  benefitted from
less the £617 fee its already waived
plus £150 for trouble and upset if this hasnt already been paid.
If the result is a positive  figure then Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr M that amount. If its a 
negative figure, then no payment is due.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3131066