K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains about the delays shes experienced following  instructions to transfer her 
shares with Barclays Bank  UK PLC to a third party provider in-specie in order  to sell her 
shares. 
Mrs W says as a result  of the delay  shes suffered  financial loss.   
background 
In my provisional decision of 8 November 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I was minded to partially uphold the complaint and that Barclays  
should pay Mrs W £250 compensation  for trouble and upset caused.  
Barclays responded and in short said:
It agreed with my provisional  decision on the substantial points of the case.
It confirmed that the audio call of 20 July was provided to the investigator.
It maintained its offer of £200 is reasonable in the circumstances, and asks why this 
was increased to £250.  
Mrs W also responded and in summary said:
She was grateful for the time and effort that has been put into her case  
But she was disappointed with my decision as it doesnt accurately reflect  the worry, 
hassle and concern  she experienced.   
There were  many  other incompetencies by this department of Barclays that arent 
mentioned in my decision. 
When she attempted to sell her shares she was given conflicting telephone guidance. 
It was never her intention to instruct Barclays to sell and incur its substantial 
brokerage costs.  
She feels she probably has to accept  the provisional decision now. 
She would  like to reserve the right to pursue this matter through the financial press. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in light of the responses from the parties, my conclusion regarding  the 
partial uphold,  remains  as set out previously, and for the same reasons. 
Despite what the parties  say I dont consider that any new points have been raised, other  
than those key points already made  and considered  by me in my provisional decision.  Ive 
considered all the points that I consider relevant  to my decision.  
I note Barclays asked  why Ive awarded  £250  compensation (£50 more  than what it had 
offered), the answer  is that I feel it was reasonable in the circumstances, and better  reflected  
the trouble and upset Mrs W experienced, notwithstanding the audio call of 20 July being 
Ref: DRN36648972provided. Despite  this, Im aware Mrs W remains  thoroughly  dissatisfied  with the level of 
compensation Ive recommended and the overall  outcome  of my decision. 
Whilst my decision remains  unchanged, Mrs W is under no obligation to accept it. And she 
can go to the financial  press or pursue  her complaint through the civil courts if that is what  
she wishes.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I partially  uphold  the 
complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs W £250 compensation for trouble and upset caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36648973COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mrs W complains  about  the delays shes experienced following instructions  to transfer her shares with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to a third party provider  in-specie  in order to sell her shares. 
Mrs W says as a result of the delay shes suffered financial loss.   
background
In early 2018, Barclays introduced a fee to manage non-active ISA holdings  for the shares  that Mrs W 
acquired when she was an employee of Barclays. 
In May 2018,  in order to avoid paying this fee Mrs W asked Barclays to transfer her holdings  in-specie 
from the Smart Investor platform to a third party provider. 
In July 2018,  Barclays  told Mrs W that it hadnt received  her transfer request form so her request was 
still pending. Later  it confirmed the form had been received, but had been sent to the incorrect 
department for processing. 
Although the transfer has now been completed, the shares still havent been sold.  
Barclays initially rejected the complaint but subsequently accepted  that it had made  an error. And 
having first offered to pay £150 as a good  will gesture, it increased the amount to £200.  But Barclays 
doesnt accept that the delay stopped Mrs W from selling  her shares  at any point during the transfer 
process. It said:
the ability to sell assets during a transfer process is always available,  apart from perhaps a 2-3 day 
period just before  final transfer  of the assets.
Mrs W remains unhappy  with the proposed redress. She doesnt think this adequately compensates 
her for being  unable  to sell the shares, which  have subsequently gone down in value. She is now 
awaiting the outcome of this case before she sells her shares. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and thought  it should be upheld.  In summary, he 
said:  
Having listened  to a number  of calls hes satisfied  that Mrs W has been financially 
disadvantaged by Barclays actions.  
In particular, in the call recording  of 16 July 2018, he noted that Mrs Ws husband acting on 
her behalf  said the values of the shares have  been  going  down since March 2018 and that 
they should have sold these shares. Theyve now lost £800  by not being able to sell them.  
This shows that Mrs W had an intention to sell her shares. Although hes not seen any 
evidence that she made her intention known any earlier.  
The relevant date of her intention to sell isnt the date of the application (May  2018),  but the 
date the complaint was logged which is 16 July 2018. During this call Barclays shouldve  
informed Mrs W that she couldve  sold her shares. 
Although the final response letter dated August 2018 says Mrs W was made  aware that she 
could sell her shares, hes not seen any evidence  of this.   
To put things right Barclays should determine the actual  sell price  of the shares  on 16 July 
2018 (this should encompass the average sell price) and pay this to Mrs W with 8% simple 
interest. Mrs W should return her shares to Barclays.  
Barclays disagreed  with the investigators  views.  In summary,  it said:  
Ref: DRN36648974On 20 July 2018  a complaints handler contacted Mrs W, and it was recorded  in the call notes  
that he corrected  previous misinformation and clarified that she could sell her shares  at any 
time, apart from a small 2-3 day window.  It was also recorded that Mrs W said that she just 
wanted to complete the transfer.
It wasnt because Barclays didnt  offer to make up the difference in price, but Mrs W wanted 
to complete the transfer first before deciding what to do. 
It sent Mrs W a final response letter date 20 August 2018  confirming that the transfer had 
completed, reiterating that she could sell her shares, and offered £150 compensation. 
Because it wasnt offering to make up the difference, and the transfer had completed, she 
was entitled to sell the shares even  at that point  but didnt.  
Its possible  that Mrs W didnt sell because she wanted to wait to see if the share  prices 
increased. She had been watching the share prices fall prior to July  share prices  dropped 
from £2.08 in May 2018 to £1.89 in July 2018  but still gave no instructions to sell. It seems 
she chose not to mitigate her losses by 16 July 2018 or 20 August  2018.  
In late December 2018,  Mrs Ws husband said Mrs W felt it should offer 50% of the losses,  
which clearly shows  at this stage she accepted that she bore some responsibility  for the 
decision not to sell.
Mrs W didnt ever give clear instructions  to sell previously, nor did she say she was delaying 
because she believed Barclays would  offer to pay any financial losses.   
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change  his mind. In 
summary, he said:
Barclays wasnt able to provide a copy of the call recording for the 20 July 2018 conversation. 
Hes not satisfied with the accuracy of the call note in light of other notes  hes seen that dont 
reflect call recordings.  
So far as the proposed redress is concerned  the price of the shares was £1.89 on 20 July 
2018, and later in 20 August 2018  when the complaints handler called   it was £1.86 and 
subsequently £1.83. So when Mrs W was given an opportunity  to sell her shares, the share  
price had already  gone down and her transfer wasnt completed.  So,  he can understand why 
Mrs W wouldnt have wanted to sell her shares at that point.   
If Barclays hadnt made a mistake,  the transfer was likely to have  been completed  within four 
to six weeks, by mid-July 2018. However he accepts  that hes seen no evidence Mrs W made  
her intention to sell her shares  any earlier.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, Im going to partially uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite  what Mrs W says, I think Barclays should pay 
her £250 compensation  for the overall trouble and upset caused.  
But before I explain why, I think  its important for me to recognise Mrs Ws frustration and strength of 
feeling about  this matter. She has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive 
read and considered carefully. However,  I hope she wont take the fact my findings  focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose  of my decision isnt to address every single  point raised under a separate subject 
heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mrs W and Barclays, and reach what  I think  is an independent, fair and 
reasonable decision based on the facts  of the case. 
Ref: DRN36648975In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant  law, regulation and best industry 
practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on 
the information Ive been given, whats more likely  than not to have happened.  
Theres no dispute that there  was a delay in transferring  Mrs Ws shares  to the third party  provider. 
Barclays has apologised  for this delay, and has offered compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by it.  
One of the key questions at the heart of this complaint for me to consider is whether (or not) Mrs W 
had intended to sell her 4,684  Barclays shares, and if so how this was demonstrated.  
In my opinion,  if this question is answered  in the affirmative, I can then go on to consider other issues 
such as share prices and the dates when she may have intended to sell. But if its not, I need not go 
further. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite  what Mrs W says, Im not persuaded  that she 
was intending to sell her shares, or that the transfer delay  prevented her from doing  so. In this 
instance I also dont think Barclays is responsible  for any losses (if any) sustained  by Mrs W.  
Ive seen no evidence of Mrs W instructing  Barclays to sell her shares  or even the third party  provider, 
upon successful transfer. I appreciate she says this was her intention behind the decision to transfer, 
but all I can see is that she didnt want  to pay the new fees that Barclays had introduced  or was about  
to, and so instructed it to transfer  her shares in-specie to a third party  provider. 
Whilst I appreciate  Mrs W was probably going to sell her shares at some point in the future, Ive not 
seen any evidence that persuades me that she was transferring her holdings for this particular  
purpose.  
A lot of what is said by her husband on the call recordings with Barclays  in particular  the call 
recording of 16 July 2018  seems to be about what Mrs W couldve done,  and perhaps ought  to have 
done as an afterthought, but not what she wanted to do and was prevented from doing. I dont 
consider this to be proof of an intention to sell at that point or at any point prior to the complaint being 
lodged or thereafter. 
I agree with the investigator, that theres no evidence that she intended  to sell her shares at an earlier 
date, but unlike  the investigator, Im not persuaded  shes demonstrated an intention at any point, that 
this was her intention, notwithstanding the telephone conversations with Barclays.  
I dont think the complaint is that Mrs W couldnt sell the shares per se, or that she wasnt told she 
could sell them. The complaint seems to be that the delays wouldve  prevented her from selling the 
shares, when  she liked, possibly after the transfer and when the sell price was higher. But even then I 
dont think shes entitled to any compensation from Barclays.  
Evidently the ability to sell was always available and Mrs W couldve,  tried to sell her shares, but Ive 
seen no evidence she tried to do this. If having tried to sell the shares she was unsuccessful, she 
mightve been  entitled to some compensation for any financial loss. 
On balance I think Barclays  probably ought to have reminded her that she could sell her shares  
during the call of 16 July 2018. But a failure to do so, in light of my comments above, doesnt mean 
Barclays is now responsible  for any losses. Im mindful  that that this was an execution only platform 
and so Barclays wasnt under an obligation to advise her. 
I note Barclays produced a call note dated 20 July 2018 to say that Mrs W was reminded that if she 
wanted to sell her shares she could. I note that the audio call recording for this call isnt available, and 
the investigator questions the accuracy of the note. But despite this, Ive no reason to doubt the 
contents of the record.  
Ref: DRN36648976Whilst theres always an element of subjectivity  when notes are written of a telephone conversation,  I 
think its unlikely Barclays wouldve invented this information, to cover up any potential shortcomings.   
I note Mrs Ws response was recorded as:
I just want the Barclays share amalgamated with the (third  party provider) which I already 
have with them and then I can make my decision and I just want it done as soon as possible.  I 
dont want to be making more  phone  calls.
In my opinion  this broadly  confirms what Barclays said in its final response letter  dated  August 2018, it 
also chimes  with Mrs Ws current position that shell  wait to sell her shares. 
On balance I think this also shows that Mrs W had no intention to sell her shares or at the very least 
was undecided about selling her shares.      
Im also mindful  that Mrs W received two dividend  payments in the sum of £304.46 so has continued  
to receive a financial  benefit.   
Whilst I think Barclays was correct to partially uphold  Mrs Ws complaint, I think it should  pay her £250 
compensation for the overall trouble and upset  caused  by the delays and poor service.
I appreciate Mrs W will be unhappy Ive reached a different conclusion  to the investigator. 
Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what she wants to hear. 
But on the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to give her what she wants. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, Im minded to partially uphold this 
complaint. 
I think  Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay Mrs W £250 for the trouble and upset  caused. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3664897