K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  about the late payment markers  Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, 
trading as Very,  has made to her credit file. She says these were  for items she returned.
background
Miss S has had a Very home shopping  account since  2015.  She became concerned about 
the late payment  markers she understood Very had made to her credit file and suggested 
these were for items  she subsequently  returned.  Unfortunately, she no longer has 
information to show which items  these were.
Very didnt agree. They  thought theyd managed the account correctly and referred to 
missed payments Miss S had made. They explained  that the terms of the credit account, 
Miss S had with them, required payments to reach the account within 20 days of the 
statement date and this hadnt, on occasion, been  the case. They reviewed  those late 
payments and confirmed  that they did not derive  from returned  items.
But Miss S disagreed  and she referred  her complaint to this service  where  our investigator 
took a look at the evidence. He agreed  with Very. He identified several occasions were  
payments had been missed in October  and December 2016  and in January 2017 through to 
May 2017 where no payments were received but a small  balance  remained payable. So he 
didnt think Very had been wrong  to report missed payments and he was satisfied they 
werent the result of returned items.
But Miss S disagreed  and she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S but I dont  think shes provided sufficient evidence to 
demonstrate Very have made mistakes here. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive reviewed Miss Ss statements and the commentary provided by Very and I can see that 
there have  been  several occasions where  Miss S has made payment beyond the 20 day 
limit provided for in the terms  and conditions of the account.
There were missed payments in October  and December 2016 for instance. I can understand 
Miss Ss confusion because the archived statements are not as clear as the more recent 
ones. But having  reviewed the payments in and out during  the periods the investigator 
highlighted in his view, provided  in March 2019,  I can see that Very has calculated the 
balance of the account correctly and the sums due. I can also see that items have been 
Ref: DRN39189822returned and re-credited  to the account  so I dont agree with Miss S that theyve been the 
cause of the problem.
Ive seen evidence  that Miss S has been provided  with statements on time and it was her 
responsibility to pay at least the minimum payment  in the timeframe allowed. But its clear 
this hasnt been the case and Im afraid I dont agree that theres evidence Very have been 
wrong to report missed payments.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 May 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3918982