K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained, on behalf  of his limited company that Amtrust Europe Limited 
(Amtrust) refused to accept  a claim he wanted to make  under his business legal expenses 
insurance policy. 
For the sake of clarity when I refer to Mr Ss claim and policy I am referring  to the claim and 
policy taken on behalf of Mr Ss limited  company  and not Mr S as an individual  consumer.  
When I refer to Amtrust I mean both the underwriter and any agents working on its behalf.
background
In January 2018 a former employee of Mr Ss brought a case  to the Employment Tribunal for 
unfair dismissal and discrimination. Mr S contacted Amtrust in February 2018 to make  a 
claim under his companys legal expenses insurance policy.
There were some issues regarding whether or not the Tribunal would accept the case  due to 
errors made by the claimant  and time limitations  being breached.  However in June 2018  it 
was confirmed that the case  would be heard  by the Tribunal and Amtrust reviewed Mr Ss 
claim in full. Having done  so Amtrust  contacted Mr S in early  July and explained that it had 
declined the claim  on the basis that its legal agents didnt think it had reasonable prospects 
of success.
Mr S disputed this and in September  2018  obtained  an opinion from an independent  
barrister. That barrister  said they believed the case had reasonable prospects of success. 
Mr S asked Amtrust  to review this opinion and progress his claim.
Amtrust responded  by saying that there  was some medical evidence  outstanding that related 
to the claimants  disability,  and that it had been  advised by its legal agents to wait for this 
evidence before seeking the opinion of an independent  barrister.  It explained it had been  
told that there was a potential this evidence, if it supported  the claimants arguments about 
how his disability impacted him professionally, would  also affect the opinion set out by the 
independent barrister Mr S had spoken to. It therefore duly waited for that evidence to be 
provided before progressing the request for review any further.  This was explained to Mr S 
at the time and no objection from him was recorded.
In November 2018 it was confirmed that no additional evidence would be provided by the 
claimant and so Amtrusts  legal agents  forwarded  Mr Ss claim to an independent barrister 
for consideration. They responded  in early December confirming that despite the lack of 
medical evidence,  and the opinion  provided  by Mr Ss barrister, they didnt think the case  
had reasonable prospects of success and so Amtrust refused to provide Mr S with cover 
under the companys policy.
Ref: DRN35058212Mr S believes it was inherently unreasonable for the same legal agent who recommended  
declining the claim in July to arrange  for a barrister to review it again in November. He feels 
there is a strong likelihood of bias and that the barrister would favour  the agents opinion.  He 
also believes  that the opinion provided  by the barrister in December  is flawed and that they 
made errors in how they interpreted the claim and that they failed to contact Mr S directly for 
his version of events.  He has also said that Amtrust caused unreasonable delays in how it 
progressed his claim and has asked for £4,250  in compensation.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss complaint already. He explained that this service 
is not in a position to consider whether  or not there  was any evidence of bias between the 
legal agent and the barrister it arranged to review  the file in November 2018. He also 
explained that we are not qualified to comment on legal advice or opinions as it is outside of 
this organisations  jurisdiction. He told Mr S that if he wanted these elements of his complaint 
considered he needed  to bring them to the Legal Ombudsman. 
However the investigator did review whether not it Amtrust was entitled to rely on the legal 
advice it was given  and whether or not it caused  any unnecessary  or detrimental delays to 
Mr Ss claim. Having done so he found  it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely on the legal 
advice it received and that, while some delays had happened  over the course  of the claim,  
these were minor and had no negative impact on the claims progression. So he didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion  and asked for an ombudsman to review  his 
complaint and so it has been passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided not to uphold  
the complaint  and I would  like to explain why.
Mr S has complained about the legal advice  Amtrust  was given by its agents and has made 
accusations of bias between the agents  and the barrister who supplied  the final opinion on 
his claims prospects of success. I agree with the comments made by our investigator in 
regards to this element  of Mr Ss complaint. We are not legal experts and we are not allowed 
to investigate complaints  of this nature. Should Mr S want these elements of his complaint to 
be considered  he should contact the Legal Ombudsman for advice. 
The remainder of Mr Ss complaint can be broken  down into two basic elements; whether or 
not it was appropriate for Amtrust to rely on the legal advice it was given by its agents  and 
whether or not the delays  in responding to some  of Mr Ss emails, caused any detriment to 
his claim.
Having reviewed the policy documents provided  by Amtrust I can see that it says it will 
provide cover for claims that have  reasonable prospects of success.
Reasonable prospects of success are defined as a greater than 50% chance of the 
insured successfully pursuing or defending the claim and, if the insured is seeking damages 
or compensation, a greater than 50% chance  of enforcing any judgement that might be 
obtained.
Ref: DRN35058213When Amtrust  accepted  Mr Ss claim it sent it to its legal agents to review. As an underwriter 
Amtrust doesnt have  internal legal expertise and so it relies on the advice provided by 
external solicitors and barristers when considering claims for legal expenses  cover.  Its legal 
agents told Amtrust that they didnt believe the case was likely to be successfully defended 
and so Amtrust declined  to provide  cover  on this basis. 
Despite this Amtrust did provide Mr S with some legal support  and covered the costs  of his 
legal representation when the tribunal  considered whether  or not the claimant had brought  
his case to the tribunal too late to be considered.  These  costs  came to £1,750  which Amtrust 
duly paid. It was at this stage that the request for medical evidence was made  in order  to 
help clarify  how the claimants disability may have impeded his ability  to do his job. This 
could also have had a potential impact on prospects of success of Mr Ss case. 
When Amtrust  refused  Mr Ss claim,  on the grounds that it didnt have reasonable prospects 
of success, he was entitled  to seek his own independent opinion from a barrister  to counter 
the opinion provided by Amtrusts agents. Mr Ss barrister said the case  did have reasonable  
prospects of success.  Under the terms of the policy once Mr S had provided an opposing  
opinion from an independent  barrister Amtrust was obliged to seek a final opinion from 
another barrister.  So the question seems to be whether or not it was reasonable for Amtrust 
to wait until the outstanding medical evidence was provided before getting an independent  
barrister to review the file again. 
Given that Mr Ss own barrister had indicated  that there was a potential  this evidence  could  
impact whether or not the case had reasonable prospects of success, I dont  think  it was 
unreasonable for Amtrust  to want to wait for this information before seeking  further  legal 
advice. Mr S has indicated that the barristers opinion provided by Amtrust  in December 
doesnt state that the case doesnt have a greater than 50% chance of success  but rather 
states that his case had a less than 51% chance of success. Mr S has argued that these are 
not the same thing  and so the opinion doesnt  support  the exclusion in the policy wording. 
I disagree. I dont think there  is a fundamental difference between the policy wording which  
states greater than 50% (i.e. 51%) or the barristers  opinion  which  said the chances  of 
success were  less than 51% (i.e. 50%). I accept that there are decimal points in between  
these two numbers  but that, in reality, is not how these figures are interpreted. And 
regardless of which way it was phrased I am satisfied that the claim was deemed not to have 
a reasonable prospect of success  as per the intention of the policy wording. 
So having  considered the first part of Mr Ss complaint I dont think  Amtrust was wrong  to 
rely on the legal  advice  it was given or that barristers opinion in December  supported the 
claim being accepted under the policys terms and conditions.  And considering it covered the 
costs of Mr Ss legal representation  for the preliminary hearing in June 2018, I cant say it 
has acted unreasonably towards him. So Im not asking it to cover the costs of Mr Ss 
solicitor after this point  as I dont think its liable for them. 
In regards to the delays  Mr S experienced during the start of the claim in February to its 
conclusion in December,  Amtrust has clarified that on three separate  occasions  it failed to 
respond to emails received by Mr S as quickly as it should have. It estimates  this inaction 
potentially resulted in an additional nine days being added to the claims life time over a ten 
month period.  In addition to this Mr S has also told us that when he complained to Amtrust 
about the handling of his claim it failed to issue  its final response letter within  the eight week  
period expected. 
Ref: DRN35058214Mr S has said that Amtrust has admitted  it caused  delays and so he should  be entitled to 
compensation. He has asked  for £4,250 which is the amount he paid to settle  his claim 
without it going  to the Tribunal for a final determination. Ive considered the points made  by 
Mr S and Amtrust.  I do agree that Amtrust  caused  some delays to Mr Ss claim. However 
this doesnt automatically  entitle  Mr S to compensation.
In regards to the three instances  where Amtrust didnt respond as quickly  as it should have 
to emails received  from Mr S, I dont think it needs to do anymore to put this right. There 
doesnt appear to have  been any impact on the claim, and Amtrust has acknowledged the 
errors and apologised for them, which  I believe is sufficient. 
In regards to the fact that Amtrust didnt respond  to Mr Ss complaint within the eight week  
period, as this is a complaint about  customer service standards  and not a regulated  activity,  
it is outside of our jurisdiction and not something  I can comment on. 
Therefore, having  taken  everything into consideration, I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable of me to ask Amtrust to pay Mr S any compensation  in regards to this complaint. 
I think it acted fairly and reasonably when it agreed to cover the initial  cost of £1,750  in June 
2018. And I think it was reasonable for Amtrust to rely on the legal advice it received from its 
agents in regards to Mr Ss claim.  Finally,  while  I do accept there were some  delays over the 
life span of the claim, these appear  to have been minor and had no detrimental impact on its 
overall progression.   
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Mr Ss limited companys  complaint  against 
Amtrust Europe Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3505821