K821x#15Complaint
Miss B complains  that the goods  she acquired  through hire purchase agreements  (HPAs) 
with Caversham Finance  Limited (trading as BrightHouse) (the business), werent of 
satisfactory quality. She also complains  that new agreements were  set up for replacement 
items.
Background
In August  2017,  Miss B entered into a HPA with BrightHouse to acquire a sofa and chair. 
When these were delivered they were different colours so she contacted  the business and 
raised a complaint. Miss B says she was offered a switch over and chose a new suite but the 
new sofa wasnt suitable. Following this a new agreement  was signed for a chair and two 
seater sofa.  This was delivered and the previous agreement terminated.  Unfortunately  there 
were issues  with the new furniture which were  confirmed by an inspection report in 
November 2018.   
In January 2019, a new agreement was entered into for a corner sofa and the previous 
agreement was terminated. The corner sofa was damaged in delivery. An inspection  was 
carried out in February  2019 and repair recommended.
In April 2018, Miss B entered into an agreement for a bed. She reported issues with the 
backboard. The backboard was replaced  but following this a return was agreed. The 
agreement was ended on 9 July 2018  and a new agreement was taken out for a different  
bed and mattress  (bed 2) on 30 June 2018. Miss B reported problems with the new mattress 
which were confirmed in an inspection carried out in August 2018. Miss B says that 
BrightHouse said it could  replace the bed and mattress but that a replacement wasnt  
available at the time and so she had been  using an old mattress. 
Miss B says that she has paid money  towards  agreements that have  then been  cancelled 
and that the issues she has experienced have caused her inconvenience  and stress.
The business says that the items  Miss B received were provided on a rent to own basis  and 
so she could terminate  her agreements at any time and return  the goods. It says that every 
time Miss B raised an issue with the bed or sofa action was taken to provide a replacement, 
even if confirmation  of the issue  hadnt been  provided. It says the returned sofas had all 
gone to other customers which showed  they were  of good quality. It says that the returned 
bed couldnt be resold as it cannot resell used  mattresses. 
In regard to the agreements, it says that new agreements were set up when different items 
were provided as this is standard practice.  
Our investigator said that the agreements were  set up for specific  items and therefore it was 
reasonable that a new agreement would be set up when the item was changed. 
In regard to the issues  Miss B experienced with the sofas our investigator thought that 
BrightHouse had tried to assist Miss B with the issues she had experienced. She thought it 
reasonable that an agreement would be terminated  when a sofa was returned and said the 
payments made under such  an agreement would  be for the use made of the sofa. However  
she noted that the issue with the current sofa occurred at delivery in January  2019 and was 
confirmed by a report in February 2019.  She noted  that Miss B didnt think a repair  had been  
offered but said that in any case at this point a return of goods  option should have been 
Ref: DRN32542522given. She thought it fair that the sofa be returned,  the agreement  ended  and that Miss B be 
refunded 50% of the payments to reflect the issues. She said that if Miss B wanted a 
replacement from BrightHouse it would  be reasonable for BrightHouse  to consider Miss Bs 
application for a new agreement  and the refund of payments  could be considered  as credit 
towards this.
In regard to the issues  with the beds, our investigator said the first bed was returned quickly 
and that the payments made under the agreement were for the use of the bed during the 
time Miss B had it. She thought it reasonable that there was a new agreement for the second  
bed and she thought Miss B would have  been aware  that a new agreement  was being set 
up. She noted  that the bed was found  to have a faulty mattress within two months of delivery 
and it appeared  that a replacement bed wasnt available  that time. She said that she was 
unsure why a replacement wasnt  arranged  when one became available. 
Our investigator thought that a replacement mattress should have been provided  in August 
2018 and that since then it didnt  seem like the mattress had been put too much  use. She 
recommended that either:
a replacement bed be delivered and a refund  of 50% of payments since August 2018 
is made; or
the bed is returned  and 50% of payments since August 2018  are refunded.
The business responded to our investigators  view saying it would agree to refund 50% of 
payments made towards the items  on the agreements but not towards  the interest or 
insurance.  
Since our investigators view was issued  Miss B has raised concerns about the payments 
she has made under the various  agreements  and whether these have  been  recorded 
correctly. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has complained  about  a number of issues. I have considered all of these  and I have 
explained my thoughts  in regard to the key complaint points raised.
Setting up new agreements
Miss B is upset that when she has returned items her agreements  have been cancelled and 
new agreements set up for the new items.  I understand the point she is making however as 
the agreements  are set up for specific items with payments and terms linked  to the items, I 
can see why new agreements can be required when new items are supplied.
Miss B says that this process has meant  that she has paid towards items of furniture that 
she then hasnt ended up owning  and because new agreements were  set up for replacement 
items her payments were lost and not put towards  the new items. 
I can understand why this is frustrating for Miss B but the items are being  provided on a rent 
to own basis. The payments she has made  have been for the rent of the item and therefore 
Ref: DRN32542523for her use of the item while in her possession. Given this I do not find I can say payments  
towards one agreement are required to be transferred to a new agreement.
Sofa
Miss B has experienced a number of issues with the sofas  and chairs  she has ordered. I can 
understand why she has been upset by needing  to return items. However  based  on the 
information I have  seen it appears  that BrightHouse has tried to assist Miss B when she has 
raised issues and that returns  have been  accepted.
Our investigators view was issued when  Miss B had a corner sofa which had been delivered 
in January 2019. She had raised concerns about  damage to the sofa at delivery  and this was 
confirmed in an inspection  report in February 2019 when repair  was recommended. I 
understand that Miss B wasnt aware that a repair had been  offered.
Given the damage was present at delivery, reported  at that time,  and was later confirmed by 
an inspection report I find it reasonable that the sofa should have been  returned at that time. 
I understand that this has now happened  which I find reasonable. However this has taken a 
long time and although Miss B has had use of the sofa her enjoyment has been reduced due 
to the damage. 
As the sofa has been returned  I would expect the agreement  to be cancelled  with nothing  
further owing.  Given the loss of enjoyment Miss B has had by using a damaged  sofa for an 
extended period  I agree  with our investigators recommendation that 50% of payments under 
this agreement should be refunded.
I note that BrightHouse accepted to refund 50% of the capital repayments but not the full 
repayments. However I find it reasonable that 50% of the full payments are refunded.  I say 
this because Miss B was paying an amount for a sofa. The sofa wasnt  of a satisfactory 
quality and Miss B raised this at the time. Action  should therefore have been  taken  at that 
time and had this been the case Miss B wouldnt have been liable for any of the payments 
towards the agreement. I do not find that all payments should be refunded  as Miss B did 
have use of the sofa however I find a 50% refund is reasonable. 
Bed
Miss B also experienced issues with beds she had ordered and needed to return. The bed 
that is subject to this complaint was found to have a faulty mattress  within  two months  of 
delivery. It appears that a replacement bed was required but this wasnt available  at the time. 
Given the issues with the mattress  it is not clear why the bed wasnt  returned. This is an 
option under  the agreement. However  this didnt  happen and Miss B had raised her 
concerns with BrightHouse and so I find it reasonable  that it would have taken steps to 
address the issue.  As this didnt happen  at that time,  Miss B was left with a faulty mattress 
which she says she wasnt able to use causing  inconvenience and distress.
Given the issues with the mattress  I find it reasonable  that Miss B is refunded part of her 
rentals. This is to reflect the restricted use she has been able to make of the bed. Again I 
think a refund of 50% is reasonable given the issues experienced and the use that has been 
available. As I set out in regard to the sofa refund I note the comments  made by BrightHouse 
about the capital repayments being  refunded but I find 50% of the payments from August 
2018 (when the fault was confirmed) should be refunded.
Ref: DRN32542524I understand that the bed has now been  collected and so I would expect the agreement to 
also have bene  terminated.
Payments
Miss B has raised concerns about  the payments she has made under her various 
agreements and is worried these  may not have all been captured  on her account. I have 
seen some information from BrightHouse in regard  to payments made  but I have not seen 
anything from Miss B to explain which payments she believes have been missed. Therefore  I 
have not considered this issue as part of this decision.
If Miss B is still concerned that her payments havent been accurately recorded  she should 
raise this with BrightHouse and provide any evidence she has to support this concern. Then, 
if necessary, this issue could be raised as a separate  complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Caversham Finance Limited (trading as BrightHouse) should:
refund  Miss B 50% of the payments under the sofa agreement  taken out in 
January 2019;
refund  50% of the payments from August 2018  for the bed agreement taken out at 
end June 2018; and
remove any adverse information  relating to these agreements from Miss Bs credit 
file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3254252