K822xcomplaint
Mr F has complained about the rate of interest hes being charged by Ulster Bank  Ltd on a 
personal loan.
background 
Mr F applied  for a loan with Ulster  Bank using an online facility in November 2018. He says 
he was given an interest rate of 7.4%. When he received the loan documents the interest  
rate was shown as 14.85%.
Mr F complained to Ulster  Bank.  It said hed accepted the interest rate hed been given 
which wouldnt be changed. Mr F wasnt happy with this response and referred his complaint 
to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He didnt think  the interest 
rate should  be amended but he thought  the information Ulster Bank gave Mr F could have 
been explained better. He thought Ulster Bank  should pay Mr F £150 for the trouble and 
inconvenience it had caused him.
Ulster Bank agreed to pay £150  to Mr F. But he didnt think £150  would compensate  him for 
the additional interest he would have to pay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr F applied for his loan Ulster Bankss  website  specified a representative interest  
rate of 3.4%.  But it went on to say Our rates depend on your circumstances and loan 
amount and may differ from the representative [interest rate]. I think  Mr F would have known 
he might  not be given a loan at an interest rate of 3.4%.
Ulster Bank says Mr F would have been  told the actual interest rate would be 14.85%  when 
he applied  for the loan online and before  he accepted it. Im not sure why Mr F thought  hed 
been given an interest rate of 7.4% but I dont dispute he believed  thats what  hed been 
given.
Ulster Bank sent Mr F the documents relating  to his loan a few days after he made the online 
application. The documents clearly  show the interest rate of 14.85%  and the repayments 
Mr F would have to make.  The documents also gave Mr F the right to cancel the agreement 
within 14 days. He would  then have had 30 days in which to repay the money hed been lent. 
He decided not to cancel  the agreement even though  he knew  the interest rate he was being  
charged. So Im satisfied  he accepted  the terms of the loan, including  the interest  rate of 
14.85%.
In its response to Mr Fs complaint, Ulster Bank  accepted it had given him incorrect 
information before he took out the loan. It didnt offer him any compensation for this and I 
think it should pay him £150 to compensate him for the trouble and upset he was caused. 
This is not intended  to compensate Mr F for any additional interest  he will have  to pay. It 
Ref: DRN37272522wouldnt be appropriate for me to require Ulster Bank to pay Mr F compensation for 
additional interest because he agreed  to pay the interest rate he was given when he decided 
not to cancel the loan.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require Ulster Bank 
Ltd to pay Mr F £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3727252