K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain  that Fowlersfinance.com Limited refused to let them reject a car 
which they had bought  with finance.
background
In June 2017 Mr and Mrs Y entered into a conditional sale agreement  with Fowlers to fund 
the purchase of a car. It cost £4,995  and the weekly payments were £55.71 for a period of 
130 weeks. Mr Y who has pursued  this complaint on behalf  of the couple says he 
encountered issues with the car, namely a chip on the windscreen and water in the 
passenger foot well. He didnt  believe Fowlers were willing to help him so he made a number 
of chargebacks to recover payments he had made.
Fowlers said the chip was repaired on 18 December 2017  at Mr Ys place of work and it was 
in a place that caused  no major impact  on the car being driven. As for the water issue  it 
offered to repair it, but it said Mr Y wanted  a courtesy car which wasnt available. It says it 
offered to collect the car and return the next day, but Mr Y refused. It added that when the 
car was repossessed  it found an accumulation of leaves in the window wiper duct causing a 
blockage which resulted in water  in the foot well.
It said that Mr Ys account was in serious arrears  and then he made a number of 
chargebacks of which £342.60  were  never  recovered. It said that Mr and Mrs Y had only 
paid a total of £1,703.99. It issued a default notice on 9 January which  required Mr and Mrs 
Y to bring the account up to date by 31 January. At that point he was in arrears by £167.13.  
They failed to do this and the car was repossessed. 
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who initially  thought  it should  be 
upheld, but following further representations from the business she changed  her view. She 
considered it most likely the car was fit for purpose  in that it was regularly used by Mr and 
Mrs Y. She was satisfied  that Fowlers had been willing  to address the water problem. Since  
the payments  hadnt been maintained the car had been repossessed and sold on so she 
couldnt ask for a report into the state  of it.
As for the default  she thought Fowlers had followed due process in sending out the 
notification and repossessing the car on 28 February. She explained Fowlers could 
repossess the car without a court order as Mr and Mrs Y hadnt paid one third of the 
agreement, which wouldve  been  £2,514. 
She also noted Fowlers  didnt take back possession  of the car until 28 February 2018 and 
had previously tried to contact Mr and Mrs Y even though the default had already expired. 
She said Fowlers was entitled to repossess the car as Mr and Mrs Y were over six weeks in 
arrears and had defaulted  and so breached  the terms and conditions  of the agreement.
Neither party responded to this view and so the matter has been referred to me for a 
decision. 
Ref: DRN34201012my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Fowlers is also the supplier of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Mr Y says the car wasnt satisfactory  due to two issues. Fowlers  say that Mr Y didnt co-
operate to let it fix the problems. However,  it did manage to repair  the windscreen chip which  
it says was minor. I appreciate Mr Y used the car to get to work and he wanted  a courtesy 
car, but Fowlers had limited availability of such cars and so the fault wasnt  repaired. It 
seems there was breakdown between the two parties and Mr Y took the view that he should 
withhold payment  and also use chargebacks to reclaim the payments he had made.
The result was that he was in arrears and so Fowlers took action to reduce their risk of 
further losses. It was entitled to take such action and I cannot say that it was wrong to do so 
or that it didnt follow due process. I believe Mr Y had the opportunity to deal with the 
outstanding sums due, but chose not to. Fowlers say there were told Mr Y was trying  to sell 
the car and a for sale sign was found in the car when it was repossessed.  .
Without having the car examined I cannot  say that it wasnt fit for purpose.  Nor am I 
persuaded that Fowlers  refused to repair it. As such I dont consider I can conclude that 
Fowlers did anything wrong and so I am unable to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN34201013my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to accept or reject my decision 
before 15 February  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3420101