K822xcomplaint
Mrs R has complained about her home insurer Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited.  
Shes unhappy because it declined her claim made  following  a water leak as it became 
aware that shed been away  from her home  for more than 30 days  at the time of the leak.
background
On 8 March 2018, whilst she was abroad, Mrs R was called by her daughter.  Her daughter 
told her that the neighbour, who was checking on the house  as per an arrangement  with
Mrs R, had found a large  water leak. The water had been switched off and Lloyds called,  but
Lloyds wouldnt speak  to anyone other than Mrs R.
There was then some difficulty with Mrs R getting in contact with Lloyds, given her location, 
and Lloyds eventually  managed to call her. Lloyds discovered that Mrs R had been away  
since early January 2018 and, having  considered its position, told Mrs Rs daughter that it 
was declining  her claim.  It said this was because the policy contained  an exclusion for water  
damage where the property is left unoccupied  for more than 30 days.
Lloyds issued its final response. It said it had explained why it felt the policy exclusion for 
unoccupancy removed its liability for the claim (to be occupied the home  had to be lived in 
by people who normally live with the policyholder and that wasnt  the case  here).  It said that 
during a conversation Mrs R had with it in March  2017 shed been told to call it if she was 
going away for more than 30 days.  And if Mrs R had done that it would have applied  a slight 
premium increase as well as some  conditions to cover, such as switching off and draining 
the water  systems.
Mrs R said her home wasnt  unoccupied as her neighbour had checked on it as per the 
arrangement Lloyds had approved in the March 2017 call, which Lloyds had referred to. 
Lloyds wasnt prepared  to change its position  and Mrs R complained to us.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld. She noted the policy wording 
was clear and felt that Lloyds couldnt  be expected  to explain every term in a phone call.
Mrs R was disappointed. She said Lloyds hadnt  treated her fairly at all, not least  because it 
had never  sent her policy terms until after the leak. She said shed been led to believe, 
during the March 2017 phone call, that her arrangement with her neighbour was sufficient  to 
keep her home covered.
The complaint was passed  to me and I felt that Lloyds had failed  Mrs R. I thought that, as a 
result, it should consider her claim as though cover had been  in place. But I noted  that Mrs R 
had already reinstated her home so said that if she provided proof of her outlay, Id consider  
what payment Lloyds should make  to settle the claim. I also said Id direct  it to consider the 
upset Mrs R had been caused by its failure and pay her fair and reasonable compensation.  
Both Mrs R and Lloyds responded to my provisional  findings and, following further  
correspondence, I told both parties  that I felt a settlement payment of £40,000 plus interest* 
was fair and reasonable. Both accepted  my findings. 
Regarding compensation Mrs R said shed like me to consider what shed been through  
following Lloyds initial decline of her claim as part of this complaint. Lloyds said it would 
consider the compensation issue separately.
Ref: DRN37068952my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  satisfied by 
what I said provisionally.
Regarding the sale of the policy I said:
The Lloyds policy is clear  about  what will happen  in certain circumstances  when a home  
isnt lived in. It clearly explains what it considers to be an occupied property and it states 
that where a home is unoccupied for more  than 30 days cover for damage caused by 
water leaks  is excluded.  Mrs R was away for more than 30 days. So, on a basic 
consideration of the policy wording and the facts of the incident,  there  is no cover available 
to Mrs R.
I cant then find, at the start of the claim,  when  Lloyds first found  out about  Mrs R being  
away, that it acted unreasonably by thinking  it had no liability  for this claim. But, I think  its 
interpretation of the phone conversation and its relevance to the situation was flawed. Im 
satisfied that, in light of the phone conversation Ive heard,  the actual policy wording  
becomes less significant. In the conversation the cover available  is discussed and its clear 
to me that Mrs R came  away with her understanding of cover from that conversation,  
rather than relying on the policy documents (which  she says shes  never received).
Having discussed  the policy and premium  Mrs R mentions  about  being away from home 
for a fortnight.  She then says but I could be away longer.  The representative responds by 
saying thats not a problem, youll just have to pay a bit more. Mrs R is advised that shell 
need to call Lloyds before she goes but shes clearly told this is just to sort out the (minor) 
additional premium.  It isnt suggested  that anything else will need to be done or that any 
other considerations will be made or details discussed during that call.
At this point in the call Mrs R has already explained  about the arrangement  with her 
neighbour. This is mentioned again and the representative tells Mrs R she is doing the 
right thing. Mrs R also asks if Lloyds would still fix her home and she is told clearly  and 
categorically Oh yeah, we would.
Whilst I wouldnt expect  any insurer to discuss all terms and conditions during  every call 
with an insured, whether they have  relevance to the point in discussion or not, I think  
Lloyds should  reasonably  have talked to Mrs R in some more detail here. Or even if it had 
just said well increase the premium but therell  likely be some  key conditions added  as 
well that will restrict your cover, that would have been enough to put Mrs R on notice  that 
having her neighbour visit, whilst a good  plan, wouldnt necessarily be enough  to ensure 
she was fully covered  whilst away. Because of the call Mrs R was, at worst, misled  into 
thinking she was covered,  and at best not treated fairly by having  a reasonably 
foreseeable restriction to cover drawn  to her attention. Lloyds is the expert in this 
relationship and I think it failed her.
I know  Mrs R didnt call Lloyds as she was directed  to, and agreed to. But I can see how 
this got forgotten, especially as the direction  in the phone call is made in a relaxed way as
though making  that call isnt very important. And as Ive said the only mention  of the need  
for that call was said to be to add a slight increase  to the premium, of around £5.
Ref: DRN37068953I have no doubt that if Mrs R had been made  aware  that restrictions  might  apply or was 
told how important calling  before she went away was, shed have done something 
differently and the loss would have been avoided. Therefore, I think its only fair that Lloyds  
covers the claim as though the exclusion on the policy for unoccupancy doesnt apply. In 
accepting the claim  Lloyds will have  to take on any costs that Mrs R has had for repairing 
the property as though  they were  its own  so it wont be able to restrict any settlement 
made to her based on what it would have cost it to do the work. It will have to add interest*. 
If there  is still work outstanding then Mrs R and Lloyds will need to decide how best to 
complete that  either utilising any builders already on site or Lloyds appointing its own 
contractors, but Mrs R shouldnt end up out of pocket either away. Any costs Mrs R has 
had for living elsewhere, as well as any distress and/or inconvenience caused as a result 
of that, which would have  been avoided if Lloyds hadnt declined the claim, will also need  
to be taken into account.
If Mrs R wants me to award an exact figure for Lloyds to pay in settlement of her costs  
(before interest is added), shell have to provide proof of her spending in response to this 
provisional decision. Ill then share that detail with Lloyds  before deciding what  I think a fair 
and reasonable settlement is.
Regarding the claim settlement Mrs R said shed spent £41,146.36  on repairs and £2,966  
living elsewhere. Mrs R provided  various  receipts for the work. I shared the detail with 
Lloyds and it made some comments. I reviewed everything and told Lloyds and Mrs R that 
I felt a fair and reasonable settlement was £40,000 plus interest*.  I explained that this was 
a pragmatic settlement  and wasnt dependant  on strict proof  being  applied for every cost 
detailed and that for practicality purposes interest should be added to the whole sum from 
the 30 April 2018.  
The sum reflected  some  concerns  Lloyds had about  the reinstated kitchen and that I felt 
were valid.  It gave  account to Mrs R though for living costs  I accepted  shed likely had 
even though proof hadnt been provided. In making the award  I accepted that Mrs R had 
acted to reinstate  her home as best she could given the situation  Lloyds had left her in and 
that I felt she shouldnt be penalised  as a result of that. 
As both parties have  accepted my findings  in this respect Ill record the settlement in my 
award below.
In respect of compensation I provisionally  said:
Im not going  to award compensation here for what Mrs R has been through  in trying  to 
repair her home  but that isnt to say she isnt due any. Rather, because  Lloyds  issued its 
final response before Mrs R even came  home,  I cant assess  what  she went through  after 
that letter was issued.  I dont doubt  that seeing  her home like that and having to arrange 
repairs was immensely upsetting and that a good degree of inconvenience  was also 
caused. Id expect Lloyds to consider that and make  its own assessment about what 
compensation is fairly and reasonably due.
I note that, apart from a brief call with Mrs R where it was agreed Lloyds could speak with 
her daughter, there  was no contact between Lloyds  and Mrs R until after she came  home.  
Mrs Rs daughter handled the claim  in the early  days  and Lloyds  final response was even  
addressed to her. So it was Ms R that was first told of the decline and Ms R who initially 
argued against that. It isnt clear when Mrs R first became aware of Lloyds decision. But it 
may well be that this only happened  after the response  was issued and once Mrs R had 
Ref: DRN37068954returned home. So Im not currently satisfied that Lloyds unfair  claim decision caused  
Mrs R any upset or inconvenience before the point  of its final response. 
Mrs R said that Lloyds  declined the claim on 13 March and her daughter  told her this news 
straight-away which caused her lots of worry and sleepless nights. I reviewed the history of 
the claim and noted that Lloyds final response was actually  issued two days  after it initially  
notified Ms R of the decline. I noted  that Mrs R had particularly wanted to protect her 
property whilst away and accepted that the news of its decline of her claim, whilst  she was 
so far away,  was very upsetting  for her.  I felt Lloyds  should pay £200 compensation to 
account for this and shared my view with both parties. Both accepted my findings and so 
Im now going to award Mrs R £200  compensation in this respect.
With regards to what happened after Lloyds issued its final response on 15 March  2018; 
I remain of the view that Lloyds will need  to consider this upset following my final decision 
being issued and assuming that Mrs R accepts it (which Lloyds has already agreed to do). 
I concluded my provisional findings by saying:
I think Lloyds fairly has to deal with Mrs Rs claim because it either  misled  her or failed to 
pass her crucial information when it reasonably had the opportunity  to do so. For any costs 
Mrs R has paid and Lloyds needs to reimburse, it will have to add interest  from the date 
Mrs R paid the relevant  amount until settlement is made. And, because  the upset  and 
inconvenience Mrs R likely suffered occurred after the point where my consideration of the 
complaint ends, Ill require Lloyds to consider its liability in that respect as well.
I remain of the view that Lloyds misled  Mrs R. Im satisfied that fair and reasonable 
reimbursement of her financial loss that resulted from that equates  to £40,000  plus interest*. 
And Im satisfied that £200  compensation for the upset Mrs R experienced before Lloyds 
issued its final decision is fairly and reasonably due. I also remain of the view that Lloyds 
must now assess the distress and inconvenience  Mrs R suffered after its final response was 
issued as a result of it having misled her. 
Ref: DRN37068955my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance  Limited to:
Pay Mrs R £40,000  plus interest* in settlement of her claim. 
Pay Mrs R £200  compensation  for the upset she was caused  before its final response was 
issued on 15 March 2018.
Consider what distress and inconvenience Mrs R suffered after 15 March 2018  and 
whether, as well as what, compensation  is fairly  and reasonably  due. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amount  specified from 30 April 2018 and until settlement is made.  If 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from any 
interest due to Mrs R, it should  tell her how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a certificate showing this if she asks 
for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3706895