K820x#14complaint
This complaint is brought by M, a limited  liability company. It concerns a claim on a 
Hiscox Insurance Company Limited  business  protection insurance policy,  which  M made for 
cover to defend  a claim against it by one of its customers.
The complaint is made  by Mr O, a Director  of M and Ms representatives.  
background
In January 2018, M made a claim on its Hiscox business protection  insurance policy for 
cover to defend  a claim made against  it by one of its customers. The claim  was in relation to 
a contract M had entered into with that customer to install a new fire alarm system.  The 
customer was unhappy with the work M had done and M was unhappy that it had not been 
paid for the work.  
Ms claim was made  through  its broker, who put the claim to Hiscox.  Hiscox considered  
things and said the claim wasnt covered for the following reasons;
An insured  event hadnt occurred  because this was a contract dispute and the policy  only 
covered allegations of negligence;
The policy didnt cover claims in relation to defective work  and the claim made against M 
was in relation  to just that;
M didnt notify the claim in line with the policys reporting obligations, which  prejudiced 
Hiscox position.
M doesnt  agree. It says the claim against  it was for negligence and not defective works and 
that what went before the claim was reported, didnt prejudice Hiscox because  the matter 
was still pre action.
Our investigator considered Ms complaint and concluded it shouldnt be upheld. She 
thought the claim  against M was in relation to defective works, so wasnt covered by the 
policy and that Hiscox  position had been  prejudiced  by the late notification.
M doesnt  agree so the matter has been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Ms 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why below.
In reaching my conclusion  I can assure both parties  that Ive thought  about  their 
considerable submissions  and all of the evidence. However, I wont  necessarily  be referring 
to all their submissions in this decision.  
The starting point  is the policy terms. They say:
What is covered - Claims against  you:
If during the period of insurance, and as a result of your business activity  within  the
geographical limits for clients,  any party brings  a claim against you for:
a. negligence  or breach of a duty of care;
Ref: DRN38491992b. negligent misstatement or negligent misrepresentation;
We will indemnify you against  the sums you have to pay as compensation.
We will also pay defence costs but we will not pay costs for any part of a claim not covered 
by this section .
What is not covered:
5. any overcharging  of fees or commission by you.
11. your or your sub-contractor's defective  workmanship, or any defective materials you,
your sub-contractor or a third party have supplied, or your or your sub-contractor's  failure
to supervise or Inspect the work  you or your sub-contractor have carried  out.
Having considered those terms, I dont think  it matters much whether  the claim against M 
contained allegations of negligence or a breach of duty of care if it also fell within the 
exclusions of the insurance. So all I need  to decide is whether the claim was in relation  to an 
overcharging of fees and/or M or its sub contractors defective  workmanship. I agree with our 
investigator that both of those exclusions apply here.
The correspondence Ive seen makes clear that this dispute started some time before a 
claim was made when M was chasing  its customer for payment. When payment wasnt 
received, M told its customer that it wouldnt complete the agreed  work until payment  had 
been made. At the time, the customer had expressed they were unhappy M hadnt 
completed the works in a timely manner. Because of that they offered part payment of the 
sums claimed by M. They  then went on to tell M theyd appointed another  contractor  to 
complete the works so M would be liable for delays and rectifying any defective or non-
complaint work. M disputed the position,  so its customer responded pointing  out a number of 
works it felt were non-compliant. It referred to the need for correction of defective works. 
Further correspondence between  the parties  references the quality of the work being in 
issue.
In light of this, I dont think theres  any doubt  that Ms client  was both unhappy with the time it 
had taken M to complete the contract  it had with it and the quality of the work  undertaken. 
And given  whats been  said about that work, I cant say the policy  exclusion doesnt  apply  
here. So whilst it might be true that the allegations did amount to negligence and a breach of 
duty of care,  it was also the case that they related  to the standard  of the works which Ms 
client alleged to be defective. 
I also think the claim is excluded because Ms customer alleged it had charged for work not 
yet completed in full. As such Ms client was alleging an overcharging  in fees by it. So the 
claim is caught by this policy exclusion in addition.
Because I dont think this claim is covered, for the reasons Ive set out above, its not 
necessary for me to decide whether Hiscox  were  also entitled to reject it because  it was 
notified late. But for the sake of completeness Ive set out my thoughts on this point below.  
The policy terms say:
We will not make any payment under  this section:
1. unless you notify us promptly  of the following within the period of insurance or at the
latest within 14 days after it expires  for any problem you first become  aware  of in the
seven days before expiry:
a. your first awareness of a shortcoming  in your or your sub contractor's  work for a
client which is likely to lead to a claim against  you. This includes any criticism of
Ref: DRN38491993your work even though regarded by you as unjustifiable.
If we accept your notification we will regard any subsequent claim as notified to this
insurance
Its clear to me that M was aware  of a problem with its customer-  even if simply in relation to 
non-payment of its fees- in August 2016,  which is caught by paragraph  1 above. Its quite 
possible that such a situation would attract the potential  for a claim of negligence and/or 
defective workmanship by a customer so I wouldve expected M to notify Hiscox of the 
problem of non-payment either then, or at least at the point  when it became aware that its 
customer wasnt happy with the standard of the works completed. Instead the claim wasnt  
notified until some considerable time later-  namely  in January 2018, shortly after Ms 
customer sent it a letter  before  action. Because of this I dont think theres  any doubt that the 
claim was notified too late.
But that on its own isnt enough to say an insurer should  turn down a claim on a standalone 
basis. They  also have to show  their position has been prejudiced  by the late notification.
In this case Ive thought  about whether Hiscox position was prejudiced like they say. 
Theyve said the late notification meant they were  prevented from instructing their own panel 
solicitors or having control over the costs and direction of the claim. They said they dont 
agree with the direction  the claim took and that they might have been  able to settle it for 
considerably less than the claim ultimately  concluded for. I have some sympathy with this 
position, but I also take on board what M has said here. When the claim was made, nothing  
significant had happened. A letter before action had been issued  but proceedings were not 
afoot. So although  M instructed its solicitor to respond to the letter of claim after it contacted  
Hiscox, I think that Hiscox  might  have been able to turn things around and appoint their own 
solicitors at that point,  if they were prepared to take on the claim. 
But as Ive said above, this doesnt  make much difference to this complaint since  I dont think 
its one that is covered- which means that Hiscox were entitled to turn down the complaint in 
the way that they did. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms complaint against  Hiscox Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3849199