K821x#15complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain about  the quality of the repairs that Admiral  Insurance  Company 
Limited made to their car under their motor insurance policy. They  want it to pay for the 
repairs or pay them a goodwill  figure  suggested  by an independent  assessor. 
background
Mrs C car was taken to Admirals approved garage  for bodywork repairs following an 
accident. Mr C is a named  driver on Mrs Cs policy. The repairs  were  covered under their 
policy by a five year warranty. Just outside this period, Mr C noticed that the repaired 
paintwork had bubbled. Admiral commissioned an independent engineers report  on the 
damage. This said that the damage resulted from poor workmanship. But Admiral  declined 
to pay for further repairs as it said the warranty had expired.  Mr C and Mrs C were unhappy 
with this and with the level of service they received  from the repairing garage.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  the 
engineers report  showed that the damage was due to the repairing  garages poor 
workmanship. He thought it was unfair for Admiral  to say that this wasnt  covered under the 
policy because it only became apparent five years later.  He thought  Admiral  should pay for 
the repairs to be rectified.  
Admiral replied that it rejected the adjudicators  view because the repairs were  outside the 
guarantee period. Mr C and Mrs C replied that they thought Admiral was being unfair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Admiral has apologised for the response  provided by the repairing garage when 
Mr C brought the paintwork problem to its attention.  I think thats fair and reasonable. I can 
understand that Mrs C and Mr C are frustrated that Admiral has declined to rectify  the 
paintwork on the car. Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers 
acted fairly  and reasonably and in line with the terms  and conditions  of the policy.
Admiral said Mr C and Mrs C had brought their concerns about the paintwork to it two 
months after the five year guarantee  expired. It said the guarantee also covered  
workmanship. So it declined to provide rectification work.
I think the policy clearly states that repairs by an approved garage are guaranteed for five 
years. Mrs C and Mr C notified Admiral of the problem outside  this five year period. So Id 
usually say that Admirals  entitled to decline to provide  rectification  as the problem was 
brought outside the guarantee period. But, in the particular circumstances of this case,  I 
dont think that would  be fair or reasonable. Ill now explain  why I think  this.  
Admiral commissioned an independent  engineer to investigate the problem. He said the 
damage was caused by the workmanship at the time the repairs  were made. He said water  
had been expelled from the paint  spraygun  and then trapped. The damage was described as 
microblistering. He discussed  this with the original  repairers who said they would discuss 
internally whether a goodwill repair could be carried out. The engineer also provided an 
estimate for cash in lieu of repairs settlement.
Ref: DRN39811192So I think its agreed, based on this expert  report, that the cause  of the damage to the 
paintwork was the poor workmanship at the repairing garage at the time of the initial  repairs. 
Mrs C and Mr C didnt notice this until five years and two months  later. But I dont  think  its 
fair for Admiral to decline responsibility  because Mrs C and Mr C didnt notice this earlier as 
the damage was caused at the time of the initial repairs and so within the five years of the 
guarantee. And so I think Admiral should be responsible for rectifying it. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay for the costs of rectifying the paintwork damage to Mrs C and Mr Cs car 
caused by the microblistering. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 December  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3981119