K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained about James Hay Administration Company Ltd. He is unhappy with 
the delay in the transfer of his James Hay Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) to a new 
SIPP provider. He was particularly concerned over the delays between 5 March  2018 and 
9 April 2018 during which  time he lost access to his cash.
background
There were four businesses involved in the transfer  transaction. James Hay, Mr Ws original 
stockbroker who handled his personal trade requests within  the SIPP,  the new SIPP  
providers and the new SIPP administrators.
James Hay received  a transfer discharge form on 10 January 2018 but this couldnt be 
actioned because the receiving scheme didnt complete their section and it had to be returned.
What followed involved the coordination of the transfer between the four parties  and Mr W. 
This included his selling assets  that were  unacceptable to the new SIPP  arrangement.  The 
sale of these assets was a condition of the transfer.
Mr W informed  the new SIPP administrators that hed sold the unacceptable assets on the 
5 March 2018 and James  Hay received confirmation of this, and the outstanding re-
registration details  theyd previously requested, on the 6 March  2018.
It then took until 16 April 2018 for the cash to be transferred  and applied  to Mr Ws new 
SIPP account.
Mr W made his first complaint to James Hay on the 26 February 2018. It responded on 8 
March 2018 and gave a subsequent response on the 12 June 2018.
Mr W was dissatisfied with the response and forwarded the complaint to this service to 
investigate.
Our adjudicator investigated and concluded  that James Hay did their best to facilitate the 
transfer which was held up due to no fault of theirs. He felt the the delay was largely due to 
the fact that Mr W held assets  that were unacceptable to his new SIPP provider. He only 
disinvested from these  on the 5 March 2018,  having been notified that he needed  to on the 
23 January 2018.
Our adjudicator also decided that there were sufficient disclosures to Mr W that the transfer 
process takes time.  James Hay had pointed out the reliance on third parties and also said 
that cash is only transferred after the stocks had been transferred in-specie.
Mr W felt there was no reason why James Hay couldnt transfer  the uncrystallised element of 
his pension earlier as they eventually did this on the 23 March  2018. But our adjudicator said 
this was after James Hay had confirmation Mr W no longer held unacceptable assets and a 
transfer could  now be readily initiated  to the new provider.
Ref: DRN35825622Mr W didnt agree and asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  He reiterated the following 
points:
James Hay could have made the cash payments sooner than it did despite  the terms 
and conditions.
The terms and conditions  arent  fair as transferring cash  after the in-specie means that 
James Hay has the advantage of holding cash for longer and gaining interest. At the 
same time the cash is not usable.  And Mr W was only transferring because of an 
increase in fees.
The existing  stockbrokers were integrated into the SIPP  by James Hay and it should  
have taken  more  responsibility for their actions.
Transferring cash last may be administratively convenient, but given the nature of the 
SIPP later cash  payments were always likely and did take place.
The unacceptable assets were sold at a time when the transfer could have taken place. 
Had they been sold sooner the cash would have  been  idle for longer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the investigator and broadly 
with his reasoning.  There is little that I can add to his view and I dont uphold this complaint.
I can appreciate Mr Ws frustration when this transfer didnt proceed as quickly  as he felt it 
could and should. There were four different businesses involved in the transfer and it may be 
the case that each  one could have dealt with matters differently to some extent, particularly 
with the benefit of hindsight. But Im not satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable to 
uphold the complaint and direct that James Hay pay redress.
I dont think James Hays  terms and conditions were unfair in so far as they insisted that 
cash would  be transferred after the transfer of other assets. As Mr W seems  to accept, this 
makes administrative sense. In this case,  James Hay was told that unacceptable assets had 
been sold on 6 March 2018.  I dont  think that it could have been expected to begin  any 
transfer before that. James Hay then contacted the stockbroker on 8 March  2018 and 
instructed it to commence  the transfer. This appears to have  been  actioned with a valuation 
being sent to the new brokers on 14 March 2018.
And although it wasnt obliged to, James  Hay did make an interim cash transfer on 23 March  
2018. The remaining  cash  was transferred promptly once received from the stockbroker. 
There is some dispute as to whether that cash transfer was correctly  referenced by James  
Hay, but Ive not seen any evidence that conclusively demonstrates  that it did make an error 
in this respect.
The transfer of stock in-specie appears to have been completed on or about the 28 March 
2018. The main  balance of cash was transferred on 9 April 2018. So the transfer was largely  
completed in just over one month  from the date when James  Hay was told that the 
unacceptable assets had been sold. Im not satisfied that this was an unreasonably slow 
transaction in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN35825623As Ive said,  I can understand Mr Ws frustration.  He may feel that he has been  penalised 
through no fault of his own. He says that he transferred because of an increase in fees,  but 
then has lost out again when the transfer period deprived him of the use of his cash. 
However, Im satisfied that James Hay dealt  with the transfer of cash  in line with its terms 
and conditions. I dont  believe these are unfair. There  is a purpose to transferring cash  last 
as Mr W accepts. I dont  believe  there was any unreasonable delay in the transfer.
So for these reasons, I dont uphold the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3582562