K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the service he received from Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  when he tried 
to access their emergency cash facility whilst abroad. He is unhappy that prior to going  
abroad Lloyds  misled him to the effect  that he would be able to use that service, but when he 
tried, he was told he was not eligible.
background
Mr H contacted Lloyds  on the 13 December 2018 some 5 days prior to leaving the country.  
At that time he was reporting suspicious  activity  on his credit card account and so Lloyds 
cancelled the card and issued a new one. Because there was a possibility Mr H wouldnt  
receive the new card in time the agent advised him that Lloyds had an emergency  cash 
facility should  he need to use it, and they provided him with contact details.  Unfortunately 
that advice was incorrect. 
Mr H fell ill whilst abroad,  and when he tried to use the emergency facility  he was given more  
incorrect advice by another Lloyds agent.  The agent suggested a third party  might  be able to 
help if they could get into his house,  get his credit card details and then relay them over the 
phone to Mr H for him to set up an alternative  way of transferring  funds.  Mr H didnt do that.
Mr H says that because  he was unable to access the emergency cash  facility he was unable  
to pay for medical treatment and medicine he needed whilst abroad.  As a result of that he 
says his health deteriorated. 
Lloyds have accepted that it gave incorrect and poor advice and paid £160 in compensation 
to Mr H which was made  up of £60 for telephone calls and £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience. On further review, Lloyds paid him an additional £50 in compensation. It 
thought it had tried to help Mr H by offering to let him have a cash  advance on his credit card 
and waiving any fee or interest for three  months,  but that was only after he had returned to 
the UK. Mr H feels Lloyds didn't deal with his complaint fairly and ought to have done  more 
to help him.
Mr H was unhappy with Lloyds response  and so an investigator from this service looked into 
the complaint  but thought  Lloyds had dealt with his complaint fairly. Mr H disagreed  with that 
view and so the matter has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will not repeat the investigators 
summary of the background  to this complaint because it is accurate  and full and I want to 
avoid repetition.  But, if it appears that I havent mentioned something it is not because I have 
ignored it, but because  I dont think  its relevant  to the issues I have to decide.  
Looking at the available evidence, I think this is a very unfortunate situation. I am sorry to 
hear that Mr H has had poor health  and I hope  he is now much improved.
What I need to decide is whether the Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in how it dealt with 
Mr H. I must of course  make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service is to 
resolve individual complaints  and to award redress where it is appropriate so to do. I do not 
perform the role of the industry regulator,  and nor I do not have the power  to make rules for 
Ref: DRN31818112financial businesses, punish  them,  or direct that they change  their processes. This is not a 
court service  and my aim is to ensure that a fair and reasonable  outcome has been 
achieved. 
Lloyds have accepted that they gave Mr H incorrect advice on two occasions and it is right 
that they have  apologised to him for that. When  Mr H was told he could not access the 
emergency cash facility  I accept that must have been upsetting for him. However he did 
have his debit  card with him and he could have  used that to enable  him to get his medicines. 
I appreciate Mr H didnt want to do that because he was concerned  about how other bills 
would be paid, but I dont think that approach,  in not obtaining necessary medicines when  he 
was able to, was reasonable. The cause of any health deterioration  appears  to me to be 
Mr Hs failure  to obtain his medicine  when he could quite easily have done so. 
I accept that Lloyds made an offer of an advance on his credit  card when Mr H returned to 
the UK and in my view I feel this offer could, and should, have  been  made  when he was 
abroad. So, in this respect I dont think Lloyds  have acted fairly.  But Lloyds did make that 
offer when he returned, and that demonstrates  it was trying to assist him at that time.
 
I agree  that Mr H has received a poor service and I think he should  be paid some 
compensation for that. I have  thought  about  the £210 offer of compensation Lloyds  have 
already made to Mr H and whether  that is sufficient. 
In my view I think that this is a reasonable sum. It is in line with the awards this service 
would make for distress  and inconvenience in circumstances like this, and I think  it is fair. 
So, Im satisfied that Lloyds have treated Mr H fairly, and Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3181811