K820x#14complaint
Ms W is unhappy  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) has fraudulently claimed  
mortgage payments  from her. Ms W says that she deposited a promissory note which 
Halifax deposited as its asset and stole the cash value from her. Ms W cancelled her direct 
debits in June  2018 as she believes her obligation  to pay Halifax  has been  extinguished. To 
settle the complaint Ms W wants her mortgage written off and for Halifax to pay her the value 
of her promissory note.
I am aware  Ms W does  not use a prefix  with her name. But we are required to publish our 
decisions in such a way that consumers will not be identified. In the circumstances, I will 
refer to Ms W throughout  this decision.
background
In 2004 Ms W (and her then partner)  granted a mortgage to Halifax  to secure a loan on a 
property. In 2010 the mortgage account was transferred into the sole name of Ms W. From 
the information on file it appears Ms W isnt living in the property.  She told Halifax  in August 
2018 that she thought  she had consent to rent it out. Halifax says there is no record of this.
In July 2018 Ms W complained to Halifax about the mortgage. She said she believed the 
mortgage had been mis-sold in 2004, and that Halifax  had since  sold on the mortgage to 
investors. As a result, Ms W was querying the validity of the mortgage and whether or not 
Halifax was entitled  to ask her to make repayments.
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint, so Ms W brought it to us. A casework manager  looked at 
the complaint.  He explained that we dont have the power to determine whether or not a 
mortgage is valid  only a court can do so. But he had seen nothing in the evidence  to 
suggest Halifax wasnt entitled to claim the mortgage repayments from Ms W.
Ms W didnt  agree with this and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.  After 
receiving a copy of the title entries, Ms W has made another point. She said that the title 
entries show that Halifax, solicitors and the Land  Registry changed her legal status because 
the form was completed in capital letters. As a result, Ms W suggests that this is not me but 
is a legal entity  corporation. Ms W says that at no point during the mortgage process did 
the fiduciaries provide full disclosure and that she didnt agree to securitisation of her 
mortgage.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have some  
disappointing news for Ms W; Im not upholding the complaint.
Im familiar with the suggestion that, by signing a mortgage document, the signatory creates  
money. There is no factual or legal basis to this notion. I can understand  why it is a popular 
argument on internet  forums which  promulgate Freeman  on the Land theories; if it were 
true in this case, then Ms W would  have the benefit of owning  the property, but without any 
obligation to pay back the money  she borrowed to buy it. 
Im required  to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. 
Because Im satisfied  Ms W borrowed the money from Halifax,  its fair and reasonable for 
Ref: DRN38946132her to repay it, via her bank account in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the 
mortgage contract she entered into.
Likewise, there is no evidence Halifax has securitised this mortgage. But Halifax  is entitled  to 
do so if it wishes  and it doesnt have to tell Ms W if it does. Bank of Scotland  Plc remains  
as registered proprietor  of the legal  charge.  This means its entitled to collect payment from 
Ms W for the mortgage loan. 
Ive noted the points  Ms W has made  about her name being written  in capital letters. I know  
it will be disappointing news for Ms W, but there is no significance in a name being written in 
capital letters. There is, however, a myth around this which has been spread  on the internet, 
on forums and websites  that deal with Freeman on the Land  beliefs.
The belief is that each person is composed  of two "entities". One is the living, breathing man 
or woman;  the other is a "strawman" created by the Government. It does  this by writing  the 
name on the birth certificate in capital letters.  
The theory is that in 1933 the Government  went bankrupt  when  it stopped using the gold 
standard to back its currency. Needing a new type of collateral to back  sterling, Freemen  on 
the Land think the Government pledged  the future earning power of its citizens.  As a result, 
they believe that at birth each individual has a secret "strawman"  account  at the Bank  of 
England or the Treasury  which contains  several  million pounds to represent  their future 
earnings. The suggestion is that in order to access the capital in the account, the name  must  
be written in capital letters. 
So for their real living person Freemen  on the Land use variations of upper and lower case 
and punctuation, such as "John:Smith" or "John of the Family Smith" and might even include 
a thumbprint as a signature  sometimes in red ink to signify the flesh  and blood  living  
man. To access the capital in their secret government account they'll use "JOHN SMITH". 
The argument is that all debts, obligations,  and legal duties belong to the "strawman" 
individual, whereas all the rights  and legal protections belong to the flesh-and-blood  "natural 
person" or "freeman on the land"  living person.  
The suggestion is that if someone  takes out a mortgage and the name is written in capital 
letters this means  the bank  has accessed the secret account and already been paid the full 
amount of the loan from the strawman account associated  with the name  written  in capital 
letters. I am sorry to disappoint Ms W, but this is untrue.
The reality  is that, by not making the mortgage  repayments, Ms W is at risk of losing the 
property. If shes renting it out, she is putting her tenants home  at risk. Halifax has 
suspended legal action while we look at the complaint. If Halifax  decides to continue with 
legal action, Ms W is free to raise in court all the points shes  made  to us. But Im unaware  of 
any case which has succeeded by a borrower  arguing that their signature created the money  
to pay off the mortgage at inception.
Ultimately, its up to the court to decide if Ms Ws mortgage is valid or not. Ms W might find it 
helpful to take legal advice from a qualified solicitor before  trying  to raise in court  any of the 
arguments shes put to us about  this. Advice  is also available  through  Citizens Advice and 
Shelter. We can provide Ms W with contact  details for those organisations, if shed like us to.
Ref: DRN38946133my final decision
I appreciate Ms W will be disappointed, but my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3894613