K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that OneSavings Bank Plc trading  as Kent Reliance (Kent  Reliance) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  by failing to tell him that his fixed interest  rate for his mortgage  
product was about to end. He wants the overpayments refunded.
background
Mr R had a buy to let mortgage  product with Kent Reliance,  which  had a fixed interest rate 
period ending on 31 December 2018.  He said that Kent Reliance failed to tell him about the 
fixed interest rate period  coming to an end, and he only found out when he noticed his 
monthly payment  had increased significantly. Mr R also said that when  he first called to 
discuss this issue, he was given  incorrect information about the interest rates  available  to 
him; Mr R called again six days later to tell Kent Reliance that hed been given incorrect 
information. He later took out a new product.
Mr R complained to Kent Reliance.  It agreed  that Mr R was initially  given incorrect  
information when  he first called about  the options  available to him, and it offered  £100 
compensation for the trouble and upset  caused by this failure.  But Kent Reliance said that it 
wrote to Mr R in October 2018  about the end of the fixed interest rate period and hadnt  
received any notice of change  of address before  this letter was sent.
Mr R complained to this service. The investigators view was that the complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld. He noted that Mr Rs complaint about not being told that the fixed  interest rate period  
was coming to an end had already  been considered by this service   Mr R didnt receive  the 
letter telling him as his notification that his address had changed wasnt  received by the 
business. In the circumstances,  he didnt  think that Kent Reliance couldve done more. 
The investigator also said that Mr R called to discuss interest rates  on two occasions in 
January 2019  (there were  other  calls, but not relevant to this issue). The figures Mr R was 
given for each of the four options available were  different in each call and it was clear  he 
was given incorrect information. But the investigator  said that Mr R hadnt  suffered a 
financial loss as he was never entitled  to the lower incorrect figure  quoted for the product he 
selected, and he went ahead with his choice  after the correct figure was given. The 
investigator felt Mr R had suffered trouble and upset due to Kent Reliances mistake, but 
thought £100 compensation for the six days he believed the incorrect  information  was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Mr R disagreed. He said that Kent Reliance shouldnt make mistakes  like this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its worth  noting that the information  about  when the fixed  interest  rate period will end is set 
out in the mortgage offer given to Mr R when the product was first taken out. Its fair and 
reasonable for businesses to expect customers to read such  documents  carefully and note 
when the period ends as its part of the contract  between the parties. And buy to let 
mortgages are commercial loans, so Mr R is treated as a businessman and expected to read 
mortgage documents carefully.
Ref: DRN38980822But its also common industry  practice to send  a letter reminding customers  that the period is 
ending, and Kent Reliance did this for Mr R in October 2018. It used the address that it 
reasonably believed was still his contact  address  (as it hadnt received any notice of change 
of address). I cant say Kent Reliance has acted unfairly or unreasonably.
My role isnt to punish businesses for making  mistakes, but to put customers  back into the 
position that they wouldve been in if the mistake hadnt been made. Having looked at the 
evidence available  to me, I agree that Mr R was initially given incorrect information about  the 
costs of the options available to him. But the figures  he was told about incorrectly were never 
available to him, so if the mistake hadnt  been made, Mr R still would only have been able to 
choose from the correct  options. And Mr R chose to go ahead with his product choice when 
he had the correct information. This means  he hasnt suffered any financial loss.
Mr R has suffered trouble  and upset due to Kent Reliances mistake.  Money  never truly 
compensates for trouble  and upset, and I have to look at what Mr R suffered, not the size of 
the mistake. Mr R believed in the incorrect information for a few days, and was put to the 
inconvenience of contacting Kent Reliance to get the correct information.  Bearing in mind  all 
the circumstances, I think  £100  compensation is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint and leave it up to Mr R whether  he 
wishes to accept the £100 offer from OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance. Under 
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr R to accept or reject  
my decision  before 24 February 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3898082