K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Yorkshire Building Society mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
Mr S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1998. He paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Due to the time thats passed since this sale took place, theres no copies of the paperwork 
completed now available.  This isnt unusual given that the sale took place over 20 years  ago. 
In situations like this, I've to decide  what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
- based  on the available evidence. The actual policy document also isnt available  so Ive 
relied on the nearest relevant policy document to the sale as well as making  some  
reasonable assumptions based on Mr Ss circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint because:
Unfortunately there arent any notes available of the meeting, and understandably  
Mr S might not clearly  recall it clearly after so long.  There are also no documents 
available to me from the time of the sale, which is not at all surprising considering the 
sale took place  over 20 years ago. So its difficult to know how the policy was 
positioned with Mr S. 
In order for me to uphold this complaint Id have  to think  that Mr Ss account was 
more likely than that of Yorkshires. But as these events happened so long ago and 
as theres no documentary evidence to support either partys position, I have to 
conclude that Mr Ss account is only as likely  not more likely . So on balance I cannot 
safely conclude that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that Mr S wasnt  given 
a choice to take PPI. 
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for him. 
I think Yorkshire couldve  explained the likely cost of the policy better than it did. But 
even if it had, I think Mr S would still have bought it. 
Its possible Yorkshire didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
based on the nearest relevant policy document and what Mr S has told us about his 
circumstances, it seems  more likely  than not that Mr S was eligible for the policy and 
Ref: DRN33193822he doesnt appear to have  been  affected by any of the usual exclusions or limitations 
on PPI policies. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ss comments,  including what  hes said about not claiming  on the 
PPI when he was made  redundant in February 2002. Mr S still has the option of speaking to 
Yorkshire about the possibility of making  a back dated claim on the policy if he was 
involuntary made unemployed whilst the policy was in place. But this isnt something 
considered as part of this decision  and doesnt  affect the outcome Ive reached  on his 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the PPI.
Ive also considered what Mr S has told us about  his existing means  for making  his 
repayments if he was unwell and unable to work  or if he was made unemployed. But I still 
think that he could  have found the PPI policy useful because:
the PPI policy  would have paid out for longer  than Mr Ss redundancy entitlement  (up 
to 3 months) would have lasted for;
although Mr Ss partner and family have wanted  to help him make his repayments, 
circumstances can change and they may not have been  in a positon  to help when 
needed;
the life insurance  that Mr S has told us about  is not directly  comparable to PPI. I say 
this because life insurance would pay out in the unfortunate  event  of Mr Ss death, 
whereas PPI could  potentially  pay out when Mr S was still alive - if he was unwell and 
unable to work or if he was made unemployed; and 
the savings  that have  been described may have covered Mr Ss mortgage 
repayments for a few months, but I still think that the PPI policy  would have covered 
his repayments  for considerably longer.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019. 
Daniel OShea 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3319382