K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs P complain  that ReAssure Limited  failed  to follow  correct  instructions in 2015  
when they contacted it to surrender one of their two whole  of life policies.
background
In 1992, Mr S and Mrs P took out two whole of life policies. One offered £100,000 of level life 
cover, and the second was a larger policy with qualifying life cover  of £200,000. The policies 
were sold to them by an adviser at Barclays Bank  Plc. ReAssure has since taken over 
ownership of the policies.  
In June 2015, Mrs P called Barclays regarding the policies. It says she asked for surrender 
paperwork for policy one. Barclays sent this to her and Mr S on 29 June 2015.  
The following  month, Mrs P returned  a completed payment instruction form and the required 
assignment and identification documents. However, Barclays required the same  for Mr S. It 
notified them  of this in August 2015. It received  these back  in September  2015.  
Barclays says it sent Mr S and Mrs P a surrender statement of 29 September  2015 along 
with a cheque  for the surrender value. It also says Mrs P called on 22 October  2015  and it 
was confirmed that policy one had been  surrendered.  
Mr S and Mrs P also pursued a complaint in September 2015 about the sale of the policies. 
They said they had been misled to believe that each policy had specific surrender values 
and they had since discovered  the values were  less than theyd expected. They wanted a 
complete refund of all the premiums they had paid since 1992 since  the policies differed 
from what they believed  they had taken  out.
The first complaint was referred to this service in October 2015. Barclays made an offer to 
Mr S and Mrs P in November  2015. It said it accepted they didnt require two policies of the 
same nature. It agreed to refund the premiums  for policy two with interest  along  with a 
distress payment. From this, it deducted  tax and the surrender  value, as Mr S and Mrs P had 
said they wanted to retain  the policy. The final settlement proposal was £29,281.64.
Our adjudicator at that time issued his view on the complaint. He felt that the first policy  was 
suitable for Mr S and Mrs Ps needs at the time of the sale.  They had a joint business  with a 
lending facility and a young  child. He felt that the fact the policy included level life and critical 
illness benefit would have been of great  use to Mr S and Mrs P. He also felt that a whole of 
life policy  was a fair recommendation in the circumstances where Mr S and Mrs P appeared 
to require life cover for a longer term than a life assurance policy.  
He did agree the second policy was unsuitable,  as they didnt have sufficient  means to be 
paying into both of them  and the second went beyond their need for life and critical illness  
cover. So, he agreed with the compensation proposal put forward by Barclays.   
Mr S and Mrs P accepted  the adjudicators view and signed a settlement form on that basis. 
However, Mr S and Mrs P complained  again in 2017, this time to ReAssure. They  said they 
had asked ReAssure  to cancel policy two, not policy one. They only realised this when 
ReAssure wrote to them  in October 2017  to say that their policy had failed a review. Mr S 
Ref: DRN33511802and Mrs P also reiterated that they had not been made aware  about  the reviewable nature  of 
their policy and they were  still unhappy  about this. 
An investigator looked into the complaint. He did not believe it should succeed.  He said 
ReAssure had shown  that Mr S and Mrs P asked to cancel policy one. And theyd been 
refunded their premiums  for policy two. Further, he felt that the reviewable nature  of the 
policy had been  made clear  to Mr S and Mrs P. 
Mrs S said she and Mr P did not accept  the view of the investigator. Mrs P sent a number of 
emails setting out their concerns. In particular, she said:
Barclays adviser failed to make her aware that theyd be expected to pay exorbitant 
premiums in later life;
they now question  the compensation they received in 2015, and feel Barclays  offer 
didnt properly compensate them for the fact they were sold the wrong  type of policy 
or the lost opportunity to seek  cover  elsewhere;
they wanted life cover that remained cheaper  in terms of premiums,  and this type of 
policy allows for unreasonable price hikes or loss of insurance cover if they cannot 
afford the increased premiums;
they continue  to maintain the wrong cover was cancelled, as policy  one contained 
critical illness cover whereas policy two did not; 
they have  no understanding  of how the premium reviews take place going forward.  
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
outcome as our investigator. Though I know Mr S and Mrs P will be disappointed, for the 
reasons given below I wont  be asking ReAssure  to do anything further.
cancellation of the wrong  policy
Mrs P says it was always their intention to cancel policy two, since  policy one contained 
critical illness benefit. I have looked at what happened in respect of cancellation  of policy  
one. It is not the case that Barclays cancelled the wrong policy  (something  which  ReAssure 
could now potentially take responsibility for). 
The policy was cancelled before the complaint  was brought  to this service  or made to 
Barclays. Mrs P had initially contacted  Barclays in June 2015. The following month she 
signed a payment instruction form for the policy number ending  #708  that was policy one. 
Mr S then signed and dated it as at the same date when the paperwork was returned for his 
further signature.  
I cannot therefore conclude that ReAssure is responsible now for the wrong  policy continuing 
to remain in force. Mr S and Mrs P completed  the relevant  forms and received a correct 
surrender value for policy one. 
I cannot therefore uphold this aspect  of the complaint.  Barclays  did not act contrary  to Mr S 
and Mrs Ps wishes. It surrendered policy one as they asked. It did not cancel policy two, 
because following the complaint settlement, Mrs P wrote to this service  on their acceptance 
Ref: DRN33511803form, specifically asking  our adjudicator please could you ask Barclays  to confirm  that the 
policy is still continuing  as she and Mr S wanted the life cover provided  by the policy.  
I do not believe Barclays has acted  contrary to any instruction from Mr S or Mrs P. 
issues relating to the previous complaint 
Our adjudicator looked at the issues Mr S and Mrs P had with the sales  of both policies in 
the previous complaint. He confirmed  his view to them on 4 December 2015.  This was 
following the complaint about the sale of both policies.  Ive looked at the initial complaint 
referred to us. In that complaint Mr S and Mrs P express their unhappiness about  the type of 
policy they were sold. They said this was because reviewable whole  of life policies were not 
suitable for them and because they were not properly advised about  the true value of the 
investment element of the cover (Mrs P had specifically believed each policy had far higher 
values based  on what the adviser  had said in 1992).  
I appreciate how frustrated Mr S and Mrs P are regarding their two whole of life policies.  
However, that doesnt mean I have a free hand  to look at everything that they complain 
about now. Thats because the additional  points  theyve made to our investigator  about the 
unsuitability of the policies for them in 1992 have  already been addressed in the previous 
complaint.  
Our adjudicator at that time felt the first policy did meet Mr S and Mrs Ps needs and 
circumstances. So, though theyd already received a surrender  value  of £4101.56 from the 
policy by cancelling  it before the complaint was referred here, he did not think  Barclays  
should do anything  more. 
In respect of the second policy, the adjudicator  did agree it was mis-sold. The compensation 
put forward by Barclays  was 1) a return of all the premiums 2) gross  interest  for the loss of 
the use of the premium  payments and 3) a distress and inconvenience  payment. From this, 
the surrender  value  at the date of calculation was deducted because Mr S and Mrs P 
expressly wished to keep  their policy.  
What that meant was, as at December 2015, the policy  had been treated  as if Mr S and Mrs 
P had ever taken it out in the first place. This is the correct redress in the event that a policy  
is mis-sold. 
For the sake of completeness, I would not agree in any event that the first policy  (for which a 
full premium refund was not issued because  it had already been surrendered)  was 
unsuitable for Mr S and Mrs P at the time of the sale. 
From what  Mrs P is saying now, they required life cover for a longer period than any 
particular defined term (such as to protect a mortgage or other long-term  lending  or until any 
dependent children reach  adulthood). Term assurance policies generally have fixed  
premiums (with a few exceptions such as when they increase with indexation)  but these also 
have fixed terms. Mrs P also refers to her expectations around policies with investment 
elements and it is suggested  she and Mrs S wanted a policy  with a savings element. Given  
the nature  of whole  of life policies, a reduction  in cover or an increase in premium  is often  
required at later stages when policies are periodically reviewed. That does not automatically  
render the policy unsuitable  that will depend  on the information and advice from the time of 
the sale. 
Ref: DRN33511804Our adjudicator reviewed  the advice, and said he believed  Barclays had made a suitable 
recommendation. Mr S and Mrs P gave their signed consent that they accepted  the 
proposed outcome to the complaint. So I cannot  revisit matters where they have accepted  
an offer from Barclays to resolve  the complaint. The settlement form said that their 
acceptance was in full and final settlement of their complaint  and that complaint was about 
the advice to take out both policies. So while I hope  the explanation above  makes matters 
clearer for Mr S and Mrs P, they agreed to the outcome of their complaint about the sale of 
both policies when  they accepted Barclays offer in December 2015.   
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 December 2019.
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3351180