K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the way Stargate  Capital  Management Limited managed  his funds 
and its decision to use those funds to open a Contract for Differences  (CFD) trading account. 
background
In 2015 Mr P was introduced to Stargate by its appointed representative  at the time,  FS-FX  
Limited, who promoted Stargates Momentum  Strategy to him. 
In short,  Stargate  would  act as the investment manager for Mr P and set up a managed CFD 
account on his behalf. This included Mr P providing Stargate Capital Management with a 
power of attorney agreement to manage the funds in his account  and trade  in line with 
Momentum Strategy. 
The Momentum Strategy  explained that the principal investment objective  of the Investment 
Manager (Stargate  Capital Management Limited) and its Investment Advisor (FS-FX Limited)  
is to realise long-term  capital appreciate  on managed  accounts.  
The fine print in the brochure explained  that Stargate did not provide investment advice to 
retail clients  as defined  in the FCA handbook.  It explained that consumers were  advised to 
seek independent financial advice before investing  to satisfy yourself that the product is 
suitable for your needs, level of experience and affordability. 
The strategy itself involved day to day trading in CFDs using a variety of strategies. 
Mr P completed an application  form in December 2015 with the platform provider in order to 
open his account. This application form showed that:
He was retired.
Had annual pre-tax income of $100,000.
Had total liquid assets of $100,000.
Had experience  of trading CFDs, shares, bonds  and other derivatives. 
In February 2016  Mr P funded his account  with £75,000 which  was converted to 
$109,302.50. Trading  began shortly after. During the following months  the trading account 
made significant losses and Mr P eventually decided to withdraw the remaining balance. 
I issued a provisional decision in May 2019.  In it I said:
I should say firstly that Mr P was not a professional client  at the time he signed  up to receive  
Stargates service. Ive considered the reasons why Stargate has said he shouldve been  
but he didnt satisfy any of the criteria  in COBS 3.5.3 to be considered  a professional  client,  
and Stargate also didnt carry out the required assessment, and ensured Mr P signed the 
required declaration.  So Mr P was, and shouldve  been considered, a retail client.  
Under the Conduct of Business Rules (COBS) in the FCA Handbook as they were at the 
time, Stargate did have  an obligation to ensure this type of trading was suitable for Mr P  
both before it began  trading, and during the course of managing the investment. COBS 
9.2.1, as it was in 2016, said: 
Ref: DRN39981532(1) A firm must take reasonable  steps  to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade, is suitable  for its client (my emphasis).  
(2) When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the firm must 
obtain the necessary information  regarding the clients:
(a)Knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
designated investment or service; 
(b)Financial situation;  and
(c)Investment objectives.  
COBS 9.2.2 also says that a firm must obtain  from the client  such  information as is 
necessary for the firm to understand the essential facts about  him and have a reasonable 
basis for believing,  giving due consideration to the nature and extent of the service provided, 
that the specific transaction to be recommended, or entered  into in the course of managing:
(a)Meets his investment objectives;  
(b)Is such that he is able to financially bear any related  investment risks consistent with 
his investment objectives; and
(c)Is such that he has the necessary experience and knowledge  in order  to understand 
the risks involved in the transaction  or in the management of his portfolio. 
In establishing  his financial circumstances, the information Stargate  needed to obtain 
needed to include  information on the source and extent of [Mr Ps] regular income, his 
assets, including liquid  assets, investments and real property, and his regular financial 
commitments. 
I acknowledge that in filling out the application form with the platform, Mr P appeared to give 
answers which satisfied  some of the above criteria  for example he indicated  that he did 
frequently trade CFDs and other  types of derivatives. 
But there was no detailed assessment of Mr Ps financial circumstances. I dont agree that 
simply ticking a box to indicate his earnings  or his liquid assets was enough. Stargate didnt 
establish what his liquid  assets were,  how much he needed for expenses, or whether or not 
he had other  investments.  And, particularly when  Mr P invested  all his stated liquid assets in 
Stargates managed  account, it shouldve prompted it to contact him and advise that this 
wasnt suitable. 
Investing in CFDs, regardless of the merits of Stargates strategy, carried a very high risk of 
capital loss. Mr P had stated on his application  form that he was retired  so despite  his 
stated income, a total loss of his liquid  assets  was likely to have a significant impact on his 
standard of living. 
Furthermore, in June 2016 he made  Stargate  aware  (by contacting  its appointed 
representative) of his situation. He explained that he had been out of work for 17 years due 
to serious injury, and that he wouldnt be in a position to weather any further losses to his 
account. This shouldve  immediately  prompted Stargate to take action and return  Mr Ps 
investment without any further trading.  But it didnt  do so. 
Mr P hasnt denied that he understood he was investing in CFDs, nor that he had some 
experience in them. But he denies that he was ever earning $100,000 a year  and says that 
in fact his income  was around £13,000 year from his pension. He has explained that his 
liquid funds were  in fact the equity he had released from his property, and from which he 
Ref: DRN39981533was intending  to generate  an additional  income. Im persuaded by Mr Ps evidence   and 
given the total lack of any type of fact find or discussion with Mr P about his financial 
circumstances, Im satisfied trading in CFDs wasnt suitable for him. As a result,  I consider 
Stargate should pay Mr P compensation. 
In addition to not being  affordable,  Im also not persuaded Mr P fully understood the degree 
of risk he was taking with his investment.  I accept  that the Momentum Strategy brochure 
provides risk warnings. But the brochure  also sets out the following statements:
Furthermore, in the trading program  risk can be defined and managed  whereas the potential  
profit of the trading strategy is totally non-deterministic  simply you can pre-define your loss, 
but not your profit
On each trade there is an 8-15 pips target with a risk (stop  loss) of the same  level when we 
are trading  a 1% risk, leaving the risk reward at 1:1. This means we risk as much as we look 
to profit
On average 7.0/7.5  out of 10 grid trades expire for a profit.  This means the success rate 
would be at 75%
Using historic analysis  and pre-inception  virtual simulation the managed account should  
achieve 20-30% return for the next 12 months
I think overall, the brochure makes the investment sound less risky than it really was. It 
suggests constant monitoring, risk management,  a high degree of probability that Mr P 
would make a return on his investment. Having considered all the evidence  available, Im 
currently persuaded that Stargate failed to identify that trading CFDs wasnt  suitable for 
Mr P, in addition to misrepresenting the risks to him. And Im satisfied that if Stargate had 
properly and accurately explained the strategy to Mr P, he wouldnt have invested.
Mr P agreed with the provisional decision,  but had some comments to make. In short, he 
said that he was unclear  where the £100,000  figure for his income came from. He explained 
that he was already retired at the time of the investment and that wasnt  his income. He said 
that while he was aware  of how CFDs worked,  he had very little experience in trading them. 
He said that he hadnt understood that this is what Stargate was trading  he always thought 
it was foreign exchange. Mr P maintained that given his age at the time and his health 
concerns, he was very risk averse.  He said that he had been led to believe that he would be 
receiving a 2% monthly income return on his capital. 
Stargate didnt  agree with my provisional  conclusions. In short, it said:
I was wrong to conclude that the product wasnt suitable for Mr P. I hadnt placed  
sufficient weight  (or even  any weight) on the clear warnings  in the brochures  and 
promotional materials concerning suitability and investment  risk. 
The literature stated  very clearly that Stargate didnt provide investment advice and 
that the investment strategy was high risk. The literature also confirmed that 
investors risked losing all their investment and no guarantees were provided. It 
warned investors  not to invest if they couldnt  afford to lose the money.
Stargate said Mr P indicated he was an experienced  trader. It said he had access to 
his account and couldve closed his account at any time if he felt he could  not afford 
to lose his investment.  
Ref: DRN39981534Stargate maintained  that Mr P worked in an FX brokerage firm before and so was 
well aware of the risks of this type of trading. 
Stargate said that there was no one right or comprehensive way to assess  risk and 
suitability but that the document it had used to assess Mr P showed that Stargate 
was aware of the need to ensure that the client understands the risks and candidly 
advises whether the product offered is perhaps beyond his or her risk spectrum.  
It said that it accepted  that it wasnt possible to infer from this one page how 
[Stargate] digested  the evidence. And it said that this might in principle  demonstrate 
that Stargates processing of these client applications was deficient. However, it said 
that this didnt automatically mean  the investment was unsuitable. 
It said that Mr P was provided  with ample  materials setting out warnings and 
disclaimers, and this ought to have made it clear to Mr P that this was a risky and 
complex investment.  And it said that the practical approach to receiving material  of 
this nature is to seek independent advice which Mr P didnt do. 
Stargate didnt  agree with my conclusion that if Mr P had been  given  more  
information he wouldve chosen not to invest. And in any event,  it reiterated  its point 
that Mr P had been given ample  warnings  about  the investment, but chose to 
proceed regardless  it was therefore  his responsibility and not Stargates, who didnt 
provide advice to Mr P. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not been  persuaded 
to depart from my provisional conclusions. 
Ive taken into account Stargates  detailed  submissions  in response to my provisional  
decision. But whilst I understand the reasons why it doesnt agree, Im not persuaded any of 
the comments it has made address the key issues in the complaint. 
Ive already explained in my provisional  decision why Stargate was responsible  for the 
suitability of the product and for ensuring  it was right for Mr P. Given the lack of information it 
obtained from Mr P, it didnt do this properly.  And in my view, if it had established that Mr P 
was in fact earning  far less than £100,000 year, was retired  and had no appetite  for 
investment risk, it wouldve concluded  that the Momentum Strategy (and CFD trading more  
generally) wasnt suitable for him. 
I dont dispute  that Stargate did display some risk warnings. But in my view,  the other  
information that was being  provided significantly watered down these warnings. I set out the 
following claims in my provisional decision as examples:
Furthermore, in the trading program  risk can be defined and managed  whereas the potential  
profit of the trading strategy is totally non-deterministic  simply you can pre-define your loss, 
but not your profit
On each trade there is an 8-15 pips target with a risk (stop  loss) of the same  level when we 
are trading  a 1% risk, leaving the risk reward at 1:1. This means we risk as much as we look 
to profit
On average 7.0/7.5  out of 10 grid trades expire for a profit.  This means the success rate 
would be at 75%
Ref: DRN39981535Using historic analysis  and pre-inception  virtual simulation the managed account should  
achieve 20-30% return for the next 12 months
So whilst the warnings  were generic risk warnings about investors  losing money, they were 
juxtaposed with very specific claims which indicate  the ways  in which this risk is mitigated. 
By setting  out the risk reward as 1:1 Stargate appears to suggest that the strategy is 
designed to take little risk. Similarly, the claim that the trade success rate is 75%, combined 
with the historic analysis,  strongly suggests  that its more likely  than not that Mr P would 
make a return on his investment, not lose money. Im not therefore surprised that Mr P didnt 
fully appreciate quite  how risky this investment was  because  he had been led to believe 
there was a good chance he would make  a very significant return  on his investment. 
Finally, I think  its worth  clarifying that Ive not upheld Mr Ps complaint purely on the basis  
that I consider Stargate didnt undertake sufficient steps to ensure this investment was 
suitable for Mr P. Ive upheld it because, based on the evidence  available, Im satisfied this 
investment wasnt suitable for Mr P. And as I explained in my provisional decision, Ive been 
persuaded by Mr Ps evidence  in particular,  that his liquid funds were in fact the equity he 
had released from his property, and from which  he was intending  to generate  an additional 
income. 
Stargate essentially accepted to manage  Mr Ps money on a discretionary basis,  and in turn 
was required to ensure  that the investment decisions  which it took on Mr Ps behalf were  
suitable for him. Supplying  Mr P with risk warnings and hopeful projections  wasnt  enough to 
discharge that obligation. Mr P was reliant  on Stargate, as an FCA regulated firm, to manage 
his money in his best interests.  It couldnt  do this without taking sufficient steps to establish 
the suitability of CFD trading for Mr P  something  it manifestly failed to do. If it had, it 
wouldve concluded that trading in CFDs wasnt suitable for him. And Im persuaded  that, 
had he been told this, Mr P wouldnt have gone  ahead with this particular investment.
As a result, I consider  Stargate should  pay Mr P compensation. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr P 
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable  
advice.
I think Mr P would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given 
Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
what should  Stargate do? 
To compensate Mr P fairly,  Stargate must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual  value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Stargate should also pay interest  as set out below.  
Ref: DRN39981536Provide  the detail  of the calculations in a clear and simple  format. 
Pay Mr P £500 for the trouble and upset caused to him by carrying  out unsuitable 
trades on his behalf, causing him to lose money that he couldn't afford  to lose.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment name
status benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end date)additional interest
Stargate Momentum Strategy
 surrenderedaverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate surrendered8% simple  per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Stargate 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
Any additional sum that Mr P paid into the investment should  be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in.
 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the 
fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. 
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if 
Stargate totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting 
periodically. 
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted to achieve  a reasonable return  without risking any of his capital. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure given Mr P's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean  that Mr P would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital. 
Ref: DRN39981537The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money since the 
end date.
my final decision
My final decision is that Stargate  Capital Management Limited must pay the compensation 
Ive outlined above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr P has accepted my decision.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3998153