K820x#14complaint
Mr B doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which he was discharged  
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr B complained to RBS in 2017 that he had been mis-sold PPI.
RBS upheld Mr Bs complaint about PPI he was sold with four loans. RBS offered Mr B 
compensation totalling just under £11,000.  
However, in 2009  Mr B had entered a protected trust deed.  In July 2012  Mr B was 
discharged from the protected trust deed. 
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his creditors,  which  is 
administered by a trustee. 
RBS wants to use the compensation to reduce outstanding monies that it says Mr B still 
owes and hadnt  fully repaid - despite being  discharged from his protected trust deed. 
Mr B, unhappy that RBS wants to use the compensation in this way, brought his complaint to 
our service.
In October  2019 I issued  my provisional  findings  on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained  that I was aware of and had taken into account the 
relevant law. But I must apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the 
particular circumstances  of Mr Bs complaint. Having done this, I thought  it was fair for RBS 
to use the PPI compensation to reduce the money Mr B borrowed and didnt  repay.
Neither Mr B nor his representative has responded to my provisional decision.
RBS has responded  to say it has nothing further to add.
 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this decision will disappoint Mr B but having  done so it remains  my view that it is fair 
for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the outstanding debt.
Within my provisional decision I mentioned that there  were  some court cases about to whom 
PPI compensation  should be paid when a consumer  has been discharged from a protected 
trust deed. One of the court cases was Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc v Donnelly [2019] CSIH 
Ref: DRN3826393256. The court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation  to reduce a debt 
from which they were discharged when the trust deed came  to an end. But I explained that 
this was being appealed  by RBS  and that the outcome may change.
Since my provisional decision, the appeal  has been heard at the Inner House of the Court of 
Session. In short, RBS lost the appeal and the court reaffirmed the legal position  that RBS 
couldnt use the compensation to pay down the amount that wasnt  repaid after the trust 
deed ended. The court said when the trust deed  ended the debtor was discharged from her 
debts, so there was no longer any debt owing  from her to the bank which  could be subject to 
set-off.
At this moment it isnt known whether RBS intend to appeal the decision further  to the 
Supreme Court  so there  is a possibility the outcome may change.
However, as explained  within my provisional  decision  I have considered  the relevant law. 
And when  initially  providing my provisional  decision,  I did so when  the law had already found  
in the consumers favour. RBS losing the appeal confirms  the legal position within Scots  law 
about what happens when consumer is discharged from their trust deed  (although  Im 
mindful as Ive said above, RBS maybe  appealing  this further  to the Supreme  Court). But as 
I also explained with my provisional  decision, whilst I take into account  the relevant law  Im 
not bound  to follow it. I must also apply an over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in 
the particular circumstances  of Mr Bs complaint   as required of me through  FSMA 
Section.228 and the FCAs DISP rules.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion it would be unfair for RBS to pay compensation 
directly to Mr B  when  Mr B, thanks to the trust deed, now wont ever have to repay  the 
monies borrowed and left unpaid.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I find that its fair for The Royal  
Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Bs compensation for the mis-sold PPI to reduce the amount 
he owed and didnt  repay when his trust deed  came to an end. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN38263933copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr B doesnt  think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which he was discharged  
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr B complained to RBS in 2017 that he had been mis-sold PPI.
RBS upheld Mr Bs complaint about PPI he was sold with four loans. RBS offered Mr B 
compensation totalling just under £11,000.  
However, in 2009  Mr B had entered a protected trust deed.  In July 2012  Mr B was 
discharged from the protected trust deed. 
A protected  trust deed is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called sequestration in 
Scotland). It is a legally binding agreement between a consumer and his creditors,  which  is 
administered by a trustee. 
RBS wants to use the compensation to reduce outstanding monies that it says Mr B still 
owes and hadnt  fully repaid - despite being  discharged from his protected trust deed. 
Mr B, unhappy that RBS wants to use the compensation in this way, brought his complaint to 
our service.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  When considering what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case, Im required by DISP  3.6.4 R of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules,  guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman] considers to have been good  
industry practice at the relevant time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on 
the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr B was discharged from his protected trust deed which Mr B says should have ended any 
recovery action in the future. So Mr B says the compensation should be paid directly to him. 
Ref: DRN38263934RBS say it has the right to offset  the compensation against monies Mr B hasnt fully repaid.
is it fair for RBS to use the PPI commission compensation to reduce an outstanding amount 
owed  despite Mr B being discharged from his protected trust deed?
There have been  some court cases about  to who PPI compensation should be paid when a 
consumer has been discharged from a protected trust deed.  
In July 2018, the Supreme Court  issued a judgment  looking at what should happen to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed completed.  The court  case  was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond  [2018]  UKSC 54.
In that case, the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation  should not be paid to the trustee 
for the benefit  of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
There is another case that is also relevant;  this was Donnelly v Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc 
[2017] SAC (Civ) 1.
In Donnelly,  the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce a 
debt from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this 
has been appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained  I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what  I think  is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. Im not bound to follow it. But if I 
decide to depart from it, I must say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware  of, and have taken into account, the relevant law. But I must apply an 
over-arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances  of Mr Bs complaint.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation  to reduce the monies  Mr B 
borrowed and didnt  fully repay.
At the time Mr B granted  a trust deed RBS says the outstanding amount Mr B owed was a 
little over £28,000. While Mr B was discharged from his protected trust deed  there  was still 
an outstanding  amount  that Mr B wont now ever have  to repay. RBS arent seeking to 
recover that amount   it is simply reducing the amount owed.
I think it would be unfair  to tell RBS to pay back the PPI compensation to Mr B, when Mr B 
doesnt now have  to pay back the money  he borrowed. 
At the start of the protected  trust deed, the outstanding amount Mr B owed RBS was a little 
over £28,000. It is important to note that when a consumer grants a trust deed,  the creditor 
simply pools together  any debts the consumer owes it  so it effectively  becomes  one 
amount that is owed.  And a business will look to see if it owes  the consumer anything, and 
then adjusts the amount that is owed.  This would then be the final amount that it puts 
forward as what is owed  to it as a creditor in the trust deed.
While it is the case that RBS agreed  to the protected trust deed,  had Mr B  or his trustee  
realised hed been mis-sold the PPI while the trust deed was active, then RBS would clearly  
have been entitled to use the PPI compensation to reduce what  he owed it. Or, alternatively,  
it could have been paid to the trustee  for the benefit of all his creditors.  Importantly Mr B 
wouldnt have got this money directly. 
Ref: DRN38263935The fact that Mr B entered into a protected  trust deed and was discharged from his debt 
when his trust deed came to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to what  is fair.
Mr B has said that RBS offered him loans with PPI at a time when he was in a poor financial 
situation; he says the sale of the PPI made the situation worse. I agree RBS has admitted 
the PPI was mis-sold, but even after the PPI compensation has been  deducted  from the 
amount outstanding there will still remain  some £17,000 of the original debt outstanding that 
its unlikely RBS will ever receive. 
Ultimately If Mr B hadnt  been  sold the PPI to begin with, I think its likely  given the 
amounts involved   that hed still have entered the trust deed,  but owed less. And this is the 
position RBSs  offer would put him in.   
In summary  I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation  to reduce the outstanding 
amount that Mr B wont  ever have to repay.
my provisional decision
I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Bs PPI compensation to reduce 
the monies owed  and left unpaid when Mr Bs trust deed came to an end.
I invite both parties to respond  by the deadline  set out at the start of this provisional decision.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3826393