K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2004 alongside  a mortgage. Mr B says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr B says he was unaware  he had PPI and that he didnt agree to take it out. Santander 
no longer has a copy of the PPI application form that Mr B wouldve completed. I dont 
think this is unreasonable considering the sale took place 15 years  ago. Where theres a 
lack of information available to me, I have to consider what  I think  is more  likely to have 
happened in the circumstances.
Mr B took out unemployment cover only and didnt  also take out accident and sickness 
cover. Hes said he had over 12 months of sick pay available  to him, so I think  its more 
likely he amended the policy to unemployment  cover only to suit his needs at the time. 
Because of this, I think its more likely there  was a conversation about  PPI when Mr B 
took out his mortgage and that he decided to take out the unemployment cover.  
I also note that Mr B was sent a summary  of his cover in the post.  This explained  the 
type of cover  hed selected as well as the monthly cost and benefit. On balance, I think  
its more likely Santander made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr B so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and 
he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. I say this 
because the policy  couldve  covered  his repayments for up to 12 months per claim if he 
was made redundant. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr B paid on his PPI  and whether Santander 
treated him unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr Bs PPI was less than half of what  he paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how Santander  has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr Bs commission  was less than half the cost of the 
PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell him about the commission  so I dont 
Ref: DRN30123682think Santander treated  him unfairly.  This means it doesnt need  to pay Mr B back  any of the 
commission he paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3012368