K820x#14complaint
The complaint by Ms B, Mr O and the late Mrs B (the complainants)  is about inheritance  tax 
(IHT) planning related  investment advice from Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) to the late Mrs B 
in 2005 and in 2009. In summary,  the complaint is that:
The Personal Investment Plan (PIP) recommended in 2005 was based on a trust that 
was incorrectly set up for the benefit of Mrs Bs grandchildren  the beneficiaries 
should have been  her children.
The PIP and related trust did not fully meet Mrs Bs IHT planning objective.
The PIP and its charges were  unsuitable.
The Guaranteed Investment Plan (GIP)  recommended in 2009 was based on a trust 
that was also incorrectly set up, it did not specify Ms B as the sole beneficiary as it 
should have.
The GIP was based on a loan trust which was unsuitable and which  defeated Mrs Bs 
IHT planning objective.
The GIP and its charges were unsuitable. 
With respect, reference to the late Mrs B in the conclusion of this decision is to her estate.
background
One of our investigators  considered that the complaint should not be upheld.  In summary, he 
said:
The PIP related trust was set up correctly, with Mrs Bs children as beneficiaries and 
with the flexibility  to make  additional beneficial appointments to her grandchildren.
The advice given  to Mrs B about the PIP trust made it clear that the full IHT liability 
from the PIP would not be covered  by the trust and she received, but declined, a 
recommendation to take out life cover to mitigate  this.
The PIP investment was not unsuitable for Mrs Bs low risk profile and the potential  
for lower  returns from it resulted from that. Its related charges were within the firms  
commercial discretion and were  as disclosed to Mrs B at the outset.
There is not enough evidence to say Mrs B wanted Ms B to be the sole beneficiary  of 
the GIP related trust and evidence suggests  Mrs B wanted flexibility  over who would 
be its beneficiary.
Evidence suggests that the flexible loan trust matched Mrs Bs objective of IHT 
planning alongside her desire  to have control  over (access to) her capital. The advice 
she received at the time made it clear that the asset remained exposed  to IHT liability  
and she also received, but declined, a recommendation  to take out a whole of life 
policy to mitigate this.
The GIP investment  was not unsuitable  for Mrs Bs low risk profile,  it offered an 
element of capital  guarantee  with some prospect of growth,  and it was clearly  
explained to her at the outset. Its related charges  were within  the firms commercial 
discretion and were  also disclosed to her at the outset.
The complainants  representative disagreed with this outcome. The main points raised were 
as follows:
The matter of Mrs Bs grandchildren as beneficiaries of the PIP related  trust has 
already been clarified, it was mentioned for the sake of completeness  and to 
Ref: DRN38482592reinforce the objective of placing  her assets  in trust for IHT purposes  the point 
being why did that not happen the second  time round with the GIP plan?
The 2005 and 2009 arrangements did not meet Mrs Bs IHT planning objectives, 
alternatives were not properly explored  and the firm failed to provide a plan to deal 
with the IHT exposure that remained.
In particular, the GIP related  loan trust created a clash in objectives  between  
retaining control of the asset and protection from IHT. Mrs Bs desire  to control  the 
asset was to ensure such control would  not pass to the beneficiaries until death. 
Priority should have  been given to the IHT protection element of the objective, if    
Mrs B wanted control over the asset  she could have added it to her existing share 
portfolio (which she controlled).
There is handwritten evidence that shows Mrs B intended Ms B to benefit, solely, 
from the GIP trust and the latter was called upon to be part of the setting up of the 
trust for this reason.
The firm ought to have done more to ensure  a life policy  was in place to mitigate the 
IHT exposure in the GIP trust and the amount concerned would have been affordable  
for Mrs B.
Suitability of the recommendations should  be considered in the above context and 
the same  applies to the notion  that but for the unsuitable plans and if suitable  
alternative plans  had been  set up the level of charges and performance would have 
been different.
The above  points were addressed further  between the investigator and the complainants  
representative, but no agreement was reached. The matter was then referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Beneficiaries of the PIP related trust
This matter no longer  appears to be in dispute. The complainants representative says it had 
already been clarified but was included for the reasons I mentioned  above. For the sake  of 
completeness, within  this decision, I consider  that the trust was not incorrectly set up. 
As BOS explained  with reference  to specific relevant clauses in the trust document   the 
arrangement was indeed based  on Mrs Bs children being the default beneficiaries and her 
grandchildren would  only become beneficiaries if the trustees  specifically made an 
appointment out to them from the trust. The trust was set up for the benefit  of Mrs Bs 
children as the complaint says it should  have been.
The PIP trust and Mrs Bs IHT objective
There is no dispute that the arrangement did not completely address IHT exposure. As the 
investigator noted, this was brought to Mrs Bs attention  at the time. I consider that the firm 
reasonably sought  to mitigate the remnant IHT exposure by recommending the life cover 
which Mrs B declined.
Ref: DRN38482593The firms duty was to give suitable  advice, not the most suitable advice, in the 
circumstances. I understand the complainants representatives overall argument about 
exploring more alternatives. Even  if that could have been done and was not done, the 
absence of such exploration does not automatically mean the firms recommendation was 
unsuitable. It explored the need to mitigate the partial IHT exposure  that remained and it 
made a reasonable recommendation in this respect.  That was adequate.  Mrs B declined  the 
recommendation and I agree with the investigators  view that the firm was not obliged to 
compel her to agree with it. She was aware  of  and I am satisfied that she understood  the 
IHT exposure that remained as a result of declining the recommendation and she appears to 
have elected to proceed on this basis. It could be argued that she might have changed her 
mind if the firm did more to compel  her to, but it was not obliged  to do that.
Beneficiary of the GIP related trust
This issue has been pursued  passionately,  with the argument that Ms B should have been 
(and should be) the sole beneficiary of the loan trust and that BOS is culpable for the fact 
that she is not. I understand the strength of feeling  in this respect and I consider the family  
might well have held the sincere  understanding that this was how the trust had been set up. 
However, my attention  must be on what the settlor  Mrs B  intended  for the trust and did in 
setting up the trust.  The trust document provides evidence of this.
The trust was set up in 2009, four years after the first trust in 2005, so Mrs B would  not have 
been a novice in arranging it. The first trust had specific beneficiaries and she would have 
known about arranging the same  in the second trust if that is what  she wished.
The loan trust documentation allowed for a default class of beneficiaries  including  the 
children  of the settlor,  which captured Ms B, and surviving descendants (which 
potentially captured  her too). Provision could have been made  within the documentation for 
named individual beneficiaries, but that was not done. The document is signed by Mrs B as 
the settlor, by Ms B as a trustee and by a witness. If, at the specific  point of setting up and 
executing the trust,  the intention was to expressly limit its benefits to Ms B alone  the 
documentation would have reflected this within its contents. The documentation does not 
reflect this within its contents.
I have noted the arguments and evidence highlighted by the complainants  representative on 
this issue, but I am not persuaded that they outweigh the documentary  evidence I have 
mentioned above.  I do not consider that the loan trust was set up incorrectly.
The GIP trust and Mrs Bs IHT objective
I do not accept the argument about  a clash  of objectives  as presented  by the 
complainants representative.  Instead,  what appears  to have happened in 2009  is that Mrs B 
adopted a compromise  of her objectives. Based on overall evidence,  she appears to have 
wanted IHT protection to a certain extent balanced  with retention  of a degree of direct control 
of the asset. This was the difference between the events  in 2005 and 2009  such a 
compromise does not appear to have featured in the former  but it did in the latter.  
The complainants  representative has made points that suggest Mrs Bs objective should 
now be redefined   whereby a priority should be attached to IHT protection (over the idea of 
control over/access  to the asset) where none  appears to have existed at the time; and 
whereby the IHT protection objective  should  be isolated because  Mrs B could have  achieved  
control over the asset separately  in her shares portfolio, even though that is not what she 
Ref: DRN38482594chose to do at the time. I am not persuaded to do this and I consider that the matter should 
be address based  on evidence  of her objective at the relevant time. I understand the 
argument that a firm is obliged to give advice  in the best interest of its client  and that in this 
respect achieving  full IHT protection  or as full as reasonably possible  should  have been 
an important task.  Evidence shows that the firm did consider it to be important and, as I 
address below, it made a recommendation for that purpose.
Information about Mrs Bs circumstances,  objectives  and the recommendation she was 
invited to consider  (including its limited effect  in terms of IHT protection) was presented  to 
her in the 2009 suitability report in a reasonably clear manner. I consider she would have 
understood that information  the balance of evidence does not suggest that she did not  
so she knew and accepted her capitals ongoing IHT exposure.
I disagree with the somewhat generic argument that the loan trust failed to meet  Mrs Bs IHT 
objective. It is a type of trust that can reasonably be considered for some types of IHT 
planning. It is particularly  likely to be worth considering in scenarios where the type of 
compromise I mentioned  above exists, because it keeps the settlors capital under the 
settlors control and estate (which  remains exposed to IHT) but the idea is that any growth  
on that capital  will have  IHT protection. In other words, faced with the compromise objective 
Mrs B appears to have  had in 2009 the loan trust cannot reasonably  be said to have been 
unsuitable  it was arguably suitable for that objective.
With regards to the outstanding IHT exposure, I consider  that again the firm made a 
reasonable mitigation recommendation (in terms of life cover) which Mrs B declined.
As I said above, the firms  duty was to give suitable  advice, not the most suitable advice, so 
even if, as it has been argued, it could have  but did not do more to explore  alternatives or to 
compel Mrs B to reconsider the life cover recommendation (or an alternative mitigation 
related recommendation), that does not automatically mean the firms recommendation was 
unsuitable. As it did in 2005, in 2009 it explored the need to mitigate the IHT exposure 
further and it made a reasonable  recommendation for that. Mrs B declined  the 
recommendation and it was not obliged to compel  her to agree with it. Given  her experience 
from 2005 she would have known that IHT exposure in the 2009  arrangement  had not been 
catered for to the extent  that it was catered for in 2005. She declined the life cover  
recommendation in this context and arguably  would have  known  what  she was doing. 
Unsuitability, Performance  and Charges  
As the investigator  explained, both the PIP and GIP did not mismatch  Mrs Bs low risk 
profile. Her profile is supported by evidence. The PIP was mainly  invested in short term 
deposit instruments  and the GIP guaranteed, as a minimum (after five years), the return of 
capital with some prospect of growth.  
BOS says this set the context in which performance should be judged as there  is usually a 
correlation between the risk level of an investment and the potential  returns from it. I 
understand that this might  explain the level of performance of both funds,  but as this service 
would not normally  consider matters  of performance in isolation I do not make a finding in 
this respect. The relevant  conclusion is that the funds were  not unsuitable  for Mrs Bs 
investor profile  and, as addressed above, were  not unsuitable for her objectives.  In terms 
of the charges for the funds, I agree with the investigators conclusion  that they were  set 
within the firms reasonable commercial  discretion  and they were transparent to Mrs B from 
the outset. 
Ref: DRN38482595my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold the complaint  from the complainants (Ms B, Mr 
O and the late Mrs B). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the complainants  
(Ms B, Mr O and the late Mrs B) to accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3848259