K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  unfairly closed his account 
without giving him a reason.
background
Mr Y says Halifax  wrote to him telling him his accounts would close  in early 2019.  He says it 
didnt provide a reason for that. He also says he was given misleading  information when he 
attended a branch.
Halifax says its acted  in line with the account terms and conditions and says it reviews 
accounts and decided to close Mr Ys account  by giving him the required notice of 65 days.  
Halifax accepts Mr Y was given incorrect information  when he attended  its branch  and its 
offered him £50 compensation and £43 for his expenses.
Mr Y brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt think Halifax  had made  a mistake 
or acted  unfairly  by closing the account. The investigator thought  Halifax had acted in line 
with the account terms and conditions and given the required notice. The investigator didnt 
think Halifax was obliged  to provide  further details and thought  often those sorts of decisions 
are commercially  sensitive. The investigator  thought the compensation offer was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr Y doesnt  accept that view and says he would like to know the reason why the account  
was closed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr Y will be disappointed  by my decision.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ys account which I think  he would have agreed 
to when he opened his account. And Im satisfied that Halifax  is entitled to give 65 days  
notice to close an account. I think thats what happened here and so I dont  think  Halifax  has 
made a mistake or acted unfairly by providing Mr Y with 65 days notice that it wished to 
close the account.
I appreciate Mr Y would  like to know the exact reason but Im satisfied that in line with those 
account terms and conditions, Halifax isnt obliged to provide those exact reasons. Im also 
satisfied that it has explained its decision in general  terms and in any event I think  such  
decisions are commercially  sensitive and I wouldnt expect a business to reveal them. I also 
think that its up to a bank or building society to decide with whom it enters into a business  
relationship and that its entitled to review  that relationship from time to time.
There is no doubt here that Mr Y was given incorrect information  by Halifax when he 
attended its branch.  I accept he was caused inconvenience but Im satisfied Halifax  has 
made a fair and reasonable overall offer of compensation and taken into account Mr Ys 
expenses. I can also see that Mr Y hasnt told me that he thinks the compensation offer was 
unfair just the decision to close  his account
Overall Im satisfied that Halifax  hasnt  made  a mistake  or acted unfairly  and so I cant fairly 
order it to provide Mr Y with further information about the decision to close  his account.
Ref: DRN36056412my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3605641