K820x#14complaint
Mr H says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in January  1999. The policy was 
added to Mr Hs credit card account  when  he applied for the PPI during  a phone call with a 
representative from MBNA. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
Mr Hs main complaint points are that he wasnt aware he had a choice  about  taking the 
policy or that the cost was made clear. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I think MBNA made Mr H aware  that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I say this 
because when he took out the PPI he had held his credit card for several weeks  already - 
without PPI. So, I think Mr H would have  known it was open to him not to take out PPI if he 
didnt want to have  it. Theres no call recording. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Mr H to remember everything  that was discussed as this was so long ago. But, on balance,  I 
think its more likely  that during the phone call Mr H decided he wanted to have the benefits 
that PPI offered him and he agreed for it to be added on to his credit card account.  
MBNA didnt  give advice, so I dont  need to consider whether  the policy was suitable. But it 
still should have  given Mr H enough  information to make a proper decision about whether 
PPI was right for him.
The information MBNA gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should  have been  
and I dont think they properly explained  what the policy  would cost,  or what it might  pay out 
if Mr H made  a claim. But Mr H chose to take out the policy  when he didnt have to  so he 
seems to have wanted it. And he doesnt  appear  to have been affected by any of the main  
things the policy didnt cover.
Ive also taken into account that Mr H has told us he only received six weeks  sick pay from 
his employer and hasnt told us he had anything in the way of savings  that he could have 
used to meet his card repayments if he had to stop working unexpectedly. So, even though  
the policy benefit was low, based  on what I know about Mr Hs circumstances it looks like it 
could still have been useful to him. And I dont think better information  would  have stopped 
him buying it.
Ref: DRN33664912Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  him, I think  it unlikely Mr H would have 
made a different decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance, I think  hed 
still have taken out the policy.
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Mr H, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr H.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3366491