K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a 
mortgage in 2003. Mr and Mrs M say Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold them 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Yorkshire had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs M that they had a choice 
about it. But Mr and Mrs M say they werent  aware  the PPI was added.
Yorkshire has sent us a copy of Mr and Mrs Ms application form for the mortgage. This 
included a section  on PPI with yes and no boxes to show  whether Mr and Mrs M wanted 
more information  about it. And there  is a tick in the yes box.
Yorkshire has also sent us a copy of a separate PPI application form, signed by both 
Mr and Mrs M. This form set out the level of cover  they had selected, how the benefit  was to 
be split between them and the cost of the PPI.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that the forms were  filled in by the advisor. But I dont think theres  
enough evidence  to say that the choices made on the forms were  done against 
Mr and Mrs Ms wishes. And, if Mr and Mrs M didnt agree with what was said on the forms, 
they shouldnt  have signed  them.
Yorkshire has also sent us a copy of the mortgage offer letter  sent to Mr and Mrs M, which 
says that they have  chosen to take PPI. And its sent us a copy of the mortgage welcome 
letter, which shows the cost of the PPI, and a PPI certificate, which shows the level of cover 
and benefit Mr and Mrs M had selected.
Based on this, I think Yorkshire made  Mr and Mrs M aware the PPI had been  added.  And I 
think its likely it made it clear they had a choice about it, and that Mr and Mrs M chose to 
take it.
Yorkshire didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs M, so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs M got the information they needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for them.
Its possible the information Yorkshire gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like they were  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. The policy 
couldve paid out for longer than theyve  told us they wouldve been  entitled to sick pay. And 
Mr and Mrs M have  said they didnt have any other means they couldve used  to make their 
repayments if they werent  earning. So I think the PPI would have been useful for them if 
Ref: DRN34326192something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mr and Mrs M off taking it out.
Which means Yorkshire doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M because:
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs M about that. Because  Yorkshire didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs M, that was unfair.
To put that right, Yorkshire has basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission  
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Yorkshire has to pay back to Mr and Mrs M any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Yorkshire  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Yorkshire should pay back to Mr and Mrs M the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Yorkshire should 
also pay Mr and Mrs M 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs M can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society doesnt  have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs M.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs M any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3432619