K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold them  a shared 
appreciation mortgage in 1998. They are also unhappy with the amount they have been 
charged for a valuation  of their property.
background 
Mr and Mrs W have  raised a number of different complaint points and have provided detailed 
correspondence outlining  these. Whilst I intend to focus only on what I consider  to be the 
main issues,  I have  made note of the comments Mr and Mrs W have made  across  this and 
other cases they have  brought  to this service in relation to their shared  appreciation 
mortgage (SAM). 
This complaint has also been with this service  for some time. I would firstly like to apologise  
for the time taken for us to deal with it. And secondly, I will just confirm  that I have only 
briefly set out the course of events below  both in terms  of the circumstances of the 
complaint and the events since it was referred to this service. 
I do though feel it is worthwhile giving some  explanation of and background to SAMs.
SAMs 
In 1998 Barclays  Bank  launched a new lending product; the SAM. Barclays  Bank was not 
the actual lender for this product though. Barclays Bank established a wholly owned 
subsidiary company, Barclays SAMS Limited,  which acted as lender. Mr and Mrs Ws 
contract was with Barclays SAMS Limited. 
A SAM is an equity release product, which provided  customers with a loan that could  last the 
lifetime of the borrower. The loan was secured via a mortgage on their property. These  
SAMs didnt  require any monthly payments  from customers and no interest was added  to the 
loan. Instead,  at the time of repayment, the customer  would have to repay the loan and a 
percentage of the appreciation in the value of the mortgaged  property.  This percentage was 
three times the loan to value  ratio (LTV) of the mortgage at the time of borrowing. 
The maximum a customer could borrow was 25% LTV, which would lead to a repayment  of 
the loan and 75% of any appreciation. However, if the property  did not increase in value, the 
customer would only have  to repay  the amount of the initial  loan  with no appreciation.
As mentioned, Barclays Bank was not the actual  lender for these mortgages. It has told us 
that it acted as the lenders agent, arranging  and then administering the mortgages on behalf 
of Barclays SAMS Limited. Barclays Bank has said that all activities involved in the sale 
were carried  out by Barclays Bank staff, but as agent of Barclays  SAMS Limited. 
As a result of the sales of SAMs having  taken  place more than 20 years ago, not all of the 
evidence from the time is still available. However,  in addition to some case  specific  
evidence, Barclays Bank has been  able to provide  some standard  documents  as well as an 
explanation of both the product  launch  and the standard sales  process. 
I will now set out the key documents and explain what they showed, as far as is relevant to 
this complaint. Where  available, I will also make reference to the documents  that have been  
provided which relate to Mr and Mrs Ws sale.
Ref: DRN38045402Product Launch 
In early 1998, Barclays Bank sent circulars to branch managers letting them  know about the 
product that was to be launched. They referred to more detailed information  that was 
contained in its Mortgage Information  Manual  (the Manual) and a training  support booklet.
As well as providing details of the repayment formula,  in several places the Manual  made  it 
clear that the lender of the loan was a separate company to Barclays  Bank. There were  not 
though any directions that customers should be specifically informed of this separation.  
The Manual  did direct staff to establish  what level of service a customer  wanted. These 
levels are set out in the Mortgage  Code  as being the levels  of service  that can be provided 
under the code by lenders  and intermediaries.  
These were  for Barclays Bank to provide:
advice and recommendation as to which mortgage is most suitable  for the customer  
(Level A service), 
information on the different types  of mortgage product available  (Level B service),  or 
information on a single mortgage  product only (Level C service). 
Sale Process
Various promotional materials were  used to advertise the SAMs. Mr and Mrs W said that 
they saw an advert and then visited a branch of Barclays Bank. Unfortunately,  Barclays  
Bank hasnt  been  able to provide this service with an example of the advert. 
The advert apparently  directed interested parties to request a free 'Guide  to Unlocking the 
Capital in Your Home' (Guide) written  by the Daily Telegraphs Personal Finance Editor  and 
sponsored by Barclays Mortgages. A copy of this Guide has been provided. But it isnt 
known if Mr and Mrs W saw a copy of this. 
The Guide explained some of the potential risks with SAMs as well as the potential benefits  
of the product. But it did not refer to any separation  of the lender from Barclays Bank. The 
front page  of the Guide  says that it has been  sponsored by Barclays  Mortgages. 
The Guide also set out the mechanics for calculating the repayment, repeatedly saying that 
the repayment amount was the loan plus three  times the increase in the proportion  of value 
borrowed which occurs after the loan is advanced. It included several worked examples 
demonstrating this. 
The final section of the Guide included the following:
in return for not having  to pay any interest on the capital unlocked  from the home by 
the SAM,  the owner  must currently repay  three times the proportion  of the original 
valuation borrowed from any increase in the house  price by the time it is sold or 
transferred. So the risk with a SAM is that house prices rise substantially and the 
homebuyer finds they have given up their right to receive up to 75 per cent of that 
uplift.
Ref: DRN38045403Parties interested in a SAM could also obtain  a copy of SAM product brochure (Brochure) 
from branches of Barclays Bank  and from Barclays Direct Mortgages.  Mr and Mrs W have 
referred to the Brochure they received, so we know this was a document  they saw.
The Brochure referred  only to Barclays Bank  and Barclays Mortgages, and did not mention 
that a separate company  was the lender.  The Brochure  gave the following explanation of 
how the SAM worked:
You simply borrow a percentage of your property's current  value for as long as you 
want without making  any monthly  payments, until you come  to part with your property 
(or die or wish to repay the loan).  
When you repay the loan,  you also pay a percentage of any increase in the value of 
the property at that time. It really  is that straightforward
Basically, if you come to sell your home  (or if you should die) you must pay the 
original amount borrowed plus a share of the increase in the value of your property at 
that time  The share will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by 
three and then multiplying  that by how much the property has gained  in value.
It also included an example of how some typical Shared Appreciation Mortgages work :
Original Valuation  (£) 100,000
Final Valuation (£) 150,000
Appreciation (£) 50,000
Amount Borrowed  (£) 15,000 20,000 25,000
Percentage  of Property 
Value  Borrowed (%)15 20 25
Lenders Share of 
Appreciation (£)(3x15%)x£50,000  
= 22,500(3x20%)x£50,000  
= 30,000(3x25%)x£50,000 
= 37,500
Total amount repayable (£)22,500 + 15,000 
= 37,50030,000 + 20,000 = 
50,00037,500 + 25,000 
= 62,500
Remaining equity (£) 112,500 100,000 87,500
Attached to the Brochure was an Important  Information You Must Read leaflet (Leaflet). 
This included a further example of a SAM:
The Leaflet  referred to the obligation to pay the Shared Appreciation to Barclays and that 
Barclays  is a responsible  lender.  
The Brochure and the Leaflet also referred  to Barclays  Bank  being  a member of the Banking  
Ombudsman Scheme.  And said that: 
Barclays  is committed  to The Mortgage Code and The Banking  Code,  both of which  
set out the commitments  and standards of banks in dealing  with their customers. As 
such, we ensure that our products and services comply with the terms of both Codes.
Ref: DRN38045404The Mortgage Code  relates specifically to the service we provide, the provision of 
information regarding  our mortgage  products and services  and how they operate.
This booklet therefore contains details regarding the following areas:
marketing of mortgages.
Consumers like Mr and Mrs W who chose  to pursue the mortgage  submitted an application 
form. This application was on a Barclays  Mortgages headed form. 
Mr and Mrs Ws application form set out their personal details, noting that they were both 
working and that they were both in their mid-50s. It also confirmed the property details  and 
the loan sum required. The estimated value of Mr and Mrs Ws property was £400,000 and 
the desired loan amount  was £100,000  (25% of the value). 
The form did not include details  of the purpose of the loan, though it is noted that £65,000  of 
the loan was to pay of the existing mortgage Mr and Mrs W had on their property. Mrs W has 
also told us that they wanted to make home improvements.  And that they thought  a SAM 
was a good idea because  they wouldnt have to find monthly mortgage payments when 
times were hard.
Attached to the application  was a declaration form that consumers were  required to sign.  Mr 
and Mrs W signed this on 18 May 1998. The first point on this form stated:
I apply for a Shared Appreciation  Mortgage  from Barclays SAMS Limited a 
subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
No further information on this was given though. There were also references to the 
consumer agreeing to their information  being  used by the Barclays  Group, without  this 
group being  defined. 
It seems  that in many cases  the sales process also involved  a conversation in branch. And 
this is what apparently happened in Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Barclays Bank has said that these conversations would, usually, have been on the basis of a 
Level C service being provided   i.e. that the conversation would  relate to Barclays  Bank 
providing information on the SAM only. A confirmation of discussion form was completed at 
the time of such discussions, confirming the level of service. The form is effectively a 
checklist of topics that might need  to be discussed with the ability to confirm Y or N 
depending on the conversation that took place.
The confirmation of discussion form completed  in Mr and Mrs Ws sale is dated 
29 May 1998, and is completed on the basis of them  being provided with information about a 
single product  a Level C service. It is unclear whether Mr and Mrs W would have seen this 
form, but the indication is that it was for internal use only. 
The application was considered and, if approved,  an offer was sent to consumers. Mr and 
Mrs Ws offer was sent on 9 June  1998. The offer did not specifically list the lender, referring 
instead to the Company without defining this. But the document included  a footer indicating 
it had been produced by Barclays SAMS Limited.  
Ref: DRN38045405Mr and Mrs Ws offer confirmed the amount of the loan being provided  as £100,000, against 
a property value  of £400,000. And after providing details of the offer, it included the following 
statements:
You will see that under  condition 20 of the Mortgage Conditions, you give us the 
right to transfer to another lender .
And:
For the purposes of the Mortgage Code, we have provided you with information  on a 
mortgage product. 
And:
We strongly recommend that you take independent  financial  and legal advice 
relating to the terms of the Loan .
The offer also explained  how the loan would be repaid as follows:
It also gave the following  worked example:
Mr and Mrs Ws offer stated that the customers didnt need to sign to accept  the loan, but 
that it needed to be drawn  down by 31 July 1998  or the offer could be withdrawn. 
A copy of the offer was also sent to Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor, along  with a request  for a 
report on the title of the property and Instructions to Solicitors. These Instructions directed, in 
part, solicitors to confirm  that Mr and Mrs W understood the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors wrote to Barclays Bank on 15 July 1998  with the completed Report 
on Title. The points  that Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor agreed to in completing this included that 
they had complied with the Instructions, including that the terms and conditions  of the 
mortgage had been explained to Mr and Mrs W. They requested  the loan amount be 
released on 17 July 1998, which it seems  is what  happened.
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  raised a number of concerns relating, either directly or indirectly, to their 
SAM. In terms of the current complaint though,  they are unhappy with the level of 
information provided at the point of sale and with the terms of the product  itself. 
Mr and Mrs W have  strongly expressed  their feelings that it was not made clear to them that 
Barclays Bank was not the lender of their mortgage. And that Barclays Bank led them to 
believe they would have the protection offered by the bank being signed up to the Mortgage 
Code.
Ref: DRN38045406They are also unhappy with the level of information  they were  given  over the implications of 
the SAM.  And that they were not provided  with details  of how house prices would increase in 
the years  after the sale.
Ultimately, they consider  the product to be unfair and that Barclays  Bank  should  not have 
sold the mortgage onto a third party. 
Mr and Mrs W are also unhappy  with the money they were charged  for a valuation of their 
property when they requested a redemption statement. Barclays  has now agreed  to fully 
waive the sum charged though. And as this point has now been resolved, this decision will 
focus on the sale of the SAM  and the details of the product  itself.  
Barclays Banks position
As mentioned, Barclays Bank has agreed  to remove the sum added to Mr and Mrs Ws loan 
balance in relation to the valuation. 
In relation to the sale though, Barclays Bank  has said that the information  provided clearly 
set out the terms  of the SAM. And that no advice was given by the bank. Barclays  Bank  has 
said that customers, including Mr and Mrs W, were instructed to seek their own financial and 
legal advice. And that Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor had confirmed that the details  of the SAM, 
etc. were understood by Mr and Mrs W prior to the loan being drawn down.  
Barclays Bank has said that it does not have control over house prices and could not have 
predicted the changes in the market since the sale of this SAM.  
Barclays Bank did raise a number of objections to this service considering complaints about 
SAMs, including Mr and Mrs Ws. Largely, these issues have now been  resolved, but I will 
provide a summary below. 
Our investigators opinion
Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  has been  handled  primarily  by two investigators.  Previous  
complaints have been handled by other employees  of this service though. One of these had 
indicated that we were  unable  to consider complaints about SAMs because  they were  sold 
prior to the introduction  of the Financial Service Authority (as was),  and the relevant 
regulations around  mortgages. For reasons I shall go into below, this is not entirely  accurate, 
and this service is able to consider some, though not all, aspects of Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
Since the current complaint has been brought to this service, our investigators have come to 
opinions that Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about  Barclays Banks  actions in the sale of the 
SAM does  fall within our jurisdiction. They have explained that a predecessor  to this service, 
the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  (OBO), would  have  considered such  complaints. And 
that this service has the power to consider these  complaints as well. 
The investigators also didnt think that Mr and Mrs W had brought  their complaint either to 
the bank or to this service outside of the relevant  time limits. I will expand  on this below, but 
Barclays Bank has also said it would  be willing to allow this service to consider Mr and 
Mrs Ws complaint  even  if it had been  brought outside of the six month time limit. 
Ref: DRN38045407However, the investigators  did also find that whilst this service  was able to consider  the 
banks actions in relation  to the sale, we are unable to consider any issues connected to the 
fairness of the product or the terms of the SAM itself. Such concerns would need to be 
raised with Barclays SAMS Limited  and this service does not have the jurisdiction  to 
consider such a complaint against  this entity.  
In relation to the sale of the SAM  by Barclays Bank,  the investigators opinion was that no 
advice had been provided to Mr and Mrs W by the bank. And the information they had been 
given at the time was clear on the terms of the SAM.  
The investigator also felt that, even if Barclays Bank had been  clearer that they were not the 
lender, this would  not have changed Mr and Mrs Ws decision to enter the SAM.  He didnt 
think this would have  been a primary concern for them at the time of the sale.  The 
investigator felt that Mr and Mrs W were attracted by the lack of monthly payments, and it 
was only when house prices rose were any concerns raised.
Ultimately, the investigator  did not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about the sale of their 
SAM. 
Mr and Mrs W remain unhappy. They made  a number  of comments, including:
They did not receive advice from their solicitor, who just sent the documents.  And 
they could not afford financial advice.
Whilst they were struggling  financially at the time they applied  for the SAM, Mr W 
went on to get a well paid job and they could have paid their original mortgage off.
They did not consider the examples provided in the documents to have been clear, 
and it was not made clear that house prices would increase  in the way they did.
That it was also not clear who they were  taking the loan with, and that they would not 
have taken it had they known it was not with a regulated firm.
That they had not given permission  for the mortgage to be passed to another 
company. 
They also referred to court  action against companies involved with SAMs,  and to 
another situation where a credit  agreement was apparently found unenforceable  
because it had been provided by an unregulated  firm.
As such,  this complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account, amongst other 
things, the relevant law, regulations and industry  practice. 
Before I can consider the merits of this complaint, I need to confirm whether it is a complaint  
that falls within the jurisdiction of this service. Based on the evidence available  on this case, 
as well as the other  information I have been  provided with, I consider that there are aspects 
to this complaint  that do fall within the jurisdiction of this service.  But that there are also parts 
of the complaint that I am unable to consider. 
Ref: DRN38045408Are the relevant sale activities of Barclays Bank  within  the scope of this service?
Barclays Bank has now largely accepted that this service has jurisdiction  to consider 
complaints about  its activities during the sale of Mr and Mrs Ws SAM. However, for the sake 
of clarity, I will just confirm my findings in this regard.
The ability of this service  to consider complaints stems from the Financial  Services  and 
Markets Act 2000. The relevant provisions and associated  rules have been incorporated into 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  Handbook, particularly the Dispute Resolution: 
Complaints (DISP)  section  of this Handbook.  DISP  sets out the extent of this services 
jurisdiction. We are bound  to follow these rules  and so can only look at a complaint if allowed 
by the rules. 
This part of this complaint concerns events in 1998; before the start of the Financial 
Ombudsman Services compulsory jurisdiction on 1 December 2001.  But, as DISP 2.3.2G 
explains, we can consider  complaints  about  acts and omissions that took place before this 
date, if that complaint could have been  considered  by one of our predecessor  schemes.
If such a complaint does  fall within the jurisdiction of this service, article  7 of the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Transitional Provisions) (Ombudsman Scheme and 
Complaints Scheme) Order 2001 (the Ombudsman Transitional Order) requires, in part, that 
when considering such a complaint , we need to do so on the same basis as the former 
scheme would  have.
Effectively, this means that although  Mr and Mrs Ws SAM was sold to them  prior to the 
creation of this service,  and the rules  that govern our jurisdiction, we are able to consider a 
complaint about  this sale if such a complaint would have been considered by a previous 
scheme. But that, if we are able to consider the complaint, we need to do so on the same 
basis as the former scheme would have. 
At the time Mr and Mrs Ws SAM was sold, the OBO  would have considered  complaints 
about the actions of members, or designated associates, of that scheme where they were  
providing a banking service. 
Barclays Bank was a member of the scheme. And I consider the OBO would have 
considered Barclays  Bank  to have been  providing  a banking service  in a situation  where  it 
was providing information  about a credit agreement secured on land by a first charge 
mortgage. And that, as Barclays Bank  provided  such a service  to Mr and Mrs W during the 
sale of their SAM, the OBO  would  have considered a complaint about this.
As such,  I consider that (subject to the jurisdiction questions considered  below) this service  
can consider a complaint about  the sale of Mr and Mrs Ws SAM by Barclays Bank .
However, this ability is limited to considering the information and any advice provided about  
the product.  And it would not extend  to considering  the terms of the SAM itself.  
Jurisdiction over the terms and fairness  of the loan
A complaint about whether the terms and conditions of a SAM  were unfair would  need  to be 
considered against the lender itself. The terms of a loan are set by the lender, not the 
intermediary. 
Ref: DRN38045409As has been previously  explained, the lender of Mr and Mrs Ws SAM was Barclays SAMS 
Limited. It is Barclays  SAMS Limited  that is responsible for the terms of the SAM. 
I appreciate that Barclays SAMS Limited is a subsidiary of Barclays  Bank and that it was 
Barclays Bank that decided to launch this product. But Barclays SAMS  Limited is 
nevertheless a separate company and Barclays Bank cannot be held liable for the actions of 
this separate company. These actions include setting the terms of the credit  agreement.  And 
this applies also to the relationship between the borrower and the lender.
Mr and Mrs W have  referred to court  action  being  pursued in relation to SAMs.  However,  my 
understanding is that this action is being taken  against the lenders of the relevant 
mortgages. In this case, that would be Barclays SAMS Limited.  Mr and Mrs W may be able 
to engage in this or similar action. But this service would not be able to consider such  a 
complaint against  Barclays SAMS  Limited, which is not covered by our jurisdiction in relation 
to such an issue. 
Has the complaint been referred in time?
Barclays has also previously raised concerns about  whether this complaint was referred to 
this service outside the time limits  contained  in DISP  2.8.2 R. At the time Mr and Mrs W 
referred their complaint, this rule said, in part:
The Ombudsman  cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service:
(1) more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the 
complainant its final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication; or
(2) more than:
(a) six years  after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably  to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint  to the respondent or to the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written  acknowledgement or some  
other record of the complaint having  been received
This rule also contains some exceptions to this time limit, but it is not necessary for me to 
refer to these in this decision  for the reasons explained below.
Barclays Bank has now said that it would not object to us considering  Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint even if it was brought to us more than six months  after a final response was 
issued. However, for the sake of clarity I would confirm that this complaint was, in my view, 
referred within this period.  
Ref: DRN380454010Mr and Mrs W originally  raised concerns around  their SAM in 2005. Due to the passage  of 
time, it isnt clear exactly what their complaint  was. But Barclays Banks  response  referred  to 
them being  unhappy with the terms of the mortgage. However, the response issued by 
Barclays Bank wasnt a final response, redress determination or summary resolution 
communication. As such, it would  not have started  the six-month  time limit.
In 2015, Mr and Mrs W again raised  concerns about  the sale of the SAM to Barclays  Bank, 
along with some other concerns about activities since the sale. And Barclays Bank  did 
provide a final response in May 2015, which included reference to the sale of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs W referred a complaint to this service the same month. This complaint was 
largely focussed on the activities since  the sale, but did also include reference  to the sale 
itself. 
It was in dealing  with this complaint file that the previous case handler  at this service  
indicated we were  unable to consider anything about the sale of the mortgage. When  Mr and 
Mrs W pursued this aspect of the complaint, a new case  file was opened by this service  
the current case  and Barclays Bank issued a further final response letter. Whilst a new 
case file was opened though, I consider  this was a continuation of the original complaint 
brought to this service in May 2015.  And even if this were not the case, given the content  of 
the later, 2017, final response  letter this could be considered to have  provided  new rights  for 
Mr and Mrs W to refer their complaint. 
A such,  I consider that this complaint is within the jurisdiction of this service under the first 
part of DISP 2.8.2  R. 
The second  part of DISP 2.8.2 R relates  to the time between the event being complained of 
and the issue  being raised. As above,  Mr and Mrs W first raised concerns about the SAM in 
2005 or just before. This was likely slightly more than six years  after the 1998 sale. 
But this part of the rules also allows a complaint to be referred after six years,  as long as this 
is within three years of when the complainant ought  to have become aware  of the cause  for 
complaint. And I am not persuaded  that it would have been immediately clear  to Mr and 
Mrs W in 1998that they ought  to have been concerned  about  what  had happened. 
Their testimony is that they did not fully appreciate  the terms and implications of the SAM.  
And it seems likely to me that they only looked into this further once  house  prices began to 
increase rapidly  and they personally  had cause to be concerned. Around this time Mrs W 
was dealing with estate and other financial issues for her family, and this may have led to 
her looking  at her own situation. Because we dont have clear  details about the complaint 
brought in 2005, it isnt entirely clear what led to this complaint.  But I am not persuaded by 
the evidence I have seen that Mr and Mrs W ought  reasonably to have been aware  of a 
cause for complaint more than three years before they made their complaint. 
As Mr and Mrs W received a written  acknowledgement of their complaint from Barclays  Bank  
at this point, the time period in the second part of the rule above was stopped.  And I am 
satisfied that the complaint meets this part of the rules as well. 
Having established  the parts of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint I consider fall within  the 
jurisdiction of this service, I shall now outline my findings in relation to the merits of their 
complaint.
Ref: DRN380454011Did Barclays Bank advise  Mr and Mrs W to take out the SAM?
As has been noted, the Manual does envisage a situation where a Level A mortgage 
intermediary service might be provided.  And there was no guidance,  that I have seen, that 
Barclays Bank branch  staff should not carry out an advised sale of the SAM. They would  
have, in other situations, have carried out advised  sales in relation to Barclays Banks own 
mortgage products.  So, I consider that some SAMs may have been  sold by Barclays  Bank 
during an advised sale.  
The question here though, is whether Mr and Mrs Ws SAM was taken out following such 
advice from Barclays Bank. But there  is no persuasive evidence  that any advice was actually 
given to Mr and Mrs W. 
Barclays Bank has referred to the confirmation of discussion form that was completed  during 
the sale process. This indicates that a Level C service was provided, which would not have  
included advice. I do note that Mr and Mrs W may not have seen this form  they certainly 
were not required  to sign it. But they have  said that they had already identified  the SAM as a 
product they were  interested  in, having seen an advert for it. So, I think it is likely they went 
to the bank seeking to discuss this product alone. 
I am also conscious that, regardless  of the intentions of the Barclays Bank branch staff, Mr 
and Mrs W might have  been led to believe they were receiving  advice. But none of the 
evidence Mrs W has been able to provide  indicates she or her husband believed they had 
been provided with advice  from the bank. 
And, having considered all of the circumstances  of this case , I do not consider it is more  
likely than not that Barclays Bank provided, or acted so as to lead Mr and Mrs W to believe 
they were providing,  advice in relation to the sale of this SAM.
Was the information provided clear, fair, reasonable and not misleading ?
In terms of the activity  in relation to the sale, I am required to take into account the approach  
the OBO  would have  taken had a complaint about this activity been referred to them. 
The Brochure and other documents  Mr and Mrs W saw at the time said that Barclays  Bank 
was signed up to the Mortgage Code. And that this provided standards for how the bank 
should act when providing information regarding mortgage products and services and how 
they operate. 
This was not incorrect; Barclays  Bank was signed  up to this code, and the OBO  would  have 
taken into account  what the code said when  considering a complaint about  Barclays  Banks 
actions in relation  to the sale of the SAM. So, in this regard, the Brochure correctly  set out 
the protections Mr and Mrs W had. The Mortgage  Code  required Barclays  Bank to provide 
information that was clear,  fair, reasonable and not misleading. So, I have taken that into 
account.
The issue  Mr and Mrs W have focussed on recently is that it was not made clear to them 
who the lender  was. 
For the sake of clarity, although the terms of the SAM allowed for the loan to be sold to a 
third party, Mr and Mrs W entered their agreement with Barclays SAMS Limited; it has not 
been sold on and this company has always been the lender. 
Ref: DRN380454012I have detailed above where  there were references  to the lender being Barclays  SAMS 
Limited, including in the declaration Mr and Mrs W signed. But I also agree that there  were  
documents that Mr and Mrs W saw which did not make this particularly clear. And I can see 
how Mr and Mrs W may have believed they were borrowing from Barclays Bank itself. 
But, regardless of whether the information provided  about Barclays SAMS Limited being the 
lender met the required standard, the question I consider most relevant is whether Mr and 
Mrs W would  have taken a different course of action had they known this at the time. I.e. did 
any failure to make  it clear  who the lender was have an impact  on Mr and Mrs Ws decision 
at the time of the sale?
Mrs W has strongly expressed  that they would not have taken this loan had they known the 
lender was not a regulated firm. But this issue has only been  raised  during the course of 
complaining to this service about the terms of the SAM. 
I should also stress that the rules around both mortgages and the regulation  of financial 
businesses have changed greatly since the sale of Mr and Mrs Ws SAM. Whilst there were 
voluntary codes that many banks, including Barclays Bank, had signed  up to, mortgages 
were not regulated  until some years after this sale. So, given that no mortgage would have 
been regulated  at the time of the sale,  it is difficult  to agree that this was a significant 
consideration for Mr and Mrs W at that point. 
I appreciate Barclays Bank  was a member of the OBO, and had signed up to the Mortgage 
Code, whereas Barclays SAMS Limited  was not. And that this has a significant  impact on 
what this service can consider in terms of this complaint. But I am not persuaded that Mr and 
Mrs W knowing that the company they were borrowing from was not a member  of the OBO 
would have led them to take a different course of action in 1998. They have  explained that, 
at the time of the sale, they needed  money and seem to have had concerns  about meeting 
their monthly mortgage payments. I think this would have overridden any concerns they had 
about the separation of the companies involved. And whilst Barclays SAMS Limited is a 
separate company, it was within the Barclays Group. And I think  that Mr and Mrs W would 
have been satisfied with this, rather than being  concerned with whether  Barclays  SAMS 
Limited was a member  of the OBO or not. 
Additionally, when discussing the outcome of the complaint with our investigator,  Mrs W 
agreed that if house prices hadnt risen  so dramatically, it is unlikely she would have brought 
any complaint. So clearly it is the financial  impact  of circumstances after the sale that is the 
driver of this complaint, rather than the status of the lender.
This financial impact is a result of the wider  changes in the housing  market and the terms of 
the SAM.  As above, this service is not able to consider the terms themselves. But Barclays  
Bank did have to provide information that made  these terms sufficiently clear during the sale. 
And Mr and Mrs W have  complained that the information and examples used during the sale 
were not clear enough for them to understand the real financial implications of the SAM.  
I have taken into account Barclays Banks comments that customers were  directed to clarify 
anything they didnt understand through independent legal advice, and that Mr and Mrs W 
did use a solicitor who would have been  sent the Instructions. Any issue  Mr and Mrs W have 
about the actions of their solicitor would not be the responsibility of Barclays Bank. But I am 
also mindful that Barclays Bank still had a responsibility to provide clear information.  
Ref: DRN380454013It isnt possible for us to know what information  Mr and Mrs W were  provided with verbally. 
But I do think that the examples and explanations provided to Barclays  Bank branch staff, in 
the Manual and training  material,  would  most  likely have made them aware  of the 
mechanism involved in the SAM. So, I dont  think it is more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs W 
were given incorrect information about  this verbally.  
I also think the written information  Barclays Bank provided made it clear  that the sum to be 
repaid was not a direct  equivalent  of the LTV of the loan. And instead clearly outlined  what 
the mechanism  for repayment was. 
As Barclays Bank has said, it was not possible to accurately predict what  would happen to 
the value of Mr and Mrs Ws property,  nor how long it would be until the loan was redeemed.  
This meant that all that could reasonably be provided was the formula  for the calculation  and 
some examples of possible outcomes. 
We know Mr and Mrs W saw the Brochure. And, as set out above, the Brochure set out the 
mechanism for how the shared appreciation amount payable  on redemption  was calculated  
as follows:
The share  will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by three and 
then multiplying that by how much  the property has gained in value.
It then provided several examples of how this might work in practice. In my view, this 
information provided a reader  with a reasonable level of information  to allow them  to 
understand the basic mechanism behind the mortgage. And I dont consider that the 
language used was unclear or misleading.
Further written examples of how the SAM  worked  were also provided  to Mr and Mrs W in the 
Leaflet and the offer. I do note that the examples in these  documents  used different figures. 
But I dont think this made the arrangements  less clear. If anything, these differences gave 
the reader more opportunity to see possible outcomes. 
The offer uses a number of terms which  have  specific definitions.  But I consider that these 
definitions were clearly provided  within the offer. So, whilst a customer would be required to 
consider the document  carefully, I dont consider the language used to have been 
inappropriate. 
Because of the nature of the loan, definitive figures  could not be provided. But I do not 
consider that this in itself means  the information  provided was unclear or misleading. Whilst 
the Guide mentioned that the biggest risk with a SAM was that house prices could increase 
dramatically, it would  not have been  possible for Barclays  Bank to accurately  predict  the 
changes to the housing market that occurred after the sale of Mr and Mrs Ws SAM. 
In summary,  whilst I am sympathetic to the situation  Mr and Mrs W are now in, based  on the 
information available I am unable to conclude that a complaint about  the sale of the SAM is 
not one that I can fairly and reasonably uphold. 
Ref: DRN380454014my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint about the sale of their SAM by 
Barclays Bank UK PLC. Barclays Bank UK PLC has agreed to waive  the valuation fee that 
was previously applied  to the balance  of Mr and Mrs Ws SAM, and it should  do this if it has 
not already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 October  2020.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3804540