K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Integrated Financial  Arrangements Ltd sold shares without his authority 
and without giving him notice.  
background
Integrated Financial  Arrangements Ltd provides a portfolio  and trading platform, known as 
Transact. I will refer to the business as Transact  for the rest of my decision.
Mr F opened a Transact portfolio in 2006 for his pension account. In September 2018, Mr F 
transferred a holding  of Ten Lifestyle  Group  onto the platform to be held in a general 
investment account.
In December 2018, Transact  sold 28,000 Ten Lifestyle Group shares.  It says Mr F was 
required to keep a minimum  cash balance of 2% of the total value of the portfolio and that it 
was authorised, under its terms and conditions, to sell the shares  because  Mr F hadnt 
maintained the minimum cash balance.
Mr F says Transact shouldve given him notice and he wants  it to repurchase  the shares at 
no loss or cost to himself.  He says the sale has put him in breach of his employers 
compliance regulations.  He says he wasnt aware  the platform was designed for advisers 
and he wouldnt have  used it if hed known. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He concluded that 
Transact had acted reasonably and in line with its terms and conditions.
Mr F didnt  agree. He said,  in summary, that:
Transact  should reasonably have the technology to send a message to a consumer 
before it exercises a contractual  right that may be damaging to them.
Its not reasonable  for Transact to be able to sell his shares without  warning,  even  if it 
has the contractual right to do so.
When he transferred  the shares into a general  account  he wasnt  warned some shares 
might be sold.
He didnt need  a cash balance in his account  because he doesnt  have an adviser so no 
adviser fees are charged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37120522Transacts terms and conditions require  a minimum cash  balance of 2% of the value of the 
portfolio to be maintained. This is to meet Transacts fees and any advisers fees. Mr F 
agreed to the terms and conditions when he opened a portfolio in 2005. Im not surprised 
that when he transferred  shares to a general investment account in 2018, that he couldnt 
remember the detail  of the terms.  But I dont  find there was any obligation on Transact to 
remind him of any particular terms or to draw this particular  term his attention. By 
maintaining an account and adding  an investment,  Mr F knew  he was bound  by Transacts  
terms which hed agreed to in 2005.
The terms allow Transact to sell investments, at its discretion, where the cash balance falls 
below 2%. Mr F didnt  hold any cash in the general investment account. So I dont find 
Transact acted unreasonably when it sold some shares. And I dont find there was any 
obligation on it to give Mr F notice.
I understand Mr Fs strength of feeling on this matter and, in particular,  his view that 
Transact should have systems in place to ensure  consumers are given notice before any 
sales are made. My role is to resolve individual  disputes between  businesses and 
consumers. I dont  have  the power to tell a business  how it should treat all customers  or how 
it develops its internal policies. Thats a matter  for the regulator, the Financial  Conduct  
Authority (FCA).
Mr F is also concerned that Transacts actions  caused him to be in breach of his employers 
compliance rules  he is required to report all personal trading. But Transact acted at its 
discretion, with no involvement from Mr F  that is central to his complaint. So I dont find 
Transacts actions have  caused Mr F any financial loss or detriment for which he should be 
compensated.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3712052