K822xcomplaint
Mr Z complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) didnt process his request for 
a chargeback and provided poor service.
background 
Mr Z missed a homebound flight  due to enhanced security  checks at an airport. He 
attempted to purchase new flights home,  but says the airline  made a mistake  with the dates 
and had to cancel the transaction. Mr Z was then charged a cancellation fee.
Mr Z feels that he missed his flight due to matters outside his control  and was unfairly  
charged a cancellation fee. Mr Z asked Halifax to raise a chargeback to recover  the cost of 
the missed flights and to recover  the cancellation fee.
Halifax declined to process the chargeback as they thought the circumstances didnt meet  
VISAs chargeback  criteria. But Halifax did accept they took too long to tell Mr Z about  this 
outcome. Theyve  apologised  for this and paid Mr Z £100 in compensation.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  She thought Halifax did nothing  wrong  in 
declining to process the chargeback request as it was unlikely to succeed. Our investigator  
took into account that Halifax had applied the airlines terms and conditions,  which  required 
passengers to check in at least  1 hour before departure. Also she noted  it was for Mr Z to 
have checked  that the right flights had been  booked at the time. But our investigator did 
agree that Halifax could  have given Mr Z an answer  more quickly. She thought the offer of 
£100 for distress  and inconvenience was fair and reasonable.
Mr Z disagrees with the view. He thinks the airline  knew there would be a delay and says he 
couldnt see the computer on which the sales representative booked  the incorrect 
replacement flights.  The matter has now come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Z feels very strongly about this matter and I appreciate  that he found  himself 
in a difficult position when hed missed  his flight. But I have to consider this complaint within 
the parameters  of the chargeback scheme. The scheme  gives  consumers the opportunity  to 
ask their card provider  in this case Halifax - to request the return  of money paid using  the 
card. The chargeback rules are set by the card scheme provider (here  VISA),  which  set out 
the circumstances under which  a chargeback attempt is likely to be successful. If those 
circumstances arent  met, the bank is unlikely to attempt  the chargeback and we wouldnt 
ask it to do so. Just because the customer makes a request  it doesnt  mean  the chargeback 
will necessarily be made or succeed.  This is because the rules lay down strict conditions 
which must be satisfied for a chargeback  claim to succeed.
For Mr Zs chargeback about  the missed flight to be successful,  hed need to show the 
service paid for hadnt been provided. Here, theres nothing  to suggest the provider didnt 
meet its obligations  the flight went ahead as planned so the service was available  to Mr Z. 
It is unfortunate that Mr Z missed the flight and Ive seen his explanation for this, but as our 
Ref: DRN32827752investigator has explained, this doesnt fall within the chargeback  scheme so the chargeback 
wasnt likely to succeed. It follows that I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in deciding  not 
to proceed with the chargeback.
Mr Z also says that a chargeback should  have  been  processed for the cancellation  fee. But 
Ive seen that Mr Z was present when the airline booked  the flights  and he authorised 
payment. Hes said it was only by chance  that he saw the wrong  dates on the tickets.  It was 
for Mr Z to provide the right information  about  the dates for the flights  and to check the 
details at the time. So again I dont think Halifax did anything wrong in deciding not to 
proceed with the chargeback as it wasnt likely to succeed.
Having seen the timeline of events, I do think that Halifax  could have dealt  faster with the 
request and Ive seen  there were repeated  requests for information. Halifax have apologised 
for falling short on the standard of service they aimed  to provide and theyve paid Mr Z £100 
in compensation.  Having  considered everything, I think this was a fair and reasonable 
award. Im sorry to disappoint Mr Z, but I wont be asking Halifax  to do anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I think Bank  of Scotland plcs offer of £100 is fair and reasonable, so I 
wont be asking them to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3282775