K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The policy was taken  out in 2003  at the same  time as Mrs G arranged  the mortgage  in a 
branch meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs G disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint and Ill explain why.
Although Santander has some  paperwork  relating to the mortgage,  it no longer has copies of 
documentation relating directly to the sale of the PPI, which  is not surprising given the time 
that has elapsed.  But it does make the complaint more  difficult  to decide.  In reaching my 
decision I have considered the evidence  that we do have, and what I think is most likely to 
have happened. Ive also thought about how long ago the sale took place and how this may 
have affected  Mrs Gs recollection of events.
Although the PPI application form is no longer available,  there is an internal document  from 
the time of the sale that indicates that PPI was discussed and chosen by Mrs G. Also, the 
fact that the policy  was set up to cover unemployment only suggests that some discussion 
probably took place.  Mrs G hasnt said she was unaware of being  sold the policy.  And we 
know she would have  had to complete a separate PPI application form and direct debit 
mandate. Overall  I think it is likely that the policy was presented  as optional. It seems to me 
that Mrs G probably decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to.
Santander advised Mrs G to buy the PPI. Therefore, in recommending  the policy to her, it 
needed to ensure that it met her needs.  And from what I know of Mrs Gs circumstances at 
the time,  the policy was suitable for her.
Mrs G says she would have received over 12 months full sick pay from her job if she was off 
sick. But it appears that this has been  taken into account as the policy did not cover her for 
accident and sickness, and therefore it didnt  duplicate any existing cover.
Mrs G didnt have any alternative insurance  that covered her for redundancy. She may have  
qualified for some redundancy pay from her employer  (although  she hasnt mentioned  this), 
but the policy would have  paid out in addition  to any redundancy pay and could have 
provided a useful benefit at what would have been  a difficult  time.
Ref: DRN31361512A mortgage is a significant financial commitment and the consequences of defaulting on a 
mortgage can be serious. So it wouldnt be surprising if Mrs G had an interest in protecting 
her repayments.
Its possible that Santander didnt provide as much  information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly the things that it didnt  cover. But Mrs G wasnt affected by any of those 
things. As I think that Mrs G had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that further information would have caused her to change her mind.  So she isnt any worse  
off as a result of anything  Santander may have done  wrong. So there  is nothing  that 
Santander needs to do to put things right.
Ive also thought about the commission Mrs G paid on her PPI  and whether Santander 
treated her unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mrs Gs PPI was less than half of what she 
paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Gs commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell her about  the commission   
so I dont think Santander treated her unfairly.  This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs G back 
any of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3136151