K820x#14complaint
Ms O  is unhappy about the way The Society of Lloyds (Lloyds)  has handled a claim made  
under her legal expenses  insurance (LEI) policy - and the actions of the law firm that was 
appointed to pursue legal action on her behalf.
All and any references  to Lloyds in this decision include its claims handlers. 
background
In 2014 the balcony  of Ms Os property  flooded as a result of a heavy storm. She says water 
seeped through  the door to the rear of her property  which  had been recently replaced - 
and caused damage. She also says she suffered  a personal injury  as a result  of having to 
move furniture to protect it from getting  damaged. 
Towards the end of 2014, Ms O made  claim  on her LEI policy  to cover  her costs  of bringing 
a claim for negligence / breach of contract  and personal injury against her landlord. Lloyds 
then appointed a law firm from its approved  panel of firms to act for Ms O. 
In June 2017 Ms O was told by the law firm that if counsel advised that Ms O had 
reasonable prospects of succeeding in her claims Lloyds would:
-continue to fund her claim - and under the terms of the policy  it would expect the law 
firm would enter into a collective conditional fee agreement;
-issue a further  after the event (ATE)  insurance policy  at no additional cost to Ms O to 
guard against the possibility of an adverse costs order in the event that Ms O was 
unsuccessful in her claim, and costs were awarded against her. 
This information was repeated in an email  dated July 2017,  after Counsel advised that 
prospects of Ms O succeeding in her claim were above 51% - and that protective legal 
proceedings should be issued.  
Legal proceedings commenced towards the end of 2017. 
Ms O was unhappy with the way in which the first solicitor  who was a partner of the law 
firm  handled her case. In around  October 2017  she expressed concerns with Lloyds  about  
remaining with that law firm. Lloyds arranged for a different partner at the law firm to take 
over conduct  of her case. 
The costs  budget for the case was set at an interim court hearing,  listed in mid-March  2018. 
And as a result it was possible that the total costs  of litigation could exceed the policy 
indemnity limit of £100,000. Ms O then discovered  that the ATE policy  hadnt  been put in 
place. So if she lost her case, she was at risk of personally paying some  costs. She was very 
unhappy about this.
In early April 2018, Ms O again requested  that Lloyds appoint  a different law firm to 
represent her. But ultimately this couldnt  be arranged  so the law firm continued  to act for 
her.  
Mrs O is very unhappy about the way the law firm handled her claim. She says Lloyds 
shouldve done  more to protect her and shed  been  given assurances  that it would closely  
Ref: DRN39375162monitor the law firm. Shes also unhappy that Lloyds didnt arrange an ATE policy  for her 
although the law firm had told her on at least two occasions that it would be doing that for 
her. Because of this Ms O says she was at risk of having to pay legal costs  over and above 
the policys indemnity  limit of £100,000.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Ms Os complaint. Ms O doesnt  agree. So her complaint has 
been passed to me to look at everything  afresh, and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Os complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold it.
Before I explain why I just want to assure Ms O that although  I havent addressed  each point 
shes made, Ive taken on board all of her comments. And although shes  asked to speak 
with the ombudsman deciding her complaint, I dont  think  thats  necessary.  Ms O has clearly 
articulated the reasons why she doesnt think shes been treated  fairly and I have all of the 
information I need to decide this particular complaint without  asking for anything  else from 
her. 
Under the policy Lloyds is entitled to appoint a law firm to assess the merits of Ms O 
succeeding in her claim. And then represent  her in that action, if Ms O had more chance of 
winning that case than not - subject to the remaining  policy  terms.
I know Ms O is very unhappy  about  the way her case was conducted by two partners at the 
law firm. But this Service cant  consider  complaints about the general legal advice or service 
given by a firm of solicitors because theyre not under Lloyds control.  They are independent 
professionals with their own regulator and complaints procedures. 
This Service can only consider whether Lloyds has done anything wrong in the way it 
handled the LEI claim. That does  include  whether  the legal  advice given to Ms O was 
obviously wrong or based on factual mistakes to the extent that Lloyds shouldve reasonably 
questioned it. Im satisfied  thats  not the case here.  It can also consider whether UKI 
appointed a suitably qualified law firm to represent  Ms O under the policy. Having 
considered the law firm and the two partners who acted for her, Im satisfied they had the 
relevant experience in contractual, property and personal injury disputes, in order to 
represent her.
I can see that the law firm instructed  a barrister to give various opinions and to represent  
Ms O at court hearings. Having considered that barrister  I can see that the focus of his 
practice was employment law. But this was something that was raised by Lloyds, as I would 
expect. The law firm provided assurances  that it had spoken  to the barristers clerk before he 
was instructed and had been told he had the necessary experience to represent Ms O in her 
case. So I think Lloyds  was entitled  to rely upon the assurances given by the law firm in this 
respect  after all they are the legal experts and had day to day conduct  of the case.  
The policy is clear that Lloyds will indemnify Ms O for up to £100,000 of costs   subject to 
the other terms of the policy being  met. Ms O was told that Lloyds would provide an ATE 
policy but I dont  think it would be fair or reasonable to hold Lloyds responsible  for that. 
Lloyds emailed the law firm in July 2017  (before  legal proceedings had commenced) 
providing guidance on how its LEI policies had changed and confirming why it wouldnt be 
providing an ATE policy for Ms O. So Im satisfied  it was reasonable for Lloyds to assume 
Ref: DRN39375163that the law firm would inform Ms O of its position. I can also see that, before costs  budgets  
were set at the interim court hearing  in March 2018,  Lloyds  asked the law firm to advise 
Ms O of the risk that she might be liable  for some  costs  given  the amounts detailed  in the 
draft costs  budgets prepared by both parties.
Lloyds accept that after Ms O complained about  the way in which her case was being 
handled by the law firm in 2016,  it agreed  to monitor the law firm. But ultimately, Lloyds isnt 
the legal  expert,  the law firm is. So it isnt Lloyds  place  to tell the law firm how to conduct 
proceedings. Nor do I think its unreasonable for Lloyds to rely on what  it was being told by 
the law firm. 
I can see that Lloyds  was in regular contact  with the law firm about the way in which  Ms Os 
claim was progressing and did raise appropriate  questions when needed,  such as the 
suitability of the barrister  and whether  Ms O had been made aware of the residual cost risk - 
as mentioned above. And overall  I can see that whenever Ms O contacted Lloyds about 
concerns she had with the law firm, it promptly followed this up with the law firm and / or 
informed Ms O that she could raise  a formal complaint directly with the law firm about 
anything she was unhappy with. Thats what I wouldve expected  it to do. 
Ms O did raise  concerns  with Lloyds about  the law firm continuing to represent her in the 
autumn of 2017.  Initially Lloyds said it would consider appointing another  firm to represent 
Ms O. But by that stage,  Counsel  had already  advised that protective legal proceedings be 
issued. A further  advice  was obtained and at the end of October 2017 and the barrister said 
that there  were very pressing time constraints.   
So, in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think  its unreasonable  for Lloyds to 
have then said due to these time constraints it would be difficult for another firm to bring itself 
up to speed with the case  which had been ongoing for around three years by that stage  
within such a short timeframe. Nor do I think it was unreasonable  for it to have requested the 
case be transferred to another partner at the law firm to handle. And it looks like Ms O 
agreed to this at the time. 
However, Ms O did, again,  request another firm be appointed to represent  her in April 2018. 
Lloyds said it was unable  to find another panel firm to represent her at that stage as they 
werent in a position to take over the case on the same funding arrangements  as the law 
firm, and particularly given that document disclosure was to take place  and a list of issues  
had to be agreed  within  a few weeks.
Generally, once legal proceedings need to be issued  or have begun   a policyholder is 
free to instruct a legal representative of their choice to act for them in a claim, under  the 
terms of a LEI policy. Here Lloyds did explain to Ms O that if she was able to find another  
firm who was willing to take her case on at short notice under a collective conditional  fee 
agreement, then it could consider appointing it to represent her. But otherwise it wouldnt  be 
able to agree to her appointing her own firm. Particularly given the risk that the indemnity 
limit of £100,000 could  be exceeded  without factoring  in her solicitors  costs.
I dont think that approach  was unreasonable in the circumstances  of this particular case  
considering the work that needed to be done within such a short  period of time, the agreed 
costs budgets, the indemnity limit and not wanting  to prejudice Ms Os case. To this extent, I 
think it was fair for Lloyds  to rely on the advice it had received from the law firm; that it was 
very unlikely  that the landlords representatives  would  agree  to a stay in proceedings to allow 
Ms O to change representatives.
Ref: DRN39375164Besides, Ms O didnt  provide Lloyds with details of any firm that she wanted to instruct  in 
place of the law firm. And Ive seen  an email from Ms O to the law firm dated 15 April 2018 -
shortly after she requested that another firm represent her - where she says she wanted  to 
move forward with the existing law firm. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask her to accept or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3937516