K821x#15complaint
Mr M says the advice he received from Insight Financial Associates Limited to switch his 
group personal pension  plans into a Family Pension  Trust and subsequent investments was 
unsuitable.
background
Mr M is represented  in his complaint by Partners Wealth  Management  LLP (PWM).
By the time of the advice complained about, which began in 2009,  Mr Ms relationship with 
Insights adviser was well established. 
Mr M was a member of two group  personal  pension schemes. The transfer value of his 
Scottish Equitable  plan after an early surrender penalty was £194,409. And his Scottish  
Widows plan was worth £97,267.
In the financial  planning report (FPR) Insight produced for Mr M dated 25 January 2010, it 
said the following:
I have recommended these pension funds be transferred, for the following reasons:
-Your existing plans  do not offer the option to establish an individual  pension trust to 
include your wife and children as members/trustees and potential beneficiaries.
-Your existing funds  do not provide the flexibility of the SIPP-based structure  of the 
new contract.
-Removal from future considerations of the ongoing surrender penalties  associated 
with the Scottish  Equitable fund, in favour  of measurable and transparent charging 
structure versus performance.
-Consolidation of existing plans into a single strategy.
-Access to alternative forms of investment including land and structured portfolios.
-You wish to access the Insight Fund Portfolios.
So, Insight  recommended that Mr M switch his pension pot totalling £291,676  into a Family 
Pension Trust (FPT)  with Rowanmoor.  The FPT was a type of Self-invested  Personal 
Pension (SIPP). This covered his whole family. And it enabled them  to invest  separately or 
collectively in a number of different funds.
Mr M began raising concerns about what happened  with his retirement planning in 2012.  
Eventually his complaint  was formalised in 2017.  Mr M didnt feel the FPT was an 
appropriate vehicle  to hold his funds.  He didnt think the charges hed incurred had been  
clearly set out, being more than three times  the level of his former schemes. And he says the 
portfolio of funds  Insight  recommended werent  a match  for his risk appetite.  
Insight said that although Mr M incurred a significant penalty for switching out of his Scottish  
Equitable pension, this had been  discussed in detail and agreed as the right course  of 
action. It said that the advantages of using an FPT had been  set out for him and that as well 
as protecting his pension benefits for his family in the event of his death,  it also provided the 
investment flexibility of a SIPP which he wanted.
Ref: DRN33497522Insight said Mr M signed up to the fees and charges at the outset.  It said that the 
investments made were in line with his attitude to risk and that as a fund-builder  and trader  
he wouldve understood what he was getting into. It did however  offer him a gesture of 
goodwill, saying it would  meet the loss at that time on one of the funds he was invested in. 
This equated to just over £41,000. Mr M rejected  the offer.
The adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint. He thought the investments recommended for his 
portfolio were higher risk than his appetite. He had concerns about the complexity  of some of 
the investments.  He also said the switch of Mr Ms funds had been inappropriate given the 
significant early surrender  penalty applied by one of his ceding  schemes.
Insight disagreed and so Mr Ms complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.  I issued 
my provisional findings last month.  As neither party has provided any additional evidence  or 
arguments I see no reason to depart  from my initial conclusions.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Wheres theres conflicting  information about 
what happened and gaps in what we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and 
to decide, on the balance  of probabilities,  whats most likely to have happened.
Both parties  have provided lots of information  and argument about the events complained  
about. Ive not provided a detailed response  to all the points raised.  Thats deliberate; ours is 
an informal service for resolving disputes  between financial businesses  and their customers. 
While Ive taken into account and considered all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings 
on what I think is relevant and at the heart  of this complaint.
Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
how does the regulatory framework inform  the consideration of Mr Ms case?
The first thing I considered is the extensive regulation  around  transactions  like those 
performed by Insight  for Mr M. The FCA Handbook contains eleven  Principles  for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook).  These include:
-Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence
-Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly
So, the Principles  are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework  that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated  firms like Insight. As such, I 
need to have regard to them in deciding this case.
Further, COBS 2.1.1  R requires a firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  
with the best interests of its clients, in relation to designated investment business  carried on 
for a retail  client. The definition of designated investment business includes arranging 
(bringing about)  deals in investments.
Ref: DRN33497523COBS 9.2.1R sets out the obligations on firms in assessing the suitability of investments. 
They are the same  things  that I look at when reaching a decision about whether the advice 
was suitable. In summary, the business must  obtain  the necessary information  regarding: 
the consumers  knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the advice; 
their financial  situation; and their investment objectives.
When I consider a case where someone  has switched their personal pension,  I look at their 
circumstances at the time. Why were they interested in switching? Were those wants  or 
needs reasonable? And so, should  the adviser have recommended  the switch?
Each case is different,  but Id expect the switch to be in the consumers best interests to 
make the advice suitable. And in this regard, Id expect to see a comparison was made 
between the old pension and the new one.
In 2009 the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), then the Financial  Services  Authority, 
published a checklist  for pension  switching  that I think is still helpful  today. It highlighted  four 
key issues it thought should be focussed  on:
-Charges - has the consumer been  switched  to a pension that is more expensive  than 
their existing  one(s) or a stakeholder  pension, without good reason?
-Existing benefits - has the consumer lost benefits in the switch without good reason? 
This could include  the loss of ongoing  contributions from an employer, a guaranteed 
annuity rate or the right to take benefits  early.
-Risk - has the consumer switched into a pension that doesnt match their recorded 
attitude to risk (ATR) and personal circumstances?
-Ongoing fund management - has the consumer switched into a pension with a need 
for ongoing investment reviews but this was not explained, offered or put in place.
In July 2010 the FCA issued guidance  about  unregulated investments in a Good and Poor 
Practice report. Although issued after the advice  given  to Mr M, this report was a reiteration 
of existing guidance.
The report  contained  examples of good  practice  in relation to unregulated investments, for 
example where  a firm had robust  controls in place and limited  client exposure to 3% to 5% of 
their portfolios, where  those clients had been  assessed as being  suitable for unregulated 
investments. An example  of bad practice  given by the FCA was where up to 100% of a 
clients holdings were  invested in a single  unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS).
Even if the land investments in Mr Ms portfolio  werent part of a UCIS, they shared similar 
characteristics including  the high-risk nature of the investment, being illiquid and subject to 
counter-party and development  risks.  So, I think these FCA findings are also relevant to my 
consideration.
did Insight adhere  to the regulatory requirements placed  on it?
In short,  I dont think Insight met the regulatory  requirements placed on it. Ill explain why.
Insight had to obtain information  from Mr M in order to understand essential  facts about him. 
In order to advise  him to switch his personal  pensions into the FPT with Rowanmoor and 
facilitate subsequent investments, it had to believe that:
Ref: DRN33497524-The service or recommended transaction met Mr Ms investment objectives 
(including his attitude  to risk, the purpose of investing and how long he wanted  to 
invest for).
-Mr M was able to financially withstand  the investment risks.
-Mr M had the necessary experience  or knowledge to understand the risks involved.
From the fact-find conducted by Insight I can see Mr W was 45 and worked in a senior  role 
in the City. He was married and had two dependent children. He and his wife owned their 
home. Excluding pensions, they had savings and investments worth over £400,000.  They  
had a mortgage and some  other  financial obligations  although these werent detailed. Their 
monthly disposable income was around £3,000. Mr M planned to retire when he was 65.
Insight says Mr Ms health was a driving  factor in thinking about his future pension 
arrangements. Its recorded that hed been  diagnosed with early  onset diabetes  at a young 
age and had experienced a couple  of serious  bouts  of ill-health,  one of which  led to him 
being off work for a year with complications.  He wanted to ensure the integrity of his pension 
benefits for his wife and family  in the unfortunate scenario  of his passing before  retirement.
The FPR produced  for Mr M said the following about  the vehicle it had identified as meeting 
his particular needs (bolding is my emphasis):
The contract I have recommended is a FPT, offered by Rowanmoor Pensions,  which  is a 
relatively new concept , but which above  all addresses your specific objectives for 
maintenance of the benefits  within your pension fund for your wife and children, in the event 
of your death before your 65th birthday. You wish to make specific  provision for the inclusion 
of your family into your pension under an individual trust, due to the fact you have health 
concerns arising  from the fact you suffer from early-onset diabetes, with its associated  
potential significance for mortality in later years.
It went on to describe key features of the FPT:
The Rowanmoor Pensions  [FPT] is suitable for families or any group of people who wish to 
retain maximum control of their pension arrangements and where other  types of member  
directed pensions are not practical.  The [FPT] allows  flexibility for the members because  
some, or all, of the members are also trustees. The trustees share  responsibility  for ensuring 
the scheme complies with Her Majestys Revenue & Customs (HMRC)  guidelines and 
legislation with Rowanmoor Pensions. Trustees responsibilities also include authorising any 
movement of funds  and agreeing scheme  payments.
Each Rowanmoor Pensions [FPT] is established  under its own individual trust and 
registered with HMRC. There are separate arrangements within the trust for each member. 
This is unlike  most SIPPs where there is a single scheme, established under a master  trust 
for all members. The FPT combines the control  members would have in a small employer-
based scheme with the simplicity of a Provider  scheme. Assets within  a [FPT] are held in 
the name of the trustees of the scheme and not controlled by the scheme operator, as is 
usually the case  for a SIPP.  The members  funds may be pooled into common  investment 
funds, making ownership and borrowing,  particularly  for property investment, that much 
simpler.
Ref: DRN33497525Ive thought carefully about the FPT and whether it was suitable for Mr M. Ive concluded that 
it wasnt. I say this because it was a sophisticated arrangement,  with a niche target group 
aimed at drawing in the investments of family members and others. But I cant find in the 
information gathered  by Insight about  Mr Ms circumstances and his objectives, nor those  of 
his family,  a strong  rationale as to why an FPT was specifically  appropriate.  I cant see that it 
was ever intended to be actively used by anyone other than Mr M.
As the adviser  acknowledged, the FPT was a relatively new concept.  Yet, we know  from the 
attitude to risk questionnaire  Mr M completed in relation to pension planning, his outlook was 
low to medium risk. By definition, the FPT was not tried and tested. As the adviser reflected 
later, with hindsight it had failed to live up to expectations. 
I think the FPT - which entailed  significant responsibilities and administrative overheads  for 
individual trustees and members  was over engineered for his requirements. One result of 
this was that it drove costs with an adverse impact on Mr Ms fund, in return  for benefits 
which were very unclear  in comparison with cheaper alternatives which couldve met Mr Ms 
objectives. 
Ive broader concerns about the fees and charges Mr M incurred under his new 
arrangements. Insights FPR indicates that Mr M was charged  just over 1% on the value of 
the funds in his group  personal  pensions each year. Taking into account the ongoing adviser  
fees, the FPT administration  costs applied by Rowanmoor and the charges associated with 
the various investments in his portfolio, Mr M ended  up paying over 3%. On a fund value 
approaching £300k, the annual sums are obviously significant.
When these costs were added to the initial adviser and set-up  fees, the position is even 
more striking. Mr M had paid over £50,000 in fees and charges by the time he brought  his 
complaint to the Service. This excludes the penalty he incurred for transferring out of his 
Scottish Equitable  plan,  which  Ill cover later.
Ive not seen a transparent analysis of costs  comparing  Mr Ms former and new pension 
arrangements. Indeed,  Insights adviser provided some revealing  reflections about the 
position from as early as 2012 and right through until responding to the complaint internally. 
For example, in 2012 he ended a message to Mr M which  was about trying to get a grip on 
the value of his portfolio and the charges being  made as follows:
sorry the news coming out of contacts with Rowanmoor gives little cause for celebration, 
but one way or another, we need  to engineer things in such a way you have a manageable, 
accessible, understandable, accurate and coherent grasp on what  is being  done with your 
pension fund, none of which attributes could currently be properly applied  to Rowanmoor 
and the FPT structure,  of which we had such high hopes at the outset.
In considering Mr Ms complaint, Insights adviser noted in 2017 that:
By April 2015, meetings were centring around the ongoing performance of the FPTthis 
drove a costings review  with Rowanmoor, and the identification of the high "exit costs",  
whether in cash or in-specie,  which  were  not self-evident when the plan was first 
established.
Rowanmoorhave proved difficult to deal with, and information difficult to obtain in 
meaningful format; their fees have also proved more excessive than was clear at the point of 
application and the cost of exit is one of the factors that has led to this review.
Ref: DRN33497526More broadly on fees, again in 2017  Insights adviser noted that management fees applied 
by some of the investment vehicles in Mr Ms portfolio were difficult to pin down.
It seems  to me Insight  failed to carry out due diligence around the costs associated  with 
Mr Ms new arrangements. The lack of transparency in the FPR it produced for him appears  
at least in part to have resulted from a lack of knowledge and understanding,  which has 
been acknowledged in hindsight. The was a fragile  basis from which  to provide such 
important advice.
Mr M incurred an early  surrender penalty  of about £23,000 when he switched from his 
Scottish Equitable  group  pension  plan.  Insight said that the penalty wouldve applied on a 
level basis, irrespective of when  he retired up to the age of 75. And since his plan was to 
retire at the age of 65, the suggestion is this was simply a timing issue of when to incur the 
penalty.
Ive asked Insight  for more information about how exactly the early surrender penalty  
worked. This shouldve  been on file. Indeed, I wouldve expected its adviser  to have provided 
Mr M with some  illustrations showing the effect  of time to retirement on the penalty  incurred. 
Insight hasnt provided me with full information about how the penalty worked. But there are 
indications in the paperwork which suggest  that it didnt work on a level basis as Insight 
advised Mr M. For example, a covering letter  to Insight from his former  pension plan provider 
said:
When the policy  was established the single premium were given an enhanced  allocation 
based on the term until retirement.  If the benefits  are taken prior to retirement then the 
allocation is clawed back based on the time the premium has been invested  in the policy.
This suggests the opposite of what Insight advised.  As it couldnt show me evidence and 
illustrate the effect of the early surrender penalty and show this was indeed  applied on a 
level basis irrespective of when he took retirement prior to the age of 75, I can only assume 
from what Ive read the advice it gave him was flawed.
Turning to the investment advice Mr M received. I reviewed the attitude to risk questionnaire  
completed with Mr M. It summarises his outlook on retirement planning as low to medium 
risk with a 15-year horizon. And his approach to investments as medium  risk with a 5-year  
horizon. 
Mr M had some capacity for loss. He and his wife had significant savings and investments 
outside of his pension provision. The switches he was making accounted for between  25-
50% of their total assets  (excluding the family home). I think this circumstance is reflected in 
the risk scoring system used by Insight which gave him a score of 6 out of 10. And Mr Ms 
adviser, in later responding to complaint said his appetite was on the higher side of medium.    
Nevertheless, I note from Mr Ms responses to the detailed questions  about his outlook,  he 
was arguably more cautious  than Insight suggests.  For example, when presented with 5 
theoretical portfolios  with profit  and loss ranges, he selected the pot with the second lowest  
fund range outcome. He said he wouldnt be too concerned with fund losses of up to 15 % 
over a single  year.  But he would only be willing to take a little more risk with some of his 
money to increase his chances of improving his returns by taking more  risk.
Ref: DRN33497527The regulatory position is clear. Insight had a duty to act honestly, fairly and professionally  in 
the best interests of Mr M. And to take reasonable steps to ensure the advice it gave  was 
suitable. It couldnt do this without considering the suitability  of the investments being 
proposed.
Mr M was switching  his pension funds to the FPT so that they could be invested in a portfolio 
of interests.  Having looked at the investments made I have a number of concerns.
For example, Mr M had £70,000 of his fund placed in the Autopilot  and Navigator structured  
investments. These were designed to at least return the capital invested   and perhaps 
thats why Insight indicates  they provided the low/medium risk element of his portfolio. But 
these products werent without risk. 
Autopilot was complex. Returns were based on the performance of four linked market 
sectors  developed equity, emerging equity, commodities and property. These  sectors tend 
to be volatile. It didnt  mirror the indices, instead it employed an automated strategy 
designed to link returns to the indices when  markets were expected to rise and to cash when 
markets were expected  to fall. 
This is a reactive strategy that means  theres a lag between the markets and the product. 
There was also a risk the strategy wouldnt work  out as intended. There  was a cap on 
upward returns but no limits on falling returns. In practice, this meant any growth built up 
during a sustained  period of rising  markets could be wiped out by a short  period of falling 
markets. 
Not all of these issues were present with the Navigator, but it was still dependent  on a
reactive, automated  strategy and came  with the associated risks. The product literature 
describes these as follows:
You should remember that these investment techniques could adversely affect  the Index 
performance. For example, if there is a falling market trend but the market rises  that month 
then the Index would fall. Similarly, if volatility  is high this will limit the effect of any market  
growth on the Index  performance.
I dont think the nature  of these structured products was adequately explained to Mr M. 
Although they were  supposed to provide a low/medium risk component for his portfolio, I 
dont think this is borne out by the complexity  of how they worked nor can I see that a 
compelling explanation was given  to him for why they fitted  well alongside other investments 
recommended.
Another of the funds  Mr M had an interest in was the Mansard Capital Macro fund. Insights 
adviser has provided the background to this investment as follows (bolding is my emphasis):
During the latter half of 2010 into 2011,there were several  resignations amongst the senior 
Board and management of the Iveagh Wealth Fund [another of the investments 
recommended to Mr M] causing  a fall in values,  and concerns over future performance of the 
fundMansard came along  at just the same  time,  and as in other situations where I 
followed the direction of travel within [Insight] on these  innovative  investments, 
following discussions with [Mr M], and examination of the structure and strategy behind the 
Macro fund, £65k  was switched by July 2011  from Iveagh to Mansard Macro, aimed at 
providing down-stream hedging in adverse  market conditions.
Ref: DRN33497528Id question whether  Mr M, who had a medium risk appetite, shouldve been  advised to 
invest in innovative funds  which  didnt have a track record of performance.  Id also observe 
this appears to have  been another product, like Autopilot and Navigator, which was tied to 
wider movements in the market. And I can see the fund was annotated  in the business file 
as high risk. 
I think its telling that Insights gesture of goodwill to settle matters with Mr M was focussed 
on the performance of his Mansard interest. By the time his complaint had been  lodged his 
interest here was worth £23,000. The offer of £41,000 wouldve made good the difference 
between that value and his original  investment.
Mr M also had around £40,000 of his fund in development land. Insight knew  these funds 
could be illiquid, meaning he might  have difficulty withdrawing from the interest.  The 
investment was specialised, out of the ordinary and reliant on third parties. And it was 
subject to valuation  uncertainty. 
Having reviewed Mr Ms portfolio in the round, as recommended  and as it evolved, Ive 
concluded it wasnt a good fit for his medium risk appetite.  It contained too many 
investments that were  high risk or lacking a track record. Some  funds  shared characteristics 
that meant  his portfolio wasnt sufficiently diversified. Insight hasnt done enough to satisfy 
me it applied  proper skill and care here.
Insight has argued that Mr M was a highly sophisticated financial operator.  It said hed been 
a key player at a large city firm and involved in developing a range of property  index funds. 
Hed established his own property risk management  company in 2013-14. The implication is 
that he wouldve  been well aware  of the sort of investments being recommended  to him and 
that he couldve decided  against these.
Theres some merit in the argument that Mr M wouldve  had a sound knowledge of certain 
financial matters. But being financially  literate doesnt make  someone an expert in pension  
planning. That was what Insight was being paid significant sums to advise him on. 
When I review  the type of investments in Mr Ms portfolio, it maybe  that his background had 
an undue  influence over the sort of investments recommended  by Insight. Thats  obviously 
unfortunate. Mr M was a retail investor. He was recorded as having a low to medium  
appetite for risk for his pension planning  and a medium risk appetite for in relation to 
investments. As Ive already set out at length,  Insight didnt deliver this for him.
Mr M ended up switching  his group personal pensions into an FPT. Ive concluded that 
solution was over engineered for his circumstances, objectives and pension planning 
outlook. The fees and charges under the new arrangement  tripled and its not possible to 
see how this major  increase in costs which eroded his pension fund could be rationally 
justified. And Mr M ended up being with a portfolio of investments which werent a match for 
his risk appetite.  
I dont think the switch of his pension funds into the Rowanmoor FPT and the investments 
made could  sensibly be regarded as fair to Mr M. As such, Insight failed  to meet  the 
regulatory requirements when providing  him with advice and making the necessary  
arrangements. 
So, its reasonable for me to uphold this complaint against Insight.
Ref: DRN33497529putting things right
Im upholding Mr Ms case. So, he needs  to be returned to the position  he wouldve been  in 
now - or as close to that as reasonably possible  had it not been  for the failures  which I hold 
Insight responsible for.
I cant know for sure what Mr M wouldve decided had Insight given him the right advice 
about his pension arrangements. But I cant see there was a compelling reason for him to 
switch his personal pensions into a sophisticated wrapper, incurring substantially higher 
costs for the opportunity  to invest in funds which were targeted at people with a higher risk 
appetite.
So, I think its more likely  than not hed have decided to remain with his group personal 
pension plans at that time. And he wouldnt have  incurred  the penalty  on his Scottish  
Equitable pension when he did.    
But this isnt a straight-forward matter to put right. For example, I need to consider actions 
Mr M was taking  from 2016 until he brought his complaint. And what  attempts he was 
making to mitigate  his position.
I can see that in March 2016 Insight  contacted  Mr M to let him know  that his Autopilot  and 
Navigator structured funds had matured. After five and a half years, one had achieved  a total 
return of 7% and the other simply returned his capital. It instructed Rowanmoor to leave the 
funds in cash while it considered the future  investment  strategy with Mr M. 
It seems  that after several years  of disappointment with the FPT arrangement, the maturing 
of a significant chunk of Mr Ms funds was the trigger for serious consideration of whether  it 
was now the right time for him to make  changes to his provider, the pension wrapper and his 
investment strategy. Not least because any further  investments wouldve incurred costs, as 
would any transfer  of those assets to an alternative provider or vehicle.
Insight doesnt  seem to have contacted  Mr M again until the end of June  2016  when it 
sought a meeting to discuss his fund management  post-Brexit (as far as matters were  
understood at that time), and more generally.  A meeting was arranged  for the end of July 
2016 where it appears a decision was taken to crystallise  two other funds in his portfolio. 
This was given effect in August 2016. Insight was also exploring alternative providers for 
Mr M.
Around this time, I understand Mr M asked PWM for support in undertaking a 
comprehensive review  of his pension arrangements. Insight appears to have remained his 
servicing agent, but it seems hed lost confidence in it. I say this because  on 3 October 2016 
Mr M writes to his adviser at Insight in the following terms:
Dear X, as you know, for some  time I have been  concerned about the appalling 
performance of my various pension investments and as a result  I am undertaking a thorough 
review of my pension affairs. As a result, I would be most grateful if you could please provide 
me with the following  information...
It appears the information gathering phase of the review  was complete by November 2016  
when Insight wrote to Mr M asking if hed now received everything  he needed and offering 
support with the review. Things then go quiet until January 2017 when Insight wrote to Mr M 
again to ask where things stood with Rowanmoor and itself.
Ref: DRN334975210More significantly,  Insights adviser  wrote another message to Mr M on 2 February  2017  
after being  chased again by Rowanmoor  for payment of an invoice related to the 
management of his FPT. He said (bolding  is my emphasis):
Hi, [Mr M], Rowanmoor  continue to chase me on minor issues  like this, but I wanted to take 
another opportunity to enquire  where  things  stand just now, if you wish me to continue  to 
review the allocations, transfer options,  and future management structure of your pension  
fund.
Please give me a call if you have a few minutes and wish to discuss  the way forward, as I 
remain concerned we are "out of the market" with some  of the fund following  the 
disinvestments undertaken last year, and I can do little without your instruction.
I cant see there was any further  substantive communication  between  the parties  until Mr M 
raised his complaint with Insight on 15 May 2017. In doing so he was represented by PWM. I 
understand that it replaced Insight as Mr Ms adviser  on matters relating to his pension 
arrangements on 19 February  2018  when a client agreement was signed. And by mid-2018  
the FPT had been  closed and Mr M held a standard Rowanmoor SIPP.
The investigator concluded Insight should  compensate Mr M until the point of settlement. 
Given the chronology  of events Ive set out here,  I dont think that would be fair. Mr M, who 
had long held concerns  about his pension arrangements - but whod in good  faith been  
guided and persuaded by Insight - appears  to have finally  lost confidence  in its advice 
around October 2016.
Although Mr M needed time to obtain  all the information from Insight in order to undertake a 
comprehensive review  of the performance  of his pension  arrangements,  I dont think the time 
available to him was open  ended.  It seems he had all the information he required by 
November 2016,  I think 3 months  from this point is adequate for him to have arrived at 
conclusions and initiated action. 
Further, I note Insights  email of the 2 February 2017 puts him on notice,  if he wasnt  
already, that it was concerned about the amount of his fund that was in cash  and therefore  
out of the market. 
So, if I allow  until the end of February  2017  for conclusions to have been  reached and new 
arrangements to have  been made,  about five months from when Mr M initiates his review, 
thats the point  from which  I think Insights responsibility reasonably  ends.
In arriving at what I think is fair redress Ive tried to weigh all these matters. So, I now require 
Insight Financial Associates Limited  to put things right in the following way:
Ref: DRN334975211Calculate a notional loss Mr M has suffered as a result of making  the switch
Insight should  obtain the notional value of Mr Ms Scottish Equitable and his Scottish 
Widows plans as at 28 February 2017,  assuming  he wouldve remained invested in the 
same funds. As if his plans hadnt been switched to the Rowanmoor FPT.
If there are any difficulties in obtaining  a notional valuation then the FTSE UK Private  
Investors Income Total Return  Index - prior to 1 March  2017, the FTSE WMA  Stock Market 
Income Total Return Index - should be used as Im satisfied its a reasonable proxy for the 
type of return that couldve  been  achieved if Mr Ms pension had remained invested in his 
previous plans.
I cant see that Mr M made any further contributions or withdrawals from his FPT up until 28 
February 2017. If there were, then after confirming the detailed position,  the value Insight 
obtains, or the calculations Insight makes should assume these adjustments  would still have 
occurred and on the same dates.
The adjusted, as appropriate,  like for like difference between the notional  value of Mr Ms 
former personal pension  plans and the value of his FPT at 28 February  2017,  including any 
investments and cash held, will be his basic financial loss that Insight needs to redress.
Insight should  also pay interest on the loss calculated from 1 March  2017 until it settles at 
8% simple.  Income  tax may be due on this interest. If Insight deducts tax it should  provide 
Mr M with a tax certificate.
Pay an amount into Mr Ms new SIPP so that the value is increased by the loss calculated or 
pay him an equivalent cash sum notionally adjusted for tax 
If paying compensation into Mr Ms SIPP would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance, then it should pay him compensation as a cash sum.  In doing so it should make a 
notional deduction  to allow for income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance for tax would reduce the amount  payable.
Insight should  also provide details  of its calculations to Mr M in a clear format.
Trouble and upset
The investigator recommended  Insight should  also pay Mr M £300 for the inconvenience  
hes experienced as a result of what it got wrong. I agree.
putting things right  summary
I can award fair compensation to be paid by a financial business, given the regulations  that 
apply in this case, of up to £150,000,  plus any interest  and costs  I consider appropriate. If I 
think that fair compensation is or could be more than the £150,000 limit, I may recommend 
that the business pays the balance.
decision and award: I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. My decision is that Insight  Financial Associates Limited  should  pay Mr M the amount 
produced by those  calculations  - up to a maximum of £150,000, plus any interest.
Ref: DRN334975212recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculations  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that Insight Financial  Associates Limited  pays  Mr M the balance.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Insight Financial Associates 
Limited doesnt have  to do what  I recommend.  Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision 
and go to court to ask for any balance. Mr M may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive already set out, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint. I now require Insight 
Financial Associates Limited  to pay compensation to him as Ive indicated above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020.
Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3349752