K821x#15complaint
Mr P and Ms B are unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited wont  pay their home insurance 
claim for theft following a burglary of their home, due to a breach of a security condition.
background
In September  2018 Mr P and Ms B returned home after being  away  for a few days to find 
their flat had been  burgled. They made  a claim to Amtrust and they were advised to contact 
the police. The police  came out and from the report it was established  that a very narrow 
bathroom window  had been  left ajar, but with no obvious signs  of disturbance.  Mr P admitted 
that also the bedroom window had been  left ajar, however he asserted it was locked slightly 
open and couldnt be accessed from the outside. The said window was fully open when he 
returned. The police report said there  were no signs of damage/force, and that the bedroom  
window was above a two storey drop. It concluded  that there was no obvious point of entry.
Amtrust declined the claim  because  it said Mr P and Ms B by leaving a window open, were 
in breach of a security condition that existing security and protections  installed in the home 
must be maintained  in working order and must be in full use whenever the home  is left 
unattended. It said that there  had been  delays in their dealing with the claim and that a 
member of its team had spoken inappropriately to Mr P over the phone.  It offered him £25 
compensation for the delays.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said it wasnt clear  from that term that leaving the 
window itself on a latch was in breach of this condition,  when the police report said it couldnt 
be opened from the outside.  She said Amtrust should reconsider the claim.
Amtrust pointed out that window locks would  come under this condition, hence  by leaving 
the windows open the security wasnt in full use. It said the police report  confirmed entry  by 
the open window and Mr P said as such in his first report of the claim.
I issued a provisional decision. I said that Amtrust hadnt shown that if there was a breach  of 
the security condition, it was material to the circumstances of the theft. So I said it should 
reconsider the claim. I said Amtrust should increase the compensation to £50.
Mr P and Ms B accepted  my provisional  decision.
Amtrust said it had no further comments to make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
Its been  accepted by all parties that Mr P and Ms B did have a burglary at their home.  But 
Amtrust thought it right to decline the claim  because of an alleged breach of a security 
condition in their policy.  This is that:
.existing security and protections installed in the home must be maintained in working order  
and must  be in full use whenever the home is left unattended.
Ref: DRN39622552Mr P asserts  that the bedroom and the bathroom windows were left slightly  open for 
ventilation. He says however  that they were locked in that position  the latch could only be 
accessed from the inside. Amtrust doubts  that the windows were locked at all. I think,  in 
order to comply with the security condition, any windows should  have been locked fully. On 
the face of it Mr P and Ms B were in breach  of the condition.
But I have to consider  whether it was fair and reasonable  for Amtrust to apply that condition. 
If it relies  on it to decline the claim, then the breach of the condition must  be material to the 
loss. And its for Amtrust to show that. So, if there was evidence that the thief or thieves got 
in through the slightly open  window e.g. by forcing it or showing that they had means  of 
access to this third floor window from outside then that could be material.
But the evidence  in this case shows otherwise. The police report  says there were No signs  
of disturbance around bathroom window. Of the bedroom window it said Bedroom  window 
is above a two-storey  drop, and due to the latch mechanism, could only be opened from 
inside, even if left ajar-no signs of damage/force . As to the likely method of entry it said 
there was no obvious point of entry ascertainable based on the information provided.  
Amtrust have said that the police report said the means of entry  was through an open 
window, but I cant  see anything in the report which suggests that.
I think it unlikely that the bedroom window, above  a two storey drop could have been 
accessed without  long ladders and there doesnt appear to have  been  any evidence  of that. 
Mr P believes the entry  was made by key  hes pointed out that he had left one with a local 
estate agent and shown us an email  confirming he instructed the agents.  As neither the 
police nor Amtrust appear to have followed that up I cant speculate whether the thieves got 
a key that way. 
My conclusion is that Amtrust hasnt shown that, if there was a breach of the security  
condition, it was material to the circumstances of the theft. Amtrust should  reconsider the 
clam in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy.
I note that Amtrust has offed £25 for the delays and apologised for the way a member  of its 
claims team spoke to Mr P. Ive listened to those phone calls, which were part of the claims 
handling and I do think that the person who spoke  to Mr P was brusque and rude. My view is 
that Amtrust should  increase the compensation to £50. If it has already paid the £25 it need  
only pay the balance.
As neither party has any further comment to make, my provisional findings are now final,  and 
form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Amtrust Europe  Limited to:
reconsider Mr P and Ms Bs claim in accordance with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy.
pay compensation of £50. If it has already paid the £25 offered it need  only pay a 
further £25.
Ref: DRN39622553Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3962255