K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that his credit card application  was declined by Santander UK Plc without 
good reason.  Mr W also complains that after Santander agreed to proceed it set up a direct 
debit to be taken  from the wrong account.  
background
Mr Ws application for a credit card with Santander  was initially  turned down because  it 
incorrectly recorded his outgoings as £6,500 a month. Mr W contacted Santander and 
appealed the decision. When  Santander  relooked  at the application it approved  it and went 
on to set up a direct  debit.  
When Mr W applied  he asked Santander  to set up a direct debit payment to be collected 
from an account he has with a different bank. But Santander made a mistake and set up the 
direct debit to take money from a savings account  Mr W has. Mr W complained  and 
Santander agreed it had made an error  and paid him £25. 
Mr W didnt think  Santanders offer was fair and is concerned about how its used his data so 
he referred the complaint to our service and an adjudicator looked at it. The adjudicator 
agreed Santander had made a mistake when  it set up his direct  debit but didnt find it had led 
to a loss because no payments had been  claimed. The adjudicator  thought the £25 offer was 
fair so didnt  ask Santander to do anything else. As Mr W didnt agree with the adjudicator 
his complaints been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
All parties  broadly agree about  whats happened here. But, in brief,  Mr Ws application  was 
initially turned down because of an incorrect outgoings figure that was used. When it was 
able to manually  review Mr Ws application  Santander approved it with a £6,600  credit  limit. I 
know Mr W was initially upset he wasnt told why his application was declined but 
businesses dont have  to give the specific reason. And his appeal  was ultimately successful 
so Im satisfied that his application was considered correctly in the end. 
Santanders accepted its account  opening  team made a mistake when it incorrectly  set up 
the direct  debit to come  from a savings account Mr W has. Mr W says hes concerned about 
data protection.  But I cant see how his informations been compromised here as the direct 
debit instruction (whilst wrong) was set up to be taken from another  account he holds with 
Santander. So no outside organisation was involved when  Santander made its mistake and 
his information  wasnt shared externally.  
I do agree  a mistake  was made and Im pleased Santanders recognised that with its offer of 
£25. Whilst I agree Santander  made  an error, havent found  its unreasonably impacted 
Mr W. No payment was ever claimed from his savings account  and the issue was resolved 
when Mr W decided not to proceed with the credit card. There isnt a financial loss in this 
case. Given the limited  impact of the error on Mr W, Im satisfied that the £25 Santanders 
paid fairly  reflects  whats happened so Im not telling it to take any further action. 
Ref: DRN35011512my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £25 Santander UK Plc has 
already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3501151