complaint
Mr F complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt allow him to extend the term of his interest 
only mortgage.
background
Mr F held a part-repayment, part-interest only mortgage with Barclays.  The term ended in 
2013. Mr F says he was unable to pay the interest  only balance  for a number of reasons, 
including the loss of his job, the poor performance  of his endowment policy  and difficulty 
obtaining a new job.
In 2016, Barclays  agreed  a payment  arrangement until May 2018  to give Mr F time to 
complete his studies  and find a new job.
In 2018, Mr F explained that he hadnt  been  able to complete his studies due to some  
difficult personal circumstances.  But Barclays rejected his proposals to extend the term of 
the mortgage further. In 2019,  it told Mr F that it intended to take legal action to repossess 
his home.
Mr F complains about a number of things, including that Barclays:
Didnt give him enough time to find a long-term solution before  he has completed his 
studies and found a suitable  job.
Didnt  take into account that he has been paying Barclays (and Woolwich) mortgage 
payments for over 30 years.  It should show some flexibility  and offer more support in 
view of that.
Didnt consider that his plans and income have been affected  by a number of unforeseen 
events. Barclays should exercise  more long-term  flexibility, commitment and 
responsibility until he finds a full time job.
Should have recognised his scholarship  income, then he could have extended his 
mortgage term.
Rejected all of his proposals. His career prospects would improve  considerably once his 
studies are complete.
Caused him a lot of stress by threatening legal proceedings  and that was after he had 
told Barclays he was ill.
K820x#14
Ref: DRN3056694Wrongly said that he didnt keep to the 2016 arrangement.
Ignored the financial advice hed received that an equity release mortgage  wasnt  
suitable for him.
Put pressure on him when he had reached  an important part of his studies.
Wouldnt have face-to-face meetings with him.
Dont give him a point of contact   so he had to repeat himself.
Exhibits a lack of trust by not recognising he was a loyal customer of more  than thirty 
years who has made significant  effort to repay  his mortgage under difficult 
circumstances.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. Mr F didnt agree.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Fs mortgage  ended  in 2013.  The contract he had with Barclays  was to repay the interest 
only part of the mortgage by that date. Barclays was entitled  to seek  repayment  of the 
mortgage balance  at that point. But a reasonable lender should understand that sometimes 
things dont turn out as planned. So it should take a fair approach when borrowers with 
interest only mortgages are unable  to repay  their mortgage at the end of term. Since 2014, 
the relevant rules give lenders the discretion to agree term extensions in these 
circumstances, alongside other options   but only where it is in the borrowers best interests.
I consider that Barclays acted reasonably  when  Mr F was unable to repay the mortgage in 
2013. I can see a term extension was discussed  at various points. But the mortgage was 
unaffordable, even  if Barclays  extended  the term to its maximum age. I note Mr F says that 
Barclays had given  him details of a term extension of 18 years. But that was not a formal 
offer and did not commit Barclays to extend the term of the mortgage on that basis.  I am 
satisfied that Barclays  gave fair consideration to his proposals at that time  and it was a 
reasonable decision to reject  them.
Following that Barclays  gave Mr F time to consider his options.  It reconsidered  his 
proposals, but rejected them for largely  the same reasons. It also referred Mr F to a financial 
adviser.
Mr F considers it unfair that Barclays would not take account of his scholarship income. But 
looking at the terms of the scholarship,  I think it was reasonable for Barclays not to accept 
this income. I say that as it was renewable each year, only for a set period and subject to 
various conditions  being met.
The position  remained largely the same  until 2016.  Barclays took details of Mr Fs income 
and expenditure  and agreed a payment arrangement where Mr F would make a payment to 
his mortgage current account each month and ad-hoc payments to the main mortgage.  This 
arrangement was in place  until May 2018 when Mr F was expected to finish his studies.
Ref: DRN3056694Barclays final response says that Mr F was unable to keep to the plan. Looking at the 
statements we have,  I cant see that Mr F missed any payments. But in any case, Barclays 
notes dont suggest this was a reason why it made  any of its later decisions.  So I dont 
consider Mr F has been disadvantaged by a comment in Barclays  final response letter   and 
it isnt something I have the power to consider as it relates to Barclays handling of the 
complaint
When that arrangement  ended, Mr F asked for more time as his studies werent complete as 
expected due to a combination of circumstances. I can see that Barclays fairly  considered  
Mr Fs proposal.  It went on to reject it as it agreed the previous arrangement  to give Mr F 
more time to complete his studies and as it was more than five years since the mortgage 
term had ended.
At that time,  Mr Fs expenditure was greater than his income, even with only the interest 
being paid towards the mortgage and no payments to reduce the outstanding capital 
amount. In view of the length of time since the mortgage term had ended and what Barclays  
knew about Mr Fs circumstances, I dont consider it was unreasonable for Barclays to reject 
his request for a new payment arrangement. While  his circumstances might have improved 
by July 2019, that was not guaranteed   and even based on what  he said it wasnt  
guaranteed that there would be a sustainable  way to repay the full mortgage balance.  I dont  
consider it would be fair to say that Barclays should have accepted  a proposal on that basis. 
I can see why it might
Mr F says he had a mortgage with Barclays for 30 years and it should show some  trust in 
view of their longstanding relationship and the efforts he had made in respect of his 
mortgage, despite some challenging circumstances.  While many lenders will take into 
account past conduct in making  decisions,  I dont consider this would oblige a lender to 
extend the term of a mortgage  even  if all the payments had been made in full and on time. 
Nor would the length of the relationship  necessarily  be a reason for lender to treat a 
customer favourably. Lenders are required to treat all customers  fairly. To do so, it should  
carry out a wider assessment of whether extending the term would be in its customers  best 
interests.
It is difficult to see how extending  the term of the mortgage further  on an interest  only basis 
would have been in Mr Fs best interests  overall. Mr F said his situation  might improve  at the 
end of his studies and he would refinance at that point. But I dont  think  it was unreasonable  
for Barclays to base its decision on what it knew about his actual circumstances at the time 
in question. The information presented by Mr F didnt include a plan to repay  all of the 
mortgage balance  if he wasnt  able to refinance. It also depended on Mr Fs circumstances 
changing. Based on the information  available to Barclays and in all the circumstances I 
consider it was a fair decision for Barclays  not to agree a term extension   particularly in 
view of the extended forbearance it had already  shown Mr F.
While a mortgage advisor might have  only recommended  an equity release mortgage  to Mr 
F as a last resort, I cant see there were any other options available  to Mr F. Barclays  had 
already offered a long period of forbearance  at the end of the mortgage term and was not 
prepared to extend the term any further. Ive already found  this was a fair decision. It seems  
unlikely that Mr F could have found another mortgage lender prepared to give him a 
conventional mortgage. That left the options  of either selling his home  or taking  an equity 
release mortgage.  As Mr F didnt want to sell his home, then taking an equity release 
mortgage was the last resort. I understand Mr F has now repaid his Barclays mortgage  with 
an equity release mortgage.
Ref: DRN3056694As the mortgage  had reached  the end of term, Mr F hadnt put forward any proposals that 
were acceptable  to Barclays, further  extensions werent in his best interests and as Barclays  
had already given Mr F around five years  to explore his options, it was reasonable for 
Barclays to give formal  notice of its intention to start legal proceedings. I note the stress  that 
Mr F says this caused him, particularly as Barclays knew he was ill. But overall, I think it was 
reasonable for Barclays to take that action at that time. I say this as the mortgage  term had 
ended more than five years before that and it hadnt  received  acceptable proposals to repay  
the mortgage.
Lenders should be sensitive to a borrowers  situation when they are vulnerable   and the 
action they take should  depend on individual circumstances.  But in this case,  I dont consider 
that what Mr F had told Barclays about his health  and personal  circumstances,  including  that 
his studies were at an important stage,  would prevent Barclays  taking the action it did. I think  
it has acted fairly in giving  Mr F breathing space and communicating  in writing  when it could
 and I can see that Mr Fs personal  circumstances were taken into account  by Barclays in 
reaching its decisions.
I am sorry  to hear of the very difficult time Mr F has been through. The threat of losing his 
home would only add to that. But after carefully considering everything that happened, I 
dont consider Barclays has treated him unfairly or unreasonably.
There was no requirement  generally or in the circumstances here for Barclays  to offer Mr F a 
face-to-face meeting  or to offer him a point of contact. I can see that Mr F has had from time- 
to-time to repeat his circumstances to Barclays. But looking  at the evidence available  to me 
he has not had to do so excessively. And Barclays would be unable  to consider any 
concession without having an up to date record of Mr Fs income, expenditure and 
circumstances.
I appreciate Mr Fs strength of feeling   especially since his income is now sufficient to 
support a mortgage.  But it was reasonable for Barclays to base its decisions on Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time in question. When the 2016  arrangement  ended, Mr F did not 
have sufficient  income to support the mortgage  or a clearly  viable plan to repay the 
mortgage balance in full. So it was reasonable for Barclays to decline his proposals and start 
legal action  especially  since the term had ended in 2013.
This is not a case where Mr F had no options  to repay the mortgage  balance to Barclays.  He 
was able to refinance  with an equity release mortgage. While Mr F might have preferred a 
different option,  there was no requirement for Barclays to agree to his proposals. And I am 
satisfied that Barclays  considered Mr Fs proposals  fairly and reached  reasonable decisions 
in the circumstances and based on the information  available to it.
In regard to Mr Fs points about the compensation he received  from Barclays  for other 
matters, it is unlikely that even if Barclays took those amounts into account, it would have 
made a difference to its decision. I say this as the amounts involved werent sufficient to 
clear the balance of the mortgage.
Ref: DRN3056694my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2020.
Ken Rose
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3056694