K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about Fairmead  Insurance Limited. He isnt happy about the way it 
dealt with a claim under  his home  insurance policy. 
background 
Mr C made  a claim under his home  insurance policy in 2017. Unfortunately, his home had 
been broken into and damage caused to his new bi-fold doors. When Fairmeads repairer 
looked into things  for him it undertook a temporary  repair and proposed to fix the doors. 
However, Mr C says that the repairer told him that it couldnt gain the necessary parts from 
the door manufacturer although  it said it could gain the parts  elsewhere. But Mr C wanted 
the original manufacturers parts used as he felt to do otherwise would invalidate  his 
warranty. So, he gained a quote  from the original  fitter which was significantly higher than 
Fairmeads repairer. 
The relationship between Mr C and Fairmead seemed to break down from that point  in time 
and so Mr C complained to Fairmead  and then this service. Our investigator looked  into 
things for him and partly upheld his complaint. Although he didnt think  Fairmead should 
have to pay the higher quote Mr C received he did feel that it had added to Mr Cs confusion  
about its ability to undertake  the repair and thought that it should  increase  its offer of 
compensation by £200 (it had initially offered £300). He also thought that Fairmead should 
pay the temporary repair cost Mr C incurred as he had been left for so long with his door 
boarded up. And then he simply left it to Mr C to accept Fairmeads offer to pay him what  it 
wouldve cost to repair the door. Fairmead  agreed  but Mr C didnt so the matter has been 
passed to me for final review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The details of this complaint are well 
known to both parties,  so I wont repeat  them again  here. Ill simply concentrate on the key 
remaining issues and focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
The matter  has been complicated by a breakdown  in communication  between Mr C and 
Fairmeads repairer. There appears to have been  some miscommunication about  whether 
the repairer was able to source parts from the original fitter and manufacturer. Im satisfied 
that Mr C was told that it couldnt source the necessary parts,  but Ive seen evidence  now 
that the repairer could do this if necessary.
I can understand why Mr C wants all parts of the door replaced  as ultimately he feels that to 
do otherwise would invalidate his warranty. But I dont think  Fairmeads  offer to repair the 
doors was unreasonable and if there was any problem with his warranty  down the line I 
wouldve expected  Fairmeads to consider this. Ordinarily I would suggest that if Mr C wants 
to go down this path now then he could. But given the significant breakdown in the 
relationship between Mr C, Fairmead  and its repairers I dont think  this would be appropriate 
now. 
Given this, I dont think it would be unreasonable for Fairmead to simply pay Mr C what  it 
wouldve paid for the repair and it has offered to include VAT which seems fair. I know 
Mr Cs quote is higher and involves the replacement of parts that Fairmead  would simply 
repair but I wouldnt expect it to pay more than what it would ordinarily  pay. As highlighted by 
Ref: DRN37174282our investigator the policy says that Fairmead  will only pay for the cost of reinstating,  
repairing or replacing Your Buildings, and/or  Contents belonging to You, which  are covered 
by this Policy. We will decide whether to pay to reinstate, repair,  replace or pay You the cash  
value.
I dont propose to rehearse  the arguments  around whether Fairmead should pay Mr Cs 
temporary repair costs as it has accepted this now. And I agree that Mr C was simply trying  
to make his property more  secure and more aesthetically pleasing by removing  the boarded-
up door. Plus, Im sure that Mr C can use the replacement glass and parts  when the 
permanent repair is undertaken.
Finally, I can understand why Mr C wants more  compensation  and he has suggested  in his 
recent communication a figure of around £750. But I think the additional £200 (£500 in total) 
seems fair. There was always going to be a fair degree of stress and inconvenience  in 
advancing a claim  like this and no amount of money would compensate for this. However, I 
agree that Mr C has been put to a lot more stress and inconvenience  than he should have 
been. But he couldve allowed Fairmeads repairer to make  good the damage far earlier  and 
overall I think £500 is fair in the circumstances.
So, in addition to the various costs Fairmead has already paid Mr C I agree that it should pay 
Mr C £560 to cover the temporary repair Mr C paid; pay £546 (including VAT) to settle the 
claim on a cash-in-lieu basis; and to pay an additional  £200  compensation (£500 in total).
While the matter has been with me for consideration I got our investigator to give Mr C a full 
breakdown of the various costs Fairmead  has said it had already paid out for clarity. And I 
note that Mr C has questioned these. However,  it looks like Fairmead may have paid some 
costs direct to some  of the parties involved in the repair. But Ill get Fairmead to clarify this to 
Mr C direct.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead 
Insurance Limited to;
pay Mr C £560 to cover the costs  of his temporary repair;
pay Mr C £546 (including  VAT) to settle  the claim  on a cash-in-lieu basis;  and 
£500 (total)  in compensation alongside a breakdown of the costs it has already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2021.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3717428