K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the level of service provided by U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) when 
she wanted to cancel her motor insurance policy.
background
Mrs M called  UKI in November 2017 to cancel her policy but she was unhappy that she was 
told that a cancellation fee would be charged. She said that the customer service  she 
received was poor and UKI didnt provide a response to her complaint  about this until seven 
months later.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  the 
cancellation fee was clearly explained in the policy documents and so she thought it was fair 
for UKI to charge  it. She thought UKI had responded promptly to Mrs Ms complaint.  And, 
after listening to a call Mrs M made to UKI, she didnt  think the advisor had been  rude.
Mrs M replied that she hadnt received the letter UKI said was sent to her in November 2017 
in response to her complaint. She said this was confirmed in the letter UKI sent her in June  
2018. She said she made four calls to UKI and in one of these the advisor was rude. She 
asked for her complaint to be reviewed, so its come  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs M first complained  to UKI because she was unhappy that shed been charged  a 
cancellation fee when she cancelled her policy after selling her car. But I dont think  UKI did 
anything wrong  here. I can see that the cancellation fee is clearly set out in the policy 
documents that Mrs M agreed to when she bought her policy.  She was also reminded of this 
at renewal. I think the fees are fair and reasonable as theyre in keeping  with what  wed 
expect. So I dont think it was unfair  for UKI to charge them.
Mrs M then complained to UKI but she said she didnt  receive  a response to her complaint. 
But UKI provided us with the letter it sent to Mrs M in November 2017. I can reassure  Mrs M 
that we did receive  a copy of this in UKIs file in June 2018. The address is correct and I 
cant see evidence that it was returned undelivered. I dont know  why Mrs M didnt receive 
this letter.  But I cant reasonably hold UKI responsible for the postal service. So I cant say it 
made a mistake here.
Mrs M said she only received the letter in June 2018. UKI has explained  that it resent the 
letter after finding out that Mrs M didnt  receive it. It said this was through a phone call. But 
Mrs M said neither she nor her husband had called UKI at this time. 
I asked UKI about this and it explained  that it made  a mistake in telling us that the letter  was 
resent following  a phone call. It confirmed that no phone call was received from Mr or Mrs M 
on that date. But it did say that the case had been  accessed by an advisor on that day and 
the letter was generated by human error.  I think  this explains the reissue of the response to 
Mrs Ms complaint. 
Ref: DRN38670852I can understand that Mrs M was concerned about why this letter  arrived  seven months  after 
her complaint. But I think UKI has explained this. And as I think  it did send its response in 
November 2017,  I cant see that this caused  Mrs M any loss. 
Mrs M had four calls with UKI in November 2017. The one she was unhappy with was from a 
male advisor who she said told her there was no point in complaining to our service. Ive 
listened to the call a male  advisor made to Mrs M after she complained about the 
cancellation charge. 
In the call, Mrs M was evidently unhappy  with UKIs  cancellation fee and said she was taking 
her other business elsewhere. I think the advisor  explained clearly  why the fee was charged 
and how it was calculated. Mrs M repeated that she was bringing her complaint to our 
service as she was unhappy  with the amount of the cancellation fee. 
The call concluded with Mrs M saying  that she was going around in circles with the advisor  
and asked for a response to her complaint.  He said hed send this and the call ended. I can 
understand that Mrs M didnt get the outcome she wanted, but I didnt hear the advisor being 
rude or dismissive to her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3867085