K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about various  charges applied by GPUK LLP (trading  as Global Payments).  
He asks that charges of about £260  are refunded.
background
Mr P took out two facilities with GPUK in 2017.  He says GPUK  applied charges unfairly and 
hasnt explained  what the charges are for. He says charges  applied  by GPUK are excessive 
compared to its competitors. Mr P says GPUK misled him about its charges.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld, saying:
GPUK sent welcome documents  to Mr P which set out its terms. This included  having to 
provide proof of compliance with the Payment Card  Industry  Data Security Standard 
(PCI DSS).
In early 2018 GPUK  wrote to Mr P about compliance with the PCI DSS. It gave him a 
deadline to provide  proof of this and said theyd be a fee if this wasnt  provided.  While 
Mr P said he didnt  receive the letter, this wasnt due to an error  by GPUK. GPUK  applied 
a monthly fee as it said Mr P wasnt complying with the terms. While other service 
providers might have  lower fees for non-compliance, this didnt mean  GPUK  had done 
anything wrong. 
GPUKs notes say Mr P agreed  it would collect the terminal  as he was cancelling the 
facility. Mr P didnt say hed return the terminal by another  means. The £30 charge was 
set out in the terms. The £18 rental  fee Mr P complained  about  was specified on the 
rental agreement.  
GPUK provided information to Mr P about  its fees. It didnt need to describe  them  
differently on the invoices and if Mr P wasnt sure what they were for he could have 
asked. GPUK didnt  act unfairly and it didnt need to refund  the fees.
Mr P didnt agree. He said GPUK should  have  told him when his PCI compliance  needed  
renewal  as his previous service provider had done. And if it had specified on the invoice  
what the fee was for this would have  alerted  him to the need to act. Mr P says GPUKs  
intention was not to tell him so it could  apply the extra fee.
Mr P raised a new concern about  a £300  set up fee which he paid when he agreed  to the 
facilities. He says he was told this was a one-off fee. But 12 months  later GPUK wanted to 
apply the fee again.  He says he closed the facility before the fee could be applied.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN34412962GPUK sent welcome  documents  to Mr P, including its service terms. It provided copies to us. 
The terms require Mr P to maintain compliance with the PCI DSS.  The terms say Mr P must 
provide evidence of this or GPUK will apply a non-compliance charge. 
The welcome letter sent in September 2017  said Mr P needed to achieve and maintain 
compliance with PCI DSS and described  ways  to do this. It said it could use GPUKs own 
service for which there was a charge. Or Mr P could use a third party service or complete a 
self assessment  in which  case hed need  to provide proof of compliance.
GPUK wrote to Mr P again in early 2018 about  its compliance requirements and that it would 
apply a fee. While Mr P says he didnt  receive  this letter,  theres nothing to suggest this was 
due to an error by GPUK.  Also,  GPUK had already made Mr P aware hed need to provide 
evidence of compliance with PCI DSS.
GPUK applied non-compliance  charges  to Mr Ps account in April, May, June and July 2018.  
I think it was entitled  to do this. And I think the other charges Mr P complains about were 
applied by GPUK  in accordance with the terms of its agreement with him. 
GPUK provided invoices to Mr P setting out its fees. The welcome  letter sent in September 
2017 directed  Mr P to GPUKs online guide to Understanding Your Invoice. But if Mr P 
wasnt sure what  the fees were for he could have  contacted GPUK.
Mr P says GPUK intended  to charge  him for a fee hed already paid. He says he cancelled  
the agreement  before it could do so. GPUK says it was entitled to charge this fee which  
applies when a contract is renewed. But as Mr P says the agreement ended  before this fee 
was applied, I dont  think I need  consider whether the fee should be refunded.
Overall, I dont  think GPUK acted unfairly.  In the circumstances, I dont think its reasonable 
to require it to refund  or waive any fees or charges.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3441296