K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the way HSBC Bank Plc have handled  their interest-only 
mortgage. Theyre unhappy with the advice they were given when  they took out the 
mortgage in 2008, and the fact that HSBC declined their application to extend the mortgage 
term when they applied in 2018.
background
In 2008, Mr and Mrs B re-mortgaged with HSBC. They borrowed £1,501,000  on an interest-
only basis for 10 years. They also took out a Homeowner loan at the same  time for 
£750,000, which was also secured against their house.  Their  previous mortgage was taken  
in 2004, with a term of 25 years. 
In 2018, Mr and Mrs B applied to extend the mortgage term for another  20 years and 10 
months, which would have taken them to their 75th birthday, when they planned to retire. 
This application was referred to HSBCs underwriters, but the application was declined.
Mr and Mrs B complained to HSBC.  They said that in 2008, they were persuaded to move  
their mortgage to HSBC  by their premier bank manager, as he said he could get a better 
mortgage for them. They said HSBC assured them that at the end of the 10 years, the 
mortgage would be extended, and it was on this basis that they accepted  the mortgage offer. 
They werent happy the application for the term extension had been  declined.
HSBC said that the mortgage was sold in 2008 on a non-advised basis,  and therefore  it was 
up to Mr and Mrs B to make a decision  about  the suitability of the mortgage  based on the 
information theyd  provided. They said Mr and Mrs Bs original application  for a 21-year term 
was declined, but they accepted the application  for a 10-year term. They  said theres nothing 
to suggest HSBC assured Mr and Mrs B the term would be extended.  They said the term 
extension request was declined,  as it did not meet the required checks.
Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service,  and HSBC gave us consent to consider 
it. Our investigator looked into things and explained that he was satisfied HSBC  had acted  
fairly here. He acknowledged Mr and Mrs Bs situation had changed slightly  since  the 
application to extend the term had been  declined,  so they may wish to apply  again.
Mr and Mrs B disagreed so the complaints been passed to me to issue  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the sale of the mortgage
There is a dispute  here about whether HSBC gave Mr and Mrs B advice when they took out 
the mortgage in 2008. HSBC said this was a non-advised sale, and the paperwork from the 
sale supports this. However,  Mr and Mrs B told us that HSBC persuaded them  to re-
mortgage with them, and told them that they would be able to extend  the term of the 
mortgage at the end of the 10-year  term. 
Ref: DRN38937462I cant know for sure what happened  during these conversations, but I do find it likely that a 
term extension would  have been  discussed.  This is because both parties have said that 
Mr and Mrs B originally  applied for a 21-year term, which would  have been  the equivalent to 
the term they had in place  with their previous lender. When HSBC declined  this, Mr and 
Mrs B applied for a 10-year term, which was approved. At the time, Mr and Mrs Bs 
repayment strategy was to sell some  of their commercial units, and theyve told us they 
wanted the mortgage in place until they were  old enough to retire. So I do think on balance  
they would  have preferred to have a longer  term if one was available.
But moving their mortgage to HSBC did have other benefits for Mr and Mrs B  as the 
interest rate was lower than their previous  mortgage, and they had other existing accounts 
with HSBC which would have made  things  easier  to manage. So I dont find it unreasonable  
that they wanted to re-mortgage.  Whilst I do appreciate  what Mr and Mrs B have said, 
looking at the documentation from the time of sale, on balance Im not persuaded that HSBC  
gave advice about the mortgage at the time.  The details of the mortgage were clearly  set out 
in the mortgage offer, and it was for Mr and Mrs B to decide if they felt it was suitable for 
them or not. From what Ive seen, Im satisfied  HSBC gave them enough  clear  information to 
do that.
Its possible, and in fact likely, that HSBC  told Mr and Mrs B that they could apply for an 
extension at the end of the term. And this information would have been correct. But whilst I 
appreciate Mr B recollects  that the extension was guaranteed, theres  nothing  in any of the 
paperwork that supports  this. The mortgage offer quite clearly  states that the mortgage was 
for 10 years, and that the capital would need  to be repaid at the end of the term. These  are 
the conditions  that Mr and Mrs B agreed  to. So, considering everything, Im not satisfied 
HSBC acted unfairly when they sold Mr and Mrs B the mortgage.
the application for a term extension
The application that HSBC considered in 2018  was for a mortgage of £2,251,568.20 for a 
term of 20 years and 10 months.  This would have taken Mr and Mrs B up to their planned  
retirement age. However, HSBC declined the application. 
Looking at the underwriters notes, they found  that extending the term on a repayment  
mortgage would be unaffordable for Mr and Mrs B, based on their disposable  income. They 
also looked at extending the term on an interest-only basis  but their original  repayment  
strategy, the commercial units,  had since been  used as security for other borrowing  so 
these were no longer  viable options. From what I can see, Mr and Mrs B didnt put forward 
any alternative repayment strategies to HSBC and the application was declined.
I understand that since making the complaint, the charges over the commercial units have 
now been removed.  Mr and Mrs B also said they would be willing to apply for a different term 
rather than another  20 years, but this wasnt put to HSBC at the time. Now that Mr and Mrs 
Bs circumstances  have changed, they can apply again to HSBC for another  term extension 
 which  Id expect  HSBC to consider carefully.
Based on the application  made  to HSBC at the time in 2018, Im satisfied theyve declined 
the application fairly. There wasnt  a suitable  repayment strategy  put forward, and the 
mortgage would have been  unaffordable  on a repayment basis.  As a responsible  lender  
HSBC are required to ensure theyre considering Mr and Mrs Bs ability  to repay  their 
mortgage  and Im satisfied theyve done  that fairly  taking into account all the information 
that was provided  to them.  
Ref: DRN38937463Mr and Mrs B have  said their house  is now worth  around £5,000,000  so I think they have  
other options available to them to repay  the mortgage debt now that its due. For example, 
they could sell the house, repay the mortgage,  and still have enough money left over to 
downsize. Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs B want to maximise their returns in order  to secure 
a comfortable  retirement  in the future, I dont  think  HSBC have considered their application 
unfairly, and Mr and Mrs B do have other options  available to them.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3893746