K820x#14complaint
Mr L is unhappy that National House-Building Council  has declined his claim for 
damage to his ceiling, paintwork and blinds  under his  buildmark warranty.
background
Mr L made  a claim for water  damage  to his property. NHBC  sent out a claims 
investigator to inspect and validate the claim. The investigator produced a report. 
Although the investigator accepted there was a defect he said the cost of repairs  
didnt meet  the minimum claim value (MCV)  and so the claim  was declined. Mr L 
didnt accept this and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said the claim damage required very 
similar repairs as the damage suffered by Mr Ls neighbour.  But he couldnt  
understand why the quote for Mr Ls work was lower. He said due to the issue 
affecting other  properties at the same location it wouldnt be fair to decline  Mr Ls 
claim. He said it was also possible  that cleaning wouldnt be enough and that repair 
or repainting might be required which would push up the cost.  NHBC  didnt accept  
this. It asked  for Mr Ls complaint to be passed  to an  ombudsman for a final decision.
In my recent provisional decision I said a lot of time and effort had been spent  
comparing Mr Ls claim to his neighbours claim. Thats a tricky area as no  two cases  
are exactly the same but NHBC has been  clear with this service about why Mr Ls 
claim is different. NHBC visited  Mr Ls property and was able to establish firm costs 
for the claim. It didnt  do that in the other  case   no inspection of the neighbours  
property took place. So in relation to Mr Ls claim  the costs are specific to his 
property and NHBC said the claim was appropriately  declined as the total amount 
was below the MCV.
NHBC accept  that it mightve made  errors on other similar cases  in the area but due 
to the claims inspection  it said it got the amounts right in relation to Mr Ls claim. 
Although I can understand this would be extremely frustrating for Mr L I think what 
NHBC said is reasonable. Its always  more  likely to  get a better  picture of a claim 
and its costs if it inspects the damage.
Our investigator carried out thorough checks  in relation to the items listed  for the 
claims and checked on labour costs, etc. I see that he  updated  Mr L about this 
during the case to ensure all issues  were dealt  with. NHBC confirmed that all 
amounts were included  within the costings.
NHBC confirmed the amount it would cost to do the repairs was well below the MCV. 
It produced figures  to show  and confirm this based upon the investigation report.  I 
said it showed NHBC acted reasonably when it chose to decline the claim  based 
upon the requirements of the warranty  wording.  Its clear  that the costs need  to 
exceed the MCV for a claim to be dealt with.
Ref: DRN34572512Mr L was unhappy  about the service he received too.  NHBC said it realised Mr L 
would be disappointed with the claims decision.  But it said it made sure he had a full 
and prompt response  to his concerns.  I said thats reasonable in  the circumstances 
and I dont think NHBC acted unfairly.
In response to my provisional  decision  Mr L raised several  issues.  Im not going to 
refer to all of the individual factors but his main points were:
I hadnt fully investigated;
Id only considered  NHBCs  evidence;
The figures from NHBC mightve  been  well below the MCV  but werent costed  
correctly and ended  up much nearer to the MCV. And when the work is done  
more work  might be uncovered;
Other local contractors cant do the work for NHBC costs;
Mr L didnt think NHBC  had been  clear;
Id said NHBC had the figures  correct  but Mr L said they had to be increased.
NHBC made no further comment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can assure  Mr L that I have thoroughly investigated his complaint and  considered  
all the evidence from both parties. Mr L does make a valid  point  NHBC  did get their  
costings wrong. Our investigator did a thorough job on checking through  all of the 
items to ensure everything  was considered and revised to complete all aspects  of 
the claim costs. NHBC accepted that and put it right. So just for clarity I think NHBC  
shouldve got it right from the start,  but it accepts that it didnt and it put the figures 
right.
Mr L said that more  problems may be uncovered  later. Im sure Mr L will let NHBC 
know if that does  become the case.  I dont think anyone  has suggested to Mr L from 
NHBC that local contractors would  be charging  the same rates for  work that NHBC 
would. But the warranty only covers  the cost to NHBC.
I do understand the points Mr L is making and Ive considered  them.  But Ive got to 
consider if by its actions NHBC treated  Mr L unfairly. It inspected  the damage, it 
worked through the costings and then it went  over the costs again to correct them.  
Although Mr L mentioned other properties I still accept NHBC got a better 
understanding of the claim by inspecting the damage at his property. So I think 
NHBC has dealt with Mr L reasonably and I see no reason  to change my provisional 
decision.
I accept this is disappointing for Mr L and hes discussed with our  investigator  the 
option of taking NHBC to court. If he doesnt accept my decision Mr L is perfectly 
entitled to do that.
Ref: DRN34572513my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against National  House-Building  Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to  
accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2019.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3457251