K820x#14complaint
The executors of the estate Mr H have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt inform  them  
when it started to provide an interest bearing  executors account.
background
Mr H died in March 2011 and his executors were  granted probate in October 2011. The 
executors then opened a new account with Lloyds  and transferred funds held by Mr H before 
he died into the new account. The account was designated a club & society account and 
didnt pay interest on the amount deposited.
The executors say that in January 2019  they found  out Lloyds had been offering an 
executors account  since 2014 that would have  paid interest. They complained  to Lloyds 
saying it should  have told them when the executors  account became available so they could 
have opened one and transfered  the balance from the club & society  account. They think 
Lloyds should  compensate them for the interest they would have  received.
Lloyds didnt uphold  the complaint but it paid £100 to the executors as a gesture of 
goodwill. The executors werent satisfied with Lloyds response  and referred their complaint 
to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He noted the Lloyds 
executors account  wasnt available in 2011 and he thought the executors would have been 
aware of other interest bearing  accounts.
The executors didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the executors  opened the club & society account they would have known it didnt pay 
interest. They didn't  leave  all the money in the account and, by 2019  theyd withdrawn  about  
two thirds of the amount  originally  deposited.  But they were, apparently, content to leave the 
balance in an account which didnt pay interest for eight years.
I think that if the executors wanted  to earn interest on all of the money, they could have 
transferred it an interest bearing account, possibly  with another  bank, at a much earlier date. 
Im not therefore satisfied  I could reasonably decide  that Lloyds failure to tell them  about the 
executors account  caused them any financial loss.
The executors may have  suffered some  trouble and upset due to Lloyds not telling them  
about the executors account  when  it became  available. But I dont think this would have 
been significant. Im satisfied the payment of £100  Lloyds  has already made is sufficient to 
compensate the executors for the trouble and upset  they suffered.
Ref: DRN35459672my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of 
the estate of Mr H to accept or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3545967