K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the excess amount  that Zenith Insurance plc (Zenith) say is payable,  
if he continues with a motor insurance  claim  following an accident that wasnt  his fault.  
background
Mr A was involved  in an accident,  where his car was hit by another driver in November 2018. 
He subsequently contacted his insurer Zenith, to find out what  his options  were to claim for 
the damage to his car. 
Zenith told Mr A that if he was to claim through his own insurance  policy, he would  have to 
pay the policy excess. Mr A explained that he didnt intend  to do that, as the policy excess 
amount was higher than the estimated cost of repair.  
Mr A contacted his broker to see if they could help and they tried to put him in contact with 
an accident management company. However,  when  they couldnt help, the broker called 
Zenith. As the other driver was driving  a hire car, it was believed that they were insured 
through the hire company. The broker asked Zenith  to contact  the hire company to see if the 
other driver would admit fault for the accident, so Mr A didnt have to pay the policy  excess.  
The hire company confirmed that the other driver was insured through their own insurance 
company. Zenith contacted this insurer to ask them to confirm whether their driver was to 
blame for the accident.  They said theyd already received a claim directly  from Mr A and that 
the claim was now settled. 
Mr A remained unhappy.  He felt that Zenith  could  have  done more to obtain an admission of 
liability from the other drivers insurer and didnt think he should  have to pay an excess  for 
damage that he wasnt at fault for. Zenith  felt they had acted fairly and in line with the policy  
terms and conditions. But said they could have been clearer  with the information theyd 
given Mr A and offered  him £75 compensation for the distress they caused him.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our investigator felt that Zenith had acted  fairly  following 
the accident and thought the offer of £75 was reasonable, for not explaining the claims 
process clearly. Mr A didnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr As frustration. His car was damaged through  no fault of his own and 
hes been attempting to have the repairs paid for, without having to pay the excess,  which is 
higher than the repair costs. So, Ive looked at whether Zenith have acted fairly and 
reasonably and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr As policy define the excess as the amount that he must  pay 
towards any claim. I appreciate that Mr As policy with Zenith provides him with 
comprehensive cover. However, he would still need to pay an excess  for any claim he 
makes, even  if the accident isnt his fault. Zenith said they can sometimes waive  it, where 
they are able to recover it from the other  drivers insurer. However, the excess isnt 
Ref: DRN37314802something thats covered under this policy and so Zenith werent obliged to try to either  
waive it or to try to recover it from the other drivers  insurer.  
Zenith also werent obliged to contact the other drivers insurer.  This is because Mr A doesnt 
want to claim  on his policy.  However, I do think Zenith have acted  fairly  in attempting to help 
Mr A by contacting the other drivers  insurer. Ive seen a copy  of the email Zenith sent to the 
hire company, asking  them to confirm they were  accepting liability  for the incident. Ive also 
seen a similar letter that Zenith sent to the other drivers own insurer. As Zenith werent  
required to contact them, I think they did more than they needed  to in order to help Mr A.   
Ive also seen a copy of the letter that was sent in response by the other drivers insurer.  
This confirms that Mr A had contacted them directly in regard to the claim and that it had 
been settled. Based on this, I wouldnt have expected Zenith  to do anything  more as Mr A 
wasnt claiming on his policy  and had dealt directly  with the other  drivers  insurer. 
Zenith offered  Mr A £75 because they accepted they could have been clearer  when  
explaining the claims process to him. In the circumstances, I think  this is reasonable and Im 
not going to tell Zenith to do anything  further.  I say this because  apart  from being  less clear 
than it could have  been they acted fairly, reasonably  and in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.  
my final decision
I understand that Zenith Insurance plc have offered Mr A £75 to compensate for the 
unnecessary distress it caused him. I conclude thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. So my final decision is that Zenith Insurance plc should pay Mr A £75 if they 
havent already  done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3731480