K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains about the delays he experienced when attempting  to transfer  his
pension from Interactive Investor Services Limited  (Interactive) to another provider. As a 
result of the delays, he says he has lost out financially.
background
Mr A discussed the possibility of transferring his pension from Interactive to another provider 
during October  and November 2017. Following  the conversations, Mr A was under the 
impression that the transfer process had started. 
However, on 29 December 2017, when Mr A chased the matter, he was informed by 
Interactive that they were  awaiting instructions from the other  provider. 
Interactive confirmed it received Mr As formal  transfer instruction on 1 March 2018  and it 
emailed the other provider  with Mr As portfolio valuations on 16 March 2018.  However,  due 
to issues such as the other provider  experiencing delays, delays in responses and issues  
transferring some of Mr As assets  in species, the transfer was eventually  cancelled by 
Interactive on 25 May 2018.
Mr A complained regarding the handling  of his pension  transfer.  He said that due to the 
delays caused,  he has lost out financially. Interactive  partially upheld  Mr As complaint. 
It said it was not at fault for the delays. But it could have communicated better with Mr A. 
Interactive waived SIPP fees of £142.50  and offered to pay Mr A £145 for the distress  and 
inconvenience this matter had caused him. Mr A did not accept the offer and referred the 
complaint to this service.  In its submissions to this service, Interactive increased  its offer of 
distress and inconvenience to £200.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. He concluded it should be partially  
upheld. He agreed with Interactive that it could have communicated  better with Mr A.
However, he did not feel it was at fault for all the delays. He felt that the refund of SIPP fees 
and the £200 Interactive had offered Mr A to resolve the complaint was fair and reasonable.
The adjudicator explained that he did not think Mr A had lost out financially as a result of the 
delays. Mr As money remained invested  and he was able to place trades  on his account 
during the transfer period.  Mr A stated that he was under the impression he could not trade,  
however there was no evidence to suggest  Mr A had ever queried this.
Mr A did not agree  with the adjudicator.  He said that the price  of his stocks  has fallen since  
the transfer commenced and as a result, he wants to be compensated. 
The adjudicator explained that prices of stocks can fluctuate. It is unfortunate that in this 
case they have  decreased.  
Mr A did not agree.  Although  his initial estimate  of his claimed losses  was in excess  of 
£4,000 Mr A confirmed that he would now be willing to accept £900  in full and final 
settlement of his complaint.  
Ref: DRN34960262The adjudicator was not persuaded  to change his view that the offer from Interactive was fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.
As agreement was not reached the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
I have carefully considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint.
Mr A has provided substantial submissions in support of his complaint. I am grateful for 
these. But I trust he will understand that my decision here only addresses the crux of his 
complaint. It is that he should be compensated for what he has acknowledged is a paper  
loss of £900. Mr A says this has come  about  because he was effectively prevented  from 
selling a specific holding  in his SIPP. The value of that holding has subsequently fallen in 
value compared  to its value when Mr A says he would have sold it.  
In other  words, I do not intend repeating here the details of the delays or who is at fault for 
these. I say that because  the discrete matter  I have to decide  here is only whether 
Interactive should  compensate Mr A for an investment  decision  he says he was unable  to 
execute. My decision in respect of that specific matter would not be influenced by 
apportioning blame  between  the various  parties  involved  in the transfer  of Mr As funds. 
Even if I were to conclude  that Interactive was wholly  responsible for the delays, that would 
still not influence  my decision in respect of what I consider to be the crux of Mr As 
complaint.
I am sorry  to disappoint Mr A. But I am not persuaded  to direct Interactive to compensate  
him on the basis he claims it should.  Whilst I do not doubt what  Mr A says he would have 
done in respect  of the holding he cites,  it would not be fair or reasonable to take such an 
assertion, unsubstantiated  by any contemporaneous  evidence  (such as a recorded attempt 
by Mr A to  effect such a transaction)  at face value. 
I am not casting doubt on Mr As integrity. But If I were to accept his assertion at face value 
only, I would  have  no basis,  for example, to allay any concern that Mr As assertion was only 
made with the benefit of hindsight.
I infer from Mr As submission of 12th November  2018 that he has not in fact, sold the 
investment that he now says he should be compensated  for. In other words, no loss has 
been crystallised. Whilst I have no knowledge of the investment  or its future  prospects, it 
might be that it may recover,  in future, the value  that Mr A says he has been deprived  of.
If that turns out to be the case,  then Mr A, if now compensated by Interactive on the basis he 
claims it should compensate him, would have doubly benefitted. 
First, by the compensation  he would have received. And second, by his continued ownership 
of the investment at a higher value but which he has been compensated for. This eventuality 
might be mitigated by an undertaking from Mr A that if this situation materialised, he would 
undertake to return the compensation to Interactive. But in my view,  in all the circumstances 
that would  not be a reasonable or pragmatic resolution to his complaint. 
Ref: DRN34960263Mr A though has clearly  been poorly  served. The delays to his transfer were clearly  not of his 
making. I do not underestimate  the frustration this will have caused  him. I am also mindful  
that the foregone value Mr A complains  of still persists.  At the time of my decision, the value 
of the specific investment  Mr A says he would have  sold remains  substantially  below the 
value at which he says he would have sold it.
But Interactive  has offered to waive Mr As SIPP fees and pay him £200 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its unsatisfactory communications with him in respect  of the 
transfer. And for the reasons set out above, I am not persuaded to direct it to additionally 
reimburse Mr A for what he says is his investment loss.
Our awards  for distress and inconvenience  tend to be modest. They are not intended  to fine 
or punish firms. Those are matters for the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority.
In this case, I am satisfied that Interactives  offer is fair, reasonable and consistent with what 
I would have awarded had such an offer not been  made.
I understand the offer from Interactive  still stands.  It is now a matter for Mr A to decide 
whether to accept  it.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Terry Connor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3496026