K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Ulster  Bank Ltd extended their mortgage  without their 
knowledge and theyre unhappy that their mortgage  is split into three accounts. They also 
have concerns that the first three  years of mortgage payments havent contributed to the 
repayment of the mortgage. 
background
Mr and Mrs C took out their mortgage in 2003. This mortgage was for £46,000 and was 
taken over a term of 14 years. Part of this mortgage  was interest  only (payments made 
covered only the interest charged)  and part of it was capital repayment  (payments covered 
the interest and some  repayment of the capital).  
In 2006, the interest only element was transferred over to capital repayment which  meant 
that the full balance outstanding would be paid off at the end of the mortgage term. Around  
the same  time, the mortgage term was extended  which meant that rather than the mortgage  
ending in 2017, it would end in 2025.
Mr and Mrs C have said that they wouldnt have agreed to such a long extension  on their 
mortgage and they believe that this has been done without their knowledge. They 
complained to Ulster Bank who explained that they made this change at Mr and Mrs Cs 
request, so Ulster  Bank were happy that the term of the mortgage  was correct. Ulster  Bank  
did however say that the service they provided Mr and Mrs C couldve been better, 
especially as they were going through  a difficult time. So they paid Mr and Mrs C £150 by 
way of an apology.
Mr and Mrs C werent  happy with what Ulster Bank  had said as they still thought the term of 
their mortgage was incorrect  so they brought the complaint to our service where it was 
looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think that Ulster Bank  had done  
anything wrong  so he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with what the investigator  had said. They said that there  should  be 
an application form which shows  they requested the term extension. They asked  for the 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman, so it has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint 
Mr and Mrs C, I wont  be upholding their complaint. Ill explain why.
Id firstly  like to say that Im sorry to hear that Mr and Mrs C are going through  a difficult  time 
and appreciate things havent  been easy for them. Id like Mr and Mrs C to know that Ive 
thought about everything  theyve said very carefully  before  making my decision.
Although the term extension happened more than six years  ago, we can still consider a 
complaint about  these  events. Ulster  Bank originally said this complaint was out of time, but 
when our investigator explained  why he didnt agree, it said it would consent to us 
considering it. So Im satisfied I have  the power to deal with this case. 
Ref: DRN37284422term extension
As the original mortgage was taken quite  a few years ago, Ulster Bank have told us that they 
dont hold all of the records we have asked  to see. This isnt unusual  as banks only tend to 
hold information  for the last six years in most  cases. What this means is that I need to 
consider the information that I do have  available that both Ulster Bank and Mr and Mrs C 
have provided, and think about what I think was most likely to have happened in the 
circumstances.
In 2006 the mortgage  term was extended to 19 years, which meant  the mortgage would end 
in 2025. Ulster Bank have not been  able to provide  documentation from the time which 
shows that Mr and Mrs C requested this. What  I have  seen,  is a letter  that Ulster Bank sent 
Mr and Mrs C in November 2006  confirming that the term had been extended to 19 years,  
with details of what the new monthly payments were going to be. I appreciate  that 
Mr and Mrs C think Ulster  Bank should be able to provide an application form to show they 
requested this, but Ive already explained that its not unusual  that they havent  been able to, 
due to the time that has passed.  And its possible there wasnt a formal application form  if, 
for example, the application was made  in person  in a branch or over the phone. There would  
be no reason for Ulster Bank to increase the term of the mortgage  unless it had been  
requested by Mr and Mrs C. And a lender would generally want the debt to be repaid sooner  
rather than later, as it reduces the risk to them as a business.
In any case, Ive also seen a form bearing Mr and Mrs Cs signatures,  dated in October 2006 
 which  requests the change. Ive no reason  to believe this wasnt signed by them at the 
time, even  if they dont  remember doing  so now.
In addition to this, the interest only element of the mortgage was changed to repayment  
around one month before  the term extension. When  there  is a change like this, the mortgage  
payments increase because the entire mortgage  needs to be paid by the agreed  end date of 
the mortgage. Im persuaded that its likely Mr and Mrs C wanted to then keep their 
payments a bit lower,  while  still repaying the capital. Requesting a term extension in order  to 
make the mortgage  payments more manageable is one of the only ways  to do this. 
So on balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C requested the term 
extension. Im therefore satisfied that Ulster Bank did what they were asked to do at the 
time. And Im not persuaded there was an error made with regard to the term extension  on 
the mortgage.
mortgage split into three  accounts
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  that their mortgage  account has been  split into three different 
accounts. I can see that when they took out their mortgage originally in 2003, part of his 
mortgage was on interest  only,  and the other part was on capital repayment. Because the 
mortgage was taken out in this way, two sub accounts  were set up forming the main 
mortgage account. Mr and Mrs C then borrowed a further £6,000  shortly  after the mortgage 
was taken out, meaning that a third sub account  was created. It isnt unusual  for a lender to 
do this, but I appreciate that Mr and Mrs C may not have been aware of this.
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Cs previous mortgage  statements which  Ulster Bank have 
provided us. I can see that there were three sub accounts created from when the mortgage 
and the additional borrowing were taken  out originally. And from what  I can see, nothing has 
been set up incorrectly.
Ref: DRN37284423Ulster Bank have also sent us a statement which is dated February  2019  which  shows all 
three sub accounts under the main  account and it appears that this may be the first time the 
annual statements were  sent out in this way, showing all three  accounts  on the same 
statement. But looking  at the mortgage statements, the amount Mr and Mrs C were paying  
monthly, were always split between the three  accounts. I know they have concerns about the 
payments made between  2003 and 2006  not being  credited to their mortgage  accounts. But 
having looked at the statements  carefully,  I cant see that any of their payments have been  
applied incorrectly.
Because part of the mortgage  was on interest only initially, this part of the mortgage wouldnt 
reduce when payments were made. Each  contractual  monthly payment towards this part of 
the borrowing  would cover only the interest being  charged.  So the balance wouldnt 
decrease like the element  which was on capital repayment. And as Ive already mentioned, 
the payments  seem  to have been  applied correctly to all three sub-accounts.
Having reviewed everything, Im satisfied that Ulster  Bank have  acted fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3728442