K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (at that time National  & Provincial  Building  Society)  
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy (or policies),  for which  
they paid a monthly amount.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage in 1991.  They took additional borrowing in 1994 to pay 
for some home improvements.
In 1991 Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy to cover the mortgage repayments. The PPI was 
either amended in 1994 to cover  the additional borrowing or a separate  PPI policy  was taken 
out at that time. Due to how long ago it was, the evidence is limited and its not entire  clear  
what the situation was  but there is evidence that they were paying for PPI to cover the 
mortgage and the additional  borrowing. Ive looked  at this as two separate  sales  of PPI to 
decide if it was mis-sold  on either occasion.  This is more beneficial for Mr and Mrs W 
because the PPI wouldve had to be suitable  in 1991 and 1994.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me. I issued a provisional  decision saying I 
wasnt planning to uphold the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs W say they dont  recall agreeing to PPI or to any alterations  to the policy  or 
mortgage after taking  it out in 1989. They are suspicious because Santander initially  said it 
couldnt find records of their accounts  or any PPI, but later found  them.  And Santander 
refunded the premiums  on PPI policies that covered  the 1989 mortgage  and a later 
mortgage which started in 2003. Mr and Mrs W dont see why those policies  would be 
refunded but the others not. They suggest  that if one is refunded,  they all should  be.
Santander said that the complaint about each sale has been looked  at separately,  and that 
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  were different on each occasion   which is why some 
policies have been refunded and some havent. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case. To be clear   this decision is 
only about the PPI sold in 1991 and 1994. In light of the evidence  available, Im satisfied that 
there was a new sale of PPI in 1991  rather than simply a continuation of the 1989 policy.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because:
The mortgage application form Mr and Mrs W signed in 1991 included  a section about 
PPI and a box was ticked to indicate  that Mr and Mrs W wanted PPI to just cover  Mr W. 
So, I think Santander made Mr and Mrs W aware that they had a choice about buying 
the PPI, and they chose to take it. Theres no compelling evidence that makes me think 
the PPI was presented as compulsory or that it would help secure the mortgage.
Ref: DRN39271622In 1994 the copies  of the application form held are incomplete,  which  is understandable 
given how long ago it was. However,  the form looks similar  and I think  its likely it 
wouldve contained a similar section on PPI, which  Mr and Mrs W wouldve had to tick to 
confirm they wanted  it. I think  its unlikely that Santander would just have  added  PPI 
without their knowledge or consent.  
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs W dont remember PPI being discussed or agreeing  to it. 
But it was over 25 years ago, so thats understandable. They  say they didnt  alter 
anything on their mortgage in 1991 or have  any contact  with Santander other  than 
making repayments. But I can see that they did make new mortgage  applications  in 1991 
and 1994  so I dont  think  I can rely on their recollections over the documentary  
evidence. 
Ive assumed that Santander recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W  because  this 
placed more of a burden  on Santander. So, Santander should only have recommended 
the PPI if it was right for Mr and Mrs W on each occasion. Based on what  Ive seen of 
their circumstances in 1991 and 1994, I think it was. While Mr W had some sick pay 
available to him, the PPI also covered him for redundancy and wouldve paid the 
mortgage for them for up to 24 months. That wouldve protected any sick or redundancy 
pay he received and reduced the risk of Mr and Mrs W falling behind with their mortgage 
repayments and losing their home. It would also have protected  their savings from being 
reduced by mortgage repayments if Mr W couldnt work.  
Looking at their salaries in 1991,  Mr W was earning more  than twice Mrs Ws salary.  I 
think its likely thats why the policy only covered Mr W. They  would perhaps  have  
struggled to manage without Mr Ws income  but could have got by without Mrs Ws. So, 
Im not persuaded by their argument  that Mrs Ws salary wouldve been sufficient if Mr W 
couldnt work. Even if they couldve managed on just Mrs Ws salary, this wouldve 
involved a significant cut in their combined income  and standard  of living. So, it seems  
appropriate that Santander  would  advise them to take the PPI to guard against  that 
eventuality.
Theres insufficient evidence to show that Santander explained  the cost of the policy  
clearly. But even  if it had, I think Mr and Mrs W would still have bought  it. The policy  
appears to have been affordable and provided  appropriate protection.  So, I dont think 
theyd have thought it wasnt worthwhile. 
Its possible that Santander didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But 
Mr and Mrs W dont  appear to have been  affected  by any of those things. So, I dont 
think that better information wouldve  led to them declining to take PPI on either 
occasion.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ws comments,  including what theyve said about their 
concerns around  Santanders initial response to them and the fact they refunded the PPI 
sold in 1989 and 2003. But these  points dont change my conclusion. I agree that Santander 
couldve done a better job with their initial response   but this doesnt affect my decision on 
whether or not these PPI policies were mis-sold. Ive looked at the evidence  available to me 
about the PPI in 1991 and 1994, and I dont think PPI was mis-sold to them  on either  
occasion. I cant comment on the later policy in 1989 or 2003 which Santander has decided  
to refund.  That either was refunded has no bearing on whether or not the 1991 and 1994  
sales were suitable.  And the evidence indicates that they were. 
Ref: DRN39271623my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 February  2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3927162