K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Forsakringsaktiebolaget  Agria (publ) (Agria) didn't reduce his pet 
insurance premium after he changed  address.
Reference to Agria includes its agents.
background
Mr S has a lifetime pet policy which renews  each year. He changed address roughly four 
months into his policy year. Agria didn't  amend his premium. At renewal Mr Ss premium 
decreased by roughly £490.  Mr S thought Agria  should backdate  that decrease to the date 
he changed address.  He complained to Agria who told him that, at the time he changed 
address it didn't have a system in place to make mid-term adjustments to premiums.  But that 
it had since introduced a new system and would now calculate  such  adjustments.  
Mr S felt that Agria should have made  any earlier mid-term adjustments  manually. He 
brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator didn't think Agria  had done  anything wrong. 
Mr S didn't  agree so his complaint's been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Ill say at the outset  that were not the industry  regulator. So its not my role to say how much 
an insurer should charge, what factors it should  assess, how much risk to attach to each of 
those factors or when it must make a reassessment.  Instead my role is to consider whether  
Agria treated Mr S fairly  and reasonably and in line with his policys terms and conditions.
Given the significant decrease in his premium I can understand  why Mr S thinks Agria 
should backdate its recalculation of that. Agrias told us that between Mr S changing address 
and it renewing  his policy, it had lowered the risks it associated with Mr Ss new address. 
And, if it had recalculated  Mr Ss premium at the time he actually changed address the 
decrease in his premium  would have been  about  £61 for the remaining term of the policy.  So 
Ive thought about whether or not its fair to direct  Agria to refund that amount. 
Mr S had an annual policy  for which he paid an annual premium.  In other words at the time 
he took it out the policy covered him for the full policy  year for the price hed paid for it. And I 
haven't seen anything  in Mr Ss policy documents that indicates that Agria  would revisit the 
risk or premium  calculation  if he changed address mid-term. So I don't think there was 
anything within the policy documents  that meant that Agria  had to revisit its premium 
calculation because Mr S changed address. And its worthwhile noting that, for many  other  of 
Agrias customers such a mid-term adjustment would have resulted in an unwanted and 
unexpected increase in their premium. And its likely those customers would  have found  
such an increase unfair. 
Agrias said that since Mr S moved house its updated its IT and will now recalculates risk 
and premium calculations  mid-term.  Mr S thinks its unfair it didnt do so before  it updated  its 
IT. He thinks Agria should have calculated mid-term adjustments manually if its IT at the time 
wasn't up to the job. But as Ive said above, Mr Ss policy didn't give any undertaking that it 
Ref: DRN32339862would make the mid-term adjustment Mr S wants. So it wasn't  under any obligation to 
calculate the change in risk manually. Its apparent  that as well as changing its IT, Agrias  
changed its business model in order to make such mid-term adjustments to risk and 
premiums now.  But thats essentially a business decision Agria was entitled to make. And it 
will possibly be one that its customers,  who now face higher premiums  mid-term as a result,  
won't be happy with. But that doesn't automatically mean its acted  unfairly.
I think Agrias decision to now calculate a mid-term adjustment to premium,  supported  by its 
IT upgrade, is a commercial business  decision.  And given that were not the industry  
regulator, that's not something I think its fair for us to interfere with. It follows that I don't 
think Agria has dealt with Mr S unfairly  or unreasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3233986