K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that CIS General Insurance Limited failed to include the correct level of 
cover in its policy documents  which he says is misleading.
background
Mr S has a longstanding property insurance policy with CIS. In May 2018 he was sent a 
renewal document  that showed  his buildings were insured for the sum of £100,000. However 
he also received  product  change information from CIS which said the real sum insured was 
£1,000,000. Mr S was unhappy that the policy documents didnt show the correct sum so he 
complained. CIS responded that the sum insured was £1,000,000 as noted in the product 
change information.  But it said it couldnt issue the renewal documents with the new sum 
insured because of a systems issue. Mr S wasnt happy  with this so he came to this service.  
Our investigator looked into the complaint but felt it shouldnt  succeed because CIS had 
made efforts to show  the correct sum but couldnt  do this automatically.  Mr S didnt feel this 
was enough so he asked for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Because of the time passed since our investigator first looked at the complaint, I asked CIS 
for an update. CIS responded that:
At the time we received the complaint, although the business had made changes to the 
cover and notified all our customers,  we hadnt  been  able to update  the suite of renewal 
documents due to system limitations  because of the age of the product.  Weve  since  been 
able to update the standard renewal documents so all customers  with policies of this type 
can now refer to their renewal rather than the separate document which they were  initially 
sent.
This update  was shared  with Mr S but he was still not satisfied so Ive looked  again at what  
CIS has done. I agree that CIS had a duty to provide accurate information  about the sum 
insured in the policy documents and the original  letter advising of the change  to the policy  
wasnt sufficient. But, in my view, as CIS says it now issues  renewal documents  
automatically with the correct sum insured, any confusion that would have  been  caused by 
the incorrect figure on the renewals notice has now been sorted out. I have seen  a copy  of 
the new policy documents sent to Mr S in May 2019 and these show  the correct building  
cover. Therefore  I dont think CIS needs  to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.  Under  
the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required  to ask Mr S to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3178811