K820x#14summary
Ms M complains that The Carphone Warehouse  Limited (CPW)  prevented  her from being 
able to make  a claim on her mobile  phone insurance, and overcharged her insurance 
premiums.
background
In 2015, Ms M bought  a mobile phone insurance  policy from CPW for her iPhone  5c. In 
August 2017,  Ms M upgraded to an iPhone 6 and bought a new insurance policy from CPW.  
When Ms M asked CPW to cancel the iPhone 5c policy, it told her she could do so by 
cancelling the direct debit.
Unfortunately, Ms M cancelled the direct  debit for the new policy instead of the old policy.  So 
she ended  up paying for insurance on a phone she no longer  had. And wasnt insured for 
her new phone.
In March 2017, Ms M sought to make a claim against her iPhone  6 policy. When she did so, 
she was told she was not insured. So she complained to CPW. 
CPW cancelled Ms Ms iPhone 5c policy, reinstated her iPhone 6 policy and transferred the 
incorrectly paid premiums  (£265.81)  to Ms Ms new policy. CPW wrote to Ms M on 1 April 17 
to confirm what it had done. But Ms M says she didnt receive CPWs letter,  so she didnt 
make a claim.
Instead, Ms M brought her complaint to us. Our investigator told Ms M that CPW had 
transferred her premiums  to her new policy, and advised her she could make  a claim. Ms M 
submitted a claim but didnt complete it because she wasnt  happy to pay the £60 excess, in 
light of what had happened.
CPW then paid Ms M £60 as a gesture of goodwill. But she remained unhappy. Our 
investigator said CPW shouldnt have told Ms M to cancel her direct debit. He felt the 
problem would have  been avoided if Ms M had been directed to the underwriter instead. He 
said CPW  should pay Ms M £75 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience she 
experienced as a result.
Ms M didnt accept the investigators opinion. She said it wasnt  fair because CPW had also 
overcharged her £827.  CPW  didnt agree Ms M had been overcharged. It said she had 
always been charged the correct premiums, save for a five month period when she had paid 
for two policies at the same time. Which it had subsequently  reimbursed,  by crediting those 
payments to Ms Ms new policy.
Ms M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
Ms M also complained about debt recovery letters she received  and items  showing on her 
credit file. But these  relate to her mobile phone contract,  not her insurance policy.  So I have 
referred Ms M to her network  provider, o2 to discuss those matters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed Ms Ms complaint, I 
have decided to uphold it in part for the following reasons.
Ref: DRN39833532policy cancellation
Page 17 of the terms and conditions for Ms Ms insurance policy set out the procedure  that 
should be followed when  the customer wants to cancel their policy. It says this can be done  
by calling, or writing  to, Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva), the policy  underwriter. 
So when Ms M asked how to cancel  the policy, CPW should have told her to contact Aviva 
instead of telling her to cancel the direct  debit. However, that was not the sole cause of 
Ms Ms insurance  policy  lapsing.  Had Ms M cancelled the correct direct  debit, her new policy 
would have remained active  and she would  have been able to claim.
But, having  looked at all of the circumstances here,  I think  CPW could  have done  more to 
help Ms M and I think it was at fault.  Ill explain why. Ms M tells me she has been a loyal 
customer of CPW for a number of years. And that she prefers  to visit the high street shop 
than calling them on the phone.
So it seems  to me that Ms M places  stock in the face to face advice she receives from CPW. 
And, although Ms Ms actions did contribute to the incorrect  policy  being cancelled,  that 
would not have happened had CPW advised her of the correct  cancellation  procedure.  Had 
CPW done  so, Ms M would have been able to make  a claim in March  2017 and there would 
have been no further issues.
So I think CPW should  compensate  Ms M and I have thought about what compensation it 
should pay.
In terms of the policy itself and the premiums, CPW  reinstated Ms Ms policy, and credited 
the premiums she had paid in error to her new policy. By doing so, CPW put Ms M back in 
the position she would have been  in, but for the initial error. So she was able to make a 
claim on her policy, albeit  later than she otherwise would have. CPW also went further  and 
paid Ms M £60 as a gesture  of goodwill, being the amount she was obliged to pay as an 
excess under the terms of her policy.
However, the above payments do not account  for the distress  and inconvenience  Ms M 
experienced. So I have looked  carefully  at the trouble Ms M went to as a result of CPWs 
mistake and what upset that caused  her.
Ms M first sought  to claim on her insurance policy on 6 March  2017. After investigating the 
situation, CPW says it wrote to Ms M on 1 April 2017, confirming she was able to re-submit 
her claim. But Ms M says she didnt receive that letter.  After  our investigator looked  at her 
complaint, Ms M made a second attempt to claim on 1 November 2017. 
Ms Ms second attempt  did not proceed  as she was not prepared  to pay the excess. CPW 
has told me that Ms M has not made any further attempts to claim on her insurance policy.
While I can see that this issue has gone  unresolved for Ms M for a significant  period of time, 
I can only compensate her for the trouble and upset  experienced  as a result  of CPWs 
mistake.
CPW has provided me a copy of the letter  it says it sent on 1 April 2017.  The address on the 
letter is the same address  Ms M gave  to our service  when she brought  her complaint  to us. 
While it is possible  that CPW  did not post the letter, based on the evidence I have seen, I 
Ref: DRN39833533think it is more likely  than not that it did. And I do not hold CPW responsible  for any postal 
issues after the letter left its offices.
While I do not question  Ms M when she says she did not receive the letter, I do not hold 
CPW responsible for what happened  after it had posted the letter.  That being the case, CPW  
is responsible for the trouble and upset Ms M experienced between 6 March 2017 and 1 
April 2017. I do not hold CPW responsible for any distress Ms M experienced after that date, 
as it had done enough to correct its error.
So, because of CPWs  actions, Ms M was unable to make a claim on her insurance  policy  
for a little over three weeks, i.e. between  6 March 2017 and 1 April 2017. 
I do not underestimate the sense  of feeling  Ms M has expressed  to us when bringing her 
complaint. And I can see that she was inconvenienced for a period of time. At the same  time,  
when considering the level of inconvenience  caused, I take into account the fact that Ms M 
did not seek to make a claim again until seven months later. And that she did not complete 
the process after CPW paid her a sum equal to the excess  she would have had to pay.
As such,  my decision is that CPW should  pay Ms M £75 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience it caused her.
loss of business
Ms M claims she missed out on income,  media exposure and other opportunities as a result 
of not having a phone. Ms M says she was invited to make  a permanent  art installation at 
Battersea Arts Centre. And that her application  was hindered  because  she didnt have a 
mobile phone with her, meaning  she couldnt properly photograph her images.
Ms M also claims she had to purchase an iPad for nearly £700, to enable her to take good 
photographs. I have  not seen any evidence to demonstrate Ms M actually lost income,  or 
that any potential  losses were as a direct result of CPWs error.
In any event, the events  Ms M refers to took place in June 2017. And I have  already  said 
CPW was only responsible for the delay between 6 March 2017  and 1 April 2017. It follows  
then that CPW is not responsible for any losses that accrued after 1 April 2017.
overcharged premiums
Ms M claims she has paid £827 too much in insurance premiums.  She has sent me her bank 
statements from December 2013 to March 2017, with various  payments to CPW and o2 
highlighted. Having carefully considered all of those statements, Im afraid  I dont agree 
Ms M has been overcharged. Ill explain why.
Firstly, a number of the payments Ms M has highlighted are to o2. CPW  is not responsible 
for any charges  levied by o2 so I cannot consider  those payments as part of this complaint.
As to the payments  made to CPW,  either  £13.99 or £14.99 appears  on Ms Ms statements 
every month. Those were the charges she legitimately incurred in respect  of her insurance 
policies.
Between September 2015 and January 2016,  both charges  show in the same month. So, 
during that period, Ms M was paying for two policies when  she only needed  one. I have seen 
Ref: DRN39833534a screenshot of CPWs payment system that shows it credited  all 19 payments Ms M had 
made against the new policy (£265.81)  to Ms Ms account.
CPW then deducted the annual premium that was rightly due in respect  of Ms Ms first year 
of insurance on her new policy (£179.88). That left a balance  of £85.93 that CPW  applied  to 
Ms Ms account to cover five future payments at £14.99 per month (£74.95), with £10.88 
credited against  the sixth month. 
Ms Ms monthly  payments then renewed  after 11 October 2017.  She paid £4.11 for the first 
month (being  £14.99 less the credit of £10.88) and subsequent payments of £14.99 per 
month.
So I can see that Ms M did pay too much money  to CPW between September  2015 and 
January 2016.  That was because she was paying for two insurance  policies, instead of one. 
But CPW accounted  for the overpayments when it discovered Ms M had cancelled  the 
wrong direct debit. CPW credited the overpayments to Ms Ms account, as detailed above. 
Having examined  all of the other payments to CPW, I am satisfied Ms M has only paid for 
services she has received. Ms M paid a fee to CPW  every  month,  but in return had the 
benefit of insurance  for her mobile phones. Ms M has not suggested  she did not intend to 
purchase insurance and I have seen no evidence to suggest that was the case.
So for those reasons, I cannot say CPW  has overcharged Ms M.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I uphold  Ms Ms complaint in part. I 
direct The Carphone Warehouse  Limited  to pay Ms M £75 in recognition of any distress and 
inconvenience she experienced, in recognition  of the period she was unable to claim on her 
mobile phone insurance  policy. But I make  no award her claims for loss of business or 
overcharged premiums.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019. 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3983353