K820x#14complaint
Mrs K says Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 27 March 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I 
provisionally decided  the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision with any further  comments  or information 
that they wished for me to consider.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given  me anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. So I now confirm those findings.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, the PPI policy  wasnt  mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37312152Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs K says Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  the sale of a regular premium PPI policy. Mrs K took out her initial  mortgage 
with Santander in 2007. In 2008 Mrs K applied  for further borrowing over the phone and it was at this 
point that PPI was taken  out. 
Mrs K paid a monthly amount of £28.54 for the policy. In the event  of a successful claim it would  have 
provided a benefit of £876.00. The PPI had a 28 day waiting  period and covered Mrs K if she was off 
work for an accident or sickness  for up to 12 months per claim. 
Mrs K says she had another insurance policy in place  that had paid out an amount which covered  her 
mortgage payment when she was off work. 
Mrs K advised  that this other insurance  policy was called Paymentshield and she claimed under  this 
policy two times when  she was off work. Mrs K says she claimed in 2008 and 2009  as she was 
unaware of the PPI she had with Santander. Mrs K says the policy  had a four week waiting period  and 
would cover her mortgage for up to 12 months if she had an accident or sickness.  
Because of this, our adjudicator upheld the complaint. They considered that Mrs K wouldnt have 
taken out PPI. Santander disagreed and asked for evidence of Mrs Ks other policy.  Mrs K says she 
no longer has any information about her other policy.
As the matter  hasnt been resolved it has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive provisionally considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ks case. 
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why.
Santander has confirmed  that its records show that the further advance  taken  in 2008  was taken  over 
the phone and PPI was also sold at this point.
Santander no longer holds a copy of the call recording. But this isnt surprising  given that the sale took 
place 10 years  ago. But, Santander has provided  the phone script that it says its advisers would have 
most likely followed at the time.  Santander has also provided some of the paperwork that was 
completed at the time  so what it documented when  it asked Mrs K questions  about  her 
circumstances when it sold the policy. And Santander also provided some of the paperwork that 
would have been sent to Mrs K after the policy had been  set up. 
Ref: DRN37312153From what I know  about  the way PPI policies  were sold over the phone by Santander at around  this 
time, from looking at the call script  which  I think was most  likely  followed and from looking at the 
paperwork  overall I think its likely that there was a discussion about PPI. I think  it would have been 
made clear to Mrs K that the PPI was separate to her mortgage and additional borrowing.  Also, as 
Mrs K had taken out her original mortgage in 2007, I think she would have reasonably known that the 
PPI wasnt  a condition of any borrowing. 
But I do appreciate that as the sale took place  a long time ago, it is quite understandable that Mrs K 
cant remember this  as memories do naturally fade over time. And buying insurance  isnt typically  a 
memorable experience.
I also have to give weight to the fact that there was quite a lot of follow up paperwork  about the PPI. 
So had Mrs K not been  aware of the PPI, I would  have expected her to question the PPI if it was 
something she did not ask for. But I cant  see that this ever happened.
Overall I think  Santander made Mrs K aware that she had a choice about  taking the PPI and she 
chose to take it out and at the level she required.
Santander says that its process  at the time was for it to provide information to Mrs K about the PPI so 
she could make  an informed choice as to whether to take out the PPI.
Santander has proved  a copy  of the high  level  needs analysis that its representative completed.  
But, importantly the representative didnt  go as far to ask any questions  about Mrs K employee 
benefits or savings that could be used to meet the mortgage repayments. And the representative 
didnt ask Mrs K about  any medical conditions  or possible other things that might have meant the 
policy might  not have  been  right for her. 
So having carefully considered this, I agree that I dont  think Santander went as far as to provide  a 
formal recommendation for the PPI to Mrs K after assessing her circumstances and ability  to meet  the 
repayments. This meant Santander didnt  have  to make sure the PPI was right for Mrs K. But it did 
have to provide her with clear, fair and not mis-leading information about  the PPI so that Mrs K could 
make up her own mind.
I can see Mrs K chose to protect herself against accident and sickness  and didnt choose the 
unemployment cover.  So it seems Mrs K thought about the level of cover she wanted and thought  the 
accident and sickness cover could  have  been  of use to her.
Mrs K only received statutory sick pay if she was unable to work. So I think she would have  struggled 
to meet her repayments  if she was off work  for a lengthy  time.
Taking a mortgage or any additional borrowing  is large, long term financial commitment. Borrowers  
stand to lose their home if they dont keep up with repayments. The PPI would have protected Mrs Ks 
mortgage for up to 12 months per claim, if Mrs K was unable to work due to an accident or sickness. 
So, all things  considered, I think the cover could  have provided a useful benefit.
I cant  be sure how well Santander explained the cost of the policy. But Ive thought  about  the benefit 
Mrs K could have got if she made a claim,  together with the cost of the policy and her circumstances 
at the time.  And, even if Santander had explained the cost clearly,  I think  Mrs K would have still 
bought the policy for the reasons I have explained  above.
Ive also seen  nothing  to suggest  that paying for the PPI was a problem for Mrs K  and Im satisfied 
that she took it out when she didnt  have to, so it seems she wanted the cover.  
Ref: DRN37312154Its also possible Santander didnt point out the main things  the policy didnt  cover. But Mrs K doesnt 
appear to have been  affected by any of those things. So I dont think  clearer information  about  these 
things would have stopped her from taking out the policy.
Mrs Ks other insurance policy
Mrs K has mentioned that she held another policy.  And Mrs K says she claimed on this policy  two 
times in 2008  and 2009  when she was unable  to work. Mrs K says she never claimed  under the PPI 
she held with Santander. But Santander in its final response letter to Mrs K, after it had investigated  
the sale of her PPI, advised Mrs K she had claimed  under  the PPI policy.
It may well be that Mrs K had another PPI policy in place at the time, but I also have to bear in mind 
that Mrs K could be confusing the claim  under  the PPI policy held with Santander. I say this because 
Mrs K says she had a PPI policy called Paymentshield that had a four week waiting period  and paid 
out for accident and sickness for up to 12 months. Santanders PPI is called Paymentcare  and this 
policy also had a four week waiting period and paid out for accident and sickness for up to 12 months.  
So Mrs K may well be referencing the PPI she had with Santander.
But, as Ive said above,  it is possible that Mrs K held another policy. In response to this provisional 
decision, if Mrs K can provide any evidence  of the policys existence, I will take this into consideration. 
As it stands I cant  definitely say that Mrs K held another PPI policy, meaning  that the policy she held 
with Santander wasnt of any use to her.
Ive also thought  about  whether Santander needs to give Mrs K some of the commission  she paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain  types of mortgage 
agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mrs Ks mortgage was a regulated mortgage they 
dont apply. So Santander doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mrs K paid for the PPI she 
had with that mortgage.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I am of the provisional opinion that Mrs Ks PPI policy wasnt mis-sold.
I invite both parties to provide me with anything further they wish for me to consider  by 
27 April 2019. I will then consider anything I receive  and issue my final decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3731215