K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the advice given to them by AWD Home Finance Limited, a 
mortgage broker and an appointed representative of Legal  & General Partnership Services  
Limited. They say they were mis-sold  a mortgage  and payment protection insurance. A 
claims management company (CMC) brings this complaint  on Mr and Mrs Bs behalf.
background
L&G recommended  a mortgage to Mr and Mrs B in 2005. The CMC  says the advice  given to 
Mr and Mrs B to re-mortgage and consolidate  debts was unsuitable. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld, saying:
Mr and Mrs B wanted to reduce the proportion  of their mortgage on an interest only basis 
due to a forecast  shortfall on an endowment policy.
Mr and Mrs Bs product had ended  on their existing mortgage.  They  wanted  to 
consolidate debts  and have one manageable monthly payment.
While  it looked like Mr and Mrs B could have  maintained payments for their unsecured  
debts from their income, this wouldnt have  achieved  their aim of having one 
manageable payment.  The balance of one credit  card account was low. But if Mr and 
Mrs B had wanted to repay this from their disposable  income  they could have done so 
before re-mortgaging.
Mr and Mrs B had brought  a complaint about  the accident, sickness  and unemployment 
policy (ASU) in 2012.
The CMC responded  on behalf of Mr and Mrs B. It said Mr and Mrs B could have asked their 
existing lender to increase the proportion of the mortgage loan on a repayment basis. It said 
it was more likely the broker had suggested one manageable payment to justify  the debt 
consolidation. It didnt provide a cost comparison and without this Mr and Mrs B couldnt  
make an informed decision.
The CMC said Mr and Mrs B didnt need  a new mortgage as they had monthly  disposable 
income of more than £520. And the interest  rate on the new mortgage wasnt substantially 
better and didnt justify  the £15,000  of fees involved in re-mortgaging.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Ref: DRN34872262The broker  recommended  the mortgage  to Mr and Mrs B. So it needed to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the mortgage was suitable  including gathering  information  about  Mr and 
Mrs Bs needs and circumstances. L&G provided  copies  of the paperwork from the time of 
the sale of the mortgage, including the client review,  a fact find and a mortgage record  of 
suitability. 
While the CMC says Mr and Mrs B were  cold called and pressured into meeting with the 
broker I havent seen  evidence to support this.
The brokers  sales documents say Mr and Mrs B wanted to know  what  their maximum 
monthly payments  would be for the next few years and keep their costs to a minimum. They  
wanted to refinance  existing  debt into the mortgage balance  and address  the shortfall in their 
policies for paying  the interest only part of their mortgage. They  also wanted some other 
features  such as the ability to make over or underpayments. 
Mr and Mrs B had a mortgage of about  £87,000, of which £39,000 was on a repayment 
basis and £48,000  was on an interest  only basis. Their product had ended,  the interest rate 
was 5.3%  and no ERC was payable. Mr and Mrs B also had had three credit card accounts  
with a balance  of nearly £20,000, a secured loan of £35,000 and overdrafts of £2,600.  
The documents say Mr and Mrs B made  monthly payments of £510 for their secured loan 
and £630 for their mortgage. The client review says they made monthly payments of £350  to 
their credit card accounts  although  the fact find says this was about £1,000. The minimum 
monthly payments  would likely have  been about  £590.  If Mr and Mrs B made minimum 
monthly payments  to their credit card accounts,  their monthly  debt repayments  would  have 
been about £1,700.  
Following the brokers  recommendation Mr and Mrs B took out a £162,000 mortgage  with a 
term of 11 years. About £121,000 was on a repayment basis and £41,000  was on an interest  
only basis. The interest rate, which was fixed for five years,  was 4.99%. Initially, the 
contractual monthly payments  were £1,363.
Mr and Mrs Bs monthly debt repayments reduced  as a result of the re-mortgage and debt 
consolidation. The documents suggest  they had surplus income  of over £500 each month. 
But it appears this didnt include making minimum payments for their credit  card accounts. 
They had used  or were  close  to their credit limits  for their credit cards (about £21,000) and 
overdrafts (£2,600).  The interest rate on the secured  loan was 11.3% and the remaining 
term was about  8 years. 
The documents say that consolidating short term debt into the mortgage would be more  
costly overall, but Mr and Mrs B wanted  to reduce their outgoings and have one manageable 
payment. While the CMC now says this wasnt what Mr and Mrs B wanted  theres  nothing  in 
these documents  to support this.
While the CMC says Mr and Mrs B incurred costs  of about £15,000 to re-mortgage,  about 
£10,000 related  to the ASU policy. L&G responded to a complaint about this in 2012 and Mr 
and Mrs B accepted  its offer of compensation. 
Nonetheless, Mr and Mrs B incurred costs in re-mortgaging, such  as lenders and brokers 
fees and conveyancing  costs, of about £5,000. I dont think it was unreasonable or unusual 
Ref: DRN34872263for these  fees to be deducted from the mortgage  proceeds. Mr and Mrs B agreed to this. It 
seems unlikely they had other means  of paying the fees.
There were costs involved with the re-mortgage  and debt consolidation.  But, overall, I dont 
think the recommendation was unsuitable.  It met Mr and Mrs Bs aims  to reduce the 
interest only portion  of the mortgage  and reduce their outgoings. Although  their mortgage 
loan increased,  about  £35,000 of the debt they consolidated was previously secured on their 
house and had a much higher interest  rate. Re-mortgaging  reduced the remaining mortgage 
term by about 9 years, meaning it ended  before Mr B reached normal  retirement age and 
likely reduced the amount  of interest  they paid over the term. 
The CMC says Mr and Mrs B could have achieved this more cheaply by approaching their 
existing lender. Its not clear that the broker discussed this with them. But based on the 
available evidence I dont  think I can fairly  find they lost out as a result. Its not clear  that their 
existing lender would have offered Mr and Mrs B additional lending for the debt 
consolidation, or other changes such as reducing  the mortgage  term or the amount  of the 
mortgage on an interest only basis, more cheaply  overall. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3487226