K820x#14complaint
Mrs N says Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1986.  The bank cant  confirm 
where the policy was taken out, Mrs N recalls it was in one of its branches. With the banks 
agreement, Im reviewing  it on that basis. The policy gave Mrs N protection  against accident,  
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs N disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where  the evidence is incomplete  Ive based my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  so, on what  I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and what we know  about how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Lloyds cant confirm the exact  price  of Mrs Ns policy but it has given a range (from £0.59p  to 
£0.79p per £100 of outstanding balance), and I have  used the higher cost for my analysis. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully  about  what Mrs N said - that she didnt think the PPI was optional 
and it was added without her knowledge. There isnt much information to go on in this 
case, because  everything happened so long ago. And I dont think its surprising or 
unreasonable Lloyds doesnt have Mrs Ns original card application any more, or any 
sample documents.  Ive thought carefully  about  Mrs Ns comments  but I also have to 
take into account how long ago the sale was and how that might impact what  she 
recalls. Without stronger evidence showing the bank didnt make clear  the PPI was 
optional, I cant  fairly  conclude Lloyds sold the PPI to Mrs N without giving her a choice, 
and her agreeing to take it. 
Its most  likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs N. This means Lloyds had to make  
sure it was right for her. I think  it was suitable  based  on what  Ive seen  of her 
circumstances at the time. Mrs N was entitled to six months full pay and six months half 
pay if she was sick and had no savings or other insurances. The PPI would  have paid 
out in addition to her work benefits for up to 12 months for all successful accident and 
sickness claims.  It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy  cover. So, overall,  I think  
the PPI wouldve  been useful to Mrs N if she was sick, had an accident or lost her job.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave  Mrs N about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  However, it seems  she wouldnt  have  been affected  by any of the 
exclusions or limitations. And even at the higher end of the likely price, the policy  
wouldve been  competitively priced,  and it was apparently  affordable. So I think  it 
unlikely Mrs N wouldve made  a different decision  if better  information  had been 
provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy.
Ref: DRN35172902my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs N to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2019 .
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3517290