K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream, approved loans for him 
which were not affordable. He says that Lending  Stream did not carry out suitable 
affordability checks before lending  to him.
background
Mr H received 25 approved loans  between June 2015 and August 2016. The amounts 
ranged from £50 to £500. Examples of the pattern  of lending  are that in July 2015  Mr H was 
given four loans.  In August 2015 he was approved for six loans in the first seven days of that 
month. 
All were instalment loans with the repayments spread over six months. Often the loans 
would have overlapped. All were repaid early  by Mr H.
In December 2018 one of our adjudicators considered Mr Hs complaint. He decided  that 
for Loans  1 to 4 Lending  Stream carried out proportionate checks and he did not 
uphold these; and
from Loans 5 onwards  he was not able to conclude all of the assessments due to 
lack of information from Mr H; and
from Loans 7 to 25 he looked  at the overall pattern of lending and whether it was 
unsustainable or harmful bearing  in mind the purpose of high-cost short-term  loans, 
as well as the rules, regulations and the guidance surrounding this type of credit.
Our adjudicators view was that from Loan  7 Lending Stream  ought to have questioned 
whether continuing to lend to Mr H was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.  And he thought  
that it was, and upheld Loans  7 to 25 on that basis. He recommended  that Lending Stream 
do the following  to put things right:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr H paid on Loan  7 (24 January 2016) through 
to Loan 25 (7 August  2016);
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any entries about Loans  7 to 25 from Mr Hs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream  to take off tax from this interest. It must  give 
Mr H a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
This was sent to both parties. Lending Stream did reply but before that email was registered 
to the complaint file, letters were sent to both parties explaining that the case  had been 
referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I have seen  is that Lending Stream have actually accepted our adjudicators view 
entirely and agreed  to do as he recommended including  the credit  file amendments. 
That outcome  was sent to Mr Hs CMC in January 2019 but no answer  has been received. 
Ref: DRN37018792The complaint has been allocated to me and my decision is that I endorse the findings and 
the outcome arising out of our adjudicators view which is that Loans 7 to 25 be upheld.
And I endorse the offer from Lending Stream to Mr H to do as our adjudicator recommended  
in relation to Loans 7 to 25 and which  is set out above and now forms part of my final 
decision. 
As the figures contained  in Lending  Streams offer are out of date they will need  to be 
recalculated upon final resolution.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part and direct that Lending Stream do 
as is set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3701879