K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance  plc is responsible for poor 
service in connection with a home  emergency insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S had a home emergency  policy branded with the name  of a bank. RSA was the 
insurer responsible  for dealing  with claims.  Where  I refer to the insurer  or RSA I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold RSA responsible.
On 1 February Mr S called the insurer for help because the central  heating  boiler  was 
making an unusual  noise. The insurer sent an engineer  who said the boiler was providing  
heat and hot water. 
On 4 February RSA made a note that Mr and Mrs S said they had appointed their own 
engineer (the second engineer) who had quoted around £400.00 for repairs.  RSA sent a 
third engineer. He said the gas valve was letting  by and the boiler was dangerous.
Mr and Mrs S complained that RSAs first engineer had left their familys safety at risk.
In its final response letter,  RSA said its first engineer couldnt be held accountable for the 
alleged failure  to identify a leak. It said there was no evidence that the second engineer had 
noticed a leak.  RSA declined to send  Mr S copies of reports and e-mails from its engineers.  
But it later sent such documents to our investigator.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought it more 
likely than not that the faults had been present during the first engineers  visit and he 
overlooked them. If he had identified the faults,  it would have saved Mr and Mrs S the need 
to arrange a visit from their own engineer. That second visit and the third visit caused them 
trouble. And Mr and Mrs S were upset on finding out that their boiler may have been at risk 
after the first engineers  visit. The investigator  recommended that RSA should:
1.pay £150.00 compensation;  and
2.if Mr and Mrs S had to pay for the inspection by the second  engineer  and they can 
produce an invoice  to show that, then RSA should also refund that amount.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs S and to RSA on 11 July 2019. I summarise my findings:
There was no evidence  that the second  engineer had identified a leak or other  safety 
issue. So I found that Mr and Mrs S had fallen short of showing that  on 1 February - 
there was an obvious safety issue with the boiler that a reasonably careful  engineer 
wouldve noticed and reported.
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs S or from RSA,  my provisional decision 
was that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend to direct  Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  plc to do anything further  in response to this complaint.
Ref: DRN35942312RSA agrees with the provisional decision.
Mr S disagrees with the provisional decision.  He says, in summary, that:
He had kids at home and they were  very scared  by the noise from the boiler. 
The first engineer said there was nothing wrong  with the boiler.
 Mr and Mrs S started using the boiler  again.  After a few minutes  it started to make  a 
banging noise.  When the noise went out of control they called the insurer again.
The insurer sent its second engineer. He said that there was gas leak and it would be 
very dangerous to use the boiler.  He shut everything off. 
The first engineer was very careless.
Mr S has his whole  family  living with and he could have lost everything if hed carried  
on using the boiler. 
He had to call a private engineer. He said it was very dangerous to use the boiler.
So Mr S had to change his boiler straight away. 
The insurer should take the responsibility and compensate Mr S for the first 
engineers dangerous report to carry on using the boiler. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy contained  the following definition of an emergency:
A sudden or unforeseen event at your home  which, if not dealt with within 48 hours 
of discovery will:
 Make the home unsafe or insecure for you and your family; or
 Cause  damage to the home or its contents; or
 Result  in the home losing its main source  of heating, lighting or water.
The policy provided  help in the event  of certain  types of emergency  including  the following:
loss of heating and/or hot water  following a failure or breakdown of the main heating  
system.
There was a limit of £1,000.00 per emergency. Following a claim for breakdown  of the 
heating system, the policy provided for a payment of £500.00 if the boiler  was beyond 
economic repair.
Mr S reported a noise  from the boiler. But I dont  think  there  had been  a breakdown of the 
main heating system or a loss of heating or hot water. So I dont think RSA had to send an 
engineer.
But RSA did send the first engineer. And it later quoted that first engineers  company as 
having reported the following:
when they attended the customer only complained of noises.
They ran the system  up and carried out all checks and they did not find any issues at 
that time with the boiler, certainly not the 'explosive or pre-ignition' problem that later 
developed
Ref: DRN35942313Mr and Mrs S believe that the first engineer didnt do enough  checks  and so missed  a 
serious problem. But - keeping in mind  the policy terms - I dont think  RSA became 
responsible for detailed  checking of the condition and operation  of the boiler.  
I think Mr and Mrs S bear the burden  of showing that there  was an obvious safety issue  with 
the boiler that a reasonably careful engineer wouldve noticed and reported. One way in 
which Mr and Mrs S mightve been able to show that wouldve been  by a report  from the 
second engineer whom  they engaged a few days later. 
But  for whatever reason   there  is nothing  at all in writing from that engineer.  There isnt 
even an invoice  otherwise Mr and Mrs S wouldve produced it for reimbursement in line 
with the investigators  recommendation.
Mr and Mrs S said the second engineer quoted £400.00 for repairs. So he mustve looked at 
the boiler and had some particular components of it in mind. I think that  compared to the 
first (emergency) engineer - the second engineer owed  a greater duty to check the condition  
and operation of the boiler.
My understanding is that if the second engineer had thought the boiler was dangerous that 
he wouldve been  obliged  under gas safety  regulations to issue  a notice that it was at risk 
or immediately dangerous.  Theres no evidence that he issued any such  notice. 
Mr S contacted RSA again following the second engineers visit. Mr S didnt  mention  any 
safety issue. 
RSA sent the third engineer (its second engineer). It later quoted  that engineers company 
as having reported the following:
On our visit (only  time we have attended here) we found the following-*
boiler makes  a loud explosion upon fire up, gas valve tested and found to be letting 
by into combustion chamber, combustion door doesn't seal either, this was deemed  
as ID with a warning notice applied and issued to the customer. This visit was on the 
04/02/19.
I am not sure what the original fault/breakdown  was when you sent another  
company, but yes, by carrying out some  basic checks/tests  they could have found 
the same  as we did
Its really hard to comment on how this was left by the other company, or more 
importantly what they find on the day of their visit.
But yes, on our visit, we certainly found the gas valve to be letting by into the 
combustion chamber.
My understanding is that a valve letting by means  that it is leaking when it should be sealed 
shut. And a gas valve letting by into the combustion  chamber sounds  to me like it would 
create a risk of explosion.   The combustion  door not sealing properly sounds to me like it 
would let air or gas in or let exhaust  gases  out.
My understanding of the abbreviation ID is that it means Immediately Dangerous.
So I think the third engineers report shows  that  on 4 February   Mr and Mrs Ss boiler was 
making a loud explosion when first ignited,  it was leaking  and it was dangerous.
Ref: DRN35942314I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs S were troubled  by the thought  of what mightve happened.
But theres no evidence  that the second engineer had identified  a leak or other safety  issue.  
So I find that Mr and Mrs S have fallen short of showing that  on 1 February - there was an 
obvious safety issue with the boiler  that a reasonably careful engineer  wouldve noticed  and 
reported.
Therefore I dont find that the first engineer  did anything wrong. And  unlike the investigator 
 I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct RSA to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs S or to 
do anything further  in response  to their complaint.
Mr and Mrs S replaced the boiler and RSA paid them £500.00  towards the replacement. Im 
satisfied that was in line with the policy terms.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to do anything further  in response to this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3594231