K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement  with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, wasnt  of satisfactory 
quality. Shes been helped  with her complaint by her representatives.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mrs B under  a hire purchase agreement  with Oodle Car Finance 
that she signed in March  2019. She says that the car wasnt as advertised so in April 2019  
she asked to reject it. Oodle Car Finance said that it hadnt been given an opportunity to 
repair any issues with the car so she couldnt reject it. She wasnt  satisfied  with its response 
so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He didnt believe that 
the car was as advertised so there had been a misrepresentation.  He thought  that Mrs B 
wouldnt have bought the car if she was aware of the issues  with it so felt that she was 
induced into buying  the car based  on the information she was provided. He recommended  
that Oodle Car Finance should end the agreement, collect the car, refund any deposit  Mrs B 
paid, with interest, and remove  any adverse information about the agreement  from Mrs Bs 
credit file. He also said that it would  be fair and reasonable  for it to refund to Mrs B all of her 
monthly payments  due to the very little use that she had from the car and that it should  pay 
her £100  for her distress and inconvenience.
Mrs B accepted the investigators recommendations but Oodle Car Finance has asked for 
this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says,  in summary, that Mrs B didnt 
make it aware of the faults with the car within the first 30 days of the agreement  and the 
cosmetic issues  werent brought to its attention until 16 April 2019. It says that that was the 
first instance  in which it was able to support Mrs B with the faults  and it doesnt believe  that 
allowing her to now reject the car is a fair and reasonable outcome considering that it hasnt 
had an opportunity to have one shot at completing  repairs. It says that the dealer is prepared 
to address the current issues (and although  the investigator said that the dealer had had an 
opportunity to repair the car, it agreed  to the repairs five weeks after Mrs B had raised the 
issues).
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that there are some issues  with the car that were  
present when it was supplied  to Mrs B. She had seen an advert for the car and agreed for it 
to be supplied to her without inspecting it. The advert referred  to the car as being a pristine 
example throughout.  But Mrs B has provided evidence to show  that the car was supplied  
with damaged rear seats, an incorrect locking key for the wheels and the secure digital  card 
for the multimedia system was missing.  I dont consider that the car was a pristine example 
because of those  issues and that the car was misrepresented to Mrs B. I also consider it to 
be more likely than not that she wouldnt have agreed for the car to be supplied to her if 
shed been made aware of those issues.
The car was supplied to Mrs B on 12 March 2019.  She wrote a letter  to Oodle Car Finance 
which is dated 4 April 2019 and in which she said that she wanted to reject  the car because 
Ref: DRN31519052of the issues with it. Oodle Car Finance says that those issues  werent  raised with it until 16 
April 2019  more  than 30 days after the car had been supplied to Mrs B  and thats  the 
date of the first entry in its contact notes about  the issues. But the contact notes say: Letter 
Received 5 April 2019  and an entry on 16 April 2019 says Case  Opening.
I consider it to be more  likely than not that Mrs B did write to Oodle Car Finance on 4 April 
2019 and that her letter was received by it on 5 April 2019  less than 30 days after the car 
was supplied to her  but it wasnt until 16 April 2019 that it dealt with that letter and opened  
her case.  So I consider  that there were issues with the car when it was supplied to Mrs B 
and that shed asked to reject the car within 30 days  so she should have been able to do 
so. Even  if Oodle Car Finance  didnt receive Mrs Bs letter  until more than 30 days after the 
car was supplied to her, I consider that it was misrepresented to her and that the dealer had 
an opportunity to deal with the issues but didnt do so.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Mrs B to reject  the car. 
I consider that Oodle  Car Finance should end the agreement and arrange for the car to be 
collected from Mrs B. The agreement shows that Mrs B made an advance  payment of 
£3,000 for the car. I consider that it would be fair and reasonable for it to refund to Mrs B any 
advance payment that she made  for the car, with interest. 
The car was advertised  as having driven  33,000  miles. Mrs B provided  evidence in October 
2019 to show  that the cars  mileage  was 33,349 she says that she hasnt driven  it since  then. 
I consider it to be clear  that Mrs B has had very little use of the car since it was supplied  to 
her and that it would  be fair and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to refund to her all of the 
monthly payments  that shes made for the car. I understand that Mrs B has continued to 
make those payments  so theres no reason for Oodle Car Finance to have recorded any 
adverse information  about the agreement on her credit file  but, if it has done so, I consider  
that it should remove that information.
These events have caused  Mrs B distress and inconvenience. I consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable for Oodle Car Finance to also pay her £100 to compensate  her for that 
distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and I order Oodle 
Financial Services Limited, trading as Oodle Car Finance, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from Mrs B 
 both at no cost to her.
2.Refund to Mrs B any advance payment that she made for the car.
3.Refund to Mrs B the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Ensure that any adverse  information  about  the agreement that it has recorded on 
Mrs Bs credit  file is removed.
Ref: DRN315190536.Pay £100 to Mrs B to compensate her for the distress  and inconvenience  that shes  
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Oodle Car Finance to deduct tax from the interest  
payment referred  to at 4 above. Oodle Car Finance  must  give Mrs B a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3151905