K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs P says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
I sent Mrs P and Bank  of Scotland my provisional decision on 31 December 2018 explaining 
why I wasnt intending  to uphold Mrs Ps complaint. I said that Id consider any further  
information the parties wanted to send  me, so long as I got it before 31 January 2019.
Mrs P responded to my provisional decision and said that she is sure that at the time she 
had at least £10,000 to £30,000  in a savings account.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs P has said she had savings of at least £10,000 to 
£30,000 at the time. I accept Mrs P may have had some savings at the time. But the 
evidence doesnt  persuade me that she likely  had as much as this. And I already took into 
account the fact that Mrs P might  have had some savings when I made my provisional 
decision. So overall Ive reached the same  conclusions  as in my provisional decision,  and for 
the same  reasons. Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which  
Mrs P signed. On this I can see there was a box for the PPI, which has a pre-printed  
cross in it to take out the PPI. The form also has other pre-printed information on it, such 
as Mrs Ps employment and financial details. Ive thought  carefully about what  Mrs P has 
said about  her not being given a choice, but I just dont  think theres  enough evidence  to 
say this is what most likely happened. Instead I think  that the policy was sold to Mrs P 
during a meeting and that the cross in the box for the PPI reflected a discussion Mrs P 
and the adviser had before the form was finalised  and that the form was printed to 
reflect what they had discussed. So overall  I think its most likely that Bank  of Scotland  
made it clear that Mrs P didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  
although I can understand  why she cant remember  this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs P so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for her  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think that it was. 
For example she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover.
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve  been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it could have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN38070832Ive thought about everything Mrs P has said - including what shes said about her sick pay, 
savings, and that she couldve relied on her partner, family or friends if she was in financial 
difficulty. However, the policy  was designed to provide protection  for the unexpected; 
circumstances can change. And I dont think Mrs P would really have wanted to rely on her 
partner, family or friends if she lost her job or was unable  to work. Ive also not seen enough 
evidence to persuade me the nature and level of any savings and sick pay Mrs P mightve  
had at the time was such that the policy wasnt suitable for her.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mrs P paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs P back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3807083