K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC)  froze a payment he was expecting  and 
lied to him about  whether that was due to suspicions of fraud on his or the senders side.
background
Mr Gs friend  sent a payment to Mr G on 4 March  2019. The payment didnt arrive  so Mr G 
called HSBC and they told him the payment was frozen  due to fraud  checks on the senders 
side. Mr Gs friend also banked  with HSBC so he called the bank and was told there  was no 
indication of fraud. 
So Mr G called HSBC again  on 5 March to complain.  He spent over an hour on the phone  
where he says he was repeatedly told the fraud checks  were on his side.  The payment was 
eventually made  to the account later that day.
Mr G complained to HSBC about the delay in the payment and the amount of time hed 
spent on the phone with them. He also said theyd lied to him about whether the fraud 
checks were on his or the senders accounts. HSBC apologised for any inconvenience and 
offered Mr G £50 in compensation.
But Mr G was disappointed with their offer and he therefore referred  his complaint to this 
service where our investigator  provided an opinion. He didnt think there  was evidence that 
HSBC deliberately lied to Mr G and he thought the fraud checks they referred to were  likely 
to be the standard fraud and security checks that all banks carried  out to protect their 
customers and themselves. 
He didnt think it was unreasonable  for HSBC  to have completed  these checks and he noted  
any misinformation  was quickly  cleared up when the bank  wrote  to Mr G on 5 March. He 
understood that the payment was made on 5 March and he didnt think  this was an 
unacceptable delay  or that there  was evidence Mr G had been significantly inconvenienced 
or had experienced any loss. He therefore  thought HSBCs offer of compensation was 
reasonable.
But Mr G didnt agree  with the investigators  view and he therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr G so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN34207942I can understand that the freezing of this transaction was frustrating  for Mr G and Ive seen 
that he spent quite a time on the phone  trying to resolve the situation.
But I dont think theres evidence that he was significantly  inconvenienced  as the payment 
was made  only a day late. Ive also not seen  evidence he was financially out of pocket as a 
result. I think, in the circumstances, that HSBCs offer of £50 compensation was sufficient 
given the inconvenience experienced.
I dont think theres evidence that HSBC deliberately lied to Mr G and I would agree  with the 
investigator that any misinformation  that may have occurred was swiftly rectified. I think its 
reasonable to expect  HSBC to carry out security and fraud checks to protect themselves and 
their customers. I also think its reasonable for them  to withhold the details of what these 
checks are as, in the wrong hands,  these  details could inform fraudsters how to get around 
their systems. 
Having taken all of the evidence into account I dont think  HSBC have acted unfairly  and Im 
not asking them to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3420794