K820x#14Complaint
Mr S is complaining about advice given by Barclays Bank UK PLC. This was to start a 
pension mortgage  with associated pension term assurance.  He said the term of the 
mortgage was excessive and he would have  chosen to pay it on a repayment basis  had he 
been properly  advised. He feels pension  term assurance (PTA) shouldnt have been sold as 
he couldnt add his wife to the policy and may not have been able to amend the policy 
depending on his circumstances.
Mr S is being represented by a CMC in making  his complaint.
Background
Mr S and a relative took out a £145,000  interest  only mortgage through Barclays. £50,000 
was to be paid by an existing endowment owned by Mr S and £34,500 by the relatives  
pension. Barclays adviser recommended  Mr S start a pension, the idea being that the tax 
free lump  sum would cover the remaining £60,500 of the mortgage at his selected retirement 
age (SRA) of 60.
The details of the mortgage have  been provided to us. These confirm the details set out 
above. Although  I havent seen any details of the advice given, I understand it is accepted 
that Barclays gave  the advice.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint. He explained the requirements on 
advisers back in February 1988.  These  were:
 A duty not to make negligent mis-statements.
 A duty (if the representative  gave advice)  to advise with reasonable care and skill.
 A duty to disclose material information,  if the representative gave information.
Our investigator thought the risks associated with using a pension to repay a mortgage  were 
quite high. He didnt think the pension  mortgage was appropriate for Mr S. 
Barclays did not agree. They said the conclusion appeared at odds with decisions made  by 
ombudsmen in other cases. They  also pointed  out that the calculation of the tax-free cash 
sum for a retirement annuity  was three  times the remaining annuity rather  than 25% of the 
fund. Pension mortgages in the 1980s  were also more common.  They were a tax efficient 
way to repay a mortgage. There were risks to repaying any mortgage if Mr S did not have 
sufficient earnings. And there was no evidence the adviser tried to hide the fact the term of 
the mortgage was 33 years.
I reviewed the complaint  and wrote to the CMC. I explained I had some  concerns about 
some of the details about Mr Ss circumstances.
The CMC had told us that Mr S increased his mortgage to £330,000 in 1992.  He switched to 
a repayment mortgage at that time. He stopped paying into the pension and did not realise 
there was any problem until he contacted the CMC.
The first thing I explained was that as the events were over thirty years ago, there was very 
little evidence available.  What I was sure about  was the way the mortgage was intended to 
be repaid as set out above.
Ref: DRN32209552It is not clear  to me to what extent Mr S was relying on advice from Barclays.  Although, on 
balance, I accept advice  was likely to have been given to start the pension  and therefore 
repay part of the mortgage.
The mortgage arrangements  appeared to be unusual as Mr S was buying  the property with a 
relative. And there  was an existing endowment policy being used to repay  part of the 
mortgage. I didnt  know what earnings  Mr S or his relative  used to obtain the mortgage of 
£145,000, but I thought this was a relatively  large mortgage for the time. 
I didnt know what discussions took place about repayment of the mortgage and the risks 
involved in using a pension to repay part of the mortgage. Neither did I know  whether Mr S 
was prepared to accept those risks.
Mr S repaid  the mortgage  in 1992.  This was only four years after the mortgage started. The 
CMC told us he replaced it with a mortgage  of £330,000. But they also provided evidence of 
Mr Ss earnings in 1992 showing  these as £16,000.
What concerned me was whether Mr S was relying  on the pension to repay  the mortgage. I 
accepted the pension  was sold to repay  the mortgage, but the significant increase  in the 
mortgage left me with the impression Mr S was more entrepreneurial.  This also made me 
think he was prepared  to accept the risks of using the pension to repay his mortgage.
Whilst I had concerns about using a pension plan as a way of repaying Mr Ss mortgage,  I 
was not persuaded it was inappropriate for him. Unless  additional evidence  was presented  I 
would not uphold the complaint.
Barclays made an offer to pay Mr S £350 for their poor complaint  handling.  That offer is still 
open for Mr S to accept.
The CMC replied. They explained Mr S had provided them  with details about his situation 
and the mortgage in 1988. His relative had an annexe. The property was bought jointly.  Mr S 
worked as a tradesman. They sold the property in 1992 and bought a larger  property with an 
annexe. Both houses were bought as homes  for Mr S and his relatives families. It was not 
until much  later Mr S could be said to be more  entrepreneurial.
The CMC maintained the advice given to Mr S in 1988 was inappropriate. It should not be 
based on Mr Ss position in 2004.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The advice that is the subject of this complaint was given in February 1988. Although I have 
details of the mortgage and how it was to be repaid, I do not have any details of the advice 
given to Mr S. The evidence I have seen about what happened in 1988 has come from Mr S 
via his CMC.  The events took place more than 30 years ago. It is inevitable after such  a long 
time that details of what happened are quite  vague.  
Ref: DRN32209553Mr S repaid  the mortgage  in 1992  and changed to a different method to repay his new 
mortgage. It was a significant  increase  on his original mortgage. It is not clear to me that 
Mr S was relying on the pension to repay the mortgage. Although  I accept the mortgage was 
to be repaid using  the tax-free  cash sum from the pension I am aware obtaining a mortgage 
was very different  in 1988.  In my experience, it was common for an investment to be used  to 
repay the mortgage. However, subsequent events indicate the mortgage  increased 
significantly. I think it is possible that Mr S started the pension in order to be able to obtain 
the mortgage. 
I cannot say with any degree  of certainty what happened, or what was discussed about the 
mortgage. There were certainly risks in using a pension to repay the mortgage.  For many 
people those risks would be inappropriate to take.  However, I am not persuaded those risks 
were inappropriate for Mr S in 1988.
The CMC is right to point out that I should  judge matters on Mr Ss circumstances in 1988 
and not subsequent changes to his situation. However, the evidence from 1988 does not 
indicate to me that the pension mortgage was inappropriate. It appears  Mr S was prepared 
to accept some risk. I am not persuaded the advice to use a pension  to repay the mortgage  
was inappropriate  at the time.
Barclays made an offer to pay Mr S £350 for their handling  of the complaint. I understand 
that offer remains open. If Mr S wishes to accept the offer he should  contact Barclays to do 
so.
My final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3220955