K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1996. Mr and Mrs C say Santander UK Plc, trading as Abbey National,  mis-sold them  the 
PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a joint mortgage with Santander in 1996.  At the same  time they were 
sold a PPI policy. The policy cost around  £32.50 per month and covered Mr C only against 
not being able to work due to an accident,  sickness or unemployment. If Mr C had made a 
successful claim  the policy would have paid a monthly benefit for up to 24 months.  The 
mortgage was redeemed in 2001  but the PPI policy remained in force.
An adjudicator from this service didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs C disagreed 
with the adjudicators findings so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Santander hasnt  got copies of the paperwork that was completed at the time of the 
mortgage. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has gone by 
since the sale took place. But where  there  is limited  information, I will make my decision 
based on whats more  likely to have happened, taking  into account  the evidence available,  
what  both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs C have told us they were told that the PPI would help their mortgage  application 
to be approved. Pressure is a subjective issue and if Mr and Mrs C only agreed to the PPI to 
obtain the mortgage, it seems unlikely theyd have continued to pay the premiums for so 
long after the mortgage completed. I say this as the mortgage with Santander was redeemed 
in 2001 but Mr and Mrs C continued  to pay premiums  for many years after that date.
Santander has told us its representative should have advised Mr and Mrs C to take out the 
policy. And Mr C recalls  being strongly advised  to take out the policy.  I do think it is likely the 
Santander advisor told them they should  apply for the policy,  but thats  not the same as 
telling them they had to. 
All this makes me think that Mr and Mrs C were most likely made aware the PPI was 
optional. And I think they chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to  although  I can 
understand why they cant remember this after so long.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for them and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
The policy was set up to cover Mr C. from what Ive seen he wasnt affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. For example he wasnt  in an unusual employment 
Ref: DRN39476412situation, and he had no medical conditions  that would not have  been  covered. So hed have 
been able to make a claim if hed needed to.
Mr C told us he couldnt recall whet sick pay he was entitled to from his employer.  I see he 
was employed in the public sector so I think its likely hed have received some sick pay if he 
became unable to work. But the PPI sold to him by Santander could have paid a monthly 
benefit for up to 24 months in addition to any sick pay. This probably would have been much  
longer than Mr Cs sick pay would last, so I think the PPI would have been useful to Mr C if 
he had become unwell or had an accident. Particularly if he couldnt  work for a prolonged 
period.
The policy could also have paid a monthly  benefit  for up to 24 months if Mr C had lost his 
job. Mr C has told us hed been  with his employer for less than a year in 1996 so if he had 
been made redundant any redundancy package would likely have been modest.
The mortgage was in joint names and Mr C has told us that Mrs Cs salary could have 
covered the mortgage repayments  if Mr C could not work. I thought  about  this but the overall 
household income would  have fallen considerably if Mr C had become unable to work. So I 
still think the monthly benefit would have been  useful if things went  wrong.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong.         
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
In summary,  I think Mr and Mrs C were most likely  given a fair choice about whether  to buy 
the policy and they chose  to take it out. I think the policy  was right for them. And even if they 
were given clearer information about  the policy theyd still have bought it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and make no award  against       
Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3947641