K822xComplaint
Mr S complains that National Westminster Bank Plc blocked his current account on two 
occasions and prevented  him from accessing his money. Hed like compensation for the 
financial and emotional impact these restrictions had on him. 
Background 
Mr S opened  a current account  with NatWest in 2011. 
On the 7 April 2018  Mr S tried to make  a payment to a cryptocurrency provider, Ill call C. 
This payment was blocked by NatWest  due to an flag on their automated  fraud prevention 
system. NatWest spoke with Mr S and confirmed the attempted payment was genuine. The 
restriction was therefore lifted  and the payment processed. 
On the 7 July 2018 Mr S made a payment to C for £1,850. When Mr S attempted  to make  a 
further payment  of the same  amount  to C later that day NatWest  blocked the payment and 
Mr Ss account. On the 13 July 2018  Mr S confirmed to NatWest  that the payment was 
genuine but the bank  didnt allow him access to his account.
On the 17 July 2018 NatWest allowed Mr S access to a benefits payment totalling £307.82. 
After reviewing Mr Ss account  NatWest  issued a notice to close  letter  on the 25 July 2018  
giving Mr S 14 days notice to make alternative  banking arrangements. His account was then 
closed on the 11 September 2018.  
Mr S complained to NatWest about  the account  restrictions and their lack of communication.  
He said the banks actions had prevented him from investing in C and therefore caused him 
financial loss, stopped him working and caused him emotional distress and anxiety.
NatWest responded  on the 14 October 2018 to inform Mr S that he could collect  his funds 
and theyd cover call costs if he provided  an itemised bill. Mr S wasnt  happy with NatWests 
response so complained to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss complaint and thought that NatWest had 
followed their legal  and regulatory obligations in initially blocking Mr Ss account in both April 
and July 2018. But she felt the bank hadnt provided sufficient justification for holding  on to 
Mr Ss funds  for over three months  or immediately  closing  his account. She explained that 
although NatWest  had given Mr S 14 days  notice  as his account  was restricted  during this 
time it was effectively an immediate notice  to close. Our investigator recommended  that Mr S 
was given 8% interest on his funds from the time of the account restriction to the date they 
were released and paid £250 in compensation to recognise the impact  on him.
NatWest accepted our investigators recommendations, but Mr S didnt agree. 
Mr S said that the compensation wasnt sufficient  because:
-The accusation of fraudulent behaviour damaged his character and the fact he 
contacted the police shows how worried he was about it.
-The bank  should have realised the payments  were genuine  as hed used C before.
-His money should have been released  in five days, but it took 14 weeks before he 
could access his funds.   
-He believes £10,000 compensation is more appropriate. 
Ref: DRN38576832As Mr S didnt agree  its been passed  to me to decide. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons. 
NatWest have accepted that that after blocking Mr Ss account on the 7 July 2018, and being 
advised that the transaction was genuine  on the 13 July 2018,  they should  have released 
Mr Ss funds  sooner  than the 14 October  2018 and they didnt give Mr S sufficient notice  
when closing his accounts. As these complaint points have been  accepted  by the business  I 
wont address these areas. Instead  Ill be focusing on  in response  to Mr Ss points - 
whether it was fair for NatWest to restrict Mr S's account on both occasions and whether the 
compensation offered was sufficient. 
Account restrictions:
Although I appreciate that Mr S is unhappy  that restrictions were placed on his account on 
two separate occasions businesses have a legal  obligation to protect the security  of their 
accounts and to comply  with various laws and regulations. Mr S agreed  to this term as a 
customer and its a reasonable term.  Im satisfied that NatWest  were acting in line with their 
legal and regulatory obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the 
account when  it reviewed Mr Ss account. Although I understand Mr Ss argument  about him 
making payments  to C before,  having  looked at the account activity I can see why NatWest 
had concerns and decided  to review his account.  So I dont think  NatWest did anything  
wrong when it initially  blocked Mr Ss account  and didnt allow him access  to his funds. 
Compensation:
Ive considered the impact of NatWests actions  on Mr S, and the points  raised by Mr S in 
response to the view.  In particular he raised that NatWests actions prevented him carrying  
out his employment, but Ive not seen any evidence of this. Id also need to consider what I 
think its reasonable to take into account  when looking  at the impact  on Mr S  and Im not 
convinced that NatWest could have reasonably foreseen blocking Mr Ss account would 
prevent him from working. Especially when  he was given  the opportunity to collect his benefit 
payment on the 17 July 2018. So Im satisfied  that Mr S had reasonable access to funds for 
living expenses. But, its clear NatWests decision to prevent Mr S from accessing his funds 
for three months, and effectively immediately  closing his account, had a negative impact  on 
Mr S which likely caused him distress  in having  to find a new bank account at short  notice 
 and worry about when or if hed obtain his funds. For these reasons Im satisfied that Mr S 
should be paid £250 compensation in recognition of the impact of NatWests actions. 
In conclusion I uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ill be directing NatWest to pay him £250 
compensation plus 8% interest on the released funds in recognition of NatWests  delay  in 
releasing them. 
My Final  Decision
My final decision is I direct National Westminster Bank Plc to:
Ref: DRN38576833-pay Mr S £250 in compensation.
-pay Mr S 8% interest  on £1,860.28 from the 13 July 2018 to the date Mr S was 
notified the funds were  released  on the 15 October 2018. 
If National Westminder Bank Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs
(HMRC) to withhold income tax from those parts of the award constituting the 8% interest, it
should tell Mr S how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3857683