K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Lloyds  Bank plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms W took out a PPI policy to protect her mortgage repayments in 2000  in one of the banks 
branches. The cover gave  her accident, sickness and unemployment cover. She paid a 
monthly amount  for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Ms W disagreed so 
the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
inconclusive (as some  of it is here), I have  based my decision on the balance of probabilities  
 in other words,  on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence  and what  we 
know about how Lloyds  sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Lloyds had to make Ms W aware  the PPI was optional and Ms W had to agree to take it out. 
The bank says the optional nature would have been verbally explained to Ms W in good time 
before the sale concluded. I cant know what was discussed in the meeting but Ive looked at 
the available  paperwork from the sale. Ms W completed and signed a separate  PPI 
application form and a direct debit mandate  for the PPI. And I dont think  there was anything  
on the forms that could  reasonably have led her to believe  PPI was mandatory.  
On balance, I think its most likely Lloyds made it clear  that the PPI was optional and Ms W 
chose to take it out.
There has been some discussion about Ms Ws employment status  in 2000. At one stage we 
were told she was self-employed. But Ms W confirmed on her PPI application form that she 
was employed at the time of the sale. And Ms Ws representative has provided evidence  of 
Ms Ws salary for the tax year 2000/2001 that confirms her employer. Her representative 
says its very unlikely the amount shown  it is a full time salary, given her role and tenure. 
And I agree. But to be eligible  for this PPI policy Ms W needed to be working  at least 16 
hours a week  not full time.  And based on the information her representative has sent in I 
think its most likely  she was working  over 16 hours. So it seems she was eligible to take out 
PPI.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Ms W so it had to check that the PPI was right for
her  and based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances, I think that it was. Ms W told us she 
was entitled to six months  full pay and six months half pay if she was sick. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to her work  benefits  and for up to 12 months for each 
successful claim. It also gave her up to 12 months redundancy cover.  Ms W says she had 
some savings but the PPI would have allowed her to use these to cover  other  living 
Ref: DRN36603902expenses whilst not working, or to keep them intact  for her future needs. Ms W was 
borrowing quite a large sum of money  over a long period, secured on her home. And the 
effects of not keeping  up the repayments could have been serious for her. So, overall,  I think  
the PPI would have been useful for Ms W if she was sick or lost her job.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Ms W all the information she needed before deciding
to buy PPI. I dont know when the cost was first made  clear  but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. And I dont know that the bank pointed  out the main things 
the policy didnt  cover. But Ms W doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the main 
exclusions. So I dont  think better  information about  the policy wouldve changed her mind 
about buying PPI.
It follows I dont think Ms W has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3660390