K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Santander UK Plc Santander UK Plc mis-sold  him a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1995. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Santander  has said but Ive still decided  to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. 
This is because Santander  recommended the policy to Mr C but I dont think it was suitable 
for him. Mr C had a long term chronic illness, and the terms of the policy meant  there were 
likely to be situations where he wouldnt be able to claim  the policys sickness  benefits when 
he needed to. 
I dont think Mr C would have taken  the PPI if hed had these  limitations explained to him. 
fair compensation
Santander should put Mr C in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander should:
Pay Mr C the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr C compensation  in accordance  with the calculation of 
redress set out above.
Ref: DRN35443652Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3544365