K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a secured bridging loan Ms M took out with LSC Finance LTD. Ms M 
complains about  the interest rate and charges LSC applied after she missed the due date for 
repaying the loan.  She says this has left her in severe financial difficulties, and to put things 
right, she wants a refund of the money she says LSC has stolen  from her.
background
Ms M owned a buy-to-let  property (BTL) on which she already had a bridging loan with a 
company Ill call L. On 1 April 2018,  Ms M made an application to LSC through a broker for 
a new loan to repay  L. On the application form, she said she needed  to complete by 
6 April 2018 to avoid going  into default with L, and would  repay  the new loan by selling the 
BTL.
LSC agreed to lend Ms M £247,000, repayable after six months,  but unfortunately the sale 
fell through. Ms M found another buyer  and says she told LSC that the property would be 
sold imminently. She thought it would extend  the loan. Instead, it appointed  LPA (Law  of 
Property Act) receivers and applied a default rate of interest. The extra charges meant there  
wasnt enough money left after the sale of the property to clear Ms Ms debts, including  
those incurred to refurbish the property  for sale.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld,  saying:
the bridging loan was recommended by a broker which was independent of LSC; we 
cant look into this.
the loan was for six months and ended  in October 2018.  The property wasnt sold until 
December 2018, after the loan term ended. 
the loan agreement said, once the loan term ended, LSC was entitled  to add charges, 
the LPA receivers costs and the default  interest. The redemption  statement provided by 
LSC appeared correct.
Ms M didnt agree. She said she was in severe financial difficulties and provided documents 
to support this. She said taking out the loan with LSC had left her worse off than staying with 
her previous  lender. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an 
overview and decide  whats fair in the round.
Ms M has provided  evidence  of her financial difficulties. Im very sorry for her circumstances 
and I appreciate this has been a difficult time. I do understand that a refund of the default  
interest and charges applied by LSC would  help Ms Ms financial situation.  But I can only do 
that if Im persuaded LSC acted outside the terms of the contract  she agreed with it, or 
treated her unfairly in some other way. Having looked at everything,  I dont find LSC has 
done either of those  things.
Ref: DRN33805792Its important to remember that LSCs role was provider of the loan;  it didnt sell Ms M the 
loan or advise her on its suitability for her needs  and circumstances. Ms Ms broker  was 
responsible for those  elements of the transaction; if she thinks  the broker got things wrong, 
shed need to complain separately  to it. If she did, however, she wouldnt then be able to 
refer that complaint to us as shes done with this one against LSC. Thats  because advising  
on and selling unregulated bridging  loans isnt an activity that our rules allow us to look at.
Ms M says LSC didnt  explain  the loan terms; but the loan terms were  set out in the loan 
agreement. If there was something in there Ms M wasnt sure about  and needed  clarifying, it 
was her brokers responsibility to do that. But given the wider  circumstances,  Im not 
convinced thats  the real issue here.
The broader  truth here is that Ms M needed money in hurry,  to stave off imminent action 
from her existing lender  L. Her broker referred her to LSC,  and LSC provided her with a loan 
at short  notice. The terms of the loan  in particular the interest  rates and default clauses - 
reflected the nature  of the lending; that is, an urgent need for funds in the short term 
combined with a high risk that the money might  not be repaid  on time.
That risk came to fruition when Ms Ms sale fell through  and she had to find a new buyer.  
That meant she couldnt repay the loan before the due date. She asked LSC if it was willing 
to extend the repayment date, but instead  it held her to the original contract  terms. That 
meant applying  a much higher interest  rate; it also meant LSC could  and did  appoint LPA 
Receivers to manage the account,  and debit the costs of the appointment to the account
Its important to remember that LSC is a business  that lends money in the reasonable 
expectation that it will be repaid in full and on time. When  assessing how to get its money  
back, one of its concerns is which of the possible courses of action available  to it is most  
likely to result in the money  it has lent being repaid. Thats exercising  commercial  judgment, 
and for the most part, we wont usually interfere  with the way a business does that.
I agree  extending  the loan was an option,  but LSC didnt  have  to exercise its judgement  that 
way. Thats  not to say providers of unregulated  loans dont have  to treat their borrowers  
fairly; but it does mean the test of fairness  is less stringent, bearing in mind the borrowers 
own home isnt at risk; at least  not directly.  Ms M says shed have  been  better  off staying 
with L. Theres no way of knowing how things would have turned out if she had stayed with 
L. But the point is moot in any event; Ms M chose to switch from L to LSC rather than stay 
where she was and risk whatever action L might take to recover  its debt.
Ms Ms strength of feeling is demonstrated by her description of what has happened;  she 
thinks LSC has stolen  from her. Taking  a step back and looking at things objectively  as I 
must  what  I find has happened  is that Ms M wasnt able to repay a loan when it was due 
for repayment, and the lender has applied the terms of an agreement she entered  into of her 
own volition. 
Lastly, Ms M says LSC forced  her to use its solicitor in the transaction  rather  than her own. 
Nothing Ive seen suggests the appointment of a different solicitor  to represent Ms M would 
have made  any difference to the way events unfolded.
Ref: DRN33805793my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint, or make any order or award  against LSC Finance LTD. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3380579