K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that the hire purchase  agreement,  financed by Mercedes-Benz Financial  
Services UK Limited, through which he acquired a motor vehicle, was misrepresented. He 
wants a refund of the additional interest  he says he was charged.
background
Mr A tells us he acquired his vehicle, in March 2018,  from a dealer Ill refer to as H. He 
says that before agreeing  to the deal he asked  Hs sales  agents several times if there would  
be any additional costs  or interest if he settled the agreement  early. Mr A says he was 
assured that the only additional cost would be the remaining  capital repayment  and a £10 
option to purchase  fee. But when he came to settle he says he was charged an additional 58 
days interest. 
Mercedes told us that the interest it had applied  when Mr A sought to terminate  the 
agreement early was in accordance with Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) regulations. It 
said the 58 days comprised of 28 days for the validity of the quote and 30 days  additional 
interest. As this was an industry standard as well as a FCA regulation  it didnt think  it had 
acted unfairly in applying this to the settlement figure.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said The Consumer Credit 
(Early Settlement) Regulations 2004 tell lenders how to calculate  the settlement  figure  so 
that its fair for borrowers. He said Mr A had signed  the customer  declaration and had been  
given sufficient opportunity to make an informed decision prior to going ahead  with the 
agreement.
Mr A didnt agree with this outcome. He said hed signed the declaration on the basis  of what  
hed been told. And that he hadnt been  made aware of the additional interest.  As its not 
been possible to resolve this complaint an ombudsmans been asked to make  the final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr A feels hes been  misled and that this resulted in him paying additional 
interest. I understand  that the nature of financial agreements can be complex and it isnt 
always easy to fully understand every aspect.
Mr As hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Whilst I dont apply the law directly I do take it 
into account.
In summary,  Mr As complaint alleges the terms of the hire purchase agreement were  
misrepresented. A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a consumer  
into entering an agreement and suffering a loss as a result of the misrepresentation. Here  
the alleged false  statement  relates  to whether any additional charges (other  than the 
remaining capital repayments and a £10 fee) would be payable  if Mr A settled  the agreement  
early.
Ref: DRN36369482Normally in the case of an alleged misrepresentation Id expect to see a major difference  in 
the accounts given by the various  parties  as to what took place. But from the information 
with which  Ive been provided I dont  think that applies here.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute  that Mr A signed all the relevant documents 
including the pre-contractual information and agreement forms. And its also not disputed  
that having been given  an illustration of how approximate  interest charges (subject to any 
rebate due) would be calculated Mr A was told the only other  charge would be the £10 
option to purchase  fee. I dont think theres  anything inconsistent between  this and what 
actually happened.
Although Ive seen  references to an additional 58 days interest being charged,  I dont think is 
an entirely accurate  description of what took place. And where  I think Mr A may have 
misunderstood the calculations is in terms of the settlement  date.
The settlement  date is not the date on which the customer notifies his intention  to settle the 
agreement early nor even the date on which the settlement  figure is paid.
Under the Early  Settlement Regulations, to which  previous reference has been made, the 
combined effect of Regulations 5 and 6 is to define  precisely the date when the agreement  is 
considered to be settled.  In short,  this is calculated by reference  to two time periods. The 
first date will be 28 days after the date on which the customers  notice to settle  early  was 
received by the creditor (reg.5).  And the creditor can also defer the settlement date for 30 
days (reg. 6). This means that there  is a period  of 58 days  from the time Mr A gave notice to 
the date when the agreement is considered  fully settled.  Interest  is payable  during this 
period as the agreement is still active.  Its not additional interest which  has been charged 
beyond the actual date of settlement.
As the final settlement amount didnt contain  any additional interest charges for a period 
after the settlement  date - as defined in the Early Settlement Regulations  - I dont find that 
there was any false statement made  in relation  to the terms of the finance agreement.  And in 
the absence of a misrepresentation I shant  be asking Mercedes to make  any refund.
Whilst I understand my decision may come as disappointment to Mr A, Im not upholding  this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3636948