K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS):
-has charged him an unfairly high rate of interest  when  Bank  of England  base rate has 
been low;
-led him to believe  his interest rate was going  to go down, and
-added  expensive legal fees to his mortgage  without his consent.
Mr T would like BoS to refund his mortgage  with the extra interest he feels hes paid over the 
years. 
background
In 2007 Mr T took out a mortgage with BoS having  made an application through  a mortgage  
broker. He borrowed around £63,000 on a capital  repayment basis over 15 years. Mr Ts 
mortgage was on a 2 year fixed rate that expired in 2009. Since  that time Mr Ts mortgage 
has been on a Standard  Variable  Rate (SVR).
Early in the mortgage term,  Mr Ts mortgage  fell into arrears.  Its still in arrears at the present  
time. The arrears on the mortgage account were  around £15,000 at the point this complaint 
was made.
In 2010 and 2011 BoS applied legal fees to the mortgage. In 2013  Mr T complained about 
the legal  fees that BoS had added to his mortgage. On 6 September  2013  BoS issued a final 
response to Mr Ts complaint about  this issue.
In 2016 BoS sent Mr T a letter saying that the Bank of England  base rate had fallen. And he 
should expect  another  letter soon which would tell him his new contractual  monthly payment 
(CMP). Mr T complained  to BoS when  no further letter  arrived. Mr T also queried why his 
interest rate hadnt gone up or down in years,  and whether hed been charged  an unfairly 
high rate of interest. He also complained about  the legal fees that had been  applied to his 
mortgage following  the legal action in 2010/11.
On 13 October 2016 BoS issued a final response  to Mr Ts complaint. It has also provided  
further responses to additional issues raised  by Mr T. 
-BoS upheld  part of Mr Ts complaint. It agreed that it had sent a letter about the 
Bank of England  base rate falling to Mr T by mistake. The movement in the 
Bank of England  base rate had no impact on the SVR that applied  to Mr Ts 
mortgage. It offered  £75 for the trouble and upset its letter  sent by mistake caused.
-BoS said it had already  looked  into the legal fees in 2013. It repeated its response 
given in 2013 to these  concerns. 
-BoS also didnt  uphold the part of Mr Ts complaint about his interest rate being 
unfairly high when compared to Bank  of England  base rates.  It said the banks SVR 
didnt have to track  Bank of England base rate, and the setting of its SVR was 
dependent on a variety of other  commercial  factors.
BoS reviewed Mr Ts mortgage  while it looked into his complaint. It offered to refund  around 
£1,900 of arrears  fees and late payment charges (and interest charged on fees)  that it had 
previously added to Mr Ts mortgage  as a result of its review.
Ref: DRN31174062Mr T disagreed with BoS response to his complaint and he brought the matter to us. Our 
investigator didnt  think  that Mr T had been charged an unfairly  high rate of interest. She 
thought BoS was able to set the level of its SVR and that if Mr T hadnt  considered  it a 
reasonable rate then he could have  moved  his mortgage elsewhere. She thought the £75 
offered by BoS for sending  a letter in error  was reasonable and she thought the legal fees 
charged in 2010  and 2011 appeared fair for the work that had been completed by solicitors 
and for court  costs. She also thought  it was fair that BoS had applied these costs to Mr Ts 
mortgage.
Mr T didnt  agree with our investigators  findings.  Mr T responded, in summary  to say:
-hed like a more  detailed explanation  of the law that weve taken into account  in 
reaching our findings;
-the terms and conditions of the mortgage  say the rate of interest can go up as well as 
down. Mr T thinks its unfair that his rate went up and then didnt go down again.  He 
feels this is actually  a fixed  rate and so it isnt how the mortgage was represented to 
him when it was sold;
-he thinks the letter sent to him in 2016 saying that the Bank  of England  base rate had 
reduced and that he would  be told shortly  about a new monthly  payment  wasnt  sent 
by mistake. He suspects he is entitled to a reduction in interest but this is now being 
unfairly withheld from him.
Mr T asked  that an ombudsman look at his complaint again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, Id like to reassure Mr T that I have carefully considered all the points that he has made 
even if I havent  responded to each point  in turn in this decision. Were an informal  dispute  
resolution service, set up as a free alternative to the courts.  Ive considered all the 
arguments made by both parties, and Ive read all the information provided by Mr T and BoS. 
I mean  no discourtesy  to Mr T in not addressing  every point hes made.  This merely  reflects 
the informal nature of our service and my role within it.
Mr T has asked for more detail as to exactly what legislation has been replied upon to 
determine his complaint.  I can understand why Mr T asks for this. While I have taken 
relevant legislation and regulation into account, including the rules of mortgage regulation 
and the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations,  Im not constrained by either in 
making my decision. Im able to reach a decision based upon  my assessment of what  I think 
is fair and reasonable in the specific circumstances of this complaint.
has BoS charged Mr T an unfairly high level of interest?
This part of Mr Ts complaint is in essence  that his interest rate should be lower  than it is. 
Ive looked at Mr Ts mortgage  offer from 2007.  I wanted to see how BoS had explained the 
way that interest  would be applied to the mortgage when it was taken out. 
Mr Ts mortgage  was taken out on a fixed rate of 5.89% which ended on 31 May 2009. The 
mortgage offer said that, once the fixed rate expired,  the loan would revert  to the 
Ref: DRN31174063Bank of Scotland Home  Loan Rate (our standard variable rate).  BoS  SVR was 7.5% when 
Mr T took out the mortgage. 
In 2009 Mr Ts fixed rate expired. His mortgage  reverted at that time to BoS  SVR. By 
May 2009 the SVR had fallen to 4.84%,  before increasing to 4.95%  in November 2011. It 
has remained at this level since  then.  Over  the same period  the Bank of England base rate 
has been consistently below 1%. Mr T is essentially complaining that BoSs SVR wasnt 
lower when the Bank of England base rate was at, and remains at, such  a low level.
In my view, the mortgage paperwork makes it clear that Mr Ts mortgage  contract  is based   
after the expiry of a fixed rate  on an interest  rate that can vary from time to time. The rate 
is described as variable and the offer says that it is a rate than can go up and down, and I 
think Mr T understood that. 
In my experience of the mortgage market, Mr Ts mortgage was typical of what was available 
then and since. It is standard  for a mortgage  to be lent at an underlying  variable interest rate, 
often with an initial introductory rate overlaid at the start of the term. BoS, like other lenders, 
offered mortgages  with initial  fixed  interest  rates which reverted  to variable rates  at the end 
of the introductory  period. Its also common for borrowers to apply for further preferential 
rates with the same lender, or to re-mortgage to another  lender to try to seek out 
competitively priced mortgage deals. 
Theres nothing in the loan documentation  Ive seen that suggests  that the SVR is a tracker 
rate, or that it has any direct link to the Bank  of England base rate. The terms and conditions 
(2004) set out how and when the rate could be changed by BoS. The terms are reasonably  
broadly drawn,  and give BoS a pretty wide scope to decide how and when it changes  the 
interest rate. These terms could arguably have been clearer,  and have expressed more 
precisely how they would work. But I dont think Mr T has lost out, because of the way these 
terms have been  drafted.
I dont think Mr T was misled by BoS about how the SVR would  operate.  The documentation  
clearly explains that the SVR could go up and down  as it has done  and it doesnt suggest 
it tracks  base rate by any particular margin. In response to Mr Ts claim that the rate is 
actually fixed - the terms also dont say that the rate must move,  either up or down, by any 
given frequency  over any given period. I dont think it follows  that because the rate cant  be 
seen to be moving up and down regularly  that this means  it has become a fixed rate.
It seems  to me that Mr T was aware of the rate he was being charged. Usually if a consumer 
is unhappy with their lenders interest rate, they are able to take their mortgage elsewhere. 
Once Mr Ts fixed  rate expired in 2009, there werent contractual  barriers that prevented  
Mr T from moving  his mortgage to another lender, such an Early Repayment Charge. 
However, I appreciate  that the significant long term arrears on the mortgage would have left 
Mr T unable  to move his mortgage to another lender for other reasons. This would also have 
made him ineligible  for other fixed rate deals  or discounted products with BoS.  But it wouldnt 
have been apparent to either  party at the point the contract was entered into that Mr T would 
later fall into arrears and be unable to move his mortgage to another  lender. And I dont think  
BoS can be held responsible for the arrears.
Ive looked at BoSs SVR, and Ive considered whether it is broadly in line with other SVRs 
set by high street lenders.  Im satisfied that this rate is comparable with similar lenders 
SVRs. Overall, in all the circumstances, I dont  think BoS has treated  Mr T unfairly with 
respect to this part of his complaint.
Ref: DRN31174064legal fees 
We considered this part of Mr Ts complaint in 2015, and an adjudicator at that time didnt 
think this complaint should succeed.  She thought  that the legal fees that had been applied to 
the mortgage seemed reasonable and that BoS was able, under the mortgage  agreement,  to 
apply them to the mortgage account. Our investigator has looked again  at this issue  now and 
she was of the same view as the adjudicator.
Ive looked at the detailed  breakdown of the legal fees applied  to the mortgage account  for 
work undertaken in 2010 and 2011. I appreciate Mr Ts argument that hed like to be given 
the opportunity  to agree to fees being added to his account. However,  Im also mindful  of the 
lenders position.  If a consumer breaks the terms of the mortgage agreement  then I think it is 
only fair that reasonable costs of legal work, required to protect  the lenders interests, should 
be applied  to the mortgage  account.  Thats something allowed for by the terms and 
conditions of the mortgage.
In the circumstances of this case,  I think it is right that a breakdown of the legal fees has 
been given to Mr T. However,  I also consider it fair that these fees have been applied to the 
mortgage. 
did BoS mislead Mr T into thinking his mortgage repayments were going  to go down?
BoS upheld this part of Mr Ts complaint. It accepted that it sent Mr T a letter  by mistake in 
2016 which led Mr T to believe that his contractual monthly repayments  would be going 
down because Bank of England base rate had fallen. Its offered £75 for the confusion and 
loss of expectation as a result of its error. I think this is reasonable to settle this part of the 
complaint. I know Mr T suspects that this letter wasnt a mistake  - and that other customers  
have been given a reduction  in interest  rate that has been withheld from him. However we 
havent seen any evidence that suggests this is the case.
refund of other  fees and charges
BoS has said that its refunded £1,912.17 of arrears fees and other  charges (and interest 
charged on these fees)  after reviewing Mr Ts mortgage account.  BoS says its refunded  
these charges because we refund any that are no longer charged or that cannot be 
explicitly justified. Mr T hasnt complained about  these fees, but I mention it here because 
the review and refund appears  to have come about because  of Mr Ts complaint. 
I think BoS should share with Mr T which fees it has refunded,  and why, assuming it hasnt 
done so already.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, to the extent that I consider the offer of 
£75 already made by Bank  of Scotland Plc is fair and reasonable to settle the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Ref: DRN31174065Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3117406