K821x#15complaint
Mr P complained about advice he received from Anthony  Feeney Financial Services (the 
firm) to transfer his personal pensions plan into a Self-Invested Pension Plan (SIPP). 
An investment was to be made into store pods. Mr P says he is not a high net worth client,  
and should not have  been advised  to invest in high risk or speculative  funds as he did not 
want to take high risks with his pension. 
Background
Mr P was introduced to the firm by a third party introducer. The firms adviser  reviewed 
Mr Ps situation and completed a fact find document. Mr P was aged 44 and was employed 
with a salary of £30,000. He described himself  as financially inexperienced and said he did 
not want to take unnecessary risks with his pension benefits because  they were  a significant 
proportion of his financial wealth.
The adviser recorded that Mr P was an adventurous investor. However,  Mr P said:
I wouldnt say I was a higher risk investor  in regard to my current  assets.  However, I 
realise that to have  the income I want in retirement I will need  to take some risks with 
my pension.
Mr P also said:  
I have no  or very little  experience  or understanding of investment markets.
And he said:
It is a significant proportion of my financial wealth with which I do not want to take 
unnecessary risks.
He also said:
I understand the low value of my current pension  which  is why the review  is so 
important so I can assess the benefits  of my pensions as I need them to become a 
significant part of my financial wealth over the next 20-25  years. 
Mr P said a cash sum at retirement was not a priority, commenting:
A lump  sum is something  I may consider but I really want  pension as a retirement  
income.
According to the fact find notes, Mr P indicated he was unhappy with the level of charges 
and poor performance  of his existing personal  pension plans. The fact find indicated  that he 
wanted a wider range of funds from which to choose  for future  investments. And he was 
unhappy with the levels of service  his current personal pension  providers were offering. 
Again, according  to the fact find, Mr P thought the charges for the personal pensions 
seemed excessively high in comparison to the SIPP fees. Mr P also said he liked the 
guaranteed returns  offered by Store First and really liked the control and transparency of the 
SIPP.  
Ref: DRN39615602The firm advised Mr P to transfer  into a SIPP  to invest  in store pods.  They also 
recommended that a proportion be invested in the Vanguard Life Strategy 60% Equity fund 
via a Nucleus  Platform Wrap to be held within the SIPP. Having accepted  this advice, the 
funds were transferred  and invested.  
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision.  I also set out the 
reasons why I intended to uphold this complaint. Briefly, I explained that a regulated  activity  
took place when advice when advice  was given to transfer a personal pension  to a SIPP. 
That is an activity we can consider. The SIPP was intended to hold store  pods and other 
high risk investments.  I said that the advice had to be suitable  for Mr P. It is not possible to 
advise on the SIPP without considering the investment.  
I also set out what I intended the adviser  to do in order to provide  fair and reasonable 
redress to put Mr P back, as nearly as possible, into the position hed now be in but for the 
poor advice  received from the adviser.
Mr Ps representatives have indicated they accept my findings.  The firms representatives 
have not responded, although  they have received the provisional decision, which was sent 
by post and by email.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As the firm has not made  further 
submissions my findings remain as set out in my provisional decision.  I have repeated  those 
findings below.
the relevant rules
The rules  that firms  had to follow are set out in the regulators  handbook. The advice had to 
take account of the relevant rules whether or not store pods were regulated. The regulations 
required the advice  to be suitable. To do that the firm had to obtain enough information 
about Mr Ps circumstances.
what should the adviser have done?
The adviser was required to give suitable advice.  To do that the adviser had to have enough 
information to know his client. 
The risks of this transfer were almost entirely about  the intended investment. I cannot see 
how suitable advice  can be given without thinking about that investment. Thats  the key 
message from the regulators alert issued in January 2013. 
The firm knew  that Mr P intended to invest in store pods. They  should  have  considered 
whether that was suitable for him.
The adviser classified  Mr P as an adventurous investor. But, that contradicts most of the 
other statements that Mr P made to the adviser about his pension.  He said the financial  
security of the pension  was his number one priority. He said the personal  pensions were a 
significant portion  of his wealth and he didnt want to take unnecessary  risks. These do not 
sound like the concerns  of an adventurous investor.
Ref: DRN39615603Im satisfied that the investment  store  pods  were a high risk investment. They were not 
regulated whether or not they were  a UCIS. The investments were potentially  illiquid  and 
unsuitable for Mr P. I think if Mr P had been advised  not to invest  in store pods that he would 
have followed that advice.
The adviser did set out some  risks of investing  in store pods  in his suitability report. These 
were:
Investment in a single undertaking or having one investment as a large  part of a 
scheme's assets brings  considerable  risk.
The buyer may grant a lease for a term of 6 years to the Seller at fixed rents that are 
stepped throughout the term.  This is an attractive  option for the Buyer  as it would 
appear to provide  a guaranteed income for 6 years after purchasing  the property, 
however after the initial period stated, there is no guarantee of occupancy  or rate of 
return.
You may not always  be able to secure  a tenant and if there is a prolonged period of 
unnocupancy [sic], surplus funds may have to be used up to cover the annual SIPP 
fees, service charge,  buildings  insurance and electricity rent in addition to the 
nominal ground rent during  the term, you may also be required to make contributions 
to the scheme  if there are insufficient funds available to cover the fees.
You must consider the potential marketability carefully in respect of a specialist  
commercial property  such as this. It will have to be sold in order for you to secure 
pension benefits  at your chosen  retirement  age via an annuity.
The investment  comes with a buy back guarantee which  does reduce the inherent 
illiquidity risk of this type of asset, however there  is little to back  up this guarantee 
apart from the word  of the company.
The adviser went on to say: I recommend  that your fund  is not placed within one asset 
class and should form part of a diversified portfolio across  a number of asset 
classes. However, in my view this does not go far enough. I think suitable advice should 
have been not to invest in store pods. If that advice  had been given I do not see any reason  
why Mr P would have transferred to a SIPP. I think that given  a realistic assessment of his 
attitude to risk as balanced, or medium, that a standard personal pension would have been  
suitable for his needs. I think the extra charges normally  associated  with a SIPP  were  not 
justified.
I think if Mr P had been advised  not to transfer  to the SIPP  that he would have followed that 
advice.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr P into to the position he would  probably now be in if he had been given 
suitable advice.  I think Mr P would have invested  differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done, but Im satisfied that what  Ive set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr P's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should  the firm do?
To compensate Mr P fairly,  the firm must:
Compare the performance of Mr P's investment  with that of the benchmark  shown. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
Ref: DRN39615604payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If there is a loss, the firm should ideally pay an amount into Mr P's pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount 
paid should allow for the effect  of charges  and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.
I think its unlikely the firm will be able to pay the compensation  into Mr P's pension 
plan. So, it should  pay that amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into 
the plan, it would have provided a taxable income  when he takes the benefits. 
Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced  to notionally allow  for any income tax 
that would otherwise  have been  paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr P's expected marginal rate of 
tax in retirement. I think Mr P is likely  to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement.  The 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, as Mr P would have  
been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the 
compensation.
It is very likely that Mr P will have to maintain the SIPP  for a period of as the store 
pods cannot be sold, which  will prevent the SIPP from being closed. If the firm is 
unable to buy the store pods from the SIPP provider,  they should  pay Mr P five years  
worth of SIPP fees to compensate him for these  costs.  
Pay Mr P £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the loss to his pension 
funds.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple a 
year from 
date of 
decision to 
date of 
payment 
The firm should add interest as set out above. Income  tax may be payable on any interest 
paid. If the firm deducts income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr P how much has been 
taken off. The firm should give Mr P a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. This is complicated where an 
investment is illiquid (meaning it could  not be readily  sold on the open  market) as in this 
case. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. The 
firm should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value 
acceptable to the pension  provider.  This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as I set out above.
Ref: DRN39615605The firm may require  that Mr P provides an undertaking  to pay the firm any amount he may 
receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred on drawing money from the pension plan. The firm will need 
to meet  any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr P wanted capital growth  and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr P's circumstances and risk attitude.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Anthony  Feeney Financial Services  should pay 
the amount calculated  as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3961560