K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Amigo  Loans Ltd lent money to her that she could not afford  to repay.  
background
Mrs H entered into two loans with Amigo  Loans one in 2012  and the second in 2016. This 
complaint relates  to her 2016 loan.
Mrs H says that the loan was unaffordable and that had proper  checks  been carried  out 
Amigo Loans would have realised this. She said it was not sufficient to say that the loan was 
affordable just because the guarantor could afford it. At the time of the loan, Mrs H says she 
was in financial difficulty and had county court judgement (CCJs) against her which were 
recorded on her credit  report. Mrs H says she was not asked for a copy of her bank 
statements or proof of income and that her expenses were  not adequately  checked. Had her 
bank statements been provided she says these  would have shown that she had a problem 
with gambling.
Amigo Loans says that it carried  out an income  and expenditure assessment before the loan 
was provided. It says Mrs H said she earned £2,000 each month and had around £1,000 of 
expenses. It verified  Mrs Hs income  through an external service and her expenditure figure 
was compared  to national averages. It says based  on the information it received the 
repayments were affordable.
Amigo Loans says Mrs H explained the reason for the loan was home  improvements. She 
was questioned on this and provided  further  explanation  of why the loan was needed. It 
discussed Mrs Hs other  creditors with her to ensure  these payments were  included in her 
assessment. It says Mrs H did not make  it aware  of her gambling at the time.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She thought that Amigo Loans had carried out 
adequate checks  and said it was reasonable that it relied on the information Mrs H provided. 
She said that Amigo Loans  was not required to ask for copies of bank statements.
Ms H did not accept our investigators view. She said that more questions  should have been 
asked about her expenditure and the multiple loan application searches  that were  recorded 
on her credit  file. She reiterated that she was not asked for proof of her income.
Mrs H also raised  a concern about  a data beach in the information she had been sent by 
Amigo Loans in response to the subject access request.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs H entered into a £7,500 loan with Amigo Loans  in 2016. The loan was repayable over 
five years with monthly repayment amounts of just under £300.
Before the loan was provided, Amigo Loans carried out an income  and expenditure 
assessment and a credit  check. It is reasonable that Amigo  Loans relied on the information 
Mrs H provided  but it is also reasonable that it would  have asked  questions  if any of the 
information gathered  raised concerns.
Ref: DRN32060702Mrs H said that her monthly income  was £2,000. Amigo Loans said that it carried out a 
verification check which  supported  this figure.  I think based  on this it was reasonable to 
accept Mrs Hs income figure and I note that her bank  statements show an income  at the 
time of just over £2,000.
In terms of expenses,  Amigo Loans asked questions about  Mrs Hs housing  costs and 
utilities, transport costs,  insurance, and telephone / internet costs. Mrs H provided 
information about these and also that her partner paid certain  costs.  Amigo Loans  says that 
it checks expenses against an external  source.  Again, I do not find it unreasonable  that 
Amigo Loans accepted Mrs Hs figures in regard to her normal  living expenses.
Based on the income and expenses information  the loan repayments  appeared affordable. 
However, Amigo Loans also carried out a credit check and this contained information that I 
think should have  raised concerns.
Amigo Loans provides loans  to customers that may not have good credit  scores.  The credit 
information received  by Amigo  Loans  showed that Mrs H had eight county court  judgements 
of which  five had been satisfied. Of the three remaining Mrs H says on the call that the 
largest one had also been satisfied.
Given Mrs Hs credit file it is reasonable to expect Amigo  Loans to have asked further 
questions to understand Mrs Hs financial situation.
I have listened  to the call that happened  between Mrs H and Amigo Loans. On this Mrs Hs 
income and expenses are discussed  and I dont find that it was unreasonable  to rely on the 
information Mrs H provided. The judgements  on Mrs Hs credit  file are also discussed and it 
is explained that allocations need to be made  for payments towards these. This is when 
Mrs H explains  about one judgement having  been satisfied. I note that Mrs H is told she 
should budget an amount towards her defaulted  accounts and active  judgements and that 
this can be as little or as much as she likes. I think that further questions  about the amounts 
due could have  been asked at this point.
However, on the call Mrs H does allocate an amount to the outstanding judgements  and 
defaulted accounts. This is taken into account and her disposable income still suggests her 
repayments would be affordable.  
On the call, a discussion  also takes place asking why Mrs H doesnt have savings given her 
disposable income. Mrs H explains this. 
Based on the call, I think that Amigo Loans  did carry out further checks  because  of the 
information in Mrs Hs credit file. It asked questions about  her payments to creditors and also 
why she didnt have  savings given her disposable  income. It was reasonable that it relied on 
the information Mrs H provided. Therefore in this case I think  that Amigo Loans did carry out 
sufficient affordability checks. 
Mrs H has said that copies of her bank statements should have been checked.  Amigo  Loans 
was not required  to do this, only to carry out proportionate checks. I appreciate  that had it 
asked for bank statements it would have seen  that Mrs H was spending significant amounts  
on gambling. However as Mrs H didnt make  Amigo Loans aware of this issue and it was not 
required to ask for her statements I dont  find it did anything  wrong  by relying  on the 
information it had gathered.
Ref: DRN32060703I also note that Mrs H has maintained  her repayments on the loan.
Mrs H has also raised a concern about the response to her subject access request. She has 
said that Amigo Loans is looking into this but she hasnt had a response. As this is a 
separate complaint I have not considered  this further. However I note that it is the role of the 
Information Commissioners Office  to decide if a business has breached data protection. We 
can consider any impact a breach has had on Mrs H. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3206070