K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  that NCI Vehicle Rescue Plc (NCI)  cancelled his car insurance policy,  and 
applied cancellation  charges.
background
Mr M took out a car insurance  policy with NCI through an application  he made online on 11 
July 2018. Mr M was sent a welcome  pack. The welcome pack set out what further 
information was required from Mr M so that his policy could remain active.  It was explained  
that the information was required within 14 days, and there was a risk of his policy  being  
cancelled and/or subject to charges  if this wasnt done. 
On 23 July Mr M called  NCI and told it that hed be returning the outstanding documents on 
25 July. As these werent received,  on 26 July NCI wrote to Mr M explaining that all 
outstanding documents were required by 12 noon on 30 July, and failure to do this will result 
in a final non-reversible cancellation  being sent meaning cover will not continue. 
As Mr M didnt return the requested information,  his policy was cancelled. NCI wrote  to Mr M 
on 6 August confirming  this, and also setting out the fees owed by Mr M because  of the 
cancellation. The total fees payable  were £152.56.  
Mr M complained to NCI about  the amount he was being chased for following the 
cancellation. NCI explained that it received a reduced refund from the insurer  to cover the 
period the insurance was in place  for, and administration charges. NCI also added its own 
administration charges which resulted in an outstanding balance  being payable by Mr M. 
Mr M was unhappy with the response from NCI. He referred his complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator said NCI had acted fairly. Mr M didnt agree  with this, and asked for his complaint 
to be decided by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the case, I agree with 
our adjudicators findings, and so I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
The welcome letter sent to Mr M on 11 July explained that Mr M must return  the requested 
documents within 14 days to avoid cancellation and/or any related charge. I think  NCI made 
it reasonably clear to Mr M that there was a risk of his policy being cancelled  if the requested 
information wasnt returned on time.  I think its fair to say that Mr M was aware  of, and 
understood this risk, because he contacted NCI on 23 July and agreed to send  the 
requested information  by 25 July. But this didnt happen. 
Even though  Mr M didnt  send the information  when he said he would, NCI sent made  further 
attempts to call Mr M and write to him, providing  a further opportunity  to send in the 
requested information.  I think  this was fair, especially  given the earlier warning about  
cancellation and the importance  of sending in the information as soon as possible.  Mr M 
didnt respond  by the deadline given of 30 July, and so his policy  was cancelled. 
I can appreciate Mr M mustve been disappointed by this when he found out. In considering 
the actions taken by NCI I think they acted reasonably by setting out clearly what  Mr M 
Ref: DRN31159242would need to send in, and highlighting the risk of cancellation and charges if the requested 
information wasnt provided. As Mr M didnt provide the requested information on time, I 
cant say NCIs decision to cancel  the policy was unfair. 
By arranging  insurance with NCI, Mr M agreed to their Terms  of Business. Ive seen that 
these explained  that the NCI would charge up to £75 plus the full commission  payable for 
the policy in the event  of cancellation  of the policy. 
NCI explained that the cost of insurance was £379.81 which was paid by NCI to the insurer  
at the time the policy was taken out. When it was cancelled, NCI received a returned  
payment of £350.70.  NCI has explained  that the deduction was for the time of cover and 
insurer administration fees.  The amount  deducted by the insurer  isnt something wed 
comment on as this complaint is about NCI. 
Of the £350.70 received, NCI deducted  the actual cost of the insurance  (£379.81),  and also 
the additional charges as explained in its Terms of Business.  This included the cancellation 
fee (£75), and reclaimed commission (£39.14), and the reclaimed discount  (£9.31), which  
resulted in a payment of £152.56 owed. NCI agreed to waive  the cancellation fee, and 
reclaimed commission, and this reduced the outstanding balance to £38.42.  
Having looked  at what was explained in the Terms  of Business about what  charges would 
apply in the event of cancellation, I think NCI have acted fairly  in applying these charges 
when Mr Ms policy was cancelled. NCI agreed to remove  the charges  for the cancellation 
fee and reclaimed commission and I wont be asking them  to do anymore. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because the offer NCI Vehicle Rescue Plc 
has made to Mr M is fair and reasonable. I leave it to Mr M to decide whether to accept this 
offer by the date specified below.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3115924