K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about CIGNA Europe  Insurance Company SA-NVs decision to 
withdraw his personal  accident insurance policy.
background
In November 1986, Mr C took out a personal accident insurance  policy  with CIGNA. The 
policy renewed each  year.
In January 2019, CIGNA wrote to Mr C to explain it was going to stop providing  personal 
accident cover. This meant that when his current period of cover expired in November 2019  
he would  need  to find an alternative  provider  if he wanted to remain insured.
Mr C complained to us. Hed understood that his policy would continue until he was 85.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She was satisfied 
that CIGNA was entitled to make  a commercial decision to withdraw from the personal 
accident insurance market and that it wasnt obliged to continue offering cover  to Mr C.
Mr C didnt accept the adjudicators findings and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy is renewable  annually. The terms of the policy  explain that CIGNA will provide 
cover as described for the twelve month period of the policy.  There  is no promise that the 
policy will continue to renew indefinitely.
CIGNA made  the commercial decision to withdraw from the personal accident insurance  
market. I am satisfied that it was entitled to do this. It was a decision which  affected  all its 
policyholders. I cant reasonably tell it that it must continue to offer cover  to Mr C.
CIGNA wrote to Mr C more than nine months  before his policy  was due to end. It explained 
that it was doing this so he had sufficient time to find cover  from an alternative  provider 
should he wish.  It also offered  advice on how to find an alternative provider. I consider this 
was reasonable.
While I sympathise with Mr C who had expected  that his policy would continue until he was 
85, I cant reasonably  conclude  that CIGNA has done anything wrong.     
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN31789422Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3178942