K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Santander UK Plc restricted his account  and didnt communicate  
sufficiently with him. Hed like more compensation from them. 
background
On the 10 March 2018 Santander restricted Mr Hs account. On the same day he attempted 
to make two withdrawals from a cash machine but wasnt able to do so. He made  contact 
with Santander  who told him hed be contacted by the security department  within 48 hours  
but this didnt happen. On the 14 March 2018 Mr H visited his local branch and was allowed 
to withdraw some money   but he was unable to speak with anyone  about the block.
On the 14 March 2018 he contacted the business  and explained that the large  transactions 
coming in and out of his account  related  to an inheritance. Mr H again phoned on the 
16 March 2018  but wasnt given any more  details. On the 19 March 2018 Santander 
unblocked Mr Hs account but didnt notify him and he only found out on the 20 March 2018  
when he visited his local branch.
Mr H wasnt happy that Santander had blocked his accounts and didnt  keep him informed.  
He said it was embarrassing he couldnt  withdraw money on two occasions, two cheques  
had been stopped and he had to borrow money  due to this. 
Santander accepted that the communication hadnt  been satisfactory, and they could have 
unrestricted his account sooner. They initially offered Mr H £100 in compensation before 
increasing this to £170. Mr H didnt think  this was sufficient so complained to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Hs complaint. He thought  that Santander could have 
removed the restriction sooner  and should  have communicated with C better. But he felt that 
£170 compensation was fair. 
Mr H said he deserves  a larger amount of compensation because of:
-the lack of communication from Santander
-the delay in unblocking his accounts
-the time he spent  on the telephone, over 3 hours
As Mr H didnt  agree its been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Im come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why below. 
account restriction
I understand that Mr H is unhappy with the restriction placed on his accounts, but 
businesses have a legal  obligation  to protect  the security of their accounts and to comply 
with various laws and regulations.  Mr H agreed  to these terms as a customer and I think 
these are reasonable. Im satisfied that Santander  was acting in line with its legal and 
regulatory obligations and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the account  when 
putting the restriction in place. Having  looked at the account activity  I can see why 
Ref: DRN33378122Santander had concerns  and decided to review his account. So I dont think the bank did 
anything wrong  when it blocked  Mr Hs account and didnt allow  him access  to his funds. 
Mr H has raised  that Santander  took from the 10 March to the 19 March  2018 to unblock  his 
accounts. Santander have accepted that they could have removed the block sooner and Im 
satisfied this is the case considering Santander were provided with everything they needed 
on the 14 March  2018. Ive considered the impact of this on Mr H  and I think  its fair to 
conclude that the increased length  of time Mr Hs accounts were blocked did cause him 
inconvenience. But, Im satisfied most of the impacts  Mr H suffered from the restriction   
being unable  to withdraw money from three ATM machines, having to borrow money and 
two cheques being returned  unpaid   wouldnt have been avoided  if Mr Hs account  was 
unrestricted closer to the 14 March 2018. 
communication
Santander have  also accepted that their level of communication regarding  the restriction 
could have been better. In particular  the banks failure to contact Mr H to discuss  the block  
despite advising theyd  do so  and not notifying  Mr H it was lifted  on the 14 March 2018. 
Ive thought about the impact of the banks lack of communication  with Mr H but Im satisfied 
£170 fairly compensates Mr H for the anxiety and stress caused.  
I understand this will be disappointing to Mr H but I dont  think  Santander need to do 
anymore here. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3337812