K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says MYJAR  Limited (MYJAR) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one instalment loan MYJAR  provided to Mrs A in July 2017. Mrs As 
loan details are as follows:
Loan Date  taken Date  repaid Instalments Amount Highest  
repayment
1 1 July 2017 outstanding 6 £900 £267
Our adjudicator thought about  Mrs As complaint and felt MYJAR had lent to her
responsibly, so they didnt  uphold her complaint. Mrs A disagreed  on the basis (amongst 
other things)  that MYJAR  didnt check her finances  or personal  circumstances to see if she 
was able to pay back the loan. So, the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
I have only looked  at Mrs As complaint about irresponsibe lending. Mrs A has raised several 
other complaint points  after our adjudicator had issued her assessment and Mrs A has been 
informed of how to take these  further.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN36920242There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mrs A could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs As complaint.
For Mrs As loan she needed to repay a maximum monthly amount £267 during  the term of 
the loan. So it is this amount that MYJAR  needed  to considered when deciding  whether to 
provide this loan.  
Ive seen a record  of the information Mrs A provided  when she completed her loan
application. Mrs A said she had a monthly  income  of £2500 and she has declared regular 
monthly outgoings of £500. This left her with a disposable  income  of £2,000.  So, it looked 
like she had enough disposal  income to make her payments under this loan agreement.
At this point in the lending relationship I think it was reasonable of MYJAR to have
relied on what Mrs A told them about her expenditure. It is of course possible that had      
Mrs A taken further lending then MYJAR,  as a reasonable  lender may have needed to have 
carried out further, more in-depth checks.  But considering  Mrs A only took one loan, I dont 
think it had yet reached the stage where  MYJAR  needed to carry out further checks, such
as verifying this information.
Ive thought about Mrs As comments about what her actual credit report may have  shown at
the time  that she had been  late in making  payments  and had defaults. But there is nothing 
in the credit check completed by MYJAR  that would have been  of any concern to it at the 
time it lent this loan to Mrs A. No County Court  judgments or defaults are recorded. Any 
short-term loans from other lenders look like they were taken out before or after this loan 
was provided by MYJAR.  And, as Ive mentioned above, I dont think MYJAR was at a stage 
where it needed to verify the information that Mrs A had provided  or had made  further 
enquires with her to establish whether she had any existing short-term  credit commitments.
I havent seen  any further information  that shows its likely MYJAR was made  aware
of any financial problems  Mrs A mightve  been  having. Or anything that wouldve prompted it
to investigate Mrs As circumstances further. So, I think it was reasonable for MYJAR to rely 
on the information it obtained.
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments  MYJAR did for Mrs As
Ref: DRN36920243loan was proportionate. And I think its decision to lend Mrs As loan was reasonable. So,
Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
I appreciate that this decision  will come as a disappointment for Mrs A, but I want  to assure 
her that Ive thought about and considered  all the evidence that has been  made  available  to 
me.
Based on the information I have to hand, there  appears to be an outstanding  balance due 
for the loan. If MYJAR still has the loan it has an obligation to treat Mrs A fairly when dealing 
with her.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont think Mrs As complaint should  be upheld.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2020.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3692024