K820x#14complaint
Mr C in unhappy with how Amtrust  Europe Limited (Amtrust) handled  a claim he made under 
his buildings insurance policy. Any references  to Amtrust also include its agents.
background
Mr C owned a property  which  he rented  out. In April 2018, after the tenancy agreement  
ended, he went  to inspect the property. When he arrived he found there had been  an escape 
of water,  causing  significant damage  to the bathroom floor, kitchen,  dining  room and living  
room. 
Amtrust sent a loss adjuster  to visit the property  and assess  the damage. On 14 May, they 
produced their first inspection report. At this point, Mr C expressed concern about the time 
taken to settle the claim  he was keen to have the repairs  carried out as soon as possible 
so he could rent the property again. 
Over the next few weeks, Amtrust carried out an investigation into how long the property had 
been unoccupied before the escape  of water  took place. It needed to be satisfied the claim 
could be accepted under  the policy terms so asked for various documents  from Mr C. When 
it was satisfied less than 60 days had passed  from the end of the tenancy  to Mr C visiting the 
property, the claim was accepted.
Following this, there was then some disagreement  between Mr C and the loss adjusters over 
how to assess the extent of the damage, and the level of repairs  that would be needed. Mr C 
wanted to appoint a chartered  surveyor to assess the property but the loss adjuster didnt 
think it was necessary, and said it wouldnt cover  the cost of such  an inspection.
Mr C proceeded to appoint a chartered surveyor, who submitted their scope of works to 
Amtrust. It considered the scope of works  to be excessive and asked  Mr C to provide  three  
independent quotes. Mr C also provided  a quote from his own company, which  Amtrust  
considered against the loss adjusters estimate of the works.
In August,  Amtrust made an offer to Mr C. It said he could accept a cash  settlement figure of 
£9,000, proceed  with works totalling  £11,969  or provide further  evidence  that there  were  
costs Amtrust had not allowed  for. 
By this point  Mr C was unhappy with the overall handling of the claim. Hed already made  
two complaints about the time taken to settle  this claim and explained the impact  the delay 
was having on him. Amtrust didnt think there had been any avoidable delays and it was the 
case that sometimes claims  of this nature took time to resolve. 
However, Amtrust did look at the settlement offered to Mr C in August. And, in September,  
this was increased. Mr C could either accept a cash settlement of £21,000 or proceed  with 
works to the value  of £27,238.50.
Mr C made  another  complaint to Amtrust,  and it still didnt feel there  had been  any delays in 
its handling of the claim.  However, in October, Amtrust put a final offer to Mr C, saying it 
would offer a cash settlement of £30,000  plus VAT. Mr C accepted  this and asked Amtrust to 
pay him an interim payment so his company  could  start the repair works. Amtrust initially 
said it would  pay £15,000, which it later increased to £18,000 at Mr Cs request. 
Ref: DRN37781822Amtrust also looked at its handling of the claim again. And it offered £400 to Mr C. It said 
that while it didnt  agree there had been delays, it recognised the upset and worry caused by 
the large change  to the settlement offers it had made.
Mr C didnt think the compensation from Amtrust  was reflective of the worry and upset it had 
caused him. His concerns were passed to one of our investigators who thought  the payment 
offered was a fair and reasonable resolution to Mr Cs complaint. But, as he didnt  agree,  this 
matter has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made by both sides.
Ill start by considering  the handling  of the claim. In the first instance, Amtrust needed to be 
satisfied Mr C had a valid claim  under the terms of his policy. There  was, initially,  some 
uncertainty around whether the property had been  unoccupied for more than 60 days and, 
as a result, Amtrust needed some documentation from Mr C to show when his tenants left 
the property. This wasnt a straightforward matter to decide and Amtrust had all it needed to 
accept the claim had been  made  under the policy terms by June. While I can see this felt a 
very long time to Mr C, having reviewed Amtrusts file, I dont think  there were any excessive 
delays here.  
After the claim had been accepted, there was then some dispute about  the cost of the cost 
of the repairs. Mr C had initially  indicated the repairs could cost in excess of £50,000 
including VAT. This was higher  than the amount initially indicated  by the loss adjuster. As a 
result, Amtrust  asked for additional quotes to be provided so they could be considered 
against the earlier amounts provided. Mr C also arranged for his company to review  the 
quote it had submitted.
Amtrust was in a position to make the first settlement offer to Mr C on 24 August, which Mr C 
declined, saying the cash settlement fell a long way short of the quote  given  by his company. 
As a result, Amtrust increased this offer again  on 21 September and then again in October.  
Im satisfied the claim has been settled in line with the policy terms. 
Mr C has clearly explained  the impact the significant  changes  in the offer had on him and I 
can see this was a worrying  time for him. He explained on a number of occasions that he 
wanted to get the property repaired and ready to be rented out again.  
In its final response from November 2018,  Amtrust  offered  Mr C £400 to reflect  the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by the large  changes  to the settlement offers.  Amtrust  said the 
changes to the settlement offers could and should have been handled better and 
Mr C has said it wasnt clearly explained  to him why the offers kept increasing.
In his complaint  submissions, Mr C has asked for us to direct Amtrust to significantly 
increase the compensation it should pay to him. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C but Im not 
going to do so, and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN37781823Its clear from both sides that settling the claim wasnt  a straightforward process. There  is a 
significant difference between the initial offer and amount the claim was settled for. It took 
just over two months from the first offer to the final amount being agreed and interim 
payment being  made. 
While I can see that Mr C was keen to restore the property in order to get it ready to be 
rented out again, I think the payment of £400 Amtrust has made  is a fair and reasonable 
resolution to this complaint. I think claims of this nature are often, in themselves, stressful 
experiences. 
I havent seen  anything to support Mr Cs view Amtrust treated him unfairly or took an overly  
long time to settle his claim.  Having considered  all the circumstances, Im satisfied the 
compensation payment of £400  fairly  takes  into account where there were some delays, and 
also the inconvenience, worry and confusion Mr C experienced  during  the claim.  Im satisfied 
it also takes into account the impact  of the changing offers with no explanation  had on Mr C, 
who was clearly frustrated by the changes in amounts. However, I think  the payment of £400  
is a fair resolution to this complaint. It follows; Im not going to direct  Amtrust to increase the 
compensation its paid to Mr C. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Amtrust  Europe Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3778182