K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1999 to protect a mortgage. Mr W says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Cheltenham & Gloucester 
(C&G) at the time) mis-sold him the policy. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Lloyds throughout this decision rather  than C&G.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   including everything thats been said and 
provided throughout.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
There is limited  information available in this complaint   which, while a challenge, isnt 
unusual or unreasonable given how much time has passed since the event in question. But 
when evidence is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I have to make 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  however limited the 
information might be.
Mr W has made a number  of complaint points  which include not being aware that PPI had 
been added  to his mortgage  and not being  told the policy  was optional. I dont doubt the 
honesty of these recollections.  But he hasnt  told us about what  happened  in much detail. 
And the policy was sold nearly 20 years ago. So those are factors I have  to consider when 
weighing things up.
Lloyds has provided  us with a copy of Mr Ws PPI proposal form  on which there is some 
information about him and his mortgage. But theres  nothing on the form to suggest  he had 
to take the policy.  And, in my view, some of the language suggests he did have a choice that 
he could make. 
Whats more, it does look like Mr W signed a direct debit for the policy. And as that was 
followed up by Lloyds  in January 2000  when it wrote to him to provide him with his policy  
schedule, Im satisfied that its more  likely  he did know that he had been sold PPI.
Overall, therefore, Im not persuaded that theres  the evidence  to argue that Mr W didnt 
agree to take PPI or that he did so not knowing that he didnt have to. 
Lloyds says that it recommended the PPI to Mr W  which means it had to make sure it was 
suitable for him given his needs and circumstances. And based on what  Ive seen of those,  
I think it was right him.
I say this because  Mr W wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI and 
he seems to have had a need for it. I know he says that he was entitled to some  sick pay 
from his employer. But he was taking on a significant and long-term  financial commitment  on 
a secured basis. His repayments were important repayments to maintain had he found 
himself out of or unable to work. And as the policy would have helped him to keep up with 
Ref: DRN33897172the repayments in that situation  over a reasonable period of time instead of having  to rely on 
his sick pay, which he could have used elsewhere, Im not persuaded the recommendation 
was unsuitable.
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr W, Lloyds also had to give him clear  
information. So thats what Ive looked  at next.
It is possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable overall, Im not 
persuaded better information about the policy would have led him to make  a different 
decision and not take the cover as it looks like it would have been  useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 April 2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3389717