K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained that Sainsburys Bank Plc (Sainsburys)  hasnt properly  
considered their claim under section 140 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
background
Mr and Mrs M bought membership of a holiday club in March 2015.  The club worked by 
providing Mr and Mrs M with points that could then be cashed  in to buy holidays. The 
membership cost £7,200  and was paid by an initial deposit of £950 paid by card with the 
balance being  paid by bank transfer.  
Mr and Mrs M paid the balance by taking out a £6,250 loan with Sainsburys.  They  said that 
this was arranged  by the holiday  club and they werent given sight of any of the 
documentation at the time it was arranged. 
Mr and Mrs M, through their representatives,  said there was a problem with the holiday  club 
and thought there was a claim that Sainsburys needed to answer under s.140 CCA. They  
mentioned a number  of problems, including misrepresentations  the holiday club had made  
and a commission that had been  paid to the holiday club by Sainsburys, which  made the 
relationship between themselves and Sainsburys unfair. 
Sainsburys said that it didnt have any agreement with the holiday club and nobody 
arranged loans on its behalf. Instead  it lent money  to Mr and Mrs M directly. It recorded that 
when Mr and Mrs M applied  for the loan, they said they needed it for home improvements, 
but they were  free to use the loan proceeds to buy whatever they wanted. Sainsburys says 
it didnt pay anything to the holiday club directly, so this wasnt a point of sale loan and so 
s.140A CCA couldnt apply to this claim.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr and Mrs Ms complaint,  but they didnt think it was 
one that we could uphold.  She agreed with Sainsburys that the way the loan was set up 
meant it wasnt responsible for anything that the holiday club had done  wrong.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for the complaint to be looked at again by an 
ombudsman. They said that the loan had been applied for online in the holiday clubs  offices 
and it was the holiday club that decided  to apply to Sainsburys  and fill in the application. The 
paperwork was then sent to them to sign and return,  but the decision to take out the loan 
had already been made at that stage. So this effectively was a point of sale loan. 
As the parties didnt agree with our investigator, this complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
our investigator reached.
Id like to say at the outset  that Im aware  of the problems Mr and Mrs M will have faced with 
their holiday  club. In 2018 it closed and some  of its directors were  subsequently convicted of 
criminal offences relating to the company, so I think there is evidence  to support their 
complaint that membership was mis-sold to them. Although I sympathise with the position in 
Ref: DRN35535952which theyve found themselves, I dont think Sainsburys has any legal liability  in respect of 
these concerns. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M paid for their holiday club membership by taking out a loan with Sainsburys.  
That loan was covered by the CCA, which offers  certain consumer protections  if the 
necessary conditions were met. Mr and Mrs M have tried to bring  a claim under s.140 CCA, 
but that provision  was repealed some  time ago. I have  assumed they wish to make a claim 
under s.140A CCA  that their relationship with Sainsburys  was unfair.
Only a court has the power  to determine whether the relationship  between  Mr and Mrs M 
and Sainsburys was unfair for the purposes of s.140A CCA. But in coming  to a fair and 
reasonable decision, I must consider all relevant law. So I need to decide  whether I think it 
likely a court  would find that the relationship was unfair.
A claim  can be brought  under s.140A  CCA if a debtor,  in this case  Mr and Mrs M, thinks  a 
credit agreement creates an unfair relationship  between themselves and the creditor,  here 
Sainsburys. Such unfairness can arise from the agreement,  or the agreement  taken 
alongside a related agreement, and can be down  to things done by the creditor  or by 
another on behalf of the creditor. Mr and Mrs M have said it was the holiday club that said 
things on Sainsburys behalf  that have caused  the unfairness and that their holiday  club 
membership is a related  agreement for the purposes of the CCA.
But the relevant  case  law (see Plevin v. Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61) 
has shown that on behalf of the creditor means  there needs to be an agency relationship  
between the creditor  and the person whose acts or omissions have  made the relationship  
unfair. So there needs to be such a relationship between Sainsburys and the travel club.
There can be an agency relationship put in place by s.56 CCA, which deems  that the things 
said by the holiday  club were done as an agent of Sainsburys, but only if there is a debtor-
creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement in place. In Mr and Mrs Ms case, as they were paid the 
loan proceeds  and Sainsburys didnt pay the holiday club directly, there would only be a 
DCS agreement if there were pre-existing arrangements in place between Sainsburys and 
the holiday club and Sainsburys knew  how Mr and Mrs M were  going to use the money (see 
s.11 and 12 CCA).  
So I need to consider whether there is agency  relationship between Sainsburys and the 
holiday club due to s.56 CCA  or for any other  reason.
Ive seen a copy  of the loan agreement.  Its made  out in the names of both Mr and Mrs M 
and sets out the amount  borrowed along with other information, such as the term of the loan 
and interest rates. There is a section on the agreement  titled  Your Credit Intermediary  
and that has been left blank. Mr and Mrs M both singed the agreement  in March  2015. The 
loan agreement makes  no mention of the holiday club.
The parts of the agreement that are personal to Mr and Mrs M have been typed up and 
printed, which  fits with what they said happened  that the application was filled in online by 
the holiday club and then they signed and returned a printed copy.  I accept what  they have  
said, so I think the holiday  club filled in the application form and Mr and Mrs M accepted the 
offer later. But I cant  see that Sainsburys were aware,  or could have  been  aware,  that the 
online application was filled in by the holiday  club and not Mr and Mrs M.
Ref: DRN35535953Mr and Mrs M said that they didnt tell Sainsburys  they were applying  for the loan for home  
improvements, that was entered  by the holiday  club, and they werent given the chance  to 
check the information given. But I think Mr and Mrs M had the chance to read through  the 
loan agreement at home and question  it before taking  out the loan, and I cant see they 
questioned anything with Sainsburys. But in any event,  I dont  think  it makes a difference to 
the outcome of this complaint that the purpose  for the loan was entered incorrectly.  Thats 
because the proceeds of the loan were  paid directly to Mr and Mrs M, so they could choose 
what to do with them. 
Sainsburys has said that it didnt  work  with the holiday club and, in fact, it doesnt offer 
finance for any third-party companies as point  of sale loans. I dont think there were any 
arrangements between Sainsburys and the holiday club for Sainsburys to provide finance to 
the holiday clubs customers, or for any other purpose. As Sainsburys had no knowledge  
that the money advanced was going  to be used to finance the holiday club membership, the 
transaction cant become a DCS agreement. And, in turn, there can be no statutory agency 
under s.56 CCA. 
I also dont think there  was any other agency  between the holiday club and Sainsburys. In 
fact I cant  see there was a relationship of any sort between them.  It follows, I dont think the 
holiday club did anything on behalf  of Sainsburys, so I dont think a court would  find the 
credit agreement was unfair  for any of the reasons put forward  by Mr and Mrs M. Therefore, 
I dont think Sainsburys has acted unfairly  in turning down their claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint against  Sainsburys 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  07 May 2021.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3553595