K820x#14complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain about  the declinature of a claim made under their travel  insurance 
policy with Europaische  Reiseversicherung  AG (Europaische).  
background
Mrs and Mr R held a single trip travel insurance policy with Europaische. The trip was in 
June 2018. Cover for cancellation, however, was in place from the time the policy  was 
purchased on 22 January  2018.
On 21 April 2018 Mr R cancelled the trip due to the need  for a knee replacement, which was 
booked for 17 May 2018. After reviewing the medical history, Europaische declined the 
claim. This was because  Mrs R had not informed it at proposal time that a knee replacement 
had been recommended  for her knee.  They thought  cause for cancellation was the 
replacement of the knee and therefore  was a pre-existing  condition.  Mrs R was unhappy with 
Europaisches response, and brought her complaint to this service for consideration. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and initially upheld  the complaint.  This was 
because they were of the view that Mrs R did disclose  that treatment, in the form of 
injections, was going to be carried out on her right knee. Europaische responded and 
referred our adjudicator  to a letter from Mrs Rs doctor. It confirmed that Mrs R was aware of 
the need for the replacement of her knee when she took the insurance out. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint  after reviewing this information. They 
considered the condition  should have been more fully disclosed. Mrs R did not agree. She 
has said she never had a date for the knee  replacement,  therefore was not awaiting an 
operation, and that she had not seen  the doctors  letter. The case has therefore been 
passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be upholding the complaint either, Ill explain why. 
I have listened  to the sales call from when the policy was taken out. Mrs R stated the only 
treatment she was due to receive  was injections for her knee due to her arthritis. She also 
confirmed that she had no plans to have  a knee replacement. 
I have looked  at the medical letter dated 15 November 2017. It states that the only solution 
to Mrs Rs problems is a total knee replacement and that this was discussed at length.  It 
goes on to say that Mrs R was happy to proceed  but didnt want to have the replacement 
done in the winter months, so would  arrange to have  the replacement early  in 2018. 
I appreciate Mrs R says she didnt see this letter, however,  I am satisfied that she should 
have been aware  of its general content,  as it was based on a conversation  she had been a 
part of. If her medical consultant didnt tell her this information that is something she would 
have to take up with them. 
Ref: DRN34840952I also note the consultants letter of June 2018  which gives a different scenario concerning 
the 2017 appointment. However  I am not persuaded by this, and find the content  of the 
original letter  more  relevant. 
As the 2017 letter says the knee  replacement was expected in early 2018 I think  Mrs R 
should have mentioned this when proposing for her cover in January 2018. It would have 
been reasonable for her to inform the business  of this, even if a precise date for the 
replacement had not yet been  agreed. I certainly dont think  it fits with her statement in 
January 2018  that no knee replacement was intended. 
In addition, the terms and conditions of the policy state:
The insurance will also NOT  cover you for any of your pre-existing medical conditions 
whether diagnosed or not, if you have any undiagnosed symptoms that require attention,  or 
investigation in the future  (that is symptoms for which you are awaiting 
investigations/consultations, or awaiting results  of investigations, where the underlying  cause
has not been established), or are awaiting any medical procedure, or surgery.
A pre-existing medical condition is defined as follows:
Pre-existing medical condition 
 Any past or current medical condition that has given rise to symptoms,  or for which  any 
form of treatment, or prescribed medication,  medical  consultation, investigation, or follow-
up/check-up, has been required, or received, during the 2 years prior to the commencement 
of cover under this policy and/or  prior to any trip
In this case, I think Mrs R should have been aware  of the need for her knee  replacement  
when making her proposal for cover, it was therefore not an unforeseeable event, and was a 
pre-existing condition. While Europaische  was aware  of Mrs Rs arthritis  and agreed cover 
for this, it was not aware  of the need  for a knee  replacement.  Had it been made aware, I 
dont think they would  have provided cover.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint. I make no award  against Europaische Reiseversicherung AG.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3484095