K821x#15complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the service provided by Harrington  Jones  Ltd (Guernsey) (Harrington 
Jones) when handling  her payment  protection insurance (PPI) claim.  
background
Mrs H instructed Harrington Jones in April 2018  to deal with a PPI claim against Lender G. 
The terms and conditions  explained Harrington Jones  would  charge  a success  fee of 39%  
of the compensation awarded.
Lender G agreed to award compensation on 9 October 2018. The offer letter explained 
please arrange for all parties  to the loan to complete, sign and return  the enclosed 
acceptance form.  
On 15 November Mrs H told Harrington Jones that she was divorced  from the joint policy  
holder, and this happened  seven years before he passed away. Harrington Jones advised 
Mrs H to sign the acceptance form, and contact Lender G about the joint policy holder. 
On 13 December Harrington Jones  were told that Mrs H would need to send proof of ID, a 
copy of the joint policy holders death certificate,  and a grant  of probate  before payment 
could be made. On 17 December, Mrs H was told about these requirements. 
On 29 December, Mrs H sent a copy of her proof  of ID, and the joint policy  holders death  
certificate. On 3 January 2019 Harrington Jones  told Mrs H theyd received all her 
documents, and these  would be sent to Lender G. Mrs H continued  to chase Harrington 
Jones for an update, and was told settlement could take 28 days  to process even after all 
the documents had been sent.
On 16 January Mrs H told Harrington Jones she had sent everything to Lender G directly by 
recorded delivery. Mrs H received payment  from Lender G on 5 February for her share of the 
compensation, and the joint policy holders. Mrs H was subsequently sent a letter from 
Lender G saying that shed been overpaid, and would need to return  the compensation 
share paid out for the joint policy holder. 
Harrington Jones sent Mrs H their invoice of £441.78 for the total compensation received. 
Mrs H paid this, but also complained about the work  shed had to do on her claim.  She said 
she didnt think it was fair that Harrington  Jones had charged their full fee when shed  had to 
do a lot of the chasing in getting  her compensation paid. 
This complaint was originally investigated  by the Legal Ombudsman, but was transferred to 
the Claim Management Ombudsman (a Financial Ombudsman service) as part of the 
change in the regulation  of claims management companies.
The investigator found that Harrington Jones  hadnt acted fairly by charging  Mrs H for the 
compensation paid out by Lender G belonging to the joint policy  holder. The investigator 
recommended Harrington  Jones refund Mrs H the payment shed made for the joint policy 
holders share of the successful claim (£220.89). 
Harrington Jones didnt  agree with the investigators  findings, saying  Mrs H has received the 
benefit of full compensation, so she should pay their success  fee on this amount. As the 
complaint couldnt  be resolved, its been passed  to me for decision.  
Ref: DRN37868552my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reviewed the complaint, Im in 
agreement with the outcome reached by the investigator.  Ill explain why. Ive focused my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent  commented on any specific point its 
because I dont believe its affected  what I think is the right outcome.
Theres no disputing that it was Harrington Jones who put the claim for mis-sold PPI to 
Lender G. However, this was on behalf  of Mrs H only. When Harrington Jones became 
aware that there was a potential joint policy holder, they asked Mrs H to contact Lender G 
about this. I cant see that Harrington Jones took any steps  to verify details of the joint policy 
holder. Its unlikely Lender G wouldve disclosed  any details to Harrington Jones about the 
joint policy holder,  as they didnt have authority for this customer.  
After receiving the settlement form from Lender G, Mrs H told Harrington Jones that the joint 
policy holder had passed away,  and that she was divorced from him. Harrington Jones were 
aware at this point  that they only had authority  from Mrs H for her share of the claim. 
As Mrs H instructed Harrington Jones, I think its fair that she pay them their success fee for 
the PPI refund claimed on her behalf. The evidence shows  that Mrs H was entitled to 50% of 
the total compensation calculated by Lender  G. I cant see that the joint policyholder was a 
customer of Harrington Jones. So I think its fair that Harrington Jones charge their success  
fee on the PPI refund  owed to Mrs H only. 
Mrs H says that she had to chase Lender  G for payment, and it was because of her 
involvement with the claim  that she received compensation. I accept  that Mrs H chased 
Harrington Jones several times after receiving  the offer letter  in October. And it wasnt  until 
February 2019 that payment was made  by Lender  G. 
When looking at the claim history, I think Harrington Jones  couldve taken a more active  role 
in finding out what requirements needed to be met for Lender G to make payment. This 
couldve avoided some of the delays in Mrs H receiving compensation. But its fair to say that 
the delays may have  happened even if Harrington Jones had acted promptly. 
Lender G said payment  could take up to 28 days to be processed once documents  had been 
received. And Mrs H didnt have  all of the documents easily  available  to her, so its likely this 
wouldve taken some time to get. So even if Harrington Jones had acted more promptly, it 
may still have been some  time before compensation was paid. 
Although I think Harrington Jones couldve handled the settlement part of the claim better, 
they still completed work on the claim which led to the successful  outcome. I recognise  that 
Mrs H did do some of the work  herself to speed  up the process in receiving payment from 
Lender G. But I think the compensation Ive directed goes far enough in putting things right 
for Mrs H. So I wont be recommending anymore compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mrs H in having  to contact  Lender  G herself towards the end of the claims 
process. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN37868553Mrs H has already paid Harrington Jones Ltd (Guernsey) £441.78. For the reasons 
explained, Harrington Jones Ltd (Guernsey) should  refund Mrs H £220.89. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3786855