K821x#15complaint
Mrs F is unhappy  as she thinks Kindertons Ltd havent fully repaired her car after it was 
involved in a road traffic accident.
Background
In late December 2018 Mrs F was involved in a road traffic  accident. Her car was damaged  
at the rear by another car reversing into hers whilst  her car was stationery in a car park. As 
she wasnt at fault for the accident,  she didnt  claim on her motor insurance policy.  Mrs F 
used the services of Kindertons, an accident  management  company (AMC).
Kindertons provided  Mrs F with a hire vehicle and arranged for her car to be repaired. They 
also liaised with the third-party  insurers  (TPI) to recover any costs resulting from the 
accident.
Mrs Fs car was repaired and returned to her in late February  2019.  She immediately 
contacted Kindertons as she wasnt happy  all the repairs had been done.  Mrs F said the 
screen console wasnt working, and the off side light cluster  and rear parking sensors hadnt 
been repaired.
Kindertons arranged for the remaining  accident related repairs  to be done. But said the 
problem with the navigation screen  and media system (screen  console) in Mrs Fs car wasnt 
caused by the accident,  and so couldnt arrange  for this to be repaired.
Mrs F wasnt happy with Kindertons response as she said the screen console had been 
working before the accident. She referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said the independent engineers and the garages report  werent clear as to 
why the screen  console wasnt working.  And she wasnt persuaded the reports  showed  this 
hadnt been caused by the accident. She said another report should  be done at a garage of 
Mrs Fs choosing, at Kindertons expense. And for the trouble and upset caused, Kindertons 
should pay Mrs F £125.
Kindertons didnt agree  and provided  a more comprehensive report from the independent 
engineer that explained  why the screen console wouldnt have been caused  by the accident.
Our investigator said Kindertons had acted reasonably by only arranging the repairs caused  
by the accident.  And didnt ask for the further report to be done.  But still said Mrs Fs should 
be paid £125 for trouble and upset.
Mrs F didnt  agree, she reiterated the screen  console had been working before the accident. 
She has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Mrs F had a non-fault  accident and didnt  use her insurance policy to make her claim. 
Instead she used  the services  of Kindertons, an AMC.
Ref: DRN30689852Kindertons in managing Mrs Fs accident claim would have to make  sure that any costs 
incurred on a claim had to be reasonable and mitigated  as they would  be chargeable to the 
TPI. And if the TPI didnt  accept the costs  as having been caused by the accident they could  
refuse to pay. The cost would then have to be covered by, in this case, Mrs F.
I can see Kindertons asked an independent  engineer to assess the damage done to Mrs Fs 
car. The independent engineer didnt work specifically for any of the parties involved in the 
claim and so, made their own assessment.
The independent engineers report said the vehicle has suffered light to moderate 
accidental damage  to the right hand  rear. And detailed the repairs that needed to be done 
and the expected cost of these repairs.
But the report didnt  make any reference to the screen console, so this wasnt  repaired. 
When Mrs F said the screen console wasnt working, the independent engineer  commented  
that it wasnt accident related. 
I can understand the confusion as there appeared to be a reliance on a diagnostic test that 
said, no fault found.  It was clear to Mrs F that her screen console was working  before the 
accident. So, I can understand  her frustration in being told that a fault couldnt  be found,  and 
why shed connect the screen console not working  to the accident.
But the additional comments Kindertons got from the independent engineer I think show why 
Kindertons wouldnt be able to mitigate the cost of repairing  the screen console as an 
accident cost chargeable to the TPI.
Mrs Fs car was parked and not running, as she found the damage on her return  to her car. 
As the independent engineers report says, there would  have been  no live electrics  on the 
vehicle in regards  to the screen being  active  or the parking sensors  being  active. So, the 
report showed there wasnt any clear  identifiable  links between the damages sustained and 
the functionality  issue of the central  display screen.
I can understand Mrs Fs frustration as she has said the screen console was working before  
the accident. But the independent engineer has now explained  in a way a non-expert can 
understand, why this couldnt have been caused  by the accident.  So, Im satisfied 
Kindertons have acted  reasonably in accepting the assessment  made by the independent 
engineer. 
But I do think Mrs F has had additional trouble  and upset, at a difficult  time, by Kindertons 
not getting this clarified sooner. So, I think Kindertons  should pay her £125 for this.
Ref: DRN30689853my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I partially uphold this complaint. And ask Kindertons  Limited  
to:
pay Mrs F £125 for trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3068985