K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about AIG Europe  Limiteds  decision to decline his claim under his 
personal accident insurance  policy.
background
Mr K was a member of the armed forces. He took out a policy with AIG to protect  him in the 
event of suffering  a personal accident. In April 2013, he suffered  an injury to his right knee 
while on exercise overseas. In 2016,  it was decided  that Mr K should be medically  
discharged from the armed services  with effect  from April 2017  because of ongoing 
problems with his knee. Mr K made a claim under his policy.
AIG arranged for Mr K to attend an independent  medical examination (IME)  with Dr L, a 
consultant orthopaedic surgeon. After receiving Dr Ls report, AIG declined  the claim  on the 
grounds that his disability  was not due to the accident but was caused by a pre-existing 
problem which had gradually worsened.
Mr K was unhappy at AIGs decision. He referred his complaint to us. He said that if hed had 
any problem with his knee beforehand, he wouldnt have been passed fit to go on the 
exercise. He maintained  it was the accidental  injury hed sustained  which  had led to his 
medical discharge.
While the complaint was under investigation, Mr K obtained his own IME report  from Dr A, a 
consultant orthopaedic surgeon. Dr A concluded that Mr Ks knee problem was entirely  
attributable to the accident.
After it was presented  with Dr As report,  AIG went back to both Dr L and Dr A to try and 
resolve the difference of opinion. However,  it was unable to do so. It therefore  sought an 
opinion from its independent medical adviser,  Dr W.
Dr W concluded that it was unlikely  that the accident in itself had caused Mr Ks current  level 
of disability. He thought  it was probable that the accident had aggravated an underlying 
condition and brought forward  inevitable  degenerative changes by, at most, one or two 
years. He estimated that Mr K had suffered approximately 30% loss of function  of his knee 
and that 5% of this disability could be attributed to the accident. He further said that 30% 
loss of function to the knee equated to 12% global disability.
In light of Dr Ws report, AIG assessed Mr Ks claim under the benefit  category of 
Permanent disabilities  not otherwise listed, for which Mr K was insured up to a maximum of 
£20,000 in the event  of total loss of function. After  applying  the percentages suggested by 
Dr W, it offered Mr K a claim  settlement of £120,  plus interest.
Mr K didnt accept the offer. He stood by Dr As opinion that his disability was entirely caused 
by his accident. He furthermore thought he should  be entitled to benefit for Permanent Total  
Disablement for which he was insured for the sum of £40,000.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I thought the complaint should be upheld in 
part. My findings  were as follows:
Ref: DRN34672422Let me start with what benefit Mr K should be claiming. The policy  says that it will pay 
benefit if the insured person suffers an accidental bodily  injury which  within  two years solely 
and independently of any other cause results  in one of the listed outcomes. Mr K thinks  he 
should be entitled to Permanent Total Disablement.  There are two definitions of this in the 
policy. These are as follows:
the total inability  to do paid work of any kind which will probably last for the rest of 
your life (definition 1a, for which Mr K was insured  to receive £40,000).
in respect of an insured person who at the date of bodily injury is serving in HM 
Regular Armed Forces  the total inability to continue with their usual occupation for 
the remainder of their life (definition  1b, for which Mr K was insured to receive  
£5,000).
Mr K says he should be considered for benefit  under definition 1a because he can no longer  
perform any job for which he is suited by way of education, training and experience; he gives  
the examples  of security guard, retail sales representative and truck driver.  I disagree with 
Mr Ks assessment. The policy definition refers  to being rendered  unable to do any job 
rather than one to which Mr K is suited. Furthermore, even  if I were  to interpret the policy  in 
the way he suggests, I still dont think Mr K has shown he is entitled to this benefit. While his 
disability may have left him unable to continue  in the armed  services,  I have seen  no 
evidence to support  that it would prevent him from doing any non-sedentary occupation.  Nor 
have I seen evidence  to show he is entirely  unsuited  to any sedentary occupation.
However, I do think that Mr K should  be considered for benefit under definition  1b. He has 
been medically discharged from the army and he believes  this is because  of the accidental 
knee injury he suffered  in April 2013.  It is not in dispute that he suffered an accidental injury  
at this time and, while he wasnt  discharged within two years,  I dont think this should 
preclude him from making a claim. This is because he was never able to return to full active  
service between sustaining the accident and being  discharged. It is entirely appropriate  that 
he be considered  for benefit under this heading.  And if he doesnt  have a successful claim 
under this heading, then he has no entitlement to benefit under any other heading.
Let me now consider the evidence for the claim and AIGs handling  of this. 
After receiving Mr Ks claim form and medical  records, AIG arranged  for him to undergo an 
IME with Dr L. Im satisfied this was appropriate. Dr L noted that Mr K had attended  a 
medical centre in June  2012, some nine months before his accident,  complaining  about pain 
in his right knee. Dr L thought Mr Ks medical  discharge was due to the gradual worsening of 
this knee problem  which existed before his accidental injury  in April 2013.  Dr L thought  the 
accidental injury was no more than a minor exacerbating  factor which  perhaps  brought  
forward his disability by up to a year. Based on this evidence, AIG declined  the claim but 
invited Mr K to provide  further medical  evidence if he wished  to challenge the decision.  AIG 
separately offered  Mr K £500  compensation for the delays in handling  his claim until that 
point. Im satisfied that AIGs decision to decline the claim  based on the available evidence, 
and its offer of compensation, were  fair.
Mr K didnt provide  further medical evidence but instead referred  his complaint to us. After 
the investigator said she agreed with AIGs  decision, Mr K provided the IME report by Dr A. 
Ref: DRN34672423Dr A totally disagreed with Dr L. He considered the April 2013 accident caused structural  
damage to the cartilage. He considered that if it wasnt  for the accident, Mr K would  have a 
normally functioning knee.
On receiving Dr As report, AIG went back to both Dr L and Dr A to try and resolve their 
differing opinions. Im satisfied this was appropriate.  The two consultants  had opposing 
views. I find both reports credible. It was right to seek their further comments  to try and 
determine who was correct. AIG couldnt control  how quickly  the consultants responded and 
so couldnt be held responsible for any delays at this stage.
In the event, neither consultant gave a satisfactory  follow-up report. AIG therefore  sought a 
view from a third expert, Dr W. I think it was sensible to seek a third opinion  but Dr W is not a 
consultant orthopaedic surgeon and therefore not as well qualified  as either Dr L or Dr A to 
comment on this matter.  In addition, AIG apparently  asked Dr W to assess  Mr Ks 
entitlement to benefit under the heading  Permanent disabilities not otherwise listed. I 
disagree with this because, as previously explained,  Mr Ks claimed disability was listed. And 
AIG cant  even say that it was assessing  him under this other heading  because  it was more  
advantageous to Mr K. Using Dr Ws assessment that 5% of Mr Ks disability was 
attributable to the accident, he would have been  entitled to £250 under definition  1b of 
Permanent Total Disablement, which  was more than AIG offered him under the other  benefit  
heading.
While I havent disregarded the findings in Dr Ws report, I therefore dont find it particularly 
helpful. As mentioned above,  he decided  that 5% of Mr Ks disability was attributable  to the 
accident but he didnt clearly explain why this was the case.  And I dont think I can 
reasonably place more weight on his opinion than on that of Dr A who is a specialist in the 
relevant area and who actually examined  Mr K.
The investigator thought the appropriate way to resolve this complaint was for another 
independent expert  to examine Mr K and to provide an estimate of the relevant percentages 
on which the claim settlement should be based. However, as I have explained, there  is only 
one percentage  which  needs  to be determined and that it the extent to which  the accident is 
responsible for Mr Ks medical  discharge;  the extent  of his loss of knee function and what 
this represents  in terms of global disability isnt relevant.
Mr K is unhappy at the prospect of waiting for another experts  view.  However,  I dont think 
he has clearly demonstrated that Dr As opinion is more reliable than that of Dr L. Indeed,  I 
note that AIG was concerned that Dr A might not have had full access  to Mr Ks medical 
records because he didnt  refer to the knee  pain which Mr K reported in June  2012.  I note 
Dr A said that he had reviewed Mr Ks hospital  records and previous military records  and so I 
cant reasonably  dismiss his opinion but I agree his omitting to mention the previous incident 
was strange. Rather than choose  between  Dr L and Dr A, or choose an arbitrary figure that 
lies in between their two extremes, I think the fair outcome is to seek  a third opinion.
Mr K has raised other factors  which he says a court would  take into account when deciding 
on the settlement  due to an injured worker. However, I dont think these factors are relevant 
in the consideration of Mr Ks entitlement  to benefit  for Permanent  Total Disablement 
(definition 1b). It is accepted that he has been  medically discharged from the armed services 
and the only question is the extent  to which this has been caused by his accident.  
Mr K has also said that he wasnt presented with full information  on taking out the policy. 
Mr K didnt raise this aspect of his complaint with AIG before he referred his complaint to us. 
Ref: DRN34672424The investigator hasnt  therefore considered it and I dont intend  to consider it either. If, once 
it has been determined  what  amount  AIG might pay him following his current  complaint, Mr K 
wants to pursue a separate complaint about the sale of the policy,  he may do so. However,  
until his current complaint has been  fully resolved, it is difficult for him to show  how he might 
have been disadvantaged  as a result of the sales process. 
I therefore consider  that a third opinion  should  be sought from an independent  consultant 
orthopaedic surgeon. This is to help AIG decide  on what  benefit,  if any, should  be paid to 
Mr K for AIG for permanent total disablement (definition 1b) which  is the only benefit  heading  
applicable to his claim.
For the avoidance of doubt, Im not proposing  that the new experts opinion is binding  on 
AIG. This is because I dont know how the expert will express his view and so, particularly if 
he says the accident has brought forward a disability by a number of years,  there might be 
an element of judgement as to how this translates into a claims settlement. Therefore, if 
Mr K accepts my decision but is later dissatisfied at the settlement figure proposed  by AIG, 
he may raise  a further complaint  with it and, if necessary, with us. However, he will not be 
able to re-raise the argument that his claim should be considered under a different benefit 
heading and furthermore if AIG has clearly followed the advice of the new expert it is unlikely  
that any new complaint  would  be upheld.  
In terms of delays, I have explained  that I considered AIGs payment of £500 to be fair for 
any delays until that time.  I have  also explained that I dont hold it responsible  for any delays 
between then and the time it received follow up reports  from Dr L and Dr A. However,  I think  
it should have  handled matters better after that point, particularly in respect of determining  
which benefit heading it was assessing Mr Ks claim against. I think  its failings from the time 
it referred the matter  to Dr W have caused  further  inconvenience to Mr K for which it should 
pay him additional compensation of £150.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
AIG and Mr K both accepted my proposal  that AIG should allow  Mr K to choose  one from a 
list of three  consultant  orthopaedic  surgeons who should then reassess  his disability. 
However, both disagreed  with the rest of my proposals. 
AIG disagreed with my finding that Mr Ks claim  should be assessed under definition 1b of 
the policy. It said that Mr K wasnt medically  discharged from the armed  services  within  two 
years of suffering  his knee injury, nor had it seen evidence that his discharge was due 
entirely to this injury,  as required under  the terms of the policy.  Furthermore,  it said that this 
benefit was an all or nothing payment and wasnt paid proportionally. For this reason,  it 
considered it had correctly considered his claim under the benefit heading of Permanent 
disabilities not otherwise listed.  In view of this, it also didnt see why it should pay an 
additional £150 in compensation.
Mr Ks comments can be summarised as follows:
The question as to which  benefit  heading  applied to his claim wasnt in dispute  and so 
shouldnt be determined  in my decision. AIG had agreed that he should  be assessed 
against definition  1a of the policy and the only question was the proportion  of benefit  he 
should receive (and furthermore AIG should be asked to confirm it had provided the 
correct version of the policy  document).
Ref: DRN34672425Because of his injury, he was now unable to do any job, whether it was suitable for him 
or not. This was because he couldnt  physically do any non-sedentary job and he was 
prevented from acquiring the skills necessary to perform a sedentary  job.
If the claim were to be assessed under definition 1b, there should have been  no need for 
an IME report because the armed services medical  records clearly  show  that the reason 
he was discharged was due to the knee injury sustained  in the accident.
More weight should be put on Dr As report than on Dr Ls report, not least  because  Dr L 
failed to provide  satisfactory answers to follow-up questions put to him by AIG when it 
tried to resolve the differences  in the two reports.
Dr Ws report should be treated  with caution  because he had prepared  similar  reports  on 
other cases involving  injured former  members  of the armed services  and always  came to 
the same  conclusions about the level of disability and the extent to which the accident  
was to blame.
His complaint that he wasnt presented with full information on taking out the policy 
should be considered within my decision.
My paragraph explaining why Im not proposing that the new experts opinion is binding 
on AIG requires clarification. 
The compensation awarded was insufficient  for the distress  and inconvenience caused 
to him by the poor handling of the claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I shall deal with each  of the points  raised  in turn.
benefit heading applicable  to claim
Contrary to what Mr K says, there  is clear disagreement between  him and AIG over this 
point. Mr K thinks  he is entitled to benefit  under definition 1a while  AIG thinks he is entitled  to 
benefit only under definition  15 (Permanent disability not otherwise listed). Mr K has 
suggested that it should be up to the independent  expert to determine which  benefit  he is 
eligible to receive  but I disagree. They will be an expert in medicine  rather than contracts  of 
insurance. They should not be asked  to determine what is meant by the phrase any 
occupation or whether  Mr Ks skills and experience suit him to a particular job. So the 
question of which benefit heading  is applicable  to Mr Ks claim needs  to be resolved  in order 
to determine what medical questions should  be put to the independent expert.  (I should add 
that Im satisfied AIG has provided  the correct version of the policy document.)
I have noted Mr Ks further  comments about  why he is unable  to perform any occupation. 
However, I have explained  in my provisional decision why I disagree, even if I were  to 
interpret the policy as meaning any occupation to which he is suited by way of education, 
training and experience. The medical evidence indicates that Mr K is generally fit and able to 
walk with a normal gait. He suffers intermittent pain in his knee,  particularly if he exercises it 
too much. Mr K says he is unable to perform suited roles such  as security  guard or retail 
Ref: DRN34672426sales representative but I havent  seen  a medical  opinion to support that he cannot  perform 
these roles, let alone evidence  to show he is prevented from performing any other role to 
which he might  be suited.  I therefore dont think that definition  1a is applicable to his claim.
AIG says that definition  1b cannot  apply to Mr K because he was not medically  discharged 
within two years of the accident. It says that this is why it considered his claim against  
definition 15. I find AIGs  argument illogical. This is because definition  15 is also subject to 
the two year limitation.  I can find no evidence, when AIG wrote to Dr L, Dr A or Dr W, that it 
asked them to confine their comments to Mr Ks state of health in 2015. On the contrary, 
Dr L was asked to examine Mr K, even though this was four years after the accident, and 
Dr Ws findings, on which AIG based its settlement offer, refer specifically to Mr Ks current 
level of disability.
AIG also says that definition 1b cannot apply to Mr K because it was an all or nothing  
payment and wasnt paid proportionately.  However,  while I agree that Mr K must  be totally 
unable to perform his usual occupation in order for benefit to apply (he couldnt claim 50% 
benefit on the grounds he could do only half his job), this doesnt mean that on a fair and 
reasonable basis he shouldnt be paid a proportionate amount if an accidental bodily injury  
was partly responsible  for this outcome. This is the long-standing position of this service and, 
again, I can see no difference between this and the stance  which  AIG has taken in offering 
proportionate benefit under definition 15 (which is also subject to the requirement  that the 
disability is solely due to the accidental bodily injury).  
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Mr K was never able to return to full active service 
between sustaining the accident and being discharged. The fact that his employer was trying 
to see whether he could  be rehabilitated before eventually deciding  he should  be discharged 
shouldnt be used by AIG as a means of escaping liability. From the way it has assessed his 
claim for benefit under definition 15, AIG seems  to have accepted that his current  level of 
disability is representative  of his level of disability  two years after the accident. This being the 
case, Im satisfied that AIG should  be considering him for benefit under heading 1b.      
Mr K says that if he is being  assessed under definition 1b there should be no need for any 
further expert medical opinion because all the records show he was discharged  as a result of 
the knee injury sustained in the accident. Dr L and Dr A have seen the medical records.  Its 
accepted that Mr K was discharged because of his knee problem but it isnt clear  whether 
this knee problem  is solely  due to the accidental injury he sustained in 2013. That is why 
expert advice is needed.
Dr L versus Dr As report
I agree  that Dr L provided an unsatisfactory response to follow-up questions put by AIG. 
However, I consider  that Dr A hasnt satisfactorily explained why he disregarded the knee 
pain suffered by Mr K in 2012. I dont consider that either consultants  report is obviously 
more reliable than the other.
Dr Ws report
I note Mr Ks concerns  about Dr Ws report. However, this report  is not due to be sent to the 
new independent expert and so is now effectively being disregarded for the purposes of 
assessment of Mr Ks claim.
Ref: DRN34672427sale of the policy
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Mr K didnt raise  any concern about  the sale of the 
policy until after he had referred  his complaint to us about the handling of his claim.  
Furthermore, he cannot know whether or to what extent he was disadvantaged by this 
alleged mis-selling until his claim has been  resolved. For this reason, I do not propose  to 
deal with the mis-sale  complaint within this decision.
clarification of why my decision doesnt  say the new experts opinion is binding  on AIG  
The new expert might conclude that the accident in 2013 simply brought forward a disability 
which would inevitably have occurred in any case and express  his findings that way. In that 
case, there may be a further dispute  as to what proportion of benefit should be payable 
under definition 1b. I dont see that I need  to provide further clarification beyond this.
compensation
After taking all the circumstances into account, Im satisfied that my award of a further £150 
compensation is appropriate for the reasons  I have already given.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AIG Europe  Limited to do the following:
invite Mr K to choose one from a list of three  consultant orthopaedic surgeons;
present the chosen consultant with Mr Ks relevant medical records  and the reports 
of Dr L and Dr A, and ask them  to provide a report (paid  for by AIG) which  includes 
an estimate of the extent to which the accident was responsible  for Mr Ks knee 
disability at the time he was discharged from the armed services (this might  be 
expressed either in percentage  terms or by how many years it brought  forward  a 
disability which would  have occurred in any case);
allow the consultant to examine Mr K if they think it is necessary;
use the consultants  report as a basis for deciding what  benefit, if any, is due to Mr K 
for permanent total disablement (definition 1b).
pay Mr K £150 compensation for its poor handling of the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3467242