K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Europ Assistance S.A. charged him an additional premium for his 
annual travel insurance policy part-way through the policy year.
background
Mr L had an annual multi-trip travel  insurance  policy from mid-August 2017 to mid-August 
2018. He arranged the policy through an insurance  intermediary or broker R. The insurer  
for the policy was Europ.
Before taking out the policy in August 2017  Mr L answered some medical screening 
questions about  his health.  He told R about  his irregular heartbeat  for which he took 
medication. He paid an additional premium  to cover this condition  of just over £60.
In June 2018 Mr L told R that hed undergone  a medical procedure which meant  hed not 
now need to rely on medication for his irregular  heartbeat. R asked him some  medical  
questions and then told him that the insurer, Europ, considered the risk to it had increased. 
On behalf of Europ R asked  Mr L to pay an additional premium for the remaining policy year 
of £30.61.
Mr L paid the additional  premium, but only under protest. In his view the medical  procedure  
had reduced his risk to Europ rather than increased it. He came to us.
Our investigator saw that Europ had increased  the premium  because two of his answers to 
the medical screening questions had changed, increasing the risk to it, and also because  
hed had a birthday and had moved  into a higher risk bracket. 
Our investigator said that in this case she didnt think it was fair for Europ  to reassess the 
risk on an annual policy part-way  through the policy year. She recommended  it refund the 
£30.61 to Mr L and pay him £75 for distress and inconvenience.
Europ didnt agree that it had responsibility  for the premium increase. Our investigator 
explained why, in her view,  it did have  responsibility and she asked for its response  to her 
proposed settlement. Europ hasnt responded so the complaints  come  to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find I agree with our 
investigators findings for broadly the same reasons shes  given. So I uphold this complaint. 
First of all, I find that Europ is the correct financial business for this complaint  to be against.  
I say this because  I see from the policy that Europ is the insurer  for Mr Ls travel insurance  
policy. The insurer is generally responsible for assessing the risk to it of accepting  cover.  
R has also said that for Mr Ls policy it is the insurer or underwriter (here  Europ) that is 
responsible for the risk and corresponding premium, and not R as the intermediary. Our 
investigator has correctly explained this to Europ, but it did not respond.  
Mr L paid a premium for an annual  multi-trip travel insurance policy. Wed only consider it fair 
for an insurer to charge  an additional premium part-way through the policy year if there had 
Ref: DRN39268532been a significant change  in his health,  which in turn meant  a significant increase in risk to 
the insurer. 
Mr L had told Europ  that he had an irregular  heartbeat for which he took medication. He had 
a related medical procedure to improve his health and so he didnt have to rely on 
medication. 
Europ was aware of Mr Ls condition of irregular heartbeat  and it accepted that risk in return  
for an additional premium.  Even if allowed for in the strict policy  terms I dont consider it fair 
in this case for Europ  to charge Mr L an additional premium because  he had a procedure to 
treat that condition  part-way through the policy year, having  already taken on the risk for that 
condition. 
Also, Europ accepted the risk for Mr L based on his age at the time the annual policy was 
taken out. Its not reasonable  for Europ to re-assess  the risk following a birthday within the 
policy year,  whether or not Mr L moved into a new risk bracket. Europ would  be entitled to 
reassess the risk on renewal but not mid-way  through the policy year. 
So I think the fair outcome is for Europ to refund the additional premium Mr L paid for the 
August 2017 to August  2018 policy year. I think this matter caused  him some unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. I assess that the £75 compensation  recommended by our 
investigator was fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. I require Europ Assistance S.A. to 
pay Mr L £30.61,  being the refund of the additional premium he paid to it, and £75 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Europ must  pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr L 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Europ  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN3926853