K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  with their home insurer Great Lakes Insurance  SE. They feel it 
handled badly  the claim made to it following a water  leak.
background
At the beginning  of March 2018 a pipe burst in Mr and Mrs Cs utility  room. They  contacted 
Great Lakes and a surveyor came to their home  on 9 March to assess the damage.  It was 
felt the ceiling needed testing for asbestos and that the room  would need to be dried. 
When samples were taken for testing the contractor put a notice up to warn not to use the 
room. Mr and Mrs C were  worried  as theyd been accessing the room regularly. The results 
of the asbestos  tests  were received within a couple  of days and they were negative. The 
room was dried and reinstatement works followed.
At the beginning  of June Mr and Mrs C were asked to visit a flooring company to choose 
replacement flooring. The address they were  given was incorrect,  they had a wasted journey 
(35 mile round  trip) and the Great Lakes contractor bought some samples to them to choose  
from instead. When the flooring was delivered the surveyor said it was unsuitable for the 
property. A further choice  had to be made. 
The old floor covering had been  removed prior to drying commencing, leaving the room with 
a rough and uneven floor. But the covering hadnt been removed from under units and this 
then had to be done, along with making  good  the floor finish,  before the new flooring  could  
be laid. This work was completed on 31 July 2018,  nearly five months  after the leak 
occurred.
Into August  the final part of the reinstatement  work  to reinstate the sink unit  was 
completed. But this didnt  go smoothly  either. The contractor  had to return more  than once to 
resolve water dripping from a pipe.
Mr and Mrs C were unhappy  about  how the claim  had been handled. They  felt it had taken 
far too long and the work hadnt been managed  well, meaning theyd often had to chase the 
contractors and tell them what it was needed  doing.  They complained to Great Lakes and it 
agreed theyd received  less than satisfactory service. It also accepted the work  had taken far 
too long given the extent  of the damage. It sent them a cheque  for £250 compensation.
Mr and Mrs C werent  satisfied. They  didnt  cash the cheque. They complained  to us.
Our investigator found Great  Lakes had handled the claim  badly, causing  Mr and Mrs C 
distress and inconvenience. He noted the wasted journey theyd had too. But he felt £250 
was reasonable  compensation  to make up for all of this. 
Mr and Mrs C didnt think £250 was reasonable in the circumstances. They asked for an 
ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN39197512Its clear to me that this claim wasnt handled well at all. Effectively Mr and Mrs C managed 
the work  and I can fully understand  why theyve become so frustrated. Not least  because  
this shouldnt have  taken anywhere near as long as it did to resolve.
They had a worry for a little time over asbestos,  although the tests showed  ultimately  there 
was none present. They had a wasted journey (in terms of fuel and time) regarding  the 
flooring and then the annoyance  of the chosen flooring being incorrect.  These along with 
issues such as having to chase the contractors, advise what  work it was theyd been  sent to 
do, help contractors move items and the general disorganised way the matter was handled 
all mean that what should  have  been  a relatively  simple and stress-free claim became a 
lengthy and frustrating one. If Great Lakes hadnt  seen fit to pay compensation then Id have  
been criticising it for that.
But Great Lakes did accept the service had been  poor and did offer £250  compensation.  
I know Mr and Mrs C dont feel that is enough  but it is in line with other  awards made by this 
service in similar circumstances. Having reviewed  everything, Im satisfied it is fair and 
reasonable compensation. Im not going to make Great Lakes pay more.  
If Mr and Mrs C would like Great Lakes to re-issue the cheque  they didnt cash, they should 
contact it directly to arrange this. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Great Lakes Insurance  SE.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3919751