K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the way he was treated  by John Lewis Financial  Services Limited 
(John Lewis) when his direct debit wasnt set up properly by his bank  and payments were  
missed on his credit card. 
background
Mr G has held a credit card with John Lewis since 2015. In January 2018 he provided it with 
a new direct debit mandate to collect his full outstanding balance  each month.  John Lewis 
sent it to his bank.  In March 2018  John  Lewis  was informed that Mr Gs direct  debit had been  
returned unpaid  as the instruction had been cancelled. It wrote  to him to request the 
outstanding payment. Mr G says he then received a number of calls for the payment, but he 
says despite making  John  Lewis  aware  of the problem it applied  charges and interest and 
recorded missed payments on his credit file. John  Lewis said it explained to Mr G that his 
direct debit had been  cancelled  and it had blocked his card until payment was made.  It said 
he should still have  continued to make  payments using alternative means if there was a 
problem with the direct debit. 
Mr G subsequently  discovered it was his bank that had made the error. The bank then 
issued a letter to Mr G for John Lewis to be able to reverse all the charges and amend the 
credit report  - which it did. But Mr G complained as he didnt believe John Lewis had treated 
him fairly. John Lewis said it hadnt  made  any errors in trying  to resolve the payment  issues  
but did apply loyalty points to the value of £50 to Mr Gs card for the inconvenience hed 
suffered over the delay in responding to his complaint.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said that John Lewis  had corrected all 
the adverse date on Mr Gs account and its award  of the points was a fair and reasonable 
settlement. Mr G didnt agree, he said the award wasnt  sufficient for all the stress and 
inconvenience hed suffered and he didnt believe John  Lewis  had listened to him when he 
asked it not to record the missed payments on his credit file. As Mr G wanted the complaint 
referred for a decision its been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr G feels strongly about this matter, he thinks John  Lewis has treated  him 
unfairly. And Im sympathetic to the experience Mr G has suffered, especially in light of his ill 
health which hes told us about. But I dont think John Lewis has made any errors here which 
require further  compensation  and Ill explain why. 
The direct debit Mr G submitted to John  Lewis was an arrangement for his bank to pay his 
outstanding card balance each month.  From the evidence Ive seen his bank has fully 
accepted it failed to set up the mandate, so I cant say thats John Lewis  fault for what  
happened. 
When John Lewis was made aware  of the returned direct debit it wrote  to Mr G. The letter 
advised him about the different ways he could pay the outstanding amount. Ive noted what  
Mr G has said about the information on his statements but I have  also seen from the 
subsequent notes of phone calls that John Lewis explained to Mr G that he should still make  
Ref: DRN34076762his payment while it investigated the matter, so that he did not incur charges and any issues  
with his credit report. I think  John  Lewis has acted reasonably in trying to ensure Mr Gs 
account was brought  up to date and he was aware  of the consequences  if it wasnt.  
Mr G says he told John Lewis collections department about the issue  with his direct  debit 
and told it not to apply charges or a marker on his credit file. But he didnt make his payment  
during that time to meet  his contractual  obligation,  and John Lewis was obliged  to follow its 
process when a payment was returned  unpaid. Ive looked at the terms and conditions for 
John Lewis  credit card. Under the section  titled how much  do you have to pay each  month 
and when  it explains  the minimum payment must  always reach us by the due date shown 
in your statementyou must also pay immediately the amount of any missed  payments and 
the amount you owe above the credit  limit.  
Another section  headed what  happens if you miss payments  confirms  missing  payments 
could make it more difficult to obtain  credit and result in legal action  or bankruptcy 
proceedings to recover any debt owed  under this agreement. So I think  John Lewis made  it 
clear what  its process was, and I think it had a duty to accurately record  Mr Gs credit 
activity, which I think  it did. 
Ultimately here when Mr Gs bank confirmed it had made an error  with the direct debit Mr G 
still needed to ensure  his payments were made  using alternative arrangements   until the 
matter was resolved.  John Lewis has been able to apply to make the appropriate  changes  to 
Mr Gs credit file, and refund the interest  and charges hed incurred.  Im satisfied thats all 
been done - so I dont think hes suffered any loss here and I dont think  John  Lewis should 
have to do anything  more.
John Lewis  has accepted that it made some errors during this complaint. It has apologised  
for the delay  in responding to Mr Gs complaint, sending  a duplicate letter and for the error 
over an interest debit adjustment  being wrongly  recorded. I can see John Lewis  has added 
loyalty points to the value of £50 to Mr Gs card and in the circumstances I think thats a fair 
settlement for the inconvenience  hes been caused.  So Im not going  to ask John Lewis to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint against John Lewis Financial  
Services Limited, in the sense that the payment  of loyalty points to his account  made  by 
John Lewis  is fair given all the circumstances.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3407676