K820x#14complaint
Ms Gs unhappy with the way esure  Insurance  Limited has settled a claim on her motor 
insurance policy. 
background
Ms Gs car was involved  in an incident.  She contacted esure and a claim was opened. Ms G 
wanted the liability issue resolved before the repairs took place. Esure contacted  the other 
partys insurer  and it offered to split liability on a 50/50 basis.  Ms G wasnt happy with this 
but after further investigations esure told her the matter should  be settled on this basis.  
Ms Gs unhappy with this settlement and that the matter wasnt pursued in court when she 
was told it would be. And she says she wouldnt have  made  a claim on her policy if shed 
known this.
Esure apologised in its final response  for not managing Ms Gs expectations better. It said 
both parties had given different versions of events and there were no independent witnesses 
or CCTV.  Based on its past experience it was likely a court would  apportion liability on a 
50/50 basis. It wouldnt allow the matter to go to court as there  was no reasonable prospect 
of holding the other party fully liable. And it said for this reason the claim should be settled 
on a 50/50 basis.  Its policy terms allow it to do so. It was refunding Ms Gs full excess of 
£700 and paying her £200 compensation.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Ms G says she wouldnt  have made  a claim if shed  known  the matter  wouldnt be 
taken to court. Esure has acted  unfairly  on this point as she was incorrectly  led to 
believe it would be. This is poor customer service. But it doesnt oblige esure to start 
proceedings or supersede its right to resolve matters  as set out in the policy terms 
and conditions. And even if Ms G hadnt made a claim herself the third party  driver 
wouldve still been entitled to do so. Esure also couldnt pursue the matter in court  
until its outlay had been established.  So whilst incorrect information was given esure 
didnt force or trick Ms G to paying any money to it. 
A proportionate  investigation was carried out by esure. There are conflicting versions 
of events and no conclusive  evidence has been provided by either party to 
demonstrate what happened such as CCTV or from an independent witness.  The 
50/50 liability split proposed is fair given the available evidence.  
Esure also set out its right to settle  a claim on its insureds behalf  in its policy  terms 
and conditions. And it has full discretion to take, pursue or settle the claim or any 
legal proceedings.
The customer service provided  to Ms G couldve been better and esure  couldve 
been more proactive  in contacting the third party insurer. This may not have changed 
the liability decision but wouldve saved Ms G time and inconvenience. Theres 
nothing to suggest esure  altered or fabricated evidence even though  it misinterpreted  
the third partys version of events at one point.
Ref: DRN36233822To reflect the poor service esure has offered  to reimburse Ms Gs policy  excess in full 
and pay her £200 compensation. Thats fair and reasonable  and she will not be 
asking it to any more.
Ms G remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review.  She says she asked 
esure not to accept  50/50 and to take the matter to court. She now wants  either  her three  
years no claims  bonus reinstated and the accident  removed from her record  or an additional 
£1,000 to compensate her for the increased costs of her insurance over the next five years 
with the accident recorded  and without the no claims bonus.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G has very strong views about  what happened  in the incident and says the other  party 
was to blame. But its not our role to decide whos at fault for an accident.  That is something 
only a court can consider. We can only look into whether the underwriter of the policy  has 
conducted a reasonable  investigation into a claim, when making its own decision on liability.
Under the terms of the policy esure  is entitled to defend and settle a claim as it sees  fit. It 
also doesnt need Ms Gs approval of any decision to admit  liability,  settle a claim or make  a 
payment to a third party. Esure also isnt obliged to take a case  to court  even if the policy 
holder, like Ms G here, would like it to do so. Its entitled to consider the economics  of 
proceeding and the potential risks and potential outcome of proceeding to court.  And even if 
it did indicate initially that it would take the matter to court it would be entirely free and 
entitled to revise or change its view in the longer term as more  evidence and information 
became available or when it looked in greater detail at the chances of winning and the 
economics of proceeding.
Overall I think  esure has investigated matters  reasonably. It considered  the vehicles 
damage and what  each party said. There werent any independent witnesses or CCTV. It 
tried to get the other  insurer  to accept liability and when it wouldnt do so, concluded it didnt 
think it could successfully  prove the other  party was entirely to blame. It decided  to settle the 
claim on a 50/50 split liability basis.
Ms G may disagree with esures  interpretation of the evidence  and decision  to settle the 
claim on a 50/50 spilt liability basis but I dont  think its failed to comply with the policy terms 
or exercised its discretion  unfairly or unreasonably  when deciding  to settle the case as its 
done. 
Esure has accepted  it couldve  managed  Ms Gs expectations better. And its offered  to 
refund all of her policy excess and pay her £200 compensation for any inconvenience 
caused.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I think that is a fair 
and reasonable resolution to matters. And although  I understand Ms Gs frustration and 
strength of feeling,  I dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require  it to do anything  more as 
shed like. I simply leave  it to Ms G to decide, if she hasnt already done  so, if she wants to 
accept esures offer of settlement.
Overall I dont see a compelling  reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
Ref: DRN36233823my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3623382