K822xComplaint
Mr W says he was affected  by TSB Bank plcs IT issues. 
Background 
At the end of April 2018, TSB experienced IT issues. Mr W says this affected him and he 
had no online access for a few weeks. During this time, he had to visit the branch and use 
telephone banking instead. Because the phone lines were busier than normal,  he also spent 
a long time on the phone  trying to fix the issue. 
Mr W says that TSB offered its Classic Plus account  customers an increase in the credit 
interest on the account from 3% to 5% to apologise  for the IT issues.  He didnt feel it was 
clear that he wouldnt  receive  this interest  as he had a Classic Enhance  account.  Because  of 
this, he asked TSB to backdate the interest  on his Classic Enhance account to 5% in line 
with what a Classic Plus account customer wouldve received.
TSB responded to Mr Ws complaint and offered  him £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience the issue had caused  him, plus £50 for any financial losses he had incurred. 
But it didnt agree it should backdate the interest on his account to 5% as that offer was 
never applicable to his account. Mr W didnt accept this as he wanted to receive lost wages 
for visiting the branch, £200 in phone call costs and the backdated  interest. He also 
mentioned that his fathers old work number had appeared on his profile  and felt his data 
had been breached.
Our adjudicator felt that it was clear which type of account Mr W had and that the increased 
interest offer wasnt for his account  type.  So she didnt agree he should receive the 
backdated interest. And as Mr W couldnt provide evidence  of his additional financial losses, 
she thought the offer from TSB was fair in the circumstances. 
Because Mr W disagreed  with this, the complaint was passed  to a second adjudicator. After 
receiving more information about the telephone number  that was added to Mr Ws profile,  
the adjudicator  felt no data couldve been  breached. This is because  anyone calling TSB 
would still have had to complete security before the account would  be discussed. Mr W 
added that his father had received his post,  but the adjudicator  could find no evidence  of this 
and Mr W was unwilling to provide anything further. 
Mr W was able to provide a revised calculation of his phone  call costs and thought he had 
incurred costs of around £54. He also provided evidence to show he took two half days  off 
work totalling £160. In response  to this, TSB offered  a total of:
£250 compensation
£54 for call costs
£33 for petrol and parking
£160 in lost wages. 
Mr W agreed with the increased financial loss payment, but still felt his data had been 
breached and this led to fraud being  attempted on his account in September 2018. As an 
informal agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN32639562My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the recommendation put forward by the adjudicator for a total 
of £250 compensation and £247 in financial loss as set out above. I dont think that TSB 
needs to backdate interest on Mr Ws account in light of the advertisement  he saw. And I 
dont think it needs  to do anything further  to put right the incorrect  phone  number that 
appeared on his profile. Ill explain all of this in more detail. To be clear, I havent considered 
the attempted fraud  from September  2018  within this decision.
Id like to begin  by addressing the increased interest offer that TSB made to its Classic Plus 
customers. Mr W says he saw an advertisement in branch that didnt explain the interest 
increase only applied to Classic Plus accounts. Because of this, he thinks  TSB should  also 
give him an increased interest rate on his Classic  Enhance  account.  
TSB has been able to provide some  internal and external advertisements  about the offer. 
Having looked  at these Im satisfied they make  it clear  the offer is only in relation to Classic 
Plus accounts. I appreciate that I may not have  seen the specific  advertisement that Mr W 
saw. But based  on the literature I have  seen, I think its more likely the advertisement Mr W 
saw would have  also made it clear  the offer only applied to Classic Plus accounts. 
TSB made a decision to apply an interest increase on a certain  type of account. As Mr W did 
not have that type of account,  I dont think TSB needs  to do anything  further for Mr W. Mr W 
has also said he wasnt informed the interest rate on his Classic  Enhance  account had been  
decreased previously. TSB has been  able to send me sample letters  that it sent to all its 
Classic Enhance account customers in August 2015 and October 2016 about the interest 
rate on the account reducing.  And I see no reason why Mr W wouldnt have received these 
letters. 
As a result of the IT issues,  an incorrect telephone number was added to Mr Ws profile.  This 
number was linked to a family member of Mr W, which was a known error following the IT 
issues. TSB has now shown its corrected this and theres  nothing  to suggest Mr Ws data 
was breached. As our adjudicator pointed out, any telephone communication with TSB 
would require security  questions to be answered  before any details could be discussed. But 
this doesnt change the fact that Mr Ws details had been amended in error and this must 
have been worrying  for him to discover. 
Mr W has also said his father received a letter intended for him in error.  TSB have no record  
of Mr Ws address changing or any other  addresses being on file for him. And Mr W no 
longer has a copy of the letter itself. So its difficult for me to know  exactly  what has 
happened here and where  the error is. On balance, I think  its unlikely Mr Ws data is at risk 
and I cant safely say TSB has sent letters intended for Mr W to the incorrect  address in 
error.  
Mr W has said that when the initial IT problems happened at the end of April, he was without 
online access to his account for around two weeks. During this time, Mr W had to go into the 
branch and spent  a lot of time on the phone to make payments.  Mr W has estimated that he 
spent around £54 in call costs and had to take two half days  off work.  Due to his type of 
employment, this meant  he lost out on two half days of wages. TSB agreed to reimburse 
Ref: DRN32639563these financial costs,  as well as the cost of petrol  and parking. And I think this is fair in the 
circumstances. 
TSBs errors  have  caused Mr W some  distress and have inconvenienced him. Not having  full 
access to his account for a few weeks wouldve been inconvenient and I can understand that 
seeing an incorrect phone number on his file wouldve been worrying. And I think the £250 
already offered by TSB is in line with what I wouldve recommended  in the circumstance. I 
appreciate that Mr W may not agree as compensation levels  can be subjective.  And what  
one person might think of as fair could be seen as not enough by someone  else. But having 
carefully considered  everything available to me, I think the £250 compensation is fair. 
What the business needs  to do
TSB should pay Mr W the following:
£250 compensation;
£54 for call costs;
£33 for petrol and parking;
£160 in lost wages. 
I understand TSB has already  paid Mr W £250 in compensation and £50 in financial losses  
so it can deduct  these from the amounts  set out above. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and instruct TSB Bank plc to pay Mr W the financial losses set 
out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3263956