K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (APS) debited his account with 
£500 when he was trying  to withdraw  money from an automated  teller  machine (ATM).  Mr K 
says the ATM did not dispense the money so he wants APS to credit  it back  to his account.
background
Mr K wanted  to withdraw some money from his APS account. So he went to an ATM 
machine which  belonged  to a different bank, B. He requested £500 but the cash  failed to 
dispense from the ATM. 
Mr K phoned  APS to report the issue.  He was told the funds should drop back  into his 
account when  the ATM is calibrated. Based on this conversation, Mr K says he thought the
£500 had returned to his account and went to another  ATM  the next day to withdraw  £500.
When Mr K queried the transaction  with his accountant in July 2017, they gave him bank 
statements and its at this point when he realised the £500 hadnt been returned  to him.
Mr K contacted APS in July 2017 and it said itd raise the dispute. Mr K returned the 
completed dispute form in August 2017. APS then told Mr K that the dispute  form wasnt 
received within  120 days time frame to dispute a chargeback. 
Mr K wasnt  happy with APS response  so he brought his complaint  to our service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. She contacted B to understand what had happened. 
B confirmed  the ATM was over by £500 on that day. It said that our investigators  contact 
was the first time B had been made aware of this issue and explained that, if itd been 
contacted at the time, there was no reason why it wouldnt have refunded  the money.
As a result of this, our investigator upheld this matter. She explained to APS that an ATM 
dispute doesn't need to be raised  as a chargeback. So what APS had told Mr K was wrong. 
She also said that raising a dispute with B in this matter shouldve  been a simple process 
and, had APS raised it with Barclays when Mr K asked  it to, it couldve been resolved 
promptly. And she felt it was reasonable to say that this would've  been within  one week of 
the dispute form being returned to APS.
She thought  that APS service has fallen well below what Mr K is entitled to expect and this 
has left Mr K out of pocket. APS mistake has meant it has been  difficult for Mr K to resolve 
this straightforward dispute. And she didnt feel it was fair or reasonable for Mr K to go 
through so much effort or wait as long as he has to recover his money in these particular 
circumstances. She noted that Mr K had to make a number of calls and write letters  to get 
this resolved, finally bringing his complaint to this service.
To put things right, she asked  APS to pay the £500 to Mr K and:
1.Pay 8% simple interest from 15 August 2017 up to the date of payment; and
2.Pay Mr K £150 for any distress  and inconvenience caused in this matter.
APS didnt accept  this  it says this is a chargeback  situation and Mr K was out of time under 
the chargeback  rules  by the time he sent APS a completed form. The matter has now been  
passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN36821522my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I have to tell APS that I think the investigator has reached  the right outcome 
here. I think  she explained this clearly  and so theres very little for me to add. It follows  that I 
uphold Mr Ks complaint  in this matter. 
Mr Ks account is with APS. So, although  he used  a cash  machine belonging to a different 
bank, B, its right that he raised  his complaint  with APS as a disputed  transaction. Whilst a 
business can raise  this through the chargeback  process, this isnt a requirement, nor does it 
form usual banking practice from what weve seen at this service. 
APS shouldve contacted B to ask it to check the records  of the ATM for any errors on that 
day. APS didnt  do this. Further, the service  APS has given Mr K has fallen short  of what he 
was entitled to expect. 
Although it has offered  to do so, it wouldnt be appropriate for us to ask B to pay Mr K 
directly. Mr K is a customer of APS and its for APS to resolve this matter. So I require APS 
to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ks complaint.  To put things right, Advanced  
Payment Solutions Limited should:
1.Pay £500 to Mr K;
2.Pay 8% simple interest to Mr K on the amount from 15 August 2017 up until the date 
of payment; and
3.Pay Mr K £150 for any distress  and inconvenience caused in this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3682152