K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains about the handling of her claim by Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. 
(RSA)
background
Miss L had an escape of water claim and she doesnt feel this was dealt with fully, causing 
other problems to occur, she wanted  RSA to resolve  these in a timely  fashion. Miss L didnt 
think this was happening, so complained to us. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter and after some  chasing it seems matters  are 
progressing. But Miss L would still like an ombudsmens decision, as she feels  RSA havent 
dealt with this case well. So the file has been  passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be making any additional award here but there are matters  I wish to comment  on. 
First of all I should say Miss L has made a complaint about the involvement of a member of 
RSAs staff. RSA have specifically stated that this complaint was started after the current  
matter was investigated and it would need  to be treated as a new complaint, separate  from 
this case. They are allowed to make  that request, so I wont be considering that matter  here.  
If Miss L wishes  to take that forward she will need  to contact RSA about that. I know  that will 
be frustrating for her, but a business  can ask for complaints to be dealt  with separately if 
they are made at different  times.  
Turning to the actual buildings issue I have  to say I have a lot of sympathy for Miss L here. It 
does appear that the original investigation into her issues  could have gone  further,  and the 
contractors used could  have done a much better job. Im pleased that RSA have now agreed  
quotes from her own choice of contractors,  and I wish to make it clear that had they not 
agreed this I would have found against them in that regard. 
I have also considered the compensation on offer.  If I thought  that the original works had 
solely caused the problems found  later I would have considered  making a larger award. I 
think though it was a case of things  not being  spotted, and if they had been  a lot of the 
problems Miss L has had would still have been  there, albeit they would have been dealt with 
quicker. On that basis I think the compensation offered is enough.  
So although  I agree  with Miss L that RSA have not handled this case  well now that they 
have agreed her use of her own contractors and made an inconvenience award I dont feel I 
need to make a further award. This does not include Miss Ls complaint about the staff 
member, which  as I said will need to be taken forward as a separate  case. 
Ref: DRN34718232my final decision
I make  no additional  award  against  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3471823