K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Coventry  Building  Society mis-sold  them  payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a joint mortgage in July 1988. This complaint is about a PPI policy 
that protected their monthly mortgage  repayments.  
Coventry Building Society sold the policy to Mr and Mrs H either when they took out their 
mortgage or at some  point afterwards, as they had it on their account in 1992  when they 
transferred to a new insurer and changed  their cover  arrangements. 
The PPI provided  protection  in the event of accident, sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel we should uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs H 
disagree with this view.  Theyve told us that the sale took place in a Coventry Building 
Society branch office and they dont remember much conversation  about  PPI. They said the 
costs and benefits were  briefly mentioned,  but that they werent told PPI was optional. They 
say they were led to understand  PPI was compulsory. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
what happened  when Mr and Mrs H took out PPI
Ive seen nothing  signed by Mr and Mrs H to show how they took out the PPI. But this isnt a 
reason for me to uphold  the complaint. I wouldnt reasonably expect Coventry  Building  
Society or Mr and Mrs H to have kept this after so long.  
Coventry Building Society couldnt say from its records how the PPI was sold but 
Mr and Mrs H say they took out the PPI during a meeting   so I think  its likely thats  what 
happened. 
I cant know exactly what, if anything, was discussed  when  Mr and Mrs H took out PPI. It 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect them to recall exactly  what  was said so long ago. This 
means that what theyve  told us isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their 
complaint.
I have to look at everything  and decide,  on balance, what I think  is most  likely.  
I dont think the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Coventry Building 
Society didnt make  it clear that it was open  to Mr and Mrs H not to choose PPI if they didnt  
want to have it. 
Ref: DRN36383032Coventry Building Society said their mortgage application wouldve had an option for 
Mr and Mrs H to decline cover. So they wouldve seen that it wasnt  compulsory  and it was 
up to Mr and Mrs H to say if they wanted  to have PPI. 
I dont know if they took out PPI with their mortgage at the start. But, whenever 
Mr and Mrs H took it out, in order to get the cover  added on, they wouldve had to complete 
a separate application for the PPI and say what amount of benefit was required.  
Coventry Building Society has sent me an example of the application form it says 
Mr and Mrs H wouldve  had to complete in order to take out PPI. This paperwork was used 
to sell the sort of policy Mr and Mrs H took out to protect their mortgage.  So I think  its likely 
that Mr and Mrs H wouldve had to fill in something similar to get PPI added on to their 
account.  
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mr and Mrs Hs home  wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to 
date. So, I can see why they mightve  felt PPI was useful to have.  I can completely 
understand why Mr and Mrs H mightve forgotten some of the details from the sale after so 
long. On balance,  I think its likely  that Mr and Mrs H decided  they wanted  to have the 
benefits and security that PPI offered and it was added to their account when they chose to 
apply for it.  
Coventry Building Society says it didnt advise customers  about  having PPI. Mr and Mrs H 
say that Coventry  Building Society  recommended  PPI to them. But, even if it had done so, it 
doesnt look as if a PPI recommendation wouldve been unsuitable based on what Ive seen 
of Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 18 months per claim if the insured person couldnt 
work as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment. I dont know who was covered 
under the policy.  Joint cover wasnt an option  under this policy  so its possible that either  
Mr H or Mrs H had the cover as they were both eligible  or they mightve each had their 
own policy. But looking  at what Mr and Mrs H told us about their joint circumstances, I think 
they had a need for this cover. The policy wouldve paid out for significantly longer than 
either of them  couldve  depended on getting  sick pay through  work.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs H mentioned they couldve relied on family  and 
friends. But relying on someone  else to help out in the event of money  problems isnt as 
dependable as taking out PPI as everyones  circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Ive seen nothing  to show that Mr and Mrs H had significant other  means they couldve relied  
on if they werent both working. Mr and Mrs H were both working when they took out this 
mortgage so I think  they probably both contributed to monthly repayments. And I think  its 
likely that losing either of their incomes wouldve had a substantial  impact on their joint 
finances. So PPI couldve provided a useful  benefit at a difficult  time if either of them wasnt  
working. 
As far as I can see, Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have been affected  by any of the main things the 
policy mightnt have  covered  like being in an unusual employment  situation or having an 
ongoing medical condition. So, I think it unlikely that better information  about the policys  
exclusions and limitations wouldve  put Mr and Mrs H off taking out the cover .
Ref: DRN36383033I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs H when they bought the policy. 
But the application they filled in to have it made it clear the insurance had to be paid for  
and I think they wouldve  understood this. So it looks like they wanted  to have PPI at the 
time they took it out and they were happy  to pay for it. From  what Ive seen, they havent 
suggested that they couldnt afford the monthly  premiums. And as Mr and Mrs H paid for the 
policy monthly, they couldve cancelled it at any time without losing out financially if they no 
longer wanted  to pay for it. 
what happened  in 1992 when Coventry Building Society changed its insurance 
provider
In August  1992,  Coventry Building  Society  wrote  to all its customers  who had arranged PPI 
to warn them that there was a deadline for transferring  to its new insurer  if they wanted to 
continue to have  PPI. 
Theres no signed paperwork  to show how Mr and Mrs H took out cover  with the new 
insurer. But Ive seen  an example of the application for transfer of cover that they wouldve 
had to complete  if they had wanted to keep on having PPI. 
I think they wouldve  understood  at the time that taking out cover with a new insurer was 
optional. And Mr and Mrs H took out a new policy with the new insurer  when they chose to 
continue having  the benefits  that PPI offered and they completed  the transfer process. 
Coventry Building Society didnt recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs H personally. But it still 
had to make  sure that it gave Mr and Mrs H enough  information to make a proper decision 
about whether  PPI was right for them.
Mr and Mrs H had joint cover under the policy and shared the policy  benefits.  Looking at 
their circumstances, Ive seen nothing to suggest  it was inappropriate that they split the 
benefit between  them.
After their mortgage started, Mr H had changed his jobs and in 1992  he was working for a 
different employer where he was entitled to up to 6 months full pay if he was off sick. Mrs Hs 
circumstances were  unchanged. 
The policy paid a monthly benefit  for a maximum period of 12 months  in the event  of each 
successful claim  for accident  or sickness. And it also covered Mr and Mrs H if they lost their 
jobs unexpectedly and were out of work. Repeat  claims  were  possible providing 
Mr and Mrs H with long term cover  for their mortgage. So I think  that the PPI was worthwhile 
for them and it offered  Mr and Mrs H useful  benefits. 
Neither of them was affected by this policys main exclusions and limitations. There was 
some costs information in the letter Coventry  Building Society  sent them advising of the 
change of insurer and Mr and Mrs H chose  to take out this policy when they didnt  have to. 
So I think it looks like they valued  the benefits  that PPI offered them  and they were happy  to 
pay for the PPI. Ive seen nothing to suggest that the cost was unaffordable  for them.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way these policies were sold.  
But I think Mr and Mrs H still wouldve decided to buy the policies even if theyd been better 
informed as PPI gave them useful protection in their particular situation. 
Ref: DRN36383034So I dont  find theyve  lost out as a result of anything that Coventry Building Society mightve 
done wrong. This means  that theres  nothing  it needs to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3638303