K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Canada Life Limited has deducted state benefits from her income  
protection claim payments. 
background
Mrs S is a member of her employers group income protection policy. The policy provides a 
monthly benefit of 75% of her salary (less state benefits) if shes  unable to work  because of 
illness or injury.
After stopping work because of illness,  Mrs S made  a claim under the policy. Her claim was 
accepted by Canada Life and monthly  benefit paid to her. However,  Mrs S was unhappy that 
Canada Life was making a deduction for state benefits, even though she wasnt  entitled to 
receive those state benefits. She complained to Canada  Life about this.
Canada Life didnt uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. It said it was entitled to make the deduction  for 
state benefits, even  though Mrs S wasnt receiving  these.  Mrs S referred a complaint  to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought  Canada  Life had 
acted in line with the policy terms, so didnt  think it had done anything  wrong.  
Mrs S has asked  for an ombudsmans decision,  so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The policy schedule says the scheme  will pay:
an amount  equal  to:
75.00% of scheme salary less the State scheme  deduction

State scheme deduction means  the annual amount (before deduction of tax) of the gross  
UK employment and support allowance plus the work related activity  component
The technical guide for the policy confirms Canada Life will apply the deduction for state 
benefits, whether  or not the member receives them. 
Im satisfied from this that Canada Life is entitled to deduct the state benefits from Mrs Ss 
claim payments, even though she isnt receiving the state benefits. This is the level of cover 
that her employer chose  when  taking out the policy, and the policy will have  been  priced  to 
take this into account. 
Mrs S has referred to a previous decision that one of my ombudsman colleagues made 
some years ago. In that particular case,  it was thought the insurers decision to deduct state 
benefits was unfair.  
Ref: DRN30527002Whilst Mrs S thinks past decisions should  act as precedent, thats  not the case. As our 
investigator has explained, each complaint brought to us is considered  on its own merits. As 
Mrs S knows, there have also been  other  decisions where weve found the insurers  decision 
to deduct state  benefits was fair. 
Mrs S has also said she thinks  Canada Life isnt treating customers fairly by selling a policy 
which deducts state benefits that she isnt able to claim. 
As the policy was taken  out by Mrs Ss employer, they are the policyholder rather than 
Mrs S. Her employer had a number of options  to choose from when taking out the policy, 
and opted to take out the cover with state benefits  deducted. That decision was up to Mrs 
Ss employer  acting in their capacity as policyholder. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3052700