K820x#14complaint
Ms O complains that Nationwide Building Society:
declined her application for further  borrowing on her mortgage   which shes said 
was for essential maintenance work to her property
wouldnt switch the repayment part of her mortgage to interest-only
wont extend the term of her mortgage
Ms O has said she doesnt understand why Nationwide wont let her borrow more  when she 
has a good track record of meeting  her mortgage payments and has a lot of equity in the 
property.
background
Ms O has a mortgage with Nationwide which  is split into two parts.  This first part of Ms Os
mortgage was taken out in 2000. She borrowed £55,000 over a 20-year term on a
repayment basis. In July 2005, this part of the mortgage was switched to interest  only and
Ms O recorded that the repayment method would be an existing endowment  policy.  At this
time, her mortgage balance stood at around  £45,000.
In 2009, Ms O applied  for further borrowing  of £35,000 and this was agreed on a repayment
basis. The term was set to bring it in line with her existing mortgage,  so both have an agreed
repayment date of December 2020.
In May 2018, Ms O approached Nationwide to ask for further borrowing of £20,000, to
extend the term of her mortgage and to convert the repayment part to interest  only.  At the
time she made the application, Ms O had a remaining term of two years and five months on
her mortgage.
Ms O said she needed the money to fund essential  repairs on her property. Nationwide  
reviewed this and declined the application as it didnt meet their affordability criteria.  Ms O 
complained to Nationwide as she didnt  think this was fair and didnt  understand why she 
couldnt borrow the money as she had a good  track  record  of meeting her contractual
mortgage payments.
Nationwide didnt think it had acted unfairly  and said that it had to assess how affordable  the
extra borrowing  on her mortgage  would be for Ms O. As it didnt think  it would be affordable,
it declined the application as it said it would  have been irresponsible  to lend the money.
Ms O brought her complaint to this service.  Our investigator looked into it and concluded that
Nationwide hadnt  acted unfairly  in declining the application.
Ms O didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 4 February 2020.  In it I explained that I wasnt minded to 
uphold Ms Os complaint.  I said: 
my provisional findings
Ref: DRN37096112Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld, but Ive reached this conclusion 
for slightly different  reasons.
In May 2018, Ms O applied for further borrowing on her mortgage as she needed to 
make repairs  to her property. Nationwide considered this request and assessed 
whether the extra lending  would be affordable  for Ms O. Having done so, it declined  
the request as it didnt think the further borrowing was affordable based on the 
information provided.
was the additional borrowing for essential  repairs?
There are provisions in the relevant rules  that apply to the mortgage market  (referred 
to as transitional arrangements - MCOB 11.7) which say that the lender  has the 
discretion not to complete  a full affordability check  if the consumer is an existing 
borrower and the further borrowing is for essential  repairs to the property  provided  
the application would otherwise be in their best interests. Ms O already has a 
mortgage with Nationwide  so her application  could have been  considered  under 
these transitional arrangements.
So Ive considered if the additional borrowing that Ms O applied for was for essential 
repairs. The rules define essential repairs as repairs that are required,  without which  
the value of the property may be at risk.
Having considered the information around Ms Os application and the estimate she 
provided, I think she did need the funds  for essential repairs.  The quote outlines  the 
work required to a sum of £22,000.  I note that this is shared with Ms Os upstairs 
neighbour, and that their title deeds  specify an even split for works such as these. So 
I consider that £11,000 of the £20,000  was for essential works.
I also consider it reasonable for her to have some  funds  to make good the property 
and Im mindful that the estimate only covers the work to the outside  of the property. 
Ms O has outlined  the estimated costs and her plan for the internal repairs,  and shes 
also provided photographs to show the extent of the damage. Ive considered this 
and dont find the overall sum of £20,000 that she requested to be excessive here,  
especially as it appears to be an older  property.
I also say this as, once the application was declined, shes  said she borrowed money 
from friends and family and used credit cards  to fund the work- which I dont doubt.
So, I think the additional borrowing that Ms O applied  for was for essential  repairs.
should Nationwide  have completed and relied on an affordability assessment?
Nationwide has said that its their policy to complete an affordability assessment for
additional borrowing  as they treat it like a new application. But this is just their policy  -
Nationwide must also comply with the relevant regulations and treat their existing 
customers fairly. I think here Ms O was applying for further borrowing which 
Nationwide could have  treated as a variation of her existing mortgage rather  than a 
whole new mortgage- which would bring  it within the rules.
Ref: DRN37096113As the additional  borrowing was for essential  repairs, the rules say that Nationwide  
shouldnt decline the request on affordability grounds- provided  it is in Ms Os best 
interests to otherwise  allow  it.
The application was made during a telephone call and Ms O provided Nationwide 
with information  around her income and expenditure. From Nationwides  contact 
notes, I can see that she said she could afford an extra £100 a month. The extra  
£100 that Ms O said she could pay a month  wouldnt be enough to cover the costs of 
the additional borrowing she was looking for.
So Nationwides agent considered whether extending the term of the mortgage would 
help to reduce  the monthly payments to make the further borrowing more affordable. 
Nationwide made  clear that it would not do this past 75 years of age, which  is their 
maximum age limit.
From the contact notes,  I can see Nationwide  asked Ms O when she planned to 
retire, and she said that she wasnt currently working but received government  
assistance and income  support. Having considered this, Nationwide found that this 
further borrowing  would not be affordable for Ms O on an extended  term so declined 
the application. I think this was a fair decision,  since I cant see that  based on her 
income and the amount she wanted to borrow  Ms O would have been able to afford  
the repayments.
I can also see that Ms O told Nationwide that she planned to take another  mortgage 
to pay off the interest only part of her mortgage.  As this is not a guaranteed  
repayment method,  I can understand Nationwides  reservations  in approving  the 
further lending  requested.
I dont think this was an unreasonable assessment on affordability from Nationwide.
However, it did need to keep in mind what would have been best for Ms O, and it 
could approve  the application if it would otherwise have  been in her best interests.
would it have  been in Ms Os best interests for Nationwide to approve the 
further borrowing?
Considering everything, I dont think that agreeing  to provide this further  borrowing 
would ultimately have been in Ms Os best interests.  I say this as if Nationwide were 
to have approved  this lending then it might have  meant that Ms Os mortgage 
account would have entered into arrears as she found herself unable  to meet the 
monthly payments.  If this continued for a period of time, then Ms O might have 
ultimately lost her home.  Ive also noted  that Ms O didnt have a repayment strategy 
for her existing borrowing  other than to take out a further mortgage  and I dont 
consider this to be a guaranteed plan. Ultimately, I think  its clear this further 
borrowing would have  been unaffordable for Ms O. And while the rules  allow  a lender 
to set aside an affordability assessment if its in the borrowers best interests to do 
so, I dont think it would be where the borrowing is clearly unaffordable.
So I cant say that this would have been  in Ms Os best interests for Nationwide to 
agree to this further borrowing.
I do understand what Ms O has said about her good  track record of making  her 
mortgage payments.  But it is this further borrowing that needed to be assessed  to 
Ref: DRN37096114see if it was affordable for Ms O, rather than her good track  record of meeting  her 
previous monthly  payments, as this would have been based on a lower amount of 
borrowing. And I dont think the equity in her property makes  much difference  either, 
since it wouldnt have been  available to help her make the repayments.
Unfortunately, due to Ms Os circumstances, she would not have been able to meet 
the increased payments required to fund the capital of the further borrowing 
requested, or the interest that it would have  attracted.  I also think  Nationwide  tried to 
find a solution  for her by considering extending  the term but unfortunately, this would 
not have been suitable either.
So, considering everything,  I dont think that Nationwide acted unfairly in declining  Ms 
Os request for further borrowing.
switching the repayment part to interest only
As part of her application, Ms O said she would like to switch  the repayment part of 
her mortgage to interest only. Shes  said that her current plan to repay the interest  
only part of her mortgage is to take out another mortgage.
When Nationwide declined the application for further borrowing, I cant see that this 
request was considered further. Nationwide  has said it no longer offers  interest only 
mortgages.
Whilst this maybe the case, Ms O is an existing customer of Nationwide, and under 
the relevant rules lenders  are expected to treat existing borrowers fairly. Nationwide  
would need to give any request made  by Ms O due consideration, as well as keeping  
in mind what would be in her best interests. If this is something Ms O would still like 
to do then she could  re-apply separately  from this request for additional borrowing.
extending the term
Ms O has mentioned in recent correspondence  with this service that she would like to 
extend the term of her existing mortgage. This appears to have  been  considered  as 
part of her application in an attempt to make the further borrowing requested more 
affordable. But it doesnt  appear  that this has been  considered as a separate  request 
and Im not aware  that a detailed discussion between Ms O and Nationwide  has 
happened in relation to this.
I would encourage  both parties to discuss this further. The term is due to expire in 
December 2020  and I would expect Nationwide and Ms O to consider all options 
available and for Nationwide to show reasonable forbearance if Ms O finds  herself in 
a position that she is unable to repay  the balance in full at that time.
conclusions
I understand that this will come as a disappointment to Ms O but having taken all the 
circumstances into account,  Im not minded  to uphold this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN37096115Nationwide responded to my provisional decision. It said that I said it could and should have 
considered the application  for extra borrowing without carrying out an affordability 
assessment, as permitted  under the transitional  arrangements (MCOB 11.7).  
It said that all further  borrowing with Nationwide involves entering into a new Mortgage 
Credit Directive (MCD) contract and so it carried out an affordability assessment on Ms Os 
application. Nationwide accepted that there  are two options that could have been used in 
assessing this application and recognised that other  lenders  might  use the alternative one 
and progress an application like this through the transitional arrangements  - and in doing so 
- remove  the need for an affordability assessment.    
Nationwide also said it has established forbearance  processes in place where appropriate.
Ms O didnt respond. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  my provisional decision  in light of these comments. Having done so, Im 
not changing my opinion  that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
It was not my intention  to say that Nationwide  should have considered this application 
without carrying out an affordability assessment, but rather that it could have. I understand 
Nationwides interpretation of the rules  and appreciate its comments, Ive also noted that it 
recognises there are two options for an application  like Ms Os. 
But ultimately this doesnt  have an impact  on the outcome of this case  as I dont  consider  
that allowing  the application  for additional  borrowing would have been in Ms Os best 
interests. And it follows that even if I had said it should have used that route,  I still wouldnt 
have considered that it should have lent. Ultimately, for the reasons I gave in my provisional  
decision, I dont  think Nationwides refusal was unfair in the particular circumstances of this 
case.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment for Ms O but, having considered all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  her complaint should be upheld. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Camilla Finnigan
Ref: DRN37096116ombudsman
Ref: DRN3709611