K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the increases  in premiums  on their home insurance which 
they took out through their mortgage  provider. The insurance is underwritten by UK 
Insurance Limited, which is responsible  for setting the premiums.
background
Mr and Mrs Ls home insurance policy (covering buildings and contents, accidental  damage,  
legal assistance  and home  emergency) started  in 2008. The insurance initially cost £833 for 
the year. The next year,  2009, Mr and Mrs Ls insurance cost £856.  
The most they paid was in 2016,  when the insurance cost £1,224.  In 2017, the renewal  price  
was £1,195, which was less than the year before.  But Mr and Mrs L called in to discuss how 
a recent  claim had affected the price  and got a discount which reduced the price to £1,086.  
In 2018, the underwriting  of the insurance was transferred to another  insurer.  So, UK 
Insurance was no longer responsible for setting the price. But, following renewal that year, 
Mr and Mrs L took out a new policy through their mortgage provider, which was much  
cheaper. Given the difference in price, they felt theyd been overcharged over the years, and 
made a complaint about this, initially to their mortgage prover  which  had sold them  the 
policy. 
UK Insurance said the premiums  it was responsible for (between  2008 and 2017) were in 
line with its pricing structure  at the time. But that, because the policy had renewed  
automatically each  year over many  years, it couldve done more around  the renewal dates to 
speak with Mr and Mrs L to ensure they were happy  with the policy  and its cost. And that if it 
had done so, UK Insurance may have  been  able to offer a discount. 
Because of this, UK Insurance decided  to make an offer based on a partial refund of the 
premiums paid after 2012, plus interest.  UK Insurance calculated this wouldve come to 
about £805. UK Insurance decided to add some  additional compensation to this and made  a 
total offer of £1,000, as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator felt this was a fair and reasonable way to resolve  the complaint. Mr and 
Mrs L disagreed, so Ive been asked to make  a decision. They  didnt think the offer was 
sufficient. They felt that UK Insurance had ample opportunity to discuss the premiums with 
them when they made claims and asked about the impact of those claims on their increasing 
premiums. They also felt that UK Insurance had implied during a phone  call that by referring 
the complaint  to us they may obtain  more than the £1,000 that had been offered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether UK Insurance has treated  Mr and 
Mrs L fairly throughout  the period they held their insurance policy.
Ref: DRN31187032If I find that UK Insurance  hasnt treated  Mr and Mrs L fairly, I will look to see what 
compensation would be fair and, in this case, whether I think what UK Insurance has offered 
is fair.
I understand Mr and Mrs L benefitted from an introductory discount in 2008. This isnt 
uncommon and policies may well initially be priced lower  to attract  new customers. I dont 
think its unfair for an insurer to seek to recoup  that cost over the subsequent years.
I would like to explain that an insurer hasnt necessarily done anything  wrong  by changing 
the premium at renewal   and there  are often risk related  reasons for an insurer  doing so. 
But where an insurer knew, or ought  reasonably  to have known, the consumer wasnt  
engaging with the renewals process, they should have taken care to make  sure they treated 
these consumers fairly  and that they didnt take advantage  of the consumers  behaviour by 
increasing their premiums just because  they didnt engage with the cost.
There is no indication that Mr and Mrs L engaged  with the cost of the policy between 2008  
and 2016. Before renewal in 2017,  they phoned up to ask how a recent claim had impacted 
the premium and were  given a discount of just over £100.This  meant the amount they paid 
was less than the premiums paid in 2016.
Mr and Mrs L were  able to obtain  insurance  in 2018 for about  £464, which  is much  less than 
they were paying  each  year between 2008 and 2017. So, I can fully understand why Mr and 
Mrs L think this means they were  overcharged  throughout  that period. But just because  they 
were able to get insurance for cheaper elsewhere, doesnt mean they were overcharged 
before. 
Insurers often include discounts  to new customers and then increase the price in subsequent  
years to bring the policy cost up to reflect the cost of providing insurance. And I think its 
likely this happened to Mr and Mrs L in 2018  when  they took out a policy  with a different 
underwriter with an existing member discount through their mortgage providers website. 
That means that they may have been paying  less than the true cost of providing the 
insurance policy. 
In addition to this, each insurers view of risk and how they assess  and price this is different  
and evolves over time. So, the price Mr and Mrs L paid for insurance  in 2018 with one 
insurer doesnt necessarily reflect what they couldve  got insurance for each year between 
2008 and 2017.
Its also not easy to directly compare insurance  policies as they are not all the same.  They 
have different levels of cover, excesses and terms and conditions that can affect  the price  
charged. And each insurers costs and prices  may vary depending on many  things. So, just 
because the policy with UK Insurance cost a lot more than their new policy  in 2018 with a 
different insurer  that doesnt mean the amount charged by UK Insurance over the years 
was unfair.
UK Insurance has made  an offer on the basis that after 2012 it couldve done  more to ensure 
it was treating Mr and Mrs L fairly at each renewal. The offer has the effect of freezing the 
premium at the amount charged  in 2012  and refunding any amount they paid above this in 
subsequent years, including interest for the time Mr and Mrs L were  without that money. The 
refund with interest wouldve  come to about £800.  But UK Insurance has also added 
additional compensation to reach  the total amount offered  of £1,000.
Ref: DRN31187033Having carefully considered what happened in this case, I think  UK Insurances offer of 
settlement is a fair and reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  So, Im not going to tell it 
to increase its offer. 
my final decision
UK Insurances offer of settlement is a fair and reasonable way of resolving  this complaint. If 
it hasnt already done so, it should pay Mr and Mrs L £1000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3118703