K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy that Amtrust Europe Limited  has declined to deal with his building warranty  
claim and cancelled the warranty back to the start of the structural  insurance period for 
alleged misrepresentation.
background
Mr B completed the purchase of his property in March 2016.  The warranty had commenced 
on 28 January that year.  When he first moved in he had concerns that the ventilation  system 
wasnt working adequately. The contractors carried out a tissue paper test and told Mr B 
the system was working adequately. Mr B accepted this and theres no record  of him making 
any further complaint  about the system until April 2018 when he emailed the maintenance 
company (C) appointed by the developer to say the fan was making some strange noises as 
if working under pressure.  He was told the fan was outside the warranty period and advised  
to contact the manufacturers. He did so and they said the system had been poorly installed. 
C carried out some work on the system, but after turning it off couldnt get it up and running  
again. 
Mr B tried chasing the maintenance company to fix the problem but after several months 
decided to contact  Amtrust in September 2018. He was told the ventilation wasnt covered, 
that he was too late to report  to it any issues arising during the defect insurance (years 1-2) 
as this should have been done by six months  after 28 January. He was told to get back in 
touch with the developer. He did this but was referred back to C. Finally having re-read his 
policy Mr B got back in touch with Amtrust  and suggested that as chimneys and flues were  
covered under the structural insurance  (years 2-10 of the warranty) he thought  that 
ventilation should  likewise be covered.  He was sent a claim form which  he completed. He 
put as the date the problem was first noticed as April 2018.  
Mr B subsequently paid C to carry out further  work  to the ventilation system,  which  was 
completed in December 2018.
In January 2019 Amtrust advised Mr B that it had decided to cancel his warranty with effect 
from 28 January 2018. It wouldnt deal with his claim nor any future claims under the 
warranty. The reason  it gave was that it said Mr B had told it in his original  call that he had 
had problems with the system from day 1 but had just lived with it. Then in the claim form he 
said the issue with the defect was first noticed in April 2018. It decided that Mr B had made a 
deliberate misrepresentation to deceive the underwriters into believing cover applied.  
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Amtrust hadnt acted fairly in 
cancelling the warranty. She said it should reinstate it and reconsider Mr Bs claim. It should 
also pay compensation of £250.
.
Amtrust disagreed and said it had considered the case fairly applying  the right standard  of 
proof. It considered it had no choice but to act in the way that it did.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
   
Ref: DRN35439832my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think Mr B has been treated unfairly by all parties concerned in this matter.  It is arguable  
that the defect  could  have  been  reported  and followed  up from day 1. But Mr B accepted 
what the contractors  said about the system  though it now seems like they didnt test it 
properly. However a policyholder can only act on information given to them. Ive seen no 
evidence that Mr B got in touch with C until April 2018, when the fan started  making strange 
noises. And it was only his frustration  at not being able to get any further  response  from the 
developer or from C that led him to contact Amtrust.
When Mr B initially spoke  to Amtrust  he did say he had had problems with the system from 
day 1 but decided to live with it. The problem that he reported in April 2018  was with the 
noises made  by the fan. Whilst he could have  reported the defect after the contractors did 
their test when he moved in, he took their word for it that the system was operating correctly.
Amtrust is essentially  saying that Mr B has acted fraudulently. That is a very serious  matter  
to allege  against  a policyholder. Amtrust  has to provide evidence that its more likely than not 
that Mr Bs claim was fraudulent. Because of the seriousness of the allegation I would need 
to see strong  evidence to support Amtrusts position. And I dont  think  Amtrust has shown us 
any such evidence. It appears  to have decided on the strength of Mr Bs comment  about  the 
effectiveness of the system that he reported  it to the developers during the defects insurance 
period. Then when  he filled in the claim form, it said he put down  a different date, of April 
2018, in order  to bring the claim within the structural insurance period. This is despite the 
fact that he has provided a copy of the email  in April 2018 he sent to C and Amtrust has 
produced no evidence that there was any contact  between Mr B, and C or the developer  
after the first day.
The other point  I would make is that Mr B couldnt be expected  to be aware of all the 
technicalities of reporting matters under the warranty.  As far as he was concerned he 
reported the defect in April 2018  and that was when it arose.  He should probably have 
contacted Amtrust in April 2018  rather than relying  on the actions of C.
I dont think that Amtrust  has shown  us sufficient evidence that Mr B made a fraudulent 
misrepresentation. Because its a warranty, cancellation of it has far more  serious  
repercussions than the cancellation of say an ordinary home policy.  It would have removed 
any cover  for serious structural defects and unless Amtrust would have been prepared  to 
reinstate it for any new owner, could have affected Mr Bs ability  to sell the house.
Because of this I agree with the investigators  view that Amtrust  should pay Mr B 
compensation of £250. It should also reinstate the policy and remove any record of its 
cancellation from any internal and external databases. It should also reconsider Mr Bs 
claim. Thats not an indication one way or the other  that the claim will be paid, but Mr B 
should be prepared  to provide any evidence in support of his claim.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Amtrust Europe  Limited to:
Overturn the cancellation  of Mr Bs policy and to reinstate it, removing any reference to 
that cancellation from all internal and external databases.
Ref: DRN35439833Reconsider Mr Bs claim subject to the remaining terms and conditions of the warranty.
Pay Mr B £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3543983