K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that NewDay  Ltd (trading as Aqua) was irresponsible when it increased the 
credit limit on his credit  card account. 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 13 August 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think Aqua had acted reasonably  and fairly  
in increasing the credit  limit on Mr Ws credit  card from £1300 to £2300.  And I outlined the 
reasons why I was minded to uphold  Mr Ws complaint. 
I invited both parties to send any additional evidence or comments they wished to make. 
Aqua responded to say it had nothing further to add. And Mr W stated that he thought Aqua 
should reconstruct  his account to refund all interest and charges incurred on any balance 
above £1300. He felt he should be returned to the position he would have been in had the 
increases above  £1300 not taken place. He also thought any cash  advance fees should be 
included in the refund he receives.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was satisfied that Aquas decision to approve Mr 
Ws credit card application was fair and reasonable. And I gave my reasons why I thought 
Aqua had responsibly assessed how much it was prepared to lend Mr W from the date he 
opened his account until July 2016.  
After this date Aqua  increased Mr Ws credit limit from £600  to £800. In my provisional  
decision I explained why I thought  this increase  was fair and reasonable. The second  credit 
limit increase Aqua gave Mr W was from £800 to £1300  and I outlined  why I was satisfied  
that this was also fair and reasonable.
In my provisional decision I explained  in detail why all increases beyond  £1300 werent fair 
or affordable to Mr W. I also stated why I didnt think Aqua had done  enough to question Mr 
W about the way in which  he was managing his account  particularly given the cash 
advances and evidence  of gambling  I could  see on his statements. 
Having carefully considered Mr Ws response  to my provisional decision Im persuaded that 
Aqua should  reconstruct  his account to refund  all interest and charges incurred on any 
balance above  £1300.  Mr W should be returned  to the position he was in had the credit limit 
increases above  £1300 not have taken place.  Any refund should be applied to any 
outstanding balance that Mr W has with Aqua. 
I remain persuaded that Aqua should  remove any adverse information on Mr Ws credit file 
relating to this account from August 2017  onwards. While Mr W has referred in his response 
to other  steps Aqua should take to put matters right here Im satisfied that the resolution 
outlined above  is fair and reasonable.  
Ref: DRN31010382Im grateful  to Mr W for his comments. And I uphold his complaint as outlined in this final 
decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd (T/A Aqua) should do the 
following to resolve  this complaint:
reconstruct Mr Ws account to refund  all interest  and charges incurred on any 
balance above  £1300  and return him to the position he was in had the credit limit 
increases above £1300  not taken place;
apply this refund to any outstanding  balance that Mr W has with Aqua;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Ws credit  file about this account 
from August 2017 onwards. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
copy provisional decision 13 August  2019
complaint
Mr W complains  that NewDay Ltd (trading as Aqua) was irresponsible when it increased the credit 
limit on his credit card account. 
background
Mr W applied for a credit  card with Aqua in July 2016. Based on the information  he provided, Aqua  
accepted his application and gave his a credit limit of £600.
Ref: DRN31010383In December 2016 Aqua  increased his credit  limit to £800 and four months later it increased his limit 
further to £1300. In August 2017 Aqua  gave  Mr W a further  credit limit increase to £2300. And in July 
2018 it increased  his credit limit to £3300. So, within 24 months of Mr W opening  his account with 
Aqua it had increased his credit limit four times.
Mr W complained that Aqua  acted irresponsibly when it increased his credit limit. He said he was a 
vulnerable customer  and these increases caused him to fall heavily into debt. But Aqua disagreed  that 
it had behaved irresponsibly.  It said the increases  were given in line with its responsible lending  
policy. And Aqua  said having  looked  at Mr Ws conduct of his account  it had no concerns  at the time 
the limits  were increased. It stated that Mr W had been given the option to opt out of the increases if 
he had felt that the credit  limit was in any way unmanageable. So, it rejected  Mr Ws complaint.
But Mr W wasnt happy  with Aquas response so he brought his complaint to us. Our adjudicator 
empathised with Mr W and thought that Marbles  hadnt acted fairly. They  thought  that all credit limit 
increases prior to £3300  were reasonable and in line with Aquas responsible lending  policy. But they 
werent persuaded that Aqua  had lent responsibly  when it increased Mr Ws credit limit to £3300. And 
to put matters right they thought Aqua should return Mr W to the positon he wouldve  been in had the 
credit limit increase from £2300 to £3300 not have taken  place.  But Aqua disagreed  and asked for the 
matter to be referred to an ombudsman.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The first issue  Ive considered here is whether  Mr W should have been given credit by Aqua. 
I recognise Aqua offers credit facilities to customers who want to improve their credit rating  because  
they have poor or absent  credit history. But its required to lend responsibly.  Before  approving Mr Ws 
credit card application, it should have assessed the affordability of credit to ensure  that Mr W could 
afford to repay  what he was borrowing. Its up to Aqua which checks  it carries out. But, they must be 
proportionate to things such as the amount  borrowed, the cost of repayment and a customers lending 
history. We cant  say a lender shouldve done  any particular check  and there isnt a set list of checks 
needed.
Based on what Ive seen, before Aqua approved  Mr Ws application, it made a credit assessment  
using its own internal  risk strategies and assessing information supplied by Mr W and credit reference  
agencies. It assessed his application score, bureau risk and affordability.  And it said that, after doing 
so, it was satisfied he met its acceptance criteria. At that time Mr W was up to date with his monthly  
commitments and his credit  file didnt show any defaults or late/missed  payments. Given this, and the 
relatively small amount of credit Aqua offered him, I think it was reasonable  for it to have accepted his 
initial application with a relatively small  credit  limit  even though the amount of unsecured debt he 
had at the time was high.
Before Aqua changes a customers  credit limit it said it reviews how theyre using their card and 
managing their account. It says it makes risk based assessments  to ensure its lending is appropriate 
to a customers financial  circumstances. Aqua says these checks were undertaken before it increased 
Mr Ws limit. And it said Mr W met the criteria to qualify for all of the increases it gave him. But Mr W 
disputes this because he feels Aqua acted unreasonably and caused him to go further into debt. 
I would expect  Aqua  to recognise  that its customers may get into financial difficulty  and act 
responsibly when considering whether  to offer further lending. So, with this in mind  Ill consider each 
credit limit increase separately. 
Credit limit increase from £600 to £800
The first increase took place within five months of Mr Ws account being opened and it was for a fairly  
modest amount.  Based on what Ive seen Mr W was managing his account well before this increase 
Ref: DRN31010384was offered by Aqua.  I say this because while he was withdrawing cash  regularly between  August 
and December  2016  he withdrew relatively small  amounts. And he was making monthly payments 
that were above the requested amount.  With this in mind,  Im persuaded it was reasonable for Aqua 
to increase Mr Ws credit  limit on this occasion. 
Credit limit increase from £800 to £1300
Four months later Aqua offered Mr W a further credit limit increase  this time an increase of £500. 
Having considered  Mr Ws statements I can see that he continued  to make monthly payments above  
the requested amount and I can see that during April 2017 he made  two cash withdrawals totalling 
£50. Prior to this increase his cash withdrawals were irregular and for relatively small  amounts. Based 
on the evidence Ive seen,  I cant fairly  conclude that there were indicators to suggest that Aqua 
should have had concerns about the way in which  Mr W was operating his account before  it increased 
his limit for a second  time. It follows that Im persuaded that this increase was reasonable. 
Credit limit increase from £1300 to £2300
In August 2017 Aqua increased Mr W credit limit to £2300. This was an increase of £1000  from the 
limit Mr W had had. The result was that Mr W quickly used the new credit availability. And in 
September 2017, he made eight gambling  transactions followed by a further six during  November. 
After this date, Mr W continued to use his card for gambling transactions  and cash  withdrawals and 
he incurred over limit fees. I think this should have indicated to Mr W that he was struggling to 
manage his finances.
By this point Im persuaded that there was an established  pattern of cash  withdrawals.  I say this 
because in May 2017, immediately after the previous  increase, Mr W withdrew £490 in four separate 
transactions. The following month he made a smaller withdrawal. Over  this short period of time Mr W 
had withdrawn £520. And in August 2017 Mr W, again, used his card to withdraw money. 
Aqua said its customers  are entitled to use their card to withdraw money. And it said it doesnt 
exclude customers from being eligible for a credit limit increase  for using that feature of their account. 
But Mr W was using his card regularly  for this purpose. Cash advances  incur a very high rate of 
interest. And the UK Cards Association best practice guidelines on credit card limit increases issued 
in 2011 points  to this sort of behaviour as being a risk indicator that a customer  is showing signs of 
financial difficulty.
With that in mind I think these cash advances and the fact that Mr W used his new credit limit 
availability as soon as he had been given the increase should have caused concern and triggered 
exploration by Aqua  as to how he was operating  his account. I think an income and expenditure  
assessment would have been appropriate. And I think Aqua should have considered  whether  it was 
appropriate to increase his credit limit. I appreciate that Mr W, again, made more  than the minimum  
monthly payments.  But Im not persuaded  that Aqua acted reasonably  in increasing Mr Ws card limit. 
Credit limit increase from £2300 to £3300
In July 2018  Aqua increased Mr Ws credit  limit by a further £1000. By this time Aqua had increased 
Mr Ws credit limit by £2700 in 24 months. Prior  to this increase Mr W had incurred five over limit fees 
 of which  two were refunded.
Mr W continued  to use his card to withdraw  cash and fund gambling prior to this increase.  And 
immediately after Aqua  increased his limit to £3300  Mr W spent up to his new credit limit and used his 
credit card to make  five cash advances and gambling transactions. In September and October 2018 
Mr W exceeded  the new limit. I can also see he continued using his card to withdraw cash  and fund 
gambling. 
I think  the way in which  he was managing his account shouldve deterred Aqua from increasing  his 
limit further.  There  was a clear pattern of consistent cash withdrawals set against an ever increasing 
Ref: DRN31010385balance. And taking all of this into account I cant fairly find that this increase was affordable. Im not 
persuaded Aqua  acted  reasonably  in increasing  Mr Ws credit limit to £3300   even though he didnt 
decline that increase. 
Aqua said before it made changes  to Mr Ws credit limit it wrote to him in accordance with the terms 
and conditions of her credit  card account. And, having seen  the correspondence  Mr W was sent,  I can 
see Aqua  told him it was going to increase his limit and advised him to think  about  whether  the 
proposed increases were affordable to him. He was also told what to do if he didnt  want the increase 
or wanted to opt out of future increases. So, Im satisfied  Mr W knew he could  decline the increases 
Aqua proposed and how to do so.
But while I appreciate that Aqua gave Mr W the option to decline the increases I think  its easy  to see 
how someone in a difficult financial situation might be unable to make the right decisions. As I outlined 
earlier, its the lenders responsibility to check their customers ability to repay and their overall 
creditworthiness before  offering an increase. And an increase shouldnt be offered  if a customer is 
showing signs  of financial difficulties.
Aqua also said its lending policy  would  only preclude  an increase  in credit limit if a customer  
was over the agreed limit at the time of the increase and where they had incurred over limit fees for 
three out of three  months prior to the proposed increase. So, it says the decisions it took to increase 
Mr Ws credit limit each  time were in line with that policy. But Mr W was very close to his credit limit 
each time it was increased by Aqua. And I can see that prior to the last credit limit increase Mr W 
incurred over limit fees during two of the three months. So, while Im satisfied Aqua followed this part 
of its lending policy here, for the reasons previously stated  I think following this process  resulted  in an 
unfair outcome for Mr W.
I understand Mr W didnt notify Aqua that he was experiencing financial difficulties. But for the 
reasons outlined, I think it shouldve recognised Mr W was experiencing  financial difficulties.  And I 
think it missed an opportunities to do so from August 2017 onwards  when it shouldve undertaken a 
more detailed financial review before increasing  Mr Ws credit limit. 
In summary, I find that Aqua  acted reasonably  and fairly  in approving Mr Ws application  for a credit 
card with a limit of £600  in August 2016. And Im satisfied it acted  reasonably in increasing  his credit 
limit in December 2016 and April 2017. But, Im not persuaded  it acted  responsibly and fairly when it 
increased his credit limit in August 2017 and July 2018 for the reasons outlined. So, I dont think it 
would be right for it to apply interest  and charges  after August 2017. It should also remove any 
adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit file about this account from August 2017 onwards. 
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that Im minded to uphold this complaint. NewDay Ltd (T/A Aqua) should do 
the following to resolve this complaint:
Refund all interest and charges it applied to Mr Ws account on balances over £1300 from 
August 2017;
Remove any adverse information on Mr Ws credit  file relating  to this account from August 
2017 onwards.
Ill wait two weeks to see if either party  has anything further to add  before considering my decision 
on this complaint once more.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3101038