K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained Lloyds Bank plc wont refund money for transactions he didnt make  
after someone else used  his debit card.
background
After checking  his account  online and finding  money gone from his account, Mr A contacted  
Lloyds. There was nearly £650 worth  of transactions. These had all been made with a new 
debit card which had been sent to Mr A in June 2018. Mr A hadnt received this card.  As he 
had problems with his post,  this all got sent to a post office  depot  for him to pick up. Hed 
had problems before with post going  missing using this arrangement.  In his early  
discussions with Lloyds,  Mr A told them he thought  he knew whod got his card and used  it. 
Hed not picked  this card up as he hadnt  needed  it.
Lloyds werent prepared to refund Mr A. As some of the transactions with his new card had 
been used with the PIN  although many were contactless  they couldnt figure out how 
someone else knew his PIN. They felt Mr A had known that money was going out of his 
account as hed been regularly checking his account  online. Hed also had other fraud  claims 
in the past (some for contactless  transactions and for a cash  machine withdrawal Mr A 
disputed making).
Lloyds had given  Mr A £25 as hed said hed been  rudely spoken to when reporting what 
happened. Mr A was unhappy with Lloyds and brought his complaint  to the ombudsman 
service.
After considering the evidence, our investigator  thought Mr A had either made  these 
transactions himself  or allowed someone  else to use his card.
Mr A still disagreed. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for roughly similar reasons.  Ill explain  why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  but 
nothing thats  had an impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Lloyds  and Mr A have  told us.
The issues  that I believe are relevant include:
Lloyds sent Mr A a new debit  card on 7 June 2018. This had the same  PIN as Mr As 
previous card which hed lost. Although  this new card was that cards replacement,  
Ref: DRN34582402Mr A had managed  without a card for six weeks until he noticed the disputed 
transactions and called Lloyds.
Mr A had lost at least two previous cards  in less than a year and a half. The last time 
hed reset his PIN was March 2017 after the second card was lost.  
Mr A had made previous fraud claims with Lloyds for contactless transactions and 
thered been a cash machine withdrawal  in February 2017  which  Mr A had said hed 
not made. Lloyds  had refunded Mr A each time.
Theyd also provided Mr A with advice about how to look after his card and PIN on 
more than one occasion. Mr A confirmed hed been given  this advice.  Its likely  Mr A 
reset his PIN on previous  occasions after fraudulent transactions following this 
advice.
Mr A hasnt  been able to tell us how anybody would have known his PIN as he didnt 
share it.
A lot of these disputed  transactions were carried out at supermarkets for small 
contactless transactions. But the first attempted  transaction was on 18 June when a 
PIN-based transaction was declined. A further  transaction was attempted using the 
PIN nine days later.  Its unusual for a person with no authority to use the card to put 
off trying to re-use the card immediately.
I have noted  there  were balance checks being  undertaken with no cash  then 
immediately being withdrawn. Thats also unusual behaviour  for a fraudster.
There was no attempt  to use the card and PIN after Mr A reported this missing.
Lloyds initially told us Mr A was checking his account online during  the period of 
these transactions.  The online banking data,  which they then shared with us, didnt 
back up this assertion. There were no logons after 27 June until 13 July. At that stage 
theres no dispute Mr A contacted  Lloyds to say there were  transactions on his 
account he didnt  recognise.
I can see from Mr As history with this service  that he holds or has held other bank 
accounts. All of these  have had transactions which Mr A has disputed.
Mr A has changed the name hes most regularly known by during  the course of this 
complaint.
Its not my role to decide who else could have done  these transactions or to investigate  any 
potential fraudster. I need to review  what  the evidence shows. I did consider whether anyone 
else could have done these transactions. It could only have been someone  Mr A knows.  In 
fact thats what Mr A has said too. But his own evidence hasnt been consistent around  how 
this could have  happened.  Id actually be surprised if someone  else was able to get his post 
from the depot without some of Mr As valid identification. Mr A hasnt said any of his ID has 
gone missing.
I accept there is an explanation how this third party could have known Mr As PIN. The PIN 
for this card was the same as the PIN Mr A used for his phone.  That may not have been that 
difficult to find out.
However based on what else Ive seen, Ive decided,  on balance, its most  likely Mr A 
consented to these disputed transactions. It is therefore unfair to ask Lloyds  to do anything  
further.
Lloyds has suggested  Mr A was grossly  negligent  with his card and PIN. They  based this on 
Mr As failure to follow the education they gave him on keeping  his card and PIN safe. Lloyds 
know the requirements around  showing  someone was grossly  negligent  are a high bar to get 
over. However I dont  need to decide this on this case as Ive already decided Mr A 
authorised these transactions.
Ref: DRN34582403my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr As complaint against Lloyds 
Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3458240