K820x#14complaint
Ms A and Mr A dont think Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) has offered them  fair 
compensation in response to a complaint about  the sale of a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. And Ms A doesnt think Yorkshire  has divided the compensation fairly between  
herself and Mr A. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 28 January 2020. A copy  of my provisional decision  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint and explains why I dont 
think Yorkshire needs to pay Ms A or Mr A more  compensation.
Ms A and Yorkshire have both confirmed that theyve received my provisional decision, but 
they havent commented on my findings or sent me any further evidence.  Mr A hasnt 
responded at all.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I havent  received any further comments or evidence I confirm the findings I made in my 
provisional decision. My reasons remain the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont think 
Yorkshire Building Society needs to pay Ms A or Mr A more compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 March  2020.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36827052My provisional decision
complaint
Ms A and Mr A dont think Yorkshire Building  Society (Yorkshire) has offered them fair compensation  
in response to a complaint about the sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. And Ms A 
doesnt think  Yorkshire  has divided  the compensation fairly between herself  and Mr A. 
background
In 2018,  Ms A and Mr A contacted Yorkshire  to say it had mis-sold them a PPI policy with their 
mortgage in 1990. The policy covered  both of them. Yorkshire upheld their complaint and offered 
to refund everything theyd paid for PPI with simple interest (at 8% per year). It split the 
compensation equally between Ms A and Mr A.
In 1992,  when Mr A lost his job and made a claim  on the policy, Ms A and Mr A learned that Ms 
A wasnt  eligible for cover,  so the policy  was changed  to cover Mr A only.  Yorkshire has also 
refunded the PPI premiums paid between 1992 and 1998,  when the policy was cancelled  
again, with simple interest. But it paid all of this to Mr A.
Ms A and Mr A say Mr A was unable  to make a claim  when he lost his job in 1992 and this had a 
huge impact on them personally and financially. They think  Yorkshire should  compensate them 
for this.
And Ms A doesnt think its fair that Mr A received  all the compensation for the time the PPI policy 
was in his name only. Mr A told us he doesnt want to complain about this.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The claim
Yorkshire has sent us copies of letters from 1992 which  show that, when Yorkshire  and the insurer 
learned that Ms A was ineligible  for the policy, the policy was changed  to cover Mr A only  and that 
Mr A was able to make  a successful claim  on the policy. Specifically, a letter from the insurer to 
Yorkshire dated 10 April 1992 says the insurer has received a claim form from Mr A. A letter  from the 
insurer to Yorkshire dated 15 July 1992  explains that the insurer is making a final payment of about  
£250 to cover  the period  31/05/92 to 22/06/92 because Mr A has returned to work.  So it doesnt 
look like the fact that Ms A was ineligible for the policy stopped Mr A from making a claim. That said, it 
looks like Mr A tried to make  another claim in 1993. A letter from the insurer to Yorkshire dated 4 May 
1993 says the insurer has received a claim form from Mr A. It says: 
The information available is insufficient to allow  us to commence payment, however, 
our enquiries  are proceeding  and we will contact you in due course.
I dont know what happened after this. I dont  know  if the claim  was paid or declined. If it was 
declined, theres no way for me to know on the evidence Ive seen whether  it was fairly or unfairly  
declined  and if it was unfairly declined, whose  fault it was. But as the policy  was changed the year 
before, I dont think Ms As inclusion when  she was ineligible prevented Mr A from making a claim.
In any event, whatever happened, happened in 1993. If Ms A and Mr A were  unhappy, I think  they 
should have complained  to Yorkshire  or the insurer  sooner. I dont think  its something I can or should  
investigate now.
The compensation
Ref: DRN36827053Yorkshire has refunded  everything  Ms A and Mr A paid for PPI. And its added simple  interest in the 
way Id tell it to if Id decided the policies  were mis-sold. So I think  the amount of compensation 
theyve been paid is fair.
I can appreciate  why Ms A is unhappy that Mr A received  all the compensation for the time the PPI 
policy was in his name only. After all, as she says, they were married, and shared  responsibility for 
paying household  bills. And when Mr A lost his job, Ms A says she had to find a way to pay them all. 
But, in this case, I dont think it was unreasonable for Yorkshire to pay Mr A the compensation   after 
all, he was the policy  holder.  If Ms A thinks it would be unfair for Mr A to keep it all, she needs to 
speak to Mr A. Ultimately, this is something for Ms A and Mr A to resolve  between themselves.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont think Yorkshire Building  Society needs to pay Ms A or 
Mr A more compensation.
So unless the comments and evidence  I get by 11 February 2020 change  my mind, I wont tell it to do 
anything in my final decision.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3682705