K820x#14complaint
Miss T, a director of M Ltd, complains that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly declined her law 
firms insurance  claim for legal expenses.
For ease, references  to Miss T include acts or omissions of company M.
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in January  2019,  which  forms part of this 
final decision. In it, I concluded that:
Miss T had breached the claims notification  clause of the policy as shed failed to 
inform Zurich of her legal  dispute  until around  eight months after becoming  aware  of 
it; 
As the policy had been sent to Miss Ts broker in October 2015, I said that she would 
be deemed to have constructive knowledge of the relevant terms and conditions, so I 
didnt consider her ignorance of the policys existence to be a mitigating factor in 
relation to her late notification of the claim;
The claims notification clause can be construed as a condition precedent;
Section 11 of the Insurance Act 2015  did not apply as Miss Ts insurance contract 
pre-dated this legislation, so the common law position was applicable,  where the 
breach of a condition  precedent entitles  the insurer to decline the claim without 
demonstrating any prejudice to their position;  and
Even if the 2015 Act did apply, Zurichs position  was likely prejudiced in any event, as 
they had no opportunity  to mitigate the damage or negotiate with the claimant, D, and 
had lost various settlement opportunities.
As a result, I didnt think it would be fair to ask Zurich to indemnify Miss Ts legal costs  now,  
which had escalated to around £130,000. I also thought that the £350 compensation offered 
by Zurich in recognition of their delays was fair in the circumstances.
Miss T responded to my provisional decision with a substantial number of points, which Ive 
considered in detail  but the essence of which Ive broadly summarised below:
The claims notification clause is not a condition precedent;
Even if it does apply, it is merely a term for proven breach of which  Zurich  might seek  
to recover provable  loss, which Miss T submits they would  not be able to do given 
the nature  of the claim and the claimant;
In any event, there was no breach of the condition as Miss Ts circumstances were 
such that she could  be considered  to have given notice as soon as reasonably 
possible as required by the policy.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including  Miss Ts most  recent  
submissions  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. 
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it, as I still do not consider  it would be fair to ask 
Zurich to cover Miss Ts costs given her delay.  But in light of her most recent comments, Ill 
explain my reasoning in further detail. 
Ref: DRN36866412Miss T submits that Condition One of the policy is not a condition precedent. She argues that 
page three of the policy document  which sets out that a claim will only be indemnified 
provided always that all the terms and conditions  of this policy are complied with  is 
general wording and not intended to make  all conditions of the policy  conditions  precedent.  
Miss T says that none of the conditions in the policy are described  as such, and that there is 
no wording within the policy  to suggest that Condition One is a condition precedent.
Miss T has also referred  to the Court of Appeal  ruling in Zurich  Insurance PLC v Maccaferri 
[2016] EWCA Civ 1302, which she has cited as authority on the need  for clarity in such  
clauses, with any ambiguity being construed in favour of the insured. 
Dealing first with the legal authority Miss T has cited, this case involved the insurer  seeking 
to rely on a similar clause  requiring notification as soon as possible after the occurrence of 
any event likely to give rise to a claim with full particulars thereof Given that Zurich  were 
not entitled to rely on the clause in this case, Miss T says that Maccaferri is very much  in her 
favour, and that it cannot be supposed that in light of it a court would decide that Condition 
One in her policy is a condition  precedent. 
But as I understand  it, the Maccaferri case did not turn on whether Zurich had done enough 
to establish the notification  clause  as a condition precedent,  but whether they could rely on it 
given the ambiguity presented by the wording of the notification clause itself. The ambiguity 
in the clause was construed in favour  of the insured because  of the unclear wording 
surrounding when  the insured could be expected to notify the insurer, not because it wasnt  
clear whether it was a condition precedent.
The Maccaferri case was also looking at notification where the circumstances  surrounding 
the claim were unknown to the insured, and very different to the circumstances of Miss Ts 
case where there is no doubt  about her knowledge of the incident giving rise to a claim (i.e. 
her legal dispute with D). So I do not feel compelled to reach  the same conclusion  as the 
court due to the materially different facts presented, as well as the fact that this ruling was 
not seemingly made in relation to whether the relevant clause was a condition precedent or 
not. And in any event,  Im only obliged to take account of the relevant law when deciding 
what is fair and reasonable; Im not bound by the doctrine of precedence like lower  courts  
are. 
Turning to Miss Ts submissions regarding the policy wording,  I accept  its arguable that the 
policy could set out in stronger terms  over and above the wording on page three  whether 
or not Condition One is in fact a condition precedent. But even if I were to accept that it was 
not a condition precedent, I still consider that the fair and reasonable approach  in this case is 
to construe it as having the effect  of a condition precedent. 
I say this because  its clear that the purpose and intent behind the clause is to ensure that 
claimants notify the insurer  of a claim as soon  as possible so that they can step in and start 
managing costs from the outset; preventing the insurer being  left with an open-ended 
liability. And given  the extent and disproportionate nature of the costs incurred by Miss T, I 
still think Zurichs  position has been  prejudiced  to such a degree that it would  now not be fair 
and reasonable to ask them to indemnify the claim, as the mischief in which the clause 
sought to prevent has effectively been  realised  as a result of Miss Ts breach. 
Miss T submits that there was no breach of Condition One, as it required her to notify Zurich 
as soon as reasonably possible   so the key consideration is whether she acted reasonably  
given all the circumstances,  including her ability to discover the existence of the insurance. 
Ref: DRN36866413So Miss T says that even  if the policy was sent to her broker, the wording of the clause is 
such that it would take into account  factors such as the size of her firm; how busy she was; 
changes in her firms  staff; the fact that there is no record of the policy  being  sent;  and the 
stress of the underlying dispute with D at the time.
Miss T has cited  Verelsts Administratrix  v Motor Union Insurance  Company Limited [1925] 2 
KB 137 in support of her position.  Indeed,  Roche  J held that the tribunal has to decide  what  
was possible having regard to the existing circumstances  including  whether the insured 
knew of the policys  existence. But the court also held that such considerations would 
assume the exercise of a reasonable  diligence on the part of the person under the obligation 
in question. 
In these circumstances, I consider Miss Ts ignorance  of the policy  to be the result of a lack 
of reasonable  diligence that could fairly be expected of a law firm. It isnt enough  just to say 
she was busy,  or had other priorities at the time, as I consider it fair to expect that a law firm 
acting with reasonable diligence  would be aware of what  insurance policies they have  in 
place, or would at least check  for such cover when an incident such  as legal action arises. 
And as I concluded in my provisional  decision,  I also consider Miss T to have constructive 
knowledge of the policy terms and conditions  because they were sent to her broker  who was 
acting as her agent. Even an ordinary consumer would have constructive notice in such  
circumstances, let alone a law firm, so I do not accept that her particular circumstances 
meant that notice was given as soon as reasonably  possible  particularly as it was given 
some eight months after she was made aware of the dispute by Ds solicitors.  
Miss T submits that Zurich would be unable to demonstrate that their position has been 
prejudiced as a result  of any breach of Condition One. She argues that Zurich would have 
appreciated the nature of the claim and malicious  intent of D, and so would have resisted  
any notion of early settlement. 
I appreciate that Miss T felt unable  to settle the dispute as a matter of principle. But I 
consider her argument  that Zurich would  have funded such action to be speculative  in nature 
and without merit. An insurer is a custodian of pooled funds which have to be managed  
responsibly. And with such a fiduciary duty,  an insurer  is highly unlikely  to defend  cases  at 
any cost, purely as a matter of principle of behalf  of the policyholder.  In my experience, 
insurers do sometimes settle  meritless claims out of court for purely commercial, expedient 
reasons; and given  the potential costs and inherent  uncertainties surrounding litigation, that 
seems a prudent and reasonable strategy. 
As I set out previously,  the result of the late notification was that Zurich was effectively 
denied the opportunity of managing costs in accordance with commercial  principles, such as 
settling without prejudice in order to save a great  amount in costs.  Miss T says Zurich 
wouldnt have had the time to settle the claim,  because the offers  of settlement had such 
tight deadlines. But again, I consider this to be largely speculative,  and I note that there was 
more than one settlement  opportunity that was lost as a result of the late notification. So I 
dont accept its likely that Zurich would not have been able to reach a settlement.  
Id like to assure Miss T that Ive carefully considered everything shes said.  But as I 
concluded previously, I do think that the delay in notification has operated  to Zurichs  
detriment in these  circumstances by significantly increasing their potential liability to 
indemnify. So I do not consider it would be fair and reasonable  to ask the insurer to now 
cover costs which they had no opportunity of managing or keeping  to a reasonable and 
proportionate level.
Ref: DRN36866414I also havent seen  any further evidence or arguments in relation to the £350  compensation 
offered by Zurich for their poor service, so I still consider this compensation to be fair in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
Zurich Insurance  PLC have made  an offer to pay £350. I conclude that such  an offer is fair 
compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is that Zurich should pay Miss T within 
28 days of receiving her acceptance  of this decision (if they have not done  so already).
Miss T should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between Miss T and Zurich as to whether the £350 offer still 
remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror  after 
rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36866415COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Miss T, complaining  on behalf of M Ltd, complains that Zurich Insurance PLC unfairly declined  her 
companys insurance claim for legal  expenses.
For ease,  references to Miss T below include acts or omissions of company M.
background
Miss T holds a commercial Executive Risks Solution (ERS) policy with Zurich, which was taken out 
through her broker on 1 October 2015. An employment claim was brought  against Miss T by an ex-
employee (whom I will refer to as D), of which she was notified by Ds solicitors on 4 February  2016. 
Miss T instructed a law firm to defend  the claim,  which eventually  went to an employment tribunal  
hearing on 17 August 2016. It then wasnt until 23 September  2016, when Miss T was sent the 
renewal terms of her existing ERS policy, that she realised she had cover in place  for financial loss in 
respect of employment claims. So Miss T notified Zurich on the same day of the ongoing claim 
regarding the employment  dispute with D, and sought to claim on her policy  retrospectively.
Zurich noted that the dispute had been going on for almost eight months before they were notified, 
and that there had already  been various  tribunal applications and hearings concerning  the claim.  
Zurich asked  for an explanation as to why they were  notified  so late, whereupon Miss T told them  she 
hadnt taken this policy  before, and that the office  manager had left immediately after acquiring  it as 
an addendum  to their main  policy.  But Miss T says that she had notified the claim as soon as she 
became aware of the policys existence. 
Zurich declined Miss Ts claim as they say she had breached a number of conditions of the policy 
which had prejudiced their position. They said that Miss T failed to notify them  as soon as reasonably 
possible, resulting in disproportionate costs being incurred and a potential  settlement opportunity 
being lost. They also said that the costs had been  incurred  without their written consent, so they 
refused to reimburse any of the expenses, and neither did they agree  to cover any costs going 
forward due to their position being prejudiced. 
Miss T complained, arguing that Zurich had declined the claim unfairly for the following reasons:
the notification was only given late because the existence  of the policy and its terms and 
conditions were  not initially appreciated  due to the policy  never having  been received  by M  
and notification  was given  as soon as the existence of the policy  was discovered;
any prior notification would not have affected  anything in any event, as costs were  kept to a 
reasonable level and there was no significant  potential for mitigating the loss. No different 
steps couldve been  taken,  so Zurichs  position had not been prejudiced;
Zurich are incorrectly seeking to rely on the early  notification clause as a condition precedent  
in order to free them of any obligation  under the contract; and
Zurich caused unnecessary delays and were often unresponsive.
Zurich maintained that the claim had been  declined  fairly, but appreciated that the service  Miss T 
received had not always  been of a high standard, so they awarded her £350 in compensation. 
Unhappy with this, Miss T brought  her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. He felt that her failure to inform Zurich of the claim 
sooner had prejudiced  their position and that theyd declined the claim fairly. Miss T disagreed, so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ref: DRN36866416Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, I dont intend to uphold  it, but would like to explain  
my reasons for doing  so in more detail. 
notification
Zurich submit that Miss T has breached  several  conditions under the policy as a result of her late 
notification. The policy sets out: 
1.Claims notification
Upon learning of any circumstance  or receiving verbal  or written  notice of any claim  you must 
tell us as soon  as reasonably possibleof
a)any claim
b)any insured  person  being required  to attend an investigation.
Miss T didnt notify Zurich of the claim against her until around  eight months after she was made 
aware of it, which Zurich maintain was not as soon as reasonably possible and has ultimately 
prejudiced their position.  Miss T argues that the key consideration  here should be whether she acted  
reasonably given all the surrounding circumstances  including her ability  to discover the existence of 
the insurance   as she says the policy document itself was never received by M. As Miss T notified  
Zurich as soon as she became aware of the policy, she submits that this should be deemed as a 
notification made as soon as reasonably  possible .
Ive considered Miss Ts submissions around this, but Im afraid I dont accept her argument. I do not 
doubt that Miss T was actually unaware  of the policys existence, and that she had no sight of the 
terms and conditions.  But theres persuasive evidence that Zurich sent the policy terms and 
conditions to Miss Ts broker on 7 October 2015 when  it was taken out. The broker cant confirm if 
they sent the policy document to Miss T as their relevant staff member  had since left the company; 
and likewise, Miss T cant  confirm if it was received  or not as her office manager  left immediately after 
the policy  was acquired. 
But whether or not Miss T received the policy document from her broker is not something for which 
Zurich would  be liable,  as they fulfilled their obligations  when they sent the policy document  on to 
Miss Ts broker  who was acting as her agent. Therefore, any complaint relating  to the policy not 
being received would need to be directed to the broker  not Zurich. 
So although Miss T may not have had actual sight of the policy,  she would be deemed as having  
constructive notice of the terms and conditions  because the acts or omissions  of an agent  bind his 
principal  and notice  to an agent is as good as notice to the principal. Indeed, given  that M is a firm 
of solicitors, and that this dispute concerns a commercial insurance contract, I am satisfied that it was 
bound by the policy terms and conditions. Even an ordinary consumer would have constructive notice 
of information sent to their broker  so its hard to conclude that a legally-qualified commercial  
customer should be held to lesser standards. In the circumstances,  I consider that Miss T ought 
reasonably to have been aware  of the conditions  contained within the ERS policy  from its inception  
which includes Clause  One regarding claim  notification.
As Zurich  were not notified  of the claim until around eight months after Miss T became aware of it, 
and after tribunal  action was actually  underway, I do not consider that it was reported as soon as 
reasonably possible as required  by the policy, so I conclude that Miss T was in breach of condition.  
But whether or not this would entitle Zurich to escape all liability relating to the claim  is another  matter 
I will now explore.
conditions precedent 
Miss T argues that the policy conditions   such as the claim notification clause  do not distinguish 
between conditions, conditions precedent and warranties. She submits that such  notification  
Ref: DRN36866417provisions are generally grouped among  the non-core  terms of the policy, and that there is no 
presumption that they constitute  a condition  precedent or warranty. If thats  the case, Miss T submits 
that the failure to comply with the claim notification clause would merely sound in damages rather 
than permitting  Zurich  to decline the entire claim.
Ive considered Miss Ts argument  in light of the policy  document,  but it fails to pay regard to the 
introductory paragraphs of the policy. Page three of the terms and conditions, for example, states  
that:
We will insure you under  those parts stated in the schedule during any period of the insurance for 
which we have accepted  your premium provided always that all the terms and conditions  of this policy  
are complied with 
So Zurich have set out that they will only provide  cover provided always that all the terms and 
conditions of this policy are complied with which I consider to be enough  to establish that the 
conditions of the policy can be interpreted as conditions  precedent  the breach  of which  can entitle 
an insurer to escape  liability if their position  has been prejudiced by the breach.  But the matter of 
whether any prejudice is in fact required is dependent  on the applicable law.
Miss T has pointed towards the current law under section 11 of the Insurance  Act 2015 which does 
require the insurers position to have been prejudiced before theyre able to rely on the non-
compliance of a term to escape liability. But this provision of the 2015 Act only applies  in relation to 
contracts entered into on or after 12 August  2016. So, given that Miss Ts policy was taken out on 1 
October 2015, section 11 does not apply to this case. 
The relevant law that pre-dated  the 2015 Act, and which  is therefore  applicable to Miss Ts dispute, 
was the common  law position that the breach  of a condition precedent within a commercial  insurance  
contract automatically discharged the insurer from liability  to indemnify without  the need to show  
prejudice. I refer,  for example, to the Court of Appeal in HLB Kidsons V Lloyds  Underwriters [2009]  1 
Lloyds Rep. 8, per Lord Justice  Rix:
Where, however, there has been a failure  of a condition precedent, in the absence  of waiver by the 
underwriters of such failure, no question arises of such prejudice [i.e. to the handling or settlement of 
any loss or claim ].
if there has been a failure of a condition  precedent and no waiver, then the policy would have  
provided no indemnity and nothing  would have been payable, even in the absence of prejudice.
Rix LJ effectively concluded  that the duty of notification under a condition precedent  is indeed an 
onerous one, especially because  mere  circumstances  have to be notified as well as actual claims. 
However, where late notification constitutes a breach  of condition precedent, this should  entitle an 
insurer to forfeit indemnity  even in the absence of prejudice because  otherwise the insurer  might be 
left with an open-ended  liability even after cover  has ceased,  which is not what such policies are 
designed for. So Zurich  acted within their rights when  they refused  to indemnify  Miss Ts claim  due to 
the breach of condition precedent under  the policy   regardless of whether  their position had been 
prejudiced or not.
Having said that, the 2015 Act effectively codifies the equitable position  long held by the Financial  
Ombudsman Service and its predecessor  schemes. And when were looking at cases  from 
consumers or the smaller,  less sophisticated type of micro-enterprise that may reasonably  be treated 
as akin to consumers  which is doubtful in the case of a legal firm  we take account of regulatory 
guidance and industry codes of practice which  have long suggested that its unfair to oust a genuine 
claim in reliance on a mere technical breach  of condition (see, for example, the ABI codes of conduct  
and practice  statements and/or the FCAs Insurance: Conduct Of Business Sourcebook). 
So, for arguments  sake, even  if I were to consider  Miss Ts case under our consumer approach  or the 
current legislation, the outcome would still be the same in any event, as I consider that Zurichs 
Ref: DRN36866418position was likely prejudiced by Miss Ts breach of condition precedent.  I say this because  the delay  
in notification meant that Zurich had no opportunity to mitigate the damage or negotiate with D in 
order to try and reduce the risk of costly litigation. For example, there was an offer of settlement made 
by D at one point for around £15,000 which was consequently lost, so I dont accept  Miss Ts 
argument that no different  steps  couldve been taken to avoid the costs.  Instead, Miss T has incurred 
costs upward of £130,000,  which appears to be disproportionate for the relatively modest value  of the 
claim. The purpose of a notification clause is to enable  the insurer  to test the genuineness of a claim 
within a reasonably  short  timeframe, and to ensure that immediate steps are taken to mitigate the 
potential consequences. Zurich were effectively denied this opportunity, which  resulted in very costly 
litigation, so I do consider that the delay in notification has operated to their detriment  by materially 
increasing their potential  liability to indemnify. So this would still allow  them  to refuse indemnity under 
the 2015  Act or how we resolve consumer cases on a fair and reasonable basis.  
I appreciate that Miss T feels it was a spurious claim that was brought against her, and that she was 
subsequently successful in defending it. But that doesnt mean  an insurer would not consider the 
option of a commercial settlement in order to avoid  the sort of costs that Miss T has incurred.   I 
understand litigants compromise claims  all the time for all sorts  of reasons  unconnected with the 
underlying merits.  
So in summary, I conclude that Zurich  declined  Miss Ts claim fairly in accordance with the policy 
terms and conditions  and the relevant law (whether considered under  the common law or the 
Insurance Act 2015).
compensation 
Miss T is also unhappy with the £350 compensation offered by Zurich in recognition  of the distress 
and inconvenience caused  by their handling of her claim. Ive considered  the service Miss T received  
during her claim, and its clear shes been left frustrated. I can see that there were  relatively long 
delays between responses, for example, and sometimes there  was no response from Zurich at all. 
But I have to consider whether, in the circumstances, the compensation awarded so far is 
proportionate to the distress and inconvenience suffered. 
The power  to make  such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial Conduct 
Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair compensation for distress or inconvenience 
experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a proportionate reflection of the impact that a 
businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order to award further compensation to Miss T, I 
would have to be satisfied that the wrongful  actions of Zurich have had a greater  impact than just 
moderate inconvenience or upset, which I cant say it necessarily has in these circumstances,  so I 
dont think any further compensation at a higher level is warranted, and I consider £350 to be fair in 
the circumstances.
Strictly speaking, we dont award compensation for distress to complainants which  are limited 
companies, as we dont accept that a non-natural corporate person can suffer  that emotional  harm.  
But whether the offer is for distress or for inconvenience  alone, I am satisfied its fair in all the 
circumstances. 
my provisional  decision
Zurich Insurance  PLC have made  an offer to pay £350. I conclude that such  an offer is fair 
compensation in all the circumstances. So I intend to ask Zurich to pay this amount to Miss T.
Ref: DRN3686641