K820x#14complaint
Mr C and Ms M complain that The Governor  and Company of the Bank of Ireland (BoI)  
unfairly increased the interest rate on their mortgage in 2012.  They  dont think  BoI used one 
of the reasons listed in the terms and conditions of the mortgage to increase the Standard  
Variable Rate (SVR).
Mr C and Ms M would  like BoI to repay  the additional interest they feel theyve been unfairly 
charged and theyd like compensation for the time theyve spent on the matter.  Mr C has 
managed the complaint throughout.
background
In 2006 Mr C and Ms M took out an interest  only mortgage with BoI having applied  for the 
mortgage through a mortgage  broker. They borrowed around  £493,000 over 20 years to 
purchase a new property. 
The mortgage was taken out on a two year discount  rate of 1.7%  below BoIs SVR until 31 
July 2008. After that time the mortgage reverted to BoIs SVR.
In March 2012 BoI wrote  to Mr C and Ms M. It said it was planning to increase its SVR from 
2.99% by 1.5% in two stages. First it planned to increase the SVR by 1% in June 2012 and 
then a further 0.5% increase in September 2012.
In 2015 Mr C and Ms M complained to BoI. Mr C didnt think it was fair that BoI had applied 
this increase in interest rate to his mortgage. He didnt think  BoI had cited one of the reasons 
given in his mortgages terms and conditions  and so it shouldnt  have been allowed to 
change the rate. Mr M considers hes overpaid interest on his mortgage and he wants this 
money back. BoI gave its final response  to the complaint on 30 April 2015. It didnt uphold  
the complaint.
Mr C didnt agree with BoIs response and so brought the matter  to us. Our investigator  
looked into the complaint. He was satisfied  that BoI had explained why it was increasing its 
SVR and that the reasons  it gave  were the same  as reasons given  in the terms and 
conditions. Our investigator also thought that Mr C and Ms M could have taken  their 
mortgage elsewhere without incurring an Early  Repayment Charge  (ERC)  if they were 
unhappy with the increase in the SVR.
Mr C responded to say, in summary:
-he does not interpret the reasons given  by BoI in the letter  in March 2012 to have the 
same meaning as the reasons given in the terms and conditions. He thinks this 
ambiguity (and the impact it has on him as a consumer) should mean  that BoI should 
unwind the increases to the SVR (from  2012) that it had applied to his mortgage 
account;
-our investigator mentioned other  decisions in his view but he didnt give case 
reference numbers;
-he doesnt consider  theres evidence that it was costing BoI more money to 
administer borrowers accounts or that its cost of funding  had increased;
-due to the financial crisis it wasnt that straightforward for Mr C and Ms M to move 
their mortgage as lending criteria had changed, as had their personal and financial 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN31765792Mr C asked that an ombudsman look at the case again and issue a final decision on the 
matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself in 
agreement with our investigator, for broadly  the same reasons.
Were an informal dispute resolution  service, set up as a free alternative to the courts.  We 
look at complaints on a case  by case basis,  brought  by consumers  about  financial 
businesses. My role is to determine the merits of complaints  by considering  the specific 
circumstances of each  complaint.  
This service provides a different function  to the financial regulator  and we dont seek to 
regulate, fine or punish businesses. Equally were not set up to fulfil the same  function as a 
court and determine the enforceability of a mortgage contract. We seek  to find a fair 
resolution for consumers,  in the individual circumstances of each case, if we find that they 
have suffered financial loss as a result of a mistake or unfair  treatment by a financial 
business. 
Mr C doesnt think BoI has acted in accordance  with the terms and conditions  of his 
mortgage contract.  I appreciate the issue hes raised, and it is a relatively legalistic argument 
that hes making. Ive determined this complaint by considering what I think is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint. 
At the heart  of Mr C and Ms Ms complaint is whether BoI was able to increase  its SVR in 
June and September 2012. Mr C has been very clear in his complaint. He feels BoI should 
not have been able to change the interest rate that applied to his mortgage.  This is because 
he doesnt consider  BoI cited one of the reasons specifically set out in the terms and 
conditions (2004) when  it said it planned  to change the rate.
Ive looked carefully  at Mr C and Ms Ms mortgage offer and the terms and conditions  (2004)  
that applied to the mortgage. Together these  documents set out how the mortgage  was 
intended to operate. This includes what interest rate applied to the mortgage at the outset 
and once the initial discount  rate ended. It also set out why the SVR might change and the 
process that should  be followed  by BoI.
In the terms and conditions, condition 4 (8) says:
we may change the Standard Variable Rate at any time. We will only increase the Standard 
Variable Rate for one of more of the reasons specified in Condition  4 (10).
There are eight reasons  given in Condition 4 (10). The two reasons BoI has said its relied 
upon are:
-because we wish to increase the amount we receive from borrowers in order to 
maintain a prudent level of profitability or reserves;
-because it is costing  us more to administer borrowers accounts.
Ref: DRN31765793The letter sent to Mr C and Ms M in March 2012  gave an explanation about why BoI was 
increasing the SVR.  The letter said:
The cost of funding mortgages has increased  significantly  for the Bank in recent  years. In 
addition, banks are being  required to hold more capital reserves,  as part of measures to 
protect the banking system from the type of scenarios seen during the banking crisis.
Ive thought about the reasons given by BoI in its letter sent to Mr C and Ms M in March  
2012. Ive carefully  considered whether I think these reasons are the same as those 
specified in Condition 4 (10). 
BoI says in the letter that its costs  of funding (or lending) have increased significantly. I think  
it follows that increasing costs will have an affect on profitability.  One of the reasons for an 
increase in SVR permitted  under  4 (10) is to maintain a prudent  level of profitability. BoI also 
made it clear  that it was now required to hold more capital reserves  as a direct  consequence 
of the banking crisis. One of the reasons for an increase in SVR permitted under 4 (10) is to 
maintain a prudent level of reserves.
Im satisfied that the reasons  given by BoI in March 2012 comply with the terms and 
conditions that applied to the mortgage account. 
Ive also considered the level of other  high street  banks SVRs  at that point in time, and the 
wider banking environment. I dont consider BoIs increased SVR (following the rate 
increase) to be out of line with other similar lenders at that point in time. Overall I dont think  
BoI was acting unfairly or unreasonably in increasing its SVR at that time by the amount it 
did and I think it gave  Mr C and Ms M reasonable notice of the increase and it explained why 
it was doing so.
I note that BoI offered  to set up an appointment with a mortgage broker to provide free 
advice on what other  products or mortgages might be available to Mr C and Ms M at the 
time. Im not sure if Mr C took advantage of this offer- it may be that he did but there wasnt 
anything available  to him and Ms M at that time. As Mr Cs said,  the financial crisis led to a 
significant shift in lending appetite, and this would  have been particularly relevant for interest  
only self-certified mortgages  such as theirs. 
There may not have  been any contractual barriers, such as an ERC, that would have 
prevented Mr C and Ms M from moving  their mortgage to another  fixed  rate product with BoI- 
or remortgaging elsewhere. However,  I completely  understand that there  may have been  
other practical barriers,  such  as a change in personal or financial circumstances, that 
stopped Mr C and Ms M moving their mortgage to another lender as soon as theyd  have 
liked. But I dont think that is something  that BoI, or Mr C and Ms M for that matter, could 
have foreseen  when  the mortgage was entered into. And I dont think  it would be reasonable 
to hold BoI responsible for this now.
I know Mr M and Ms C will be disappointed by my decision. It may be that Mr C and Ms M 
choose to challenge the enforceability of the mortgage contract through the courts. They  
might want  to take legal  advice before  deciding  to do that. If they wish to do so, they should 
choose not to accept  my final decision. 
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN31765794Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 March  2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3176579