K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that DAS failed to assist her in relation  to appealing a judgment made in 
December 2016.   She  says their actions led to her missing the deadline to submit an appeal 
in time. 
background
On 22 December 2016, a court judgment was obtained against  Miss P. Miss P says that she 
contacted DAS legal helpline shortly  after that and was told they were  now closed for 
Christmas but that her claim would be expedited after that because  of the approaching court 
deadline. 
DAS says that Miss P didnt contact  them  about the appeal until 16 January 2017.  On 22 
January they confirmed  that they werent prepared to cover the appeal because  the 
underlying claim didnt have prospects of success.  This was because  DAS had already 
assessed the underlying claim that led to the judgment the previous year. 
Following some further communications with DAS, Miss P asked DAS for cover to bring a 
claim in professional negligence against their panel firm. DAS appointed another  panel  firm 
to consider this. That panel firm pointed out that the deadline for Miss P to lodge an appeal 
to the judgment  made against  her was 12 January 2017- four days  before Miss P contacted  
DAS to request  assistance. 
Our investigator considered Miss Ps complaint but didnt uphold it. Miss P doesnt agree so 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding 
Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss P feels strongly that she got in touch with DASs legal helpline shortly after judgment  
was entered against her. When she made  this complaint, she said that she called DAS the 
following day. She then provided us with a copy of her telephone bill which she said showed 
she called  DAS on 28 January 2016. 
DAS have said that the number Miss P called doesnt belong  to them and that it has no 
service agreements with the company it relates  to. They also say they searched their 
systems to trace any calls from Miss P to them within the time frame Miss P had to make the 
appeal, but the only call they could  locate is the one of 16 January 2017. 
Ive listened to that call. Given the content  if it, Im not persuaded that Miss P did have any 
earlier contact with DAS.  Thats  because she confirms shes not been  in touch with them 
about the appeal before this date.  Had she contacted  them before the call and been waiting 
for them to get back to her like she says, Id have expected her to refer to this within  the call 
and be chasing  for a response on her claim. 
I know Miss P says the call she made in December was to her home insurer whose  line 
wouldve redirected her to DAS. Bu given what she says in the call of 16 January 2017  about 
Ref: DRN30387782not having contacted  DAS about  this appeal before and my findings above, Im not 
persuaded by this. 
So Im satisfied that Miss P contacted DAS after the deadline for lodging  an appeal  had 
passed. I appreciate  that Miss P didnt necessarily know this when she contacted  DAS in 
January 2017.  Shes made  several  references  to being told by the Court that she could  put 
her appeal in late because of the Christmas  holidays, but that doesnt mean that DAS did 
something wrong.
After Miss P contacted DAS, they confirmed they werent able to offer cover  six days  later. I 
dont think that was an unreasonable delay and it made no difference to Miss Ps claim in 
any event because the deadline  for lodging an appeal had already passed. 
Miss P has referred to considerable delays by DAS and says they shouldve  told her 
straightaway if they werent  going to cover  the claim. I dont  agree.  We take the view that 
insurers are entitled  to consider things within a reasonable  period. And even if shed have 
brought her claim shortly before the expiry  of the deadline, I dont think it wouldve  been 
reasonable to expect  DAS to both assess the claim and provide representation within a tight 
timeframe. So Id be unlikely to say it was DAS responsibility to ensure the appeal was 
lodged in time if they didnt have adequate time to consider things, accept the claim and 
arrange for representation.  
I know Miss P isnt happy  with the time it took DAS to ascertain when the appeal date was. 
But thats not something I think  they were obliged  to do. Theyd already declined  cover on 
the basis that the underlying claim had no prospects  of success. They  only referred the 
matter to another panel firm when Miss P said she wanted to bring  a claim in negligence 
against their first panel firm. It was at this point that they were advised of the deadline for 
lodging the appeal- which had in any event passed before Miss P had contacted  DAS.  
I know Miss P will be disappointed with my decision but I havent seen anything  that makes  
me think DAS did something wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss P complaint  against DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 November 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3038778