K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1998 in connection with a credit  card. Mrs J says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold  
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 I think BoS made it clear that Mrs J didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. Ive seen a copy  of 
Mrs Js application form. This shows that PPI was presented  as optional and that Mrs J 
signed separately to take it out. 
 BoS didnt  recommend  the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs J got the information she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
 Its possible the information BoS gave  Mrs J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover. 
 Which means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mrs J about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mrs J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs J has said - including what  she has said about  her existing 
means of repayment.  But these  points dont change my decision. The PPI policy  would have 
paid out in addition to her existing means  and for a longer period of time than any employee 
benefits she may have  been entitled  to.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
Ref: DRN35410372But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs J any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 March 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3541037