K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Pic (BOI)  wont  refund a payment made on her
credit card to a secondary  ticket selling website (the website) for concert tickets.
background
In September  2018, Mrs C says she bought four tickets for a concert  which was due to take
place in June  2019 on her BOI credit card. Mrs C says she brought  them as a Christmas
present and the total cost charged to her card was £565.80. Mrs C says she wanted them to
arrive in time for Christmas but as they didnt, she asked BOI to help.
BOI looked into the matter, but they didnt think they could  help.  They said they didnt feel
there were grounds in which  they could raise  a chargeback. They also thought a Section 75
claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA) would also be unsuccessful  because they
didnt think the necessary  arrangement was in place for a valid claim.
Mrs C didnt think this was fair, so she brought the complaint to our service. Mrs C has since
explained that shes discovered  the face value  of the tickets were around  £62 each.  But as
she paid around  £140 per ticket, she thinks the website have acted fraudulently.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Cs concerns. Overall, she didnt think BOI had acted
unfairly by declining Mrs Cs request for a refund. She explained  the websites terms and
conditions explain that event organisers often release tickets weeks leading up to the event
or even  days before.  So, our investigator didnt think the website had failed to fulfil their part
of the contract.
Mrs C disagreed. She said the terms and conditions referred to by our investigator arent the
same as the terms and conditions Mrs C saw when she made the purchase. Mrs C has also
said the website  has been in the media for several  reasons and that other customers have
received refunds from their card providers.  So, the complaint has been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As such, Im unable to comment  on what
other customers may have experienced when  asking for a refund for purchases made using
the website.
This complaint is about BOI, as Mrs Cs credit card account provider.  Its not about the
website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only
considering whether Mrs C authorised BOI to debit the account with the value of the
payment, and whether they should have helped with the dispute  with the website in any
other way.
did Mrs C authorise BOI to debit the account with the value of the payment?
Mrs C says she authorised this transaction for these tickets, knew the amount she was
paying and was willing to purchase  the tickets at that price. It was only afterwards that she
found out the face value  of the tickets. Mrs C doesnt argue she didnt go to the website and
buy the tickets on her credit card. So, having considered what Mrs C has said (including that
she made this purchase and paid for the tickets) and the evidence  of BOI, Im satisfied the
Ref: DRN33210712transaction was properly  authorised and correctly applied to Mrs Cs account with BOI.
could BOI challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant  (as Mrs C does
here), the card issuer (BOI)  can attempt a chargeback. Generally, we say its fair for a card
issuer to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge  a payment - if theres a reasonable prospect
of success, for example  where goods  or services arent received, or it appears that the
payment wasnt properly authorised by the cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where a chargeback
has been successful.  But I dont think BOI couldve  challenged the payment  on the basis
Mrs C didnt properly authorise  the transaction, given the conclusion  Ive already set out.
And Mrs C received the tickets but chose not to attend the concert. So, I dont think  BOI
could have challenged the payment on the basis that she didnt  get what she paid for.
Mrs C says the website  breached the contract  she had with them by providing  the concert
tickets late as they didnt arrive in time for Christmas. BOI say the websites terms clearly
state that the tickets will be dispatched  just before the event - which  in this case  was June
2019. And as Mrs C had agreed to them, there were no dispute rights as there was no
reasonable prospect of success.
Mrs C has said the terms and conditions  at the time were different, but she hasnt provided
details on what was different or what she agreed to at the time. Mrs C has said it was
publicly known the website had changed their terms and conditions.  Ive looked at the
websites terms and conditions from July 2017 (which was around a year before  Mrs C
purchased the concert tickets) and can see they explain that event organisers tend to
release tickets in the weeks leading up to an event, sometimes even just a few days
beforehand. This is the same as what the terms and conditions  for the website currently  say.
So, Im not persuaded the terms and conditions would have said something  different about
when the tickets were  likely to be delivered  at the time Mrs C purchased  the tickets in 2018.
BOI are required to consider whether there  is a reasonable prospect of success when
considering whether to go through the chargeback process or not. Bearing in mind Mrs C
authorised the transaction and got the tickets, BOIs decision  that there were no grounds for
a chargeback is fair and reasonable in my opinion. So, I think  they acted fairly in not raising
a chargeback.
Mrs C says she was overcharged  for the tickets because she later found out they had a face
value of £62 each. I dont think theres a reason code BOI could have  used under the
chargeback scheme  rules  to get Mrs Cs money back  on the basis  that she was being
charged more than a tickets face value. So, I think it was reasonable for BOI not to
challenge the transaction on that basis.
how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
As the payment was made using a credit  card, I have also taken  into account how
Section 75 applies  to the transaction. BOI argue that Mrs C doesnt have a valid claim
because of the arrangements involved in the transaction. But I dont fully agree  and Ill
explain why.
The transaction was made using Mrs Cs BOI credit  card. Under  Section 75, in certain
Ref: DRN33210713circumstances, she has an equal  right to claim against BOI as she does against the supplier
(the website) if theres been a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier.
My role isnt to decide BOIs liability under Section 75. Instead, as statute requires me to, I
need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law, such  as the
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
For a valid claim  under  Section 75 there must  be a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement  in
place. The websites  terms  and conditions say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange,  [websites name]  provides a service that allows  members
who want to buy tickets  ("Buyers") to find members who want  to sell tickets
("Sellers"). [websites name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual
transactions are between  the Buyers and Sellers.
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the website. But that the website
does provide a service.  And for this it charges buyers a fee. In regard to the fee, the
website says it:
.. .charges a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the checkout
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [websites  name]  platform,
guaranteeing tickets  and providing customer service.
So, in effect,  there  is a debtor-creditor-supplier arrangement between Mrs C, BOI and the
website, albeit not for the direct provision  of the tickets themselves. Instead, the website
provides a service.  The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the guarantee.
So, I think the website  is responsible for how ticket information (such as venue,  date,  time,
seat location and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee,
its responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund if the seller  doesnt fulfil their
obligations around supplying the tickets.
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided
by the website must have a cash price of more than £100 and up to £30,000. In this case,
Ive seen information which shows me Mrs C was charged £565.80. Ive found - from looking
at screenshots  of a number of purchases through the website - that the websites fee
generally makes up about a third of the total cost.  One third of £565.80  is £188.60. So, I
think its more likely  than not the websites fee for its service  in this case was more  than
£100 and up to £30,000. This means  I think Mrs C could have a valid claim under  Section
75.
Lastly, for a valid claim Mrs C would need  to show a breach of contract or misrepresentation
by the website. I note Mrs C has told us she wanted  the concert tickets in time for Christmas
and didnt realise they wouldnt  arrive until closer to the event date.
But for the same reasons  as described  above.  Im not persuaded there was breach of
contract or misrepresentation here. The terms and conditions say that event organisers tend
to release tickets  in the weeks leading up to an event, sometimes even just days
beforehand. Im satisfied that the terms and conditions are clear in explaining that the tickets
tend to be released in the weeks leading up to the event.  And Ive already explained  above
why I dont think the terms and conditions Mrs C agreed to at the time would have said
anything different to this. So, I think Mrs C ought to have known the tickets werent
guaranteed to arrive  in time for Christmas  as this was six months before the concert was due
to take place. Having thought about this, I dont think there  has been a breach of contract.
Ref: DRN33210714Mrs C also says she later realised the face value of the tickets she received were only £62
each and that as she paid around  £140 per ticket, she believes this to be fraudulent. Mrs C
says she wasnt aware  of the face value price  at the time she purchased the tickets.
I appreciate Mrs Cs concerns; however. Im not persuaded there is a misrepresentation
here. I say this because  Mrs C knew the price she was paying for the tickets and went
through the purchase process to get them.  She told us she received the tickets and Im not
persuaded shes been told anything  untrue  which materially persuaded her to buy the tickets
she otherwise wouldnt  have. Similarly, Mrs C bought the tickets  and has received them, so
Im not persuaded there has been a breach of contract  either.
In summary,  I currently think that BOI acted fairly in the handling  of Mrs Cs chargeback
claim. I also currently think  that there is the appropriate relationship  for a Section 75 claim
and I think it does meet the financial limits. So, I dont think it was right for BOI to not
consider Mrs Cs Section  75 claim for the reasons  they gave. Although,  had BOI done so, I
dont think they wouldve  acted unfairly by declining Mrs Cs claim. So, Im not intending to
ask BOI to do anything  more.
BOI accepted my provisional decision. Mrs C responded and explained  that she wasnt able 
to provide extra information.  Mrs C also clarified that her complaint wasnt  just about the 
amount she was charged for the tickets, it was the fact that the Website couldnt provide her 
with the guarantee that she would  definitely  receive the tickets.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs Cs frustrations and disappointment. However,  as I explained in my 
provisional decision, the terms  and conditions make it clear that Mrs C was going to receive  
the tickets and that they would have  arrived  in the weeks  leading  up to an event, sometimes  
even just a few days beforehand. 
I appreciate Mrs C says the Website have  since changed their terms and conditions,  but she 
hasnt been able to show me what has changed. The Website also provide  a guarantee that 
customers will receive the tickets  they paid for in time of the event.  And in the rare instance 
the ticket seller doesnt provide a customer with the tickets listed  for sale,  the Website  would, 
in their discretion,  review  comparably priced tickets and offer replacement tickets at no 
additional cost.  So, having reconsidered everything,  I havent seen anything  to persuade me 
that Mrs C wouldnt have  received the tickets she bought. So, I dont see any reason to 
depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 October  2020.
Ref: DRN33210715Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3321071