K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is FirstRand Bank  Limited  trading as MotoNovo mis-led him when  he took
out an additional loan.
background
Mr C already had a car loan with MotoNovo. In November 2017, he was called by MotoNovo
to see if he wanted  a further personal loan. As Mr C said hed been thinking  of applying for
another loan within  the next couple  of months  he decided  to apply. After carrying  out its
credit checks, MotoNovo  offered  Mr C a personal  loan of £10,000  which he accepted.
Mr C complained to MotoNovo when he realised he still had to make the repayments for his
car loan.  He said in accepting  the loan he thought hed only have one loan to repay as he
thought his car loan would be paid off. MotoNovo  said it had been made clear  in the sales
call that the two loans were  separate. Mr C wasnt happy with the response and referred his
case to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold his complaint as she said he had understood in the sales call
that the two loans were separate. Mr C has asked an ombudsman to review as he said he
thought he would only have to make  one repayment  not two.
I issued a provisional decision in December 2018 which said:
The crux of Mr Cs complaint is that he thought by accepting the personal loan his car loan
would be paid off. And he would  have  just one loan with one repayment amount.
I have listened  to the calls between Mr C and MotoNovo,  particularly the sales  call. Mr C was
approached by MotoNovo to see if he would be interested in a personal loan. During  the
sales call Mr C was given information about the process, the amounts, the interest rates,  the
period of repayment and asked what the loan would be used for. During this call MotoNovo
also confirmed the date Mr Cs current car loan would end.
Several times Mr C asked whether the personal  loan was a separate  loan. He asked would it
run concurrent and also separately  to his car loan.  He was told the car loan would stay
the same and would run as it is. It was explained  to him that the personal loan was a
separate entity. So I think Mr C was aware he would have two separate loans.
But he has said he thought there  would only be one repayment. During the sales call Mr C
was also asked if the money from the loan was going to be used to replace any other
borrowing. Mr C said it wasnt  as it would be used for furniture  and home improvements. I
think this showed  he understood  his car loan wouldnt be cleared. Also the agreement
paperwork was sent at the time of the call by email for Mr C to read through. This confirmed
the payment period and the amount for the personal  loan. At no point was it inferred  the car
loan repayment  would  stop. So I think the call was clear in that there  would be two loans
running concurrently and separately. And Im not persuaded Mr C was led to believe this
would only mean  one repayment.
But Mr C has said having the two loan amounts to repay is unaffordable. And that he now
has to use the money he borrowed  to keep up the loan repayments.
Credit lenders have  to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks  to see if lending is
Ref: DRN37850272affordable. These checks depend on several factors, including the amount of credit,  the level
of repayments, what  the lender knows about  the customer and the information the customer
has provided. So Ive looked at what happened here.
proportionate checks
There is no prescribed list setting out what a lender should do to satisfy itself the credit  can
be repaid. It is up to each  lender to set its own lending criteria. But the checks  should  be
proportionate to the amount being  borrowed. In this case Mr C borrowed £10,000, with a
monthly commitment to repay of £210.37 per month.  He told MotoNovo he had an annual
salary of £24,000 and was self-employed.
Motonovo said it looked at, amongst other  things,  credit  reference agency data, account
status and income  when  deciding Mr Cs loan application. Mr Cs application  had to pass  its
automated lending criteria  which also checked  for any adverse credit  information. As this
didnt trigger any concerns, it didnt seek further information on what  he was spending each
month. It agreed Mr Cs application  on the basis he was employed, had a steady income,
and there  was no evidence of any repayment issues.
But MotoNovo did know about Mr Cs car loan commitment that he had with it of £107 a
month. Also Motonovos records show a notice  of correction was held on Mr Cs credit file.
And there was a secured  loan with a monthly  repayment of £410 on a previous address
Based on this I think that it was questionable whether Mr C could  afford an additional  £200
credit commitment a month.  I cant see that any further checks  were  made  to see what  the
notice of correction  related  to. So, considering the additional commitment  Mr C was entering
into I dont think the checks were proportionate.
In such cases I would have expected  a manual  check  of the application to be done rather
than, a reliance on the automated credit check. In this case,  Motonovo accepted the
information Mr C gave  about his income and didnt carry out an income and expenditure
assessment. I think this additional  check would have been desirable.  And it would still 
remain for the lender, once it had considered the information, to make  its own decision on
whether to lend.
was this loan affordable?
There isnt a requirement for lenders  to ask for bank statements specifically. But Ive
considered Mr Cs monthly income  and regular financial commitments  by reviewing his bank
statements before  and around the time of the loan.  I think its indicative of what Mr C would
have confirmed to MotoNovo  if it had asked questions to establish a bit more about his
income and expenditure  which I find would have been a proportionate  check  in this
particular case.
Mr C said he was earning £24,000 a year, but I cant see any evidence  of this level of salary
being paid into his account.  Mr C is self-employed and having  spoken to him agrees this
was an inflated  figure.  Being self-employed his monthly income and outgoings are subject to
variation. He said he draws £250 a month from the business; his remaining income  being
made up of benefits  payments. From  the information  I have seen  his average monthly
income is around £1500. I have looked  at his bank statements  over several  months; these
show his average  outgoings to be about £1400. I can also see he is regularly into his
overdraft. And this amount has increased since he took out the loan. He has said he is using
the loan money  to keep up the repayments and I can see one occasion when the loan
Ref: DRN37850273monies may have been used to help clear the overdraft.
In view of the information  Ive seen about  Mr Cs finances, I think  a proportionate income and
expenditure assessment wouldve shown he didnt have enough disposable income to cover
the additional loan repayments  of £210.37 per month.
If MotoNovo had made further checks, as I think they should have, then I think its likely they
would have decided  the loan was unaffordable,  at that time, for Mr C. So, I think  Motonovo
shouldnt have made the decision to lend him £10,000.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr C made  no specific comments other than that he was willing to make an ongoing 
reasonable capital repayment to Motonovo finance.
MotoNovo said as Mr C hadnt raised  irresponsible lending in his complaint it didnt think it 
had been given the opportunity to investigate and send a final response to him.
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But I havent  been persuaded to change  
my decision  - for the reasons given below.
Ours is an inquisitorial remit. This means as a service we would look at what  we feel a 
business should have looked  at when dealing with a complaint. It wouldnt feel fair for a 
consumer to lose out because their understanding  of financial matters  meant  they hadnt 
worded their complaint sufficiently. 
This means  we are expected to do more than just look at a complaint as it's written or 
explained to us. But need to look at what lies at the heart of the complaint, and at the whole 
picture. From speaking to Mr C, it wasnt just about the number of loans he had but also 
about being able to afford the additional repayment.  This is why I have looked further into his 
income and expenditure to see whether the loan was affordable  at the time. And whether 
MotoNovo should  have  agreed to the loan based  on this information.
MotoNovo doesnt  think it had the opportunity to fully look into Mr Cs complaint.  But this is 
why I issued a provisional  decision, as this outlined my findings and gave my rationale for 
my decision.  This provisional decision gave both parties the opportunity  to comment on my 
findings and to give any further  evidence  that they wanted me to consider before I reached a 
final decision. 
Ref: DRN37850274my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Cs complaint and I require  FirstRand 
Bank to:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr C paid up to date on the personal loan of 
£10,000 loan he took out in November 2017;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
if there is any of the capital left to pay MotoNovo should work with Mr C to arrange  an
affordable repayment plan (interest free) with no ongoing interest and charges; and
remove all records of this loan from his credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3785027