K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Debt Managers  (Services) Limited is wrongly chasing her for a debt.
background
Miss A had a catalogue account  with a third party, and the debt was sold to Debt  Managers. 
Miss As final statement from the third party showed  a credit on her account. So she doesnt  
consider she owes  anything to Debt Managers.
Our investigator didnt  consider the complaint should  be upheld. She concluded Miss As 
debt with the third party  had been sold to Debt Managers. While the debt was being 
transferred, Miss A had made a payment to her original account. This was why a credit  was 
showing on her final statement from the third party. But the original debt still had to be repaid 
to Debt Managers.
The investigator was also satisfied that Debt Managers had responded to Miss As 
messages. It needed more information  from her so that it could check it was dealing with the 
correct account  holder.
Miss A didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions, so the complaint has been  passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that when her debt was sold to Debt Managers, the 
outstanding balance on Miss As account  with the third party  was £795.86.  She made a 
payment of £8.50  which reduced what she owed to £787.36. 
The third party sold Miss As debt to Debt Managers and the amount was £804.36. That 
meant Miss A had a credit on her original account of £17.
But that doesnt mean she wasnt responsible for the original debt. That was sold to Debt  
Managers and Miss A still has to pay what she owes.
Debt Managers sent Miss A a notice of assignment  to confirm it had taken on the debt, and it 
seems she received that letter.  In a message to Debt Managers she said:
I have just viewed  your letter claiming that you have become the title holder of a debt in my 
name for £787.36.  I must  inform you that my last [third party] statement says my balance is 
£17 in credit.  Accordingly I no longer have a debt to clear. See photo.
Debt Managers replied  to Miss As message, asking her to confirm her date of birth and 
contact number so that it could  discuss the matter further with her. It provided a phone 
number for Miss A to use.
I think it was reasonable  for Debt Managers to want to verify Miss As identity before 
discussing her account with her. It had to be sure it was in contact with the correct  account 
holder. So Im not persuaded that Debt Managers  ignored Miss As messages.
Ref: DRN31761932Im also satisfied that Debt Managers  bought  Miss As debt from the third party catalogue 
company, and told Miss A that it was now responsible for collecting what  she owed. Even 
though Miss A had a credit  on her original account, she remains  responsible for repaying the 
debt that was sold to Debt  Managers.
The investigator has explained that Debt Managers  is willing  to explore repayment options 
with Miss A, if she is experiencing difficulty repaying  what she owes.
Overall, from what Ive seen, there  are no reasonable  grounds on which I can uphold  Miss 
As complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3176193