K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that MYJAR  Limited  gave  her loans that she couldnt afford. The complaint 
has been brought to this service on Ms Hs behalf by a firm of solicitors. But for ease I shall 
refer below to all actions  being taken by Ms H.
background
Ms H took out 12 short term loans  with MYJAR.  Loans 1, 2 and 4 were repayable by one 
repayment, loans  3, 5 and 8 to 11 were repayable by three monthly instalments, Loans 6 
and 7 were repayable by six monthly  instalments and Loan  12 was repayable by 12 monthly 
instalments. Loan  12 hasnt been repaid. Ms Hs loan history is as follows:-
Loan number 
Date of 
LoanLoan amount Repayment date 
1. 17/3/2015 £100 30/4/2015
2. 9/5/2015 £125 29/5/2015
3. 8/6/2015 £300 28/8/2015
4. 14/9/2015 £200 29/9/2015
5. 30/9/2015 £550 22/12/2015
6. 26/12/2015 £1,250 28/4/2016
7. 29/4/2016 £650 28/10/2016
8. 30/10/2016 £450 27/1/2017
9. 9/2/2017 £150 28/4/2017
10. 12/5/2017 £150 31/7/2017
11. 6/8/2017 £200 25/9/2017
12. 28/9/2017 £1,150 Unpaid
MYJAR said that it had asked Ms H for her income and regular expenditure and it conducted 
a credit check. It also took into account  Ms Hs borrowing from other lenders and a minimum 
amount for household expenditure. MYJAR  said that its affordability checks determined that 
repaying the balances wouldnt become difficult for Ms H. It said that it had acted responsibly 
in conducting  all necessary checks. And based on its checks,  it had provided Ms H with 
affordable borrowing options. 
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator recommended that the complaint  about Loans 4 to 12 should be upheld. 
MYJAR responded  to say that the increased  checks it carried  out, as shown in its business 
file, were proportionate.  MYJAR also noted that the amounts  borrowed didnt continue  to 
increase. It also said that due to the lack of information in the adjudicators view, it wasnt  
certain that its data was considered by the adjudicator. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms H 
and to MYJAR on 9 October 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Ref: DRN38110212Id noted that when  MYJAR lent to Ms H the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit  Sourcebook  
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure 
Ms H could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account 
a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that MYJAR  was required to establish  whether Ms H could 
sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Ms Hs complaint.
MYJAR had told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms H. Id noted from MYJARs 
records that it had details of Ms Hs income as well as details about her housing  costs, other 
monthly expenses and other credit commitments. MYJAR had used statistical  expenditure 
data and revised Ms Hs stated outgoings upwards to take account of these. Id also noted 
that MYJAR  had carried out a credit check and had seen a summary  of the credit checks  for 
all the loans.
Ref: DRN38110213Id also seen Ms Hs credit report.  This showed that Ms H had a number of relatively recent 
defaulted accounts before Loan  1. I hadnt seen any reference  to these on the credit checks  
MYJAR had provided  to us. But I was aware  that when a lender carried out a credit  search,  
the information it saw didnt usually  provide  the same level of detail that a consumers credit 
search would  and it wasnt necessarily up to date. A lender might only see a small portion of 
a borrowers credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised.  I was also aware that 
not all payday  and short term lenders reported to the same credit  reference agencies. So, 
Ms Hs defaulted accounts might  not have been identified by MYJARs credit check. And this 
might have explained any differences between the information provided  by MYJARs credit  
checks and Ms Hs actual situation.
Id thought about whether  MYJARs checks were proportionate for the loans. Id noted that 
for Loans 1 to 3, Ms H needed to pay between £135.20 and £150.08 to repay them.  I could 
see that the repayments were relatively  modest compared to the income of £1,500 Ms H had 
declared before Loan 1 and the income  of £1,600  Ms H had declared before Loans  2 and 3. 
Id also noted  that Ms Hs adjusted expenditure was between £991 and £1,121.20 before 
those loans.  
I could also see that MYJARs credit  checks before  Loans 1 and 2 showed that Ms H hadnt  
opened any new accounts in the previous  three months and that her unsecured  loan 
balances were estimated  to be between £2,355 and £2,384. I could see that Ms Hs other 
borrowing might  have  suggested to MYJAR  that her finances were under pressure. I couldnt 
see that wed received  an indebtedness report at the time of Loan 3 so I didnt know  what 
MYJAR would have seen  on that. But overall,  I didnt think  the repayment  amounts on 
Loans 1 to 3 were so large that it was obvious they wouldve caused Ms H financial difficulty.
On balance, I thought that the checks MYJAR  carried out before agreeing  Loans  1 to 3 were 
proportionate. And given  Ms Hs repayment amounts for Loans 1 to 3, what  was apparent 
about her circumstances at the time,  and that these were  her first loans with the lender, I 
didnt think it wouldve been  proportionate for MYJAR to have  asked her for the amount of 
information that would have been needed to show the lending  was unsustainable.   
And at that stage  there  wasnt anything in the information Ms H had provided  or the 
information MYJAR shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what she was saying.  So I didnt think MYJAR was wrong  to give Loans  1 to 3 
to Ms H.
Loan 4 was taken out around two weeks after Loan  3 was repaid and was Ms Hs fourth loan 
from MYJAR  in around six months.  Although the loan amount had reduced to £200, it was 
payable by one monthly payment of £224 which was Ms Hs highest repayment amount so 
far. Id noted that although MYJARs  credit checks before  Loan  4 showed that Ms H hadnt 
taken out any new credit accounts in the previous three months, the balance on one account  
had increased  in the previous three months,  and the estimated unsecured debt had 
increased to £2,832. Id thought its credit check results might  have caused MYJAR some 
concerns and that by that time MYJAR should  have been concerned  that Ms H might have 
been reliant on its lending. And I didnt think it was reasonable  for MYJAR to base its 
assessment before Loan 4 on the information  provided by Ms H. So I thought MYJAR should 
have supplemented the information it held by asking  Ms H some more  detailed questions, 
such as whether she was borrowing from other short term lenders at the same  time. This 
was to make  sure Ms H was in position to make the loan repayment sustainably. I couldnt 
Ref: DRN38110214see that it had done  this. So I needed to think about what MYJAR wouldve seen if it had 
carried out proportionate checks. 
Id looked at Ms Hs credit  report and bank statements  to see what  proportionate checks 
might have shown. Id not seen any other  short term loans on Ms Hs credit report which  
were repayable at the same time as Loan 4. Id noted that there was an outstanding  
defaulted account and an additional account  in arrears from more  than 13 months prior to 
Loan 4. I thought it was unlikely there would have been a requirement for these to be 
repayable at the same time as Loan 4. The bank  statements appeared to show that there 
might have been one outstanding short term loan which  wasnt shown on Ms Hs credit  
report. But overall and on balance, I didnt  think that proportionate checks  would have  
suggested that Ms H was having significant difficulties managing her money at that time. So 
I couldnt safely say that MYJAR shouldnt have given Loan  4 to Ms H. 
Ms H took out Loan 5 on the day after shed repaid Loan 4. The loan amount had increased 
to £550 repayable by three  monthly instalments with a highest monthly repayment of 
£271.37. In view of the increased  loan and repayment amounts and as Loan 5 was the 
second loan Ms H had taken out with MYJAR that month,  I thought MYJAR should  have  
again been concerned  that Ms H might have been reliant on its lending.  And I didnt think  it 
was reasonable  for MYJAR  to base its assessment before Loan 5 on the information 
provided by Ms H without  taking steps to independently check  what shed declared. So I 
thought it might have  been proportionate  at that time for MYJAR to have independently 
reviewed the true state of Ms Hs finances.  As far as I could see MYJAR  didnt do this. So I 
again needed to think about what MYJAR wouldve seen if it had carried  out proportionate 
checks. 
Id seen on Ms Hs credit  report the same outstanding balances Id seen on the report before 
Loan 4. Id also seen one other outstanding short term loan on Ms Hs bank statement with 
another lender for £100. But I also didnt think wed received all of Ms Hs bank statements 
for her other bank accounts.  I couldnt  see Ms Hs declared income on the statements wed 
received. Id noted that the adjudicator  had asked Ms H for the statements for all of her 
accounts showing her income and expenses in October 2018. Id said that shed  had ample 
time to provide  these. So, overall I couldnt say that if MYJAR had completed sufficient 
checks, it would have found that Ms H couldnt  afford to repay  Loan  5 sustainably. So I 
couldnt say that MYJAR was wrong  to give Loan 5 to Ms H.
Id looked at the overall pattern of MYJARs lending with Ms H to see if there  was a point at 
which MYJAR should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so MYJAR should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Hs case, I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 6. I said this because:
By Loan  6, Ms H had borrowed six loans from MYJAR in just over nine months.  
All of the loans  had been  taken  within  17 days of the previous loan being repaid. But, 
I didnt think it would  have been  reasonable for MYJAR to have concluded these 
gaps were any indication that Ms Hs finances had moved on from whatever situation 
had required her previous  loans.
Ref: DRN38110215I could see that as MYJAR  didnt stop lending  at that point, Ms H went  on to take out another  
six loans in the following 21 months  with gaps of less than two weeks between a loan being 
repaid and a new loan being taken out. I thought  that Ms H had lost out because MYJAR 
continued to provide borrowing from Loan  6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Hs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Ms Hs ability to 
access mainstream credit and so had kept her in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
The fact that all the loans were repaid didnt  mean that they were repaid sustainably,  
or without causing Ms H undue difficulty.  
Id noted that MYJAR was concerned that the data it had provided hadnt been  considered. 
Id said that I had considered the information it had provided to us in its business  file and its 
credit checks. I had referred  to this in some detail for its earlier loans.
Id also noted  that MYJAR had said that the amounts Ms H had borrowed didnt continue to 
increase. Id acknowledged that the amounts  Ms H borrowed had fluctuated. But most of the 
loans taken from Loan 3 onwards were substantially  higher than Ms Hs previous loans. And 
even though the amounts  Ms H borrowed had varied, Id thought MYJAR acted unfairly by 
allowing Ms H to take expensive credit  intended  for short-term use over an extended period 
of time.
Id also thought that Ms Hs borrowing history might have suggested  to MYJAR that it was 
likely her finances were under strain, and that she was most likely  borrowing to support her 
day to day living costs  and debt repayments  rather than for a one-off emergency.  Ms H had 
continued to reborrow  in a way that suggested  a long-term dependence  on expensive short-
term credit. 
And Id noted  that when a consumer borrowed  numerous loans  over a long period of time,  it 
was most likely that the loans werent being used for their intended purpose of temporary 
cash flow problems. As MYJAR knew, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of 
high cost lending  firms  that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of 
unsustainable lending  patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
Subject to any further representations by Ms H or MYJAR my provisional decision was that I 
intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  MYJAR to pay Ms H some  
compensation relating to Loans  6 to 12 and that it should put things  right as follows.
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
Refund all interest  and charges Ms H paid on Loans 6 to 12 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 12;
Ref: DRN38110216Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  12 
and pay any balance  to Ms H; 
Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 11 from Ms Hs credit file;
Remove all entries about Loan 12 from Ms Hs credit file once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax it was taken off if she asks for one. If MYJAR 
intends to apply the refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital balances,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Ms H responded to my provisional decision  to say that she agreed with it.
MYJAR responded  to my provisional decision to say that it agreed to settle  this complaint as 
requested in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that both Ms H and MYJAR have accepted my provisional  decision and given  me 
nothing further  to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision. It follows that I uphold part of the complaint and require MYJAR to pay 
Ms H some compensation as set out below.
Ref: DRN38110217my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order MYJAR Limited  to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Ms H paid on Loans 6 to 12 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
2.Write  off any unpaid interest and charges  from Loan 12;
3.Apply the refunds referred to above to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loan  12 
and pay any balance  to Ms H; 
4.Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 11 from Ms Hs credit file; and
5.Remove all entries about Loan 12 from Ms Hs credit file once it has been repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Ms H a certificate showing how much tax it was taken off if she asks for one. If MYJAR 
intends to apply the refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital balances,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3811021