K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) mis-sold her a bank  
account. She says it was advertised as being  an online and telephone account but she 
couldnt access the services she needed via these methods.  
background
Miss B opened a FlexDirect account  with Nationwide. She says she was led to believe it 
could be operated solely by using telephone banking and online services.  And this was the 
main reason  she chose  this particular product. 
Miss B says she feels  the account  was mis-sold because she hasnt been able to use 
telephone banking to pay bills, or obtain information  about her transactions. And if shed 
known this beforehand, she wouldnt have opened this type of account.  Miss B would  like 
compensation.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that as the account  was opened in 
branch, it wasnt possible  to say for certain how exactly  it was sold to Miss B. But that he 
was satisfied shed  been able to use the account both online and over the telephone. And 
that whilst  the account  may not have  operated  as Miss B had hoped it would, he didnt think 
this meant  it had been mis-sold.
Miss B didnt accept  our investigators  opinion. So the complaint has been passed to me for 
a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An ombudsman at our service has already issued a final decision on the move money 
facility of the FlexDirect  account. So Im not able to comment on the aspect of Miss Bs 
complaint relating to her inability  to pay bills using  telephone banking. But Ive thought about 
the other concerns shes raised over the operation of the account, and whether overall  it was 
mis-sold to her.
Nationwide say Miss B opened a FlexDirect account  in branch in July 2015. This account 
was closed down  in August 2016 and a new one opened at the same  time. Its not clear why 
this happened, but I can see from the application forms that the new FlexDirect account  had 
the benefit of an overdraft  facility. 
I can only assume that Miss B had been  satisfied with the FlexDirect account between July 
2015 and August 2016. I say this because after going to the trouble of closing the account, I 
dont believe  Miss B would open another FlexDirect account if shed been dissatisfied with 
how it had performed over the past year. I think she wouldve chosen a different product or 
gone elsewhere at that stage. As she didnt, I think she opened the new account knowing 
how it operated and she was willing to continue  with the facilities  offered to her under that 
product. 
Ref: DRN36052522Other than the application forms, theres  no documentation  from when the account was 
opened. And I wouldnt necessarily expect there  to be. This is because  Nationwide  say it 
didnt give any financial advice or recommendations of what product Miss B should have, 
and theres no fee for the account. So paperwork in this situation  would be minimal. But for 
this reason, I cant be sure what information  was given to Miss B about the account and how 
it operates. 
I have seen the account terms and conditions which I would  expect Miss B to have had 
access to. This says the account must  be operated using Internet Banking,  Banking app, 
Telephone Banking or ATMs  unless you wish to carry out a transaction or request a service  
that is not available through one of these channels, in which case you may carry out the 
transaction or request  the service at any Nationwide branch.
From this, I think  the intension of the account is that its to be used predominantly  by 
telephone banking and online services. So I dont think Miss B was misinformed about its 
operation. But the terms and conditions  make it clear that not every  activity can be done this 
way. 
Miss B says she cant  obtain  information about her transactions using telephone banking. I 
havent seen anything to show me that Miss B was told this was a facility  offered by the 
account when  she opened it. And I havent  seen any reason why she cant  obtain  this 
information from the online banking services; her online statements or the mobile app. 
Nationwide say some  facilities  it offered when Miss Bs account opened in 2016 are no 
longer available. It says they were withdrawn from all FlexDirect accounts due to security 
reasons. Whilst I can appreciate this would be disappointing for Miss B, this doesnt lead me 
to conclude the account was mis-sold  if those  facilities were in fact available at the point the 
account was opened. 
From everything Ive seen, Im not persuaded that this account was mis-sold to Miss B or 
that Nationwide provided incorrect information about  how the account operated. So Im not 
upholding the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 November 2019. 
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3605252