K821x#15complaint
Ms S complains  that Uncle Buck Finance LLP lent her money she couldnt  afford  to repay.
background
Ms S took out five loans  with Uncle Buck between December 2014  and August 2015.
Ms S says that it was irresponsible of Uncle  Buck to agree to lend to her. Ms S says she was 
stuck in a cycle of repeated borrowing from a number of different payday lenders.  
In its final response letter  Uncle  Buck agreed that it should not have given  Ms S loan 4 and 
is prepared to put things right for this loan.
The adjudicator recommended that Ms Ss complaint be upheld  in part. The adjudicator 
thought that Uncle Bucks  checks  went far enough before agreeing loans one and two. 
The adjudicator thought  that if Uncle Buck had carried out proportionate checks before loans 
three and five, it wouldnt have agreed to lend. The adjudicator asked  Uncle Buck  to refund 
the interest and charges that Ms S had paid on loans three and five. She also asked Uncle 
Buck to pay interest  on the refund and remove any negative entries  about  the affected  loans 
from Ms Ss credit file.
Uncle Buck  doesnt  agree  with the adjudicators recommendation. Uncle Buck  says that the 
checks it carried out before loans  three  and five indicated that Ms S could afford  the 
repayments and her difficulties were  caused by matters it could not have known about 
before lending to her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Uncle Buck  was required to make  sure Ms S could repay any money  that it lent to her in a 
sustainable way  that is without borrowing further. Any checks  had to be proportionate to 
things such as the amount of the loans, the repayments and any borrowing history.  But there 
wasnt a set list of checks  Uncle Buck had to carry out.
loan four
Uncle Buck  has already  offered to put things  right for loan four. As it doesnt appear that this 
loan is in dispute, I dont think I need to say anything more  about it.
loans one and two
Ms S hadnt borrowed from Uncle Buck before so it didnt have any lending  history to 
consider. Uncle  Buck  says that it asked Ms S for details of her income and expenses. 
It looked as though Ms S has about £400  of disposable income from her monthly salary  that 
she declared of around £900. Based on this information, I consider it was reasonable of 
Uncle Buck  to agree loans one and two without asking to see further evidence.
Ref: DRN35580702loan three
Ms S asked for loan three just three days after repaying loan 2. Ms S was due to repay the 
loan with one instalments  of around £300. This represented a significant  proportion of Ms Ss 
declared disposable income.   
I appreciate that Uncle Buck says that the credit report it had at the time said that she had 13 
active accounts, one active short term loan account and outstanding short  term credit.
I think Uncle Bucks  credit  search  had enough information to suggest that Ms S might have 
difficulty sustainably repaying the loan given  her level of disposable income  and her 
outstanding credit. Uncle Buck says it assumed that this short term credit wouldnt need  to 
be repaid in one instalment but in the circumstances  I think it should have done  more to find 
out about the short term lending position. 
As Uncle Buck hasnt  given me any evidence to suggest that it asked Ms S about  her short 
term lending commitments, I dont think its checks were proportionate.
Ms S was due to pay other  short term lenders around £257. When added  to Ms Ss declared 
expenses, she wasnt left with enough disposable income to afford the repayments  on loan 
three. If Uncle Buck had discovered this with a proportionate check, I dont think  it wouldve 
agreed to lend.
The fact that the loan was repaid on time doesnt  mean that it was affordable. Ms S had to 
borrow again to meet her commitments.
loan five
By the time Ms S borrowed from Uncle Buck in August 2015, Uncle  Buck shouldve been  
aware of her borrowing history and done more to check whether she could afford  the loans. 
Uncle Buck  should  have  been alerted by Ms Ss borrowing history that she was reliant on 
this sort of credit for her monthly living costs and was not using the loans as a short  term 
solution. 
The pattern  of lending shouldve reasonably prompted Uncle  Buck to try and get a 
comprehensive picture of Ms Ss finances. It couldve done this by asking to see bills or bank 
statements for example.
Ms Ss income was higher  than she had declared  when  all of her sources of income were  
taken into account.  Ms S had around  £1615 coming in and her monthly living expenses and 
regular outgoings  were £1430. Ms S also had another short term loan to repay of £125  due 
after this loan was taken out. So taking  account  of Ms Ss income and outgoings, she didnt 
have enough disposable income to sustainably be able to afford  to repay  loan five.
I appreciate that Uncle Buck says it spoke  to Ms S before agreeing loan five but I dont know 
much of what was discussed during the call. I also think that Uncle  Buck had enough 
information to suggest that Ms S might not have disclosed  the full extent of her liabilities as 
part of the process.  Although its reasonable of Uncle Buck  to expect a customer  to give an 
accurate description  of their financial situation  as part of a loan application, that doesnt  
mean that Uncle Buck shouldnt have considered that it might not know  enough about Ms S 
to decide whether to lend.
Ref: DRN35580703If Uncle Buck had looked at Ms Ss financial circumstances in as much  detail  as I think was 
proportionate, I dont think it wouldve agreed loans  three and five. 
Overall, Ms S has lost out so Uncle Buck should  compensate her more than its offered to so 
far.
putting things right
To put things right Uncle Buck  should:
Refund any interest and charges paid on loans three to five;
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded about loans three to five from Ms Ss 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Ms S a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Ms Ss complaint in part and direct Uncle Buck  Finance LLP to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3558070