K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Feast Noble & Company LLP (Feast Noble) did not act according  to its 
regulatory obligations when it arranged the transfer of his pensions to a self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP)  which facilitated  an unsuitable unregulated investment.
background
Mr S was referred to Feast Noble  by an unregulated introducer. Feast Noble issued a direct 
offer to Mr S. It included a Client Undertaking & Consent form which Mr S signed  on 8 
November 2011  confirming, amongst other  things,  that he wanted to apply  for a SIPP with 
the provider named.  
The value of Mr Ss existing pension arrangements (£41,217.31) was transferred to the SIPP 
in February 2012.  In March 2012  Mr S took tax free cash of £10,064.32  and £23,000 was 
invested in a car park space in Dubai,  leaving a balance  of £5,943.94. From September 
2012 rent was paid from the car park every  six months. 
Feast Noble was removed  as Mr Ss advisers  in September  2013  with new advisers  
appointed in December 2013.  By then the SIPP had a cash  balance of £7,849.27. 
Mr S took income payments each  of £1,000 gross in January 2015 and January 2016. I think  
the last rent payment from the car park was paid in March 2016. In January 2017 Mr S took 
a further income  payment of £6,486.42,  which left a balance of £2,302.93.  After payment of 
a fee of £894 that left a cash  balance of £1,408.93.
Mr S says he believed the investment was for five years and so, after not receiving the full 
five years income payments or a return of capital, he complained.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and upheld it. He said: 
Mr S had been introduced to Feast Noble by an unregulated firm specifically for the 
direct offer which included a list of benefits of the particular SIPP  and investing  in 
commercial property.
The direct  offer amounted to advice and a recommendation to start a SIPP with the 
particular provider.
When a regulated firm receives an introduction from an unregulated  source  it should  
consider what role the introducer has played  in guiding  or influencing the consumer. 
Feast Noble should have considered the suitability of Mr S transferring his existing 
pensions to a SIPP and looked into where the pension fund would then be invested.
Feast Noble arranged  the pension transfers which  was a regulated activity. It was 
required to act in accordance with the rules  set out in the Conduct  of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) and the regulators overarching principles.
Feast Noble was obliged  to consider its customers best interests. COBS 2.1.1R (1) 
says A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance  with the best 
interests of its client. And Principle 6 says:  A firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The regulators alert of January 2013  supported the adjudicators view that Feast 
Noble had an obligation to consider the suitability of both Mr Ss pension  transfers  
and the intended investment.
Mr S wanted to access his tax free cash lump sum from his pensions. There was a 
need to transfer  in order to release that money. But the remaining fund was modest  
Ref: DRN31151602and Mr S was close to retirement.  How the residual pension was to be invested 
should have been considered. With a relatively small fund and a short investment 
horizon there would be limited opportunity to recoup the fees and charges incurred 
by transferring.
The investment  was unregulated with no access to the Financial  Services  
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).  It was illiquid with no ready  market  for resale. In the 
adjudicators opinion it was a very high risk, speculative investment. 
There was no evidence that Mr Ss attitude  to risk had been assessed. But, based on 
the investments  held in his previous pension arrangements,  Mr S was a medium or 
balanced risk investor.
The unregulated  investment in a car park space was unsuitable as it offered a much 
higher level of risk than was appropriate for Mr S. 
Stating risks in the direct offer letter didnt make  the advice suitable  and didnt 
absolve Feast Noble from its responsibilities  to treat Mr S fairly and consider his best 
interests.
Feast Noble said the adjudicators conclusions were based on incorrect facts  and reached 
with benefit of hindsight. The responsibilities  of the unregulated introducer and Mr S himself 
had been ignored. Assumptions  had been made about what Mr S would have done, had 
Feast Noble given  the advice wed said it should.  Feast Noble made  the following points: 
The investment  term was 99 years from September  2010.  The five year period was 
how long the income  was guaranteed for.
It arranged the switch and transfer to a SIPP. It didnt advise Mr S as to the suitability 
of the SIPP  wrapper or how the pension assets should be invested, nor does Mr S 
allege that it did. Its role was limited to assisting with the completion of the SIPP 
forms and pension  transfers, but only in an administrative, execution  only capacity.
The direct  offer letter didnt constitute advice. It gave explicit  warnings (in bold type 
on the first and last pages) that Feast Noble wasnt offering advice about a SIPP  
transfer or commercial  property investment but could provide advice for an additional  
fee. Feast Nobles  letter to Mr S dated 11 January 2012 confirmed that advice wasnt  
being given. The form Mr S signed on 8 November  2011  confirmed hed received the 
direct offer and understood  the warnings given,  including  that no advice was being 
provided.
Feast Noble provided execution only services. The position  is different from where an 
adviser gives advice  but then seeks  to avoid responsibility for the advice by arguing 
the transaction was execution only. Here no advice was given,  so the sale could only 
be execution only. At the time there was no obligation to give advice about suitability 
when providing  execution only services (see COBS 9.1.1R COBS 10.4.1R).  
The regulators alert set out its concerns that firms  providing  advice about pensions 
switches or transfers to SIPPs were  doing so on an overly  narrow basis.  It wasnt  
concerned with firms that werent providing  advice as was the case here. It was 
limited to describing the scope  of any advice, as opposed to forming the basis  for a 
general obligation to advise. And the alert wasnt published until January 2013, after 
Mr Ss transaction.
Feast Noble maintained it had treated Mr S fairly and acted in his best interests. It 
had responsibilities to its clients. But the regulators view was that consumers should 
also take responsibility for their decisions.  It referred again to the form Mr S had 
signed. 
Feast Noble didnt  know Mr S intended  to invest in overseas property. Hed made 
that decision before the transfers  had been  completed, having been advised  by the 
unregulated introducer.  If Feast  Noble had been aware of Mr Ss intentions it would 
Ref: DRN31151603have advised  him in clear and unequivocal terms against making an unregulated  
investment. 
The fee charged wasnt unreasonable and was below the industry average given the 
work involved (three transfers).  It was accepted  that Mr S needed to transfer to 
release his tax free cash. 
Feast Noble was only instructed to arrange the SIPP.  It had no knowledge  of the type 
of investment that Mr S intended.  It offered  advice on the underlying investments for 
a further fee but that offer was declined. 
Mr S would have gone elsewhere if Feast Noble hadnt arranged the SIPP.  Hed 
have transferred and invested as he did regardless so Feast  Noble couldnt  have 
caused any loss to him. It had arranged the SIPP on a purely transactional  basis so it 
cant have acted  in breach  of any duty to Mr S in respect of the investment or caused 
the alleged loss resulting  from the investment. In the circumstances  it wasnt  fair and 
reasonable to hold Feast Noble  responsible.  The parties who are responsible are the 
unregulated introducer  and the SIPP provider. 
The adjudicator considered all that Feast Noble had said. But he wasnt persuaded to 
change his view.  He told the parties  that as agreement couldnt be reached the complaint 
would be referred  to an ombudsman. 
Feast Noble later added that the adjudicator  had recognised that Mr S wanted  to access  his 
tax free cash,  which he couldnt do under his existing arrangements.  Saying  he shouldnt 
have transferred contradicted that. Feast Noble  also said it couldnt have made enquiries 
about and advised against  the unregulated investment as Mr S had already signed up to 
the investment  before  the transfers  were  complete.  It said the instruction for the investment 
was made  by the unregulated introducer  illegally  and without Feast Nobles knowledge.  The 
SIPP provider had actioned the instruction contrary to its terms of business and without 
Feast Noble knowing. Mr S had signed  the SIPP providers declaration  authorising the SIPP  
provider to accept  investment  instructions  from his appointed adviser. 
Feast Noble later produced a copy  of a company search against the unregulated introducer. 
It showed a debenture (dated 12 April 2011) between the introducer and the SIPP provider. 
It secured an amount  of £30,000 and a charge over all rights and interests in commissions  
payable to the unregulated introducer.  
Feast Noble reiterated that it had nothing  to do with the unregulated investment and didnt 
know about it until the complaint was made. It said thered been collusion between the 
unregulated introducer and the SIPP provider. The former had acted illegally in giving 
investment advice. The latter had accepted investment instructions from an unauthorised 
third party contrary to its own terms of business and the law. The debenture showed  the 
financial link between the two parties.  The SIPP provider had a vested interest  in accepting 
investment instructions from the unregulated introducer and had a charge  over the 
commissions the introducer was generating from its unregulated investment activities.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In doing so Ive taken  into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance 
and standards;  codes  of practice  and what I consider to have been good  industry  practice at 
Ref: DRN31151604the relevant time. Ive also paid particular  attention  to what  Feast Noble has said about why 
it didnt accept the adjudicators conclusions. 
Essentially I agree with the adjudicator and for the reasons he gave that Mr Ss complaint 
should be upheld.  Ive commented in a little more detail on some aspects, notably the central 
finding about whether the direct offer amounted  to advice. 
COBS 4.7 (as in force at the time) concerns direct  offer financial promotions.  And COBS  
4.7.1R deals with direct offer financial promotions  made to retail  clients.  There are 
requirements (and guidance) about the information to be included in order  that the client  can 
make an informed decision. There are additional  requirements in COBS  4.9R  for financial 
promotions with an overseas  element.  And in COBS 4.12R for unregulated collective 
investment schemes  (UCIS). Im not sure if what Mr S invested in (a car park space in 
Dubai) was a UCIS. I havent gone into whether  there was a breach of COBS 4.12R or 
indeed any other  aspect of the financial promotion regime. 
Thats because,  like the adjudicator, I think the direct offer wasnt just a financial promotion. 
My view, for the reasons  Ive gone on to explain, is that it amounted  to advice.  
Advising on investments is a regulated activity under article 53(1) of the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities)  Order 2001 (SI 2001/544) (RAO).The  definition 
of advising includes advice on the merits of an investor (or potential  investor) buying, selling, 
subscribing for, exchanging, redeeming, holding or underwriting a particular investment. 
Theres a distinction  between giving information and advice. I note what the Perimeter 
Guidance Manual (PERG) says about advice or information. PERG  8.28.1G says that advice 
requires an element of opinion  on the part of the adviser. And PERG 8.28.2G says:
(1)In general terms, simply giving information  without  making  any comment or value  
judgment on its relevance to decisions which an investor may make  is not advice.
(2)The provision of purely factual information  does not become regulated advice merely 
because it feeds  into the customers own decision-making process and is taken into 
account by them.
(3)Regulated advice  includes  any communication with the customer which, in the 
particular context  in which it is given, goes beyond the mere provision of information 
and is objectively likely to influence the customers decision whether or not to buy or 
sell.
(4)A key to the giving  of advice is that the information:
(a)is either accompanied by comment or value  judgment on the relevance of that 
information to the customers investment decision; or
(b)is itself the product  of a process  of selection involving a value judgment so that 
the information will tend to influence the decision.
(5)Advice can still be regulated advice  if the person receiving the advice:
(a)is free to follow or disregard the advice; or
(b)may receive further advice from another person (such as their usual financial 
adviser) before making a final decision.
Ive borne all that in mind in looking at the direct offer.  I think  it did include an element of 
opinion. I think it went beyond merely providing factual information and as such was 
objectively likely to influence Mr Ss decision to transfer to a SIPP  with the named provider. 
And it seems Feast Noble had gone  through a process of selection  and had made  a value 
judgment about the particular SIPP provider. 
Ref: DRN31151605The section headed What are the benefits of using  a SIPP?  gave generic information  (with 
further details  in the attached key features  document). But I think  what was said about tax 
benefits was somewhat  misleading. The benefits set out arent exclusive  to SIPPs  but reflect 
the tax treatment of pensions  generally (although death benefits can vary).  
Further the direct offer doesnt mention possible drawbacks with a SIPP (for example, that 
the fees are likely to be higher). I think theres a lack of balance which would tend to 
influence the customers decision  and make a SIPP appear more attractive than other 
pension arrangements. 
The regulators principles for businesses are relevant  here too. These are the overarching 
requirements to which  firms  must  adhere. Principle 7 says firms must pay due regard to the 
information needs of its clients, and communicate  information to them in a way which  is 
clear, fair and not misleading. 
The next section  is headed Why should you use the [name of SIPP provider]  SIPP 
Arrangement? I think it amounted to advice or a recommendation  to transfer to a SIPP with 
the named provider. 
First, the heading  implies an assumption that the customer should use the particular SIPP.  
The section goes  on to describe the SIPP provider in positive terms and such  as compared  
favourably to its competitors. I note here the references to the SIPP provider:
being at the forefront  of the self administered pensions  industry  for over twenty five 
years;
offering innovative retirement and business  financial planning solutions and award 
winning administrative services;
setting up a life assurance arrangement described as an innovative  development 
and indicative of [the SIPP providers] drive to add value above and beyond  the 
average SIPP arrangement. 
 
In my view that goes beyond simply providing  factual information  (for example as to the 
services offered by the particular SIPP provider).  Its a positive endorsement and a value 
judgment as to how that SIPP  provider compared with others in the market. I think  it is the 
product of a process of selection undertaken by Feast Noble and is information which will 
tend to influence  the customers decision.  
Similarly the next section,  headed Should  I transfer my pension benefits  into a SIPP? 
implies an answer in the affirmative. I note that pension transfers are then referred to as one 
of the most contentious areas  of financial planning with many  considerations to be taken  
into account (some  of which are then set out). But I dont  think that displaces the overall  
tenor  that transferring to a SIPP (to invest in commercial  property  see below) was 
something that Mr S should do. So all in all I agree with the adjudicator that the direct  offer 
did amount to advice  or a recommendation to that effect.
The direct offer focused on investing  in commercial  property. Theres a section devoted  to 
that. A list of risk factors was set out. But thats  prefaced by a statement that commercial  
property can be a very attractive investment proposition! 
Ref: DRN31151606And commercial property is mentioned several  times  elsewhere.  No other examples of the 
wider range of investment opportunities offered by a SIPP  are given.  Overall  I think theres 
an emphasis on commercial property as a popular  and potentially  lucrative  investment. 
All in all, and taken  in context, my view is that what was said can be construed  as a value 
judgement as to the merits of transferring to a SIPP  with the named provider to permit  
investment in commercial  property.  
I note that (in addition  to what was said about pension  transfers  being  contentious)  the 
direct offer included the following statements:  
Feast Noble wasnt making  any recommendation as to the suitability of the 
arrangement and no advice about that had been or would be provided. Feast  Noble 
wouldnt advise or make a recommendation as to the suitability of investing in 
commercial property.  
If Mr S had any doubt as to whether the pension plan was suited to his needs  or 
about affordability, risks or charges  he should  seek expert advice which  Feast Noble 
could provide, for an additional fee.
Feast Noble said: Please be aware  that although we are informing you of the types 
of permitted investments  that are available through a SIPP  (as described  in the 
attached key features document)  in no circumstances should our disclosure of these 
investments be viewed as a recommendation.
Feast Noble has also pointed to the client undertaking  and consent  form Mr S signed  on 8 
November 2011.  And in its letter  to Mr S dated 11 January 2012 Feast Noble said it wasnt 
providing Mr S with any investment advice and that its understanding  was that Mr S intended 
to invest at some point in the future, in a range  of investments of [his] own choice.
But if, as Ive said, properly analysed and taken in context, the direct offer did amount to 
advice, that wont  be negated by Mr S signing something to say he understood differently. 
Id also note that the client agreement  that Mr S signed on 9 November 2011 records his 
agreement to appoint  Feast  Noble as his advisers. And, about personal pension  schemes,  
said: 
Not all types of person  pension schemes are included  in the information above about 
commissions. Instead only the more common types  are included, and schemes such 
as SIPPs  are not. Before  we start advising you, we will inform  you of how much we 
could be paid if we do recommend one of these products  to you. You can also ask us 
about commission we might receive on underlying  investments  we recommend you 
hold within  a SIPP 
Feast Noble charged Mr S £1,250 to set up the SIPP. But, in addition, Feast  Noble would be 
paid £200 a year to cover future servicing described (in the introduction section of the direct 
offer) as ongoing administration, reporting and communication required to competently  run 
such an arrangement .
But I dont see that Feast Noble would be running the SIPP  that was down to the SIPP 
provider. So Im not entirely  sure what the yearly  fee was really intended to cover. It seems 
to me its more consistent with Feast Noble having  given advice and then taking ongoing 
commission in return for regular reviews.  
Ref: DRN31151607And, from the client agreement, Mr S may have understood that Feast Noble would  be 
advising him. It was Feast  Nobles standard client agreement. It says Mr S agrees to appoint  
Feast Noble as his advisers from the date he signed  the agreement. There  are references to 
advice and recommendations. 
I think how things were  presented to the SIPP provider is also significant. It seems the 
documents (SIPP  application form, fee agreement  and ceding schemes discharge forms) 
were prepared by the unregulated introducer  for signature by Mr S. The introducer  then sent 
the signed forms (with copies of Mr Ss ID documents)  to Feast  Noble (on 4 November 
2011). 
Feast Noble sent the documentation  to the SIPP provider on 11 January 2012. The covering 
letter said it was a direct  offer case which originated  from the named introducer. It looks like 
the SIPP application form may have been  one for use by the particular introducer  its name  
was printed on the front page. So its clear that the unregulated introducer was involved in 
completing the documentation.  And that the SIPP provider was aware of the introducers 
involvement. 
But the SIPP  application was actually made by Feast Noble.  The application form recorded 
that Feast Noble was Mr Ss independent financial adviser (IFA). I dont think  Feast Noble  
should have completed the form on the basis it was Mr Ss IFA if it hadnt given him any 
advice. I dont think it was the case that the SIPP provider would only have been prepared  to 
accept business  from a regulated firm  there  was a box on the application form (just under 
where the IFAs details  were given)  for Mr S to tick if he wasnt  appointing an IFA (although 
the form said the SIPP provider recommended taking financial advice). So Im unclear why 
the application was made  in the way it was and through Feast  Noble. 
I further note that it was the unregulated introducer who wrote  to the SIPP  provider (on 26 
March 2012), enclosing the documents signed  by Mr S for the investment to be made and 
asking the SIPP provider to sign and send  the forms with a cheque  to the investment 
provider. Feast Noble  has said that was before the transfers were complete and without its 
knowledge. And contrary to the declaration Mr S signed (as part of the SIPP  application 
form) authorising the SIPP  provider to accept investment instructions from his appointed  
financial adviser (Feast  Noble).
But theres a letter  dated 1 March  2012  from the SIPP provider sent to Mr S but care of 
Feast Noble confirming  that the car parking space in Dubai was an eligible investment. So, 
even if it wasnt aware  earlier, Feast Noble did know by then  and before the investment  
instruction was given   what Mr S was going  to invest  in. So Feast Noble was in a position to 
consider the investment and its suitability  for Mr S. 
That didnt happen  because Feast Noble didnt think it had given any advice or made any 
recommendation to Mr S. But Ive found  that, as a matter of fact, the direct offer did amount 
to advice. So, on that basis, Feast Noble should  have considered the proposed investment. 
Like the adjudicator,  I dont think Feast  Noble  could recommend a transfer to a SIPP  without 
considering what  Mr S intended  to invest in. 
I dont agree with what Feast Noble has said about  the regulators January 2013  alert.  I 
agree it was aimed at firms who did provide  advice  about pension  transfers or switches to a 
SIPP. But Ive found that Feast Noble did give advice  the direct offer amounted  to a 
recommendation. So the alert does apply here. 
Ref: DRN31151608The alert did postdate Mr Ss transaction. But the point is that the alert didnt follow any 
regulatory changes. It was issued  because it had come to the regulators attention that some  
firms werent acting  in accordance with their existing obligations and were  seeking to limit 
their advice to the pension vehicle or wrapper  without  considering  the intended underlying  
investment. The alert made it clear that advice about the suitability of the transfer  (or switch)  
must take account  of the overall investment strategy contemplated. 
Here Feast Noble didnt  intend to give advice.  But if, as Ive found, the direct offer did 
amount to advice, then Feast Noble should have considered  the suitability of the intended 
underlying investment too  an unregulated overseas investment in commercial property.  
As Ive pointed out, the direct offer focused  on commercial property. I think that suggests 
Feast Noble knew from the outset that Mr S was contemplating  that sort of investment. But, 
if Feast Noble didnt  know, it should have found  out. And, in any event,  Feast Noble knew  
what Mr S was going to invest in by 1 March 2012  given the SIPP providers letter  (which  
Ive referred to above). I agree with what the adjudicator said about  why that investment 
wasnt suitable for Mr S. Feast Noble  seems to agree  it says if it had been aware (and I 
think it was) it would  have advised Mr S against investing. 
Id also agree with what the adjudicator said about Feast Noble  having  to act in accordance  
with the regulators  principles for businesses. Principle  1 (a firm must conduct its business 
with integrity); principle  2 (a firm must conduct  its business with due skill, care and 
diligence); and principle 6 (a firm must  pay due regard to the interests  of its customers  and 
treat them fairly) are particularly relevant here. 
Feast Noble knew that an unregulated introducer  was involved. Feast Noble should have 
been alive to the possibility that the introducer  (who was precluded from giving financial 
advice) may have been overly positive about  the prospects  of the investment  it was 
marketing. Feast Noble  should also have recognised that an unregulated overseas 
commercial property investment was unlikely to be suitable for the vast majority of ordinary  
retail clients  and that there was potential for consumer detriment. Against that background 
Feast Noble should have thought carefully about whether it should  have  arranged  the SIPP  
for Mr S to permit that sort of high risk, non-mainstream investment.  
Feast Noble argues that Mr S would have gone elsewhere if it hadnt  facilitated the transfers.  
I dont agree. If Feast Noble had told Mr S that what he was planning to do wasnt  suitable  
on the basis that the intended investment was too high risk  and advised him against, I 
dont see why he wouldnt have  heeded that advice and thought  again about  transferring and 
investing as he was planning.  
Feast Noble points  out that the adjudicator accepted  that Mr S wanted  to access his tax free 
cash. That wasnt possible under his existing  arrangements and so hed have needed to 
transfer in any event. But theres a difference between transferring on that basis  - with the 
residual fund being invested  in what Id term mainstream funds  and transferring to facilitate 
a high risk unregulated investment as was the case here.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr Ss attitude to risk, properly assessed  and taking into 
account what his pension fund had previously  been  invested in, was any higher than 
medium.
Ive considered the evidence that Feast Noble has produced  about  the SIPP provider having 
a financial interest in the unregulated introducer.  But Mr Ss complaint is made against Feast 
Ref: DRN31151609Noble. Im not considering here the SIPP providers role and responsibilities. For the reasons 
Ive explained  I think there  were  shortcomings in what Feast  Noble did. If it considers that 
the SIPP provider  (or indeed any other  party)  is also to blame then I assume  (subject to Mr S 
assigning any rights if necessary) it can pursue any other party involved.  
Lastly, although the servicing agency rights were removed from Feast  Noble in 2013, the 
redress calculation isnt capped at that point.  The investment has been illiquid throughout. 
So it wouldnt have been possible for Mr S to have sold it earlier  if so advised.  
I further note that when  new advisers  were appointed (December 2013) the SIPP had a cash  
balance of £7,849.27. I dont think the new advisers  should have  suggested that the cash  
should be invested bearing  in mind Mr Ss age (he was 65 in 2012) and the likelihood that 
hed need to make income withdrawals (which he did from January 2015 onwards). So I 
dont think it was unreasonable  to retain  the cash. 
Further it represented about 25% of his fund with the remaining 75% being the car park 
space investment. So the cash could  reasonably  be seen as countering that higher risk 
investment and so reducing the SIPPs overall  risk.
As to redress, I think what the adjudicator suggested was broadly reasonable. So in the main  
Ive adopted it. But I havent included the £600  suggested for future advice fees. The 
adjudicator did explain to both parties why that sort of award  in this particular case  was 
probably not warranted and neither party  has queried that. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation my aim is to put Mr S as close  as possible to 
the position hed probably be in now if hed been  given  suitable advice. 
I think Mr S would have invested  differently. It isnt possible to say precisely  what  hed have 
done, but Im satisfied  what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given his circumstances 
and objectives  when he invested. 
what should  Feast Noble  do?
To compensate Mr S fairly  Feast Noble  should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ss investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value, theres a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no
compensation is payable. The starting  amount for the calculation should be 
£41,217.31 less the £1,250 initial adviser  fee  to reflect the fact that Mr S would 
have had to transfer to another  arrangement  in any event to access  his tax free cash. 
Feast Noble should also pay any interest set out below. 
If there  is a loss, Feast Noble should pay it into Mr Ss pension plan, to increase its
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. It shouldnt  be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN311516010If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection implications, it should be 
paid to Mr S directly as a lump sum after making a notional  deduction  to allow  for 
future income tax that would otherwise have been  paid. The notional allowance  
should be calculated  using Mr Ss actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age. For example, if Mr S is likely to be a basic  rate taxpayer at 
the selected retirement age, the reduction  would equal the current  basic rate of tax 
(20%).   
In addition, Feast Noble should  pay Mr S £300 for the trouble caused to him and
the disruption to his retirement planning.
Feast Noble should provide details  of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple  
format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Feast  Noble considers that it is 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Mr S how much it has taken  off. It should  also give him a tax deduction
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs 
if appropriate.
investment name
status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end date)additional interest
SIPP still existsFTSE UK Private  
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Indexdate of 
transfers in to 
the SIPPdate of 
settlement not applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the car park investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on 
the open market),  it may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP.  So, the value of the 
car park investment should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Feast Noble 
should take ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to 
the pension provider. This amount  should  be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as above.
If Feast Noble is unable  to purchase  the car park investment, its value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation of the actual value. Feast Noble may wish to require Mr 
S to provide  an undertaking to pay Feast Noble any amount he may receive  from the car 
park investment in the future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that 
would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the pension plan. Feast Noble must meet  any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what  the SIPP would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return using  
the benchmark.
Ref: DRN311516011Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
The tax free cash and income withdrawals paid to Mr S out of the SIPP should be deducted  
from the fair value at the point actually  paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Feast Noble totals  all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted growth with the option for income and was willing to accept some 
investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr Ss circumstances  and risk attitude.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Feast Noble  & Company LLP must redress  Mr S as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 December 2019. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3115160