K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs E bought the policy  in 2003 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in-branch.
While the mortgage  was in joint names, the policy provided cover for Mr E only for accident, 
sickness, and unemployment  subject to its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay 
around £300 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Es mortgage balance in the event of a successful 
claim. At the time, it cost just over £18 a month.  
The policy was part of an overall  package of protection, which  also included life and critical 
illness cover.  But Mr and Mrs E have not complained about these things, so my decision is 
only about the PPI element as described  above. 
At the time,  Mr E told us he was employed as a grocery manager. He has told us he was not 
entitled to any enhanced  sick pay and didnt have any other means  of repaying their 
mortgage should he be unable to work. Mr E has not said whether he was entitled to 
redundancy pay. Finally Mr E has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2003 and that Mr 
and Mrs E took out a further  advance  in 2007.  Its records also show  the account ended in 
2012.
Mr and Mrs Es representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Es representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs E 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Es representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr and Mrs E about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs E and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN30683362The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs E received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs E disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Es. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Es complaint.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs E arranged  a further advance  on their mortgage after mortgage lending  became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN30683363The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs 
Es case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr and Mrs Es complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs E with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr and Mrs E sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN30683364-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs E, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs E 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs E 
and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Es complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs E know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS hasnt got copies  of the paperwork from the time, which isnt surprising given the sale 
happened some  years ago. Businesses dont have to keep records indefinitely.
But BoS has provided us with examples of the paperwork it says was in use at the time of Mr 
and Mrs Es sale. And looking at this I think a consumer would have understood they had a 
choice about PPI and they had to consent  or agree to take it out.
Mr and Mrs E havent given much detail  about what happened at the time. So taking  
everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that something very 
different happened in Mr and Mrs Es case, I think its more  likely that they knew the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it did provide  advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs E say it didnt provide advice. 
Based on what we know about  how sales like Mr and Mrs Es were carried out, Im 
persuaded that BoS provided  advice.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr and Mrs E with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
Because of the lack of documentary evidence, I dont know what  steps, if any, BoS took to 
establish whether  the policy was a suitable  recommendation  for Mr and Mrs E. It seems Mr 
and Mrs E cant remember  clearly what happened and there  is no record  of what the adviser 
discussed in relation to the policy. Notwithstanding  the passage  of time, this is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. 
The adviser likely had some limited information  about Mr and Mrs Es financial 
circumstances from the mortgage application  they would have likely completed.  But there is 
no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps  to establish whether Mr E would have 
been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  
did not fully meet their needs. And there is nothing to suggest BoS considered to what  extent 
Mr and Mrs E already had means at their disposal to meet the payments on their mortgage  if 
things went wrong.
Ref: DRN30683365Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs E given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs E, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr E met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs E had a need for the policy   Mr E would not have received any 
enhanced sick pay if he was unable to work due to illness, his redundancy benefits 
are likely to be limited  and they didnt  have any savings  they could fall back on. The 
policy would have  therefore helped Mr and Mrs E manage  the consequences  if Mr E 
was unable to work.
-Although Mr and Mrs E say they were financially stretched  at the time, Ive seen 
nothing else to suggest the monthly cost of the PPI wasnt affordable.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs E. 
There was nothing  about Mr Es employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. Mr E was in good health at the time  although in any 
event the policy  didnt exclude  or limit claims for existing conditions  because Mr and 
Mrs E took out the policy at the same time as taking  out the mortgage.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr E be disabled  or unemployed for 30 
days before they could make a claim and would  only pay benefits for a maximum  of 
24 months for each  claim, it still provided  beneficial cover given: Mr and Mrs Es 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs E be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr and Mrs E sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr E was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. 
I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs E would have taken 
out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium 
might be.
But the limited  evidence from the time of sale means  I dont  know whether BoS gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs E agreed to take out the policy.  
Ref: DRN30683366Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs E Im not persuaded BoS 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr and Mrs E all of the information 
they needed about the policy to make  an informed decision about whether  to follow  the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Es representative  has raised a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Es. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Es representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs E about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Es representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs E have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs E? To what extent did Mr and 
Mrs E suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs E. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs E suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs E would  have still taken out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs E, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs E have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if BoS had explained  things properly, 
Mr and Mrs E would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out the policy 
in any event.
Ref: DRN30683367Mr and Mrs E say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs E had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr 
E was unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Es circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs E knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear BoS told them the exact  premium  at the point Mr 
and Mrs E applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs E would have 
been told the cost before  the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with BoS at the time or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs E would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs E would get back  in 
return in the event they made a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Es 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs E thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr E 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr E be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
Ref: DRN30683368I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs E pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs E from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Es circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr E was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr E wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  for example  Mr E 
was in permanent  employment. Notwithstanding  the fact Mr E was in good  health,  the policy 
didnt exclude  cover for existing medical  conditions.  So, I still think  they had some  good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
E might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs E from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs E, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs E had known they could  only claim for disability if Mr E was not only unable to 
do his job or any similar  job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers view he 
might reasonably be qualified for, it might have played  into their thinking  about what  they 
would do. And I accept  it may have given  them pause for thought  although given Mr and 
Mrs Es circumstances and the limited  other  means Mr E in particular had to make  their 
repayments if he wasnt working, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in 
taking out the cover.
BoS may not have told Mr and Mrs E that any claim they made would be limited  to a 24-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but as I said above,  Mr E had limited other means  to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs E would still have  thought a policy that 
paid up to 24 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr E be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs E would still have  taken out the policy.
 
The policy was suitable for them, was sufficiently  close to what its likely they thought they 
were getting  and provided benefits that would help them manage the consequences if Mr E 
was made  redundant, or unable to work through disability.  In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs E would have taken  out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN30683369Mr and Mrs Es representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs E would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Es 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs E found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs E believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs E in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr and Mrs E compensation, as that would  put 
them in a better position than they would have  been in if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs E think BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoS 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mr and Mrs E, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2003 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Es representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find BoS negligently  misrepresented  the contract to Mr and Mrs E and about  the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. 
Ref: DRN306833610But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs E in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 January 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3068336