K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss W says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 2002 it was sold 
during a phone  call.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ws complaint  and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Miss W aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  Miss W says the PPI wasnt discussed with her and she wasnt  aware it 
had been added to her card. I wasnt present when Miss W applied for the PPI so I dont 
know for certain what was said. But from what I know  about  how FICL sold this type of policy 
at the time I think its more likely  FICL made it clear that Miss W didnt have  to take out the 
PPI and she chose  to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss W so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss W got the information  she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. Miss W has told us she was entitled to generous sick pay when she took the PPI, so 
she didnt need  the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition  to Miss Ws sick pay 
and for longer than she would have received full pay. So I still think the PPI could have  been  
useful to her.
 
Miss W has told us she also had a part-time job in addition to her full-time  job when she took 
the policy. The policy required  Miss W to be working  fewer  than 16 hours per week  to make 
a claim,  so she may not have  been  able to claim  if she lost her part-time job. But the policy 
would have covered Miss W if she lost her main job, so I still think  she could have found it to 
be useful. And based on what  Ive seen of Miss Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN35730982Miss W has also said that she wasnt  told she could  look for a policy  elsewhere, but FICL 
didnt need to provide information about other  products that may have been available. So 
this point doesnt change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3573098