K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that Santander UK plc wont  refund  to her the money  that she paid for 
some mirror glass. 
background
Miss J used  her Santander credit  card in October  2018 to make three payments totalling  
£995.19 to a supplier for some antique mirror glass. After the mirror glass had been 
installed she complained  to the supplier  that it wasnt the same as the sample  that shed 
been provided before she bought the mirror glass. 
She claimed  a refund of that amount from Santander under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. It said that the supplier had confirmed that both in-store and on its website 
customers are made aware  that each mirror cut is unique and therefore the design cannot  
be guaranteed.  Miss J wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
that there  hadnt  been a misrepresentation  of the mirror glass that was supplied to Miss J so 
she couldnt say that Santanders  response to her claim under section 75 was unfair or 
unreasonable.
Miss J has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says that the 
colour on the sample is significantly  different  to the mirror glass provided which has nothing  
to do with the lighting and shes provided  a photo  showing the sample up against  the mirror 
glass. She also says that the mirror glass was clearly misrepresented  to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against the 
supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit  if theres  been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. To be able to uphold  Miss Js complaint about  Santander,  
I must be satisfied that theres been  a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the mirror glass and that Santanders  response to her claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable.  Im not determining the outcome of Miss Js claim under section 75 
as only a court would be able to do that.
Miss J was provided with a sample of the mirror glass. That sample  was acceptable to her 
so she ordered  mirror  glass  from the supplier and she paid £995.19 for it using her 
Santander credit card.  But after the mirror glass was installed she noticed that the colour in 
the mirror glass was different to the colour in the sample that shed been given.
She complained to the supplier and it offered her a discount on replacement mirror glass.  
She didnt  accept that offer and claimed  a full refund from Santander. It referred to the 
suppliers website which said that the mirrors are:
 authentic reproductions of original antique mirrors, styled  and coloured using a 
specially adapted  silvering process. Every mirror is unique   not just across each 
range but from product to product ..
Ref: DRN33731432The supplier  sent a quote for the mirror  glass in October 2018 which said: This quotation is 
valid for 30 days and is subject to our Terms & Conditions,  a copy of which  is available  on 
request.  The supplier  says that the terms and conditions were  sent with the quote and were 
available in its store and online. 
The terms and conditions  say:
For the avoidance of doubt, due to the nature of certain products, sources of supply, 
and natural finishes,  Goods may differ slightly in specification and/or colour. The 
Customer accepts that such  slight differences are not to be considered  defects or 
any failure on behalf of the Supplier.
Miss J has provided a photo showing the sample  and the mirror glass.  I consider  that there 
is a noticeable  difference  between the colouring on the sample and the colouring on the 
mirror glass. But Santander would only be liable to refund to Miss J the money  that shes 
paid for the mirror glass if theres  been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. Im not persuaded  that the difference between the colouring on the sample and the 
colouring on the mirror  glass  is enough  to show that theres been a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the supplier. 
I sympathise with Miss J that shes not happy  with the mirror  glass that has been installed.  
But I consider that Santander has responded to her complaint  fairly  and reasonably. So I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  in these circumstances for me to require  Santander to 
refund to Miss J the money  that she paid for the mirror glass   or to take any other action in 
response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3373143