K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with Blue 
Motor Finance Ltd was not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr G entered into a HPA with Blue Motor to acquire a used  car in November 2017. He says 
that the engine management  light (EML) came on shortly after acquisition and he reported this 
to the dealer. He then reported  the same issue to Blue Motor  and the broker  in March  2018. 
He says that attempts have been  made to fix the issue which  have meant he was without the 
car for two months but the EML keeps  coming on. He now wishes to reject  the car.
Blue Motor  says that repairs  have been carried out on Mr Gs car. It says it has asked for 
further evidence  in regard to the current issue of the EML coming on but this hasnt been  
provided. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that on balance she was satisfied that there 
was an intermittent fault with Mr Gs car and that the fault that is still occurring  is the same as 
that which was first reported  to the dealership a few weeks  after sale. Because of this she 
thought it fair that Mr G was allowed to reject the car and have his deposit  refunded.
Our investigator considered the use Mr G had of the car. She noted he was without the car 
for a long period in August and September 2018  but that Blue Motor had returned monthly 
payments for this period  and that she understood he was kept mobile. Therefore she didnt 
think that any further payments should be refunded. She did recommend that Mr G be paid 
£150 compensation for the inconvenience  he had been caused.
Blue Motor  didnt accept  our investigators  view. It said that it wasnt  reasonable to allow  the 
car to be rejected  when no fault had been  found.
Mr G said that he had only been refunded one and a half months rentals and that although 
he had use of the vehicle his enjoyment  was reduced.  He also said that the recommended  
settlement didnt reflect the equity he had in the vehicle.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made  my decision based  on the balance of probabilities  
- that is what I consider  is most  likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances.
Mr G acquired  a used car through  a HPA with Blue Motor. Under the regulations, Blue Motor 
can be held liable if the car was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory 
quality takes into account factors such as the cars  age and mileage. In this case  the car was 
over seven years old and had been driven over 60,000 miles at the point of acquisition.
Mr G experienced issues with the car and repairs have been undertaken. The outstanding  
issue relates to the EML.  Mr G says that the EML has been coming on intermittently since 
shortly after acquisition. Inspections and tests  have been carried  out on the car but the EML 
has not been on at these  times and Blue Motor says there  is currently no evidence of a fault.
Ref: DRN32562642I accept that the investigations into the car have not resulted in the identification of a fault. 
However I have also considered Mr Gs testimony and the photographs he has sent in 
showing the EML illuminated. The photographs show the mileage  on the car at the time and 
I note that some of the photographs show a mileage higher than that recorded in the first 
inspection report suggesting  that the issue was happening before and after this. Mr G has 
consistently raised this issue with Blue Motor and it is noted as an issue for the cars return  
in January 2019.
Therefore, while  I accept the cause of the fault hasnt been identified I also accept that Mr G 
has provided evidence  of the EML being on and his actions  support this being an ongoing 
issue. Also given when  the issue first arose,  I find it more likely than not than not that the 
issue causing the EML to come on has been present from the point of supply.
As investigation has not found the cause of the fault and Mr Gs car has been in for repair  on 
previous occasions  when  this issue had been  raised, I dont think  that further investigation 
and repair  is a reasonable remedy in this case.
On balance, as there  appears to be an issue with the car which has not been resolved, I 
think the fair and reasonable  resolution  is for Mr G to now be allowed to reject the car. The 
car should be collected from Mr G and his deposit  refunded along with interest  and the HPA 
cancelled with nothing  further owing.
Mr G has noted that his car was in for repairs for an extended period of time and that he was 
not provided with a courtesy car for the first month. However as one and a half months  
rentals have been  refunded for this period I find this covers the loss of use he experienced at 
that time.  I also accept  that Mr G did have use of the car while  the issue  was ongoing and 
while I appreciate  the concern this may have caused  him I do not find that any further rentals  
need to be refunded.
I appreciate Mr Gs comments  about how the loss of use and how this should  be considered. 
However I find that the refund of the payments that took place to reflect  the time Mr G was 
without his car or an alternative means of transport is reasonable.
Mr G has been caused inconvenience by having  to raise the issue of the EML on several  
occasions and needing to have the car investigated. However, repairs were carried  out 
following the investigation which is a reasonable remedy to the issues  identified. Because 
the issue causing the EML to come on could  not be found it was not addressed at that time. 
The intermittent nature of the fault has caused issues  but as I accept on balance  there  is an 
ongoing issue with the car that was more likely  than not present at the point of supply I find it 
reasonable that Mr G is paid for the inconvenience  caused. Accepting the conflicting 
evidence in this case I find the £150 suggested by our investigator to be reasonable.
Ref: DRN32562643my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd should:
1.cancel the agreement with nothing  further to pay;
2.arrange collection  of the vehicle  at no cost to Mr G;
3.refund the deposit paid of £2,100  and pay 8% interest on this from the date of payment
4.to the date of settlement;
5.pay £150 for the inconvenience  this situation has caused Mr G; and
6.remove any adverse information in relation  to this agreement from Mr Gs credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3256264