K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a dual 
credit card in 1995. Mr M says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr M says that he wasnt aware  of the PPI and it was added without his consent. He 
says he wouldve declined  the policy if hed been made  aware of it. But I think Barclays  
made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this as it was so long ago. I say this 
because Barclays has provided  a copy of Mr Ms credit  card application, which  he 
completed through the post. I can see that the PPI is presented as optional, and has 
been selected with a tick. Mr M has then signed  the application, agreeing  to the 
information on it. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what hes said about having sick pay 
from his employer that he couldve used to make  his repayments. But the PPI couldve paid 
out on top of, and for longer than Mr M says he has cover  for. So this point doesnt  change 
my decision.
my final decision
Ref: DRN36948612The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3694861