K822xcomplaint
Mr W is unhappy with the information Barclays Bank UK PLC has recorded on his credit file. 
He wants this information removed. 
background 
Mr W held a joint account with his ex-partner. As I understand Mr W and his ex-partner were 
in the process  of separating. However  around  November  2016 it was agreed with Barclays  
that Mr W would pay £50 per month  for 6 months  towards the overdraft balance on the joint 
account. 
Around July 2017 Mr W was advised by Barclays that now that the plan had been 
completed, theyd  decided  to move the account  to collections and they wouldnt  be placing 
him on any further repayment plans. 
Mr W is concerned  with the information Barclays  has reported  on his credit  file. And he 
would like this adverse information to be removed.
An investigator has already looked  at this case. Overall he felt that Barclays  had a duty to 
record a customers account  accurately  to the credit  reference agencies.  He noted that 
during July, August and September 2017  the account in question had in fact been over the 
overdraft limit, but Barclays had failed  to report this on Mr Ws credit file. The investigator felt 
this was a mistake and of no benefit  to Mr W as it simply  meant the account remained open 
for a further 3 months  before it was defaulted  in March 2018.  The investigator thought it was 
fairer for Barclays to amend the information  theyd reported on Mr Ws credit  file to report the 
adverse date for July 2017 through  to November 2017 and to then have recorded the 
account as settled on 27 December 2017  (rather than 27 March  2018).
Barclays dont agree with the investigators view.  They claim they could report  that Mr Ws 
account was operating  normally for the 3 months of July, August  and September  2017 
because of credit reference  agency  guidance  whereby they didnt need to report  adverse 
data on a credit file if it fell within a certain  limit. As Barclays havent agreed with the 
investigators view, this complaint has now been  referred to me to look at. It should be noted 
that whilst  Barclays hasnt  agreed  to remove any of the adverse data, they have already 
agreed to remove the default and note the account as settled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think there were errors in respect of the setting up of the repayment  plan. The plan lasted 
for 6 months as agreed. But the arrangement didnt include or add a further standing order  of 
£10 to ensure  the balance on the account then fell below Mr Ws agreed  overdraft limit. The 
plan had been to reduce the account  debt to fall within the overdraft limit. But this didnt 
happen. 
Overall I do think  Barclays failed to make sure the plan was implemented properly. However 
Im aware that Barclays has already paid Mr W a refund of certain charges, £400 as a 
gesture of goodwill (which  was applied to the account to reduce the outstanding balance)  
Ref: DRN39996332and £200 for distress  and inconvenience. So I think Mr W has been adequately 
compensated for any errors Barclays has made in setting up the payment plan. 
But Mr W remains unhappy that several  late payment markers are on his credit file and are, 
he says, having  an adverse  impact on his credit file. I think  Barclays  correctly recorded when 
Mr W was in the 6 months repayment plan. But from October 2017 Barclays  seem to have 
begun to report adverse  information. This adverse information continues  until March 2018  
when the debt is recorded as settled. Just like the investigator I think that Barclays  shouldve  
noted that the account was over the overdraft limit during the months of July, August and 
September 2017. It was of no help to Mr W by not reporting this. The account simply 
remained open for longer before it was eventually defaulted. I therefore think  Barclays 
should amend  the information  recorded  on Mr Ws credit file to show the adverse data from 
July 2017 through to November 2017,  whereby the account should then be recorded  as 
settled on 27 December  2017 (rather than 27 March  2018). 
Ive considered the industry guidance which Barclays has helpfully advised our service  of. 
And whilst I appreciate this may mean Barclays was allowed to report how they did, I do still 
feel that the fairest way forward to resolve  this overall complaint is for Barclays  to amend the 
information recorded on Mr Ws credit  file in the way explained above.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should amend the information recorded on 
Mr Ws credit file to show adverse data from July 2017 through  to November 2017. Barclays 
should then record  the account  as being  settled  on 27 December 2017. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3999633