K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about a payment taken by Rock Insurance  Services  Limited.
background
In July 2016, Mr H took out an annual travel insurance policy  arranged  by Rock Insurance. 
The policy automatically  renewed a year later and was due to run until 20 July 2018. 
Rock Insurance  wrote  to Mr H on 29 June 2018  to say the policy  was going to be 
automatically renewed once again.  Mr Hs father  responded (on the phone, and in a follow-
up email)  saying that the policy shouldnt be renewed this time because  Mr H had opted out 
of the automatic renewal process.  Rock Insurance confirmed to Mr Hs father on 9 July 2018  
that Mr H had opted out of the auto-renewal process so the policy  wouldnt  renew  and no 
payments would be taken.  Unfortunately, due to a mistake on Rock  Insurances part, the 
policy did renew and a premium of £92.28  was taken  from Mr H on 13 July 2018.
Mr Hs father  contacted Rock Insurance about the mistake the same day. Rock Insurance  
said the policy would be cancelled and the premium refunded to Mr Hs card but it needed to 
speak to Mr H as the policy and bank account  holder (rather than his father) to do this. Mr H 
and Rock Insurance didnt speak until several  days later, on 19 July 2018, at which  point the 
policy was cancelled and the £92.28 refunded. Rock Insurance has also apologised to Mr H 
but it hasnt paid any compensation. Mr H, who is represented by his father  in this complaint, 
says Rock Insurance hasnt done  enough.
Our investigator didnt  think Rock  Insurance should do anything  more to resolve  Mr Hs 
complaint. Mr H disagreed so the matter is with me for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its worth  acknowledging  that Rock Insurance has made mistakes  here.  I dont think Mr H, 
and his father, could have been much clearer about  what they wanted  which was for the 
policy to not be renewed.  Unfortunately, the policy was renewed, and a premium was taken 
from Mr Hs account. So Im sympathetic  to Mr Hs position. Rock Insurance  should  have 
done better.  But, for reasons that I will come on to, Im not persuaded that it has more  to do 
to put things right. 
First of all, my role isnt to punish or fine businesses for the mistakes they make.  My role is 
to put a customer back in the position they would have been  had the business  not made a 
mistake. And I can see thats happened  here because the policy has been cancelled  and the 
premium refunded. 
Ive thought about whether interest should  be added  to the refund to reflect  the fact that Mr H 
has been deprived use of his money for a period of time. But the time between 
Rock Insurances mistake and the refund being paid is short  here  6 days  so I dont think  
adding interest would be appropriate.  Also, this period could have been even shorter. The 
call note that was made  when Mr Hs father tried to rectify the mistake on 13 July shows  
Rock Insurance  offered to call Mr H to arrange  the cancellation and refund but this offer was 
refused by Mr Hs father. That was his prerogative.  But it means Rock Insurance couldnt do 
Ref: DRN37179262anything more at that point  to put things right.  It also sent a follow-up email saying what 
needed to happen to organise the cancellation and refund.
I recognise Mr Hs frustration that this put the onus  on him to sort the matter  out even though 
the mistake was made by Rock Insurance and there  should never have been a policy that 
needed cancelling in the first place. But given the policy was renewed I dont think  Rock 
Insurance is being unreasonable in needing  to speak to the policy  and bank account holder 
before going ahead and cancelling it. It was actually Rock Insurance  that ultimately called  
Mr H (rather than the other  way around) so I think it did make  the effort to put things right.  
I would also typically ask a business to pay additional compensation if there  have been 
indirect financial losses resulting from a mistake  for instance, if an incorrect withdrawal 
from a bank account resulted in overdraft charges that otherwise wouldnt have applied. 
However, as Mr Hs father has pointed out, there  were no such losses here.  I recognise  that 
was the result of his actions in picking up on the problem straight away. But that doesnt  
change the fact that Mr H didnt  suffer  any knock-on financial losses  that require 
compensation.
Ive also considered whether Rock Insurance should  pay compensation for the 
inconvenience it caused. However,  as outlined above, Rock  Insurance  explained to Mr Hs 
father that it needed  to speak to Mr H to cancel  the policy and refund the premium. It did this 
as soon as the issue  was raised. It also offered to call Mr H at a convenient time. When  it 
didnt hear from him for several  days,  Rock Insurance phoned Mr H to cancel the policy  and 
arrange the refund. And it apologised  for what had happened. Therefore, whilst I recognise 
the mistake did cause Mr H inconvenience,  I dont think it was so significant that 
compensation is warranted.
Finally, Mr Hs father has complained about the length of time Rock Insurance took to 
investigate his complaint.  I wont be looking into this because complaints handling isnt a 
regulated activity. However,  for background, a business has eight weeks to respond to a 
complaint after which time a consumer can refer their complaint on to us (whether the 
business has responded or not). Rock Insurance took just over eight weeks to issue  its 
response. Mr Hs father has also raised  a number of concerns regarding  the impartiality of 
this Service and the imbalance of power between  consumers and businesses. My role is to 
look at the specific  circumstances of this case so I wont be commenting on these broader  
concerns either.     
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3717926