K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with The Society of Lloyds (SoL)  about how his claim for a motorcycle  
accident was settled. Liability for the accident  was recorded against  Mr D and he feels  SoL 
should have defended him  it hasnt shown  him the duty of care,  the level of expertise 
which he was entitled to and has inappropriately attributed responsibility to him for the 
accident. 
Specifically, Mr D would  like this service to:
Examine the evidence properly,
Correct the mistakes made by SoL solicitor;
Commission an independent  accident report covering both his damaged  motorcycle 
and the accident site, in order to establish properly  where  the responsibility for the 
accident lies. Given the history  of the case, the choice of accident investigator  would  
need to be appointed  independently by the ombudsman  or agreed with him as he 
doesnt trust SoL to appoint an independent investigator;
The accident investigation would need also to take into account the independent 
views of a police  class  1 motorcyclist to determine  whether his behaviour was 
appropriate or not;
Settle his damaged equipment and medical costs  with no further delay; and
Consider prosecuting the other  party for insurance fraud.
Ref: DRN32817872background
Mr D had an annual motorcycle insurance policy which started on 16 December 2016. 
On 14 August 2017, Mr D was involved in a road traffic accident and collided with a car. He 
was thrown off the motorcycle  and was left unconscious. He has no memory  of the accident. 
The third party driver  and an independent  witness stopped and provided their details. 
Following the incident  being notified,  an investigation took place to decide who was liable for 
the accident. Both Mr D and the third party driver provided a statement and a further 
statement was provided by the independent  witness (a car driver who was behind  Mr D at 
the time). The information was reviewed and SoL decided not to defend liability  on behalf of 
Mr D as there wasnt a realistic prospect of successfully defending the claim. 
Mr D was unhappy with the decision SoL made  not to defend him and made a complaint to 
it. SoL said Mr Ds own solicitors had also raised concerns with regards to the prospect of 
claiming. It also confirmed that the settlement didnt prejudice Mr D and if he was able to 
make a successful claim in the future  in regards to this incident,  it would re-instate  his no 
claims discount. SoL further  said Mr D was unconscious at the time of the accident  and as 
he wasnt able to provide a complete  statement, this made it more difficult  to defend him. It 
referred Mr D to the terms and conditions  of the policy  and confirmed its right to take action  
to settle liability  and Mr D must cooperate with the action taken by SoL. 
Mr D referred  his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked  into it and didnt uphold 
the complaint.  He said SoL acted fairly and reasonably in deciding  liability  on this case  as it 
relied on the advice  of its solicitors to settle  the case rather  than go to court. Mr D didnt 
agree with the investigator and has asked  for an ombudsman make a decision. So the 
complaint has been to me. 
In summary,  Mr D says:
We havent anywhere in our adjudication covered his actual  complaint,  i.e. that SoL 
ignored evidence  that was freely  provided  to it in good faith;
His complaint is against  the complicit and dishonourable, if not fraudulent,  behaviour 
by both parties and we have not covered that aspect;
As a customer, paying an insurance  premium,  he doesnt expect his insurers  to 
knowingly ignore  the facts  of the case which they did in this case. This is the 
substance of his case; and
He would like us to actually investigate his complaint rather than a fictional complaint 
that I did not specifically make.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain what this service can and cant do when looking at these types of 
complaints.
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for an accident, as thats the role of the courts.  But 
we do check to see if an insurer  has looked into things fairly  and made  a reasonable claims 
decision. Like all such policies, the terms and conditions of the insurance  contract  give 
Ref: DRN32817873SoL sole discretion  to decide whether to settle or defend a claim; and we would only 
interfere if we thought SoL had exercised this discretion in an arbitrary, irrational or unfair 
way. I dont regard  that sort of term as inherently unreasonable  because  insurers usually 
have greater experience of how a court is likely  to determine legal liability;  and they also 
have a legal  duty under the Road Traffic Act 1988 to meet any third-party judgment against  
their insured,  so its not unreasonable for them  to try to mitigate costs. Further, there are 
public policy considerations to take account of: civil litigation is not without cost to the 
taxpayer (because  of the cost of running  the courts)  so the courts  shouldnt  be clogged 
with unnecessary cases that insured  parties could reasonably resolve  directly.
I would also like to confirm that its not our role and not within our remit to look at complaints 
about solicitors not investigating the incident or the police not having an up to date file record  
from the accident. If Mr D is unhappy  about  these aspects of his complaint, our investigator 
has already explained that Mr D will need to direct this to the relevant organisations. 
In terms of this complaint,  Mr D has provided  a lot of information to us. Ive reviewed this 
and, mainly, this refers to evidence he has put together, through  his own time and research. 
He said this evidence  proves that he was not at fault. So while I appreciate the time its taken 
for him to put this information together, I must reiterate  that its not my function to assign 
legal liability  for the accident. 
Based on what we can look at, the key point I need to decide  on this case is whether SoL 
ignored the evidence from Mr D and whether it settled the claim fairly in the circumstances of 
this complaint. 
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of the policy.  Under the General 
conditions section of the policy, it states:
7. We can:
take over, carry out, defend or settle  any claim;  and
take proceedings (which we will pay for, and for our own benefit) to recover  
payment we have  made under this insurance.  
We will take this action  in your name or in the name of anyone else covered  by this 
insurance
You, or the person whose name  we use, must co-operate with us on any matter which 
affects this insurance.
Based on the above, SoL is contractually  entitled to settle the claim and decide  liability on 
Mr Ds behalf in return for providing him with an indemnity.  If Mr D disagreed with SoLs 
proposals on liability, it was open to him to withdraw  his claim and take upon himself the risk 
of suing the third party  (or defending a like claim against him). But so long as he wanted  the 
peace of mind of insurance cover, he was bound to follow  SoL advice on liability  and 
whether or not to compromise.
I have seen nothing  to suggest that SoL reached  its decision in an arbitrary  or unfair way. On 
the contrary, it relied on the available evidence and independent expert opinion. SoL 
believed there  was a reasonable chance that Mr D could have been  held liable. This is not 
surprising, as it will have known  from similar  cases (both from law reports  and its own 
Ref: DRN32817874experience)  that courts do often find in favour of motorcyclists because  they are less 
visible and more vulnerable than cars. So it decided on the most appropriate and 
commercial way to settle the claim.  That doesnt  seem unfair to me in the circumstances of 
this case. Ultimately there was no persuasive  evidence to hold the third party liable  or even 
settle the claim on a 50/50 basis. 
I appreciate that Mr D has provided  evidence of his own and he cant understand why all of 
this hasnt been taken account  of. But its well-established in law that a person cant be an 
independent expert  witness in his own cause. His own evidence was never going to be as 
persuasive or weighty  as that of a truly independent witness. Mr D feels  the evidence  he has 
provided wasnt taken  into account,  I dont agree. The difficulty  for SoL was that Mr D was 
unconscious at the time of the accident  and therefore in terms his own recollections, these 
were limited insofar as what  happened  at the time of the accident. 
I have to look at the difficult  decision SoL needed to make  at the time, not what  we know 
subsequently happened with the benefit of hindsight.  And I am satisfied that its decision not 
to defend Mr D was a reasonable  potential outcome for such a case.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that SoL made reasonable attempts to find out who 
was at fault. It relied on the advice of its solicitors and as such decided that it would take 
liability on Mr Ds behalf which is within its right under  the policy terms and conditions. So in 
terms of settling the claim, I dont think SoL acted unfairly or unreasonably. It follows  that I 
dont think Mr D is entitled to recover his uninsured losses from SoL or the third party.  I note 
though that SoL has said the settlement didnt prejudice Mr D and if he was able to make a 
successful claim  in the future in regards to this incident, it will re-instate his no claims 
discount and recover any uninsured  losses. I think this is reasonable. 
I know Mr D will be disappointed with the decision and I appreciate  the time and effort hes 
put into this complaint. Were unable to look into investigating the whole incident as Mr D has 
asked us to. This isnt within  our remit and would be something a court  would undertake. 
However, given that SoL has already sought advice from its solicitors and Mr Ds own 
solicitors confirmed the likely prospect of success wasnt  realistic, its up to Mr D to decide 
whether he wants to pursue this separately. 
Overall, given Mr D wasnt  able to recollect  the incident and there were two statements 
confirming Mr D hit the car in front (the third partys), the chances of successfully defending 
the claim wasnt realistic. As such,  SoL made  a decision to apportion  all of the liability to 
Mr D as its entitled to do so. Ive seen nothing to persuade me that SoL acted nappropriately 
or treated Mr D unfairly in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think SoL needs  to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint against The Society of 
Lloyds.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3281787