K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Ageas  Retail  Limited automatically renewed his car insurance 
policy without telling  him. Hes unhappy  Ageas charged a cancellation fee when he 
cancelled his policy two months later.
background
Mr S bought a car insurance policy  with Ageas in September 2017. Ageas said it would 
automatically renew Mr Ss policy the following year unless he asked it not to. 
In August  2018  it emailed Mr S to remind him it would renew his policy. Mr S says he didnt 
receive this email. 
Ageas renewed  Mr Ss policy in September 2018.  
In November 2018 Mr S asked Ageas  to cancel his policy. It did. It refunded the rest of the 
years premium to Mr S minus its cancellation fee. 
Mr S complained. But Ageas said it had acted correctly and in line with the policy. It said if 
Mr S could provide  proof of being insured elsewhere, it would backdate the cancellation to 
when his insurance elsewhere started.
Mr S told us he didnt arrange  alternative  cover. But he says the point is Ageas shouldnt  
have renewed  his policy without his permission.  
Our investigator didnt  think Ageas had done anything wrong. 
Mr S doesnt  agree.  So hed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold it 
as I dont think Ageas has acted  unreasonably.  
When Mr S bought his car insurance  policy  in September 2017, he opted for his documents  
to be sent to him online. Ageas has provided  a screenshot to show Mr S activated his online 
account in September 2017.  
Ageas covering letter enclosing his documents highlighted to Mr S that it would 
automatically renew his policy in a years time. Its a legal requirement  to be insured  while  
owning and driving  a car  and there are potentially serious consequences of driving 
uninsured. So its standard  practice  within the motor industry for insurers  to automatically 
renew motor insurance  unless a customer asks an insurer not to. 
Ageas highlighted to Mr S on 4 September 2017:
Ref: DRN38784712Automatic Renewal
Each year we may seek to automatically  renew your insurance contract  at the end of 
your 12 months policy period by using the personal  and payment details
you originally supplied  to us and we will write  to you towards the end of this period 
providing appropriate information  about  the insurance contract  in good
time, to enable you to make an informed decision about your policy This will also 
provide you with the opportunity before your renewal date to tell us if you
do not wish to renew.
So I think Ageas  clearly highlighted to Mr S that it intended to automatically  renew  his policy  
unless he asked it not to. 
In August  2018  Ageas emailed Mr S to remind him it would renew his policy if it didnt hear 
from him. Mr S says he didnt  receive  the email. Ageas has sent a copy of the email showing 
the date and time it was sent. The email  address  is the same  as the address Mr S provided 
us with to communicate with him about his complaint. Its unfortunate if Mr S didnt receive it. 
But from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Ageas  sent the email.  
The email  was titled Your car insurance  is set to automatically renew. It read:
Well automatically renew your policy on 25 September 2018...If you decide not to renew 
your policy youll find the steps you need to take in your invite. 
It also provided a contact number if Mr S wanted to speak to Ageas. 
In 2017 and 2018 Ageas highlighted the importance of Mr S reading and checking his 
documents in its Welcome Pack. 
Ageas provided  a screenshot to show Mr S accessed his online account  on 26 November 
2018. When Mr S contacted Ageas  to cancel his policy,  it had been  in place for two months. 
And Mr S has told us that he didnt obtain  insurance  elsewhere. So Ageas correctly  provided 
a pro rata refund and applied its cancellation  fee as set out in Mr Ss policy. Its reasonable 
for an insurer to keep the premium for the days it provided insurance cover. I understand 
Mr S doesnt  object to this. But he doesnt believe Ageas should charge him a cancellation 
fee. We think its fair for an insurer to apply a reasonable cancellation charge  provided  its 
explained in the policy. Ageas clearly set out what it would charge if Mr S cancelled  his 
policy. So I think Ageas  has acted correctly and in line with the policy. 
I appreciate Mr S may be disappointed with my decision  but based on what  Ive seen, I 
dont think Ageas has done  anything wrong.  This means Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN38784713Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept 
Mr S or reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3878471