K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Studio Retail Limited trading as Studio handled his catalogue 
shopping account. He says it recorded incorrect information on his credit file and gave him 
very poor customer service.  
background
In late 2017 Mr S says he tried to set up a catalogue  shopping  account  and put an order in 
for various  items from Studio online.  But, he says this didnt complete and so he later had to 
spend time on the phone  organising this. At the end of the call he made,  he says he was told 
by Studio it would be confirmed  in a few days if the items were  available.
Later, Mr S says Studio  contacted him to say not all the items were  available. So, at the end 
of November 2017 he emailed to say he was going to buy the items  elsewhere. He also 
complained in this email  about the length of time on the phone and being credit  checked 
twice. Mr S says he was expecting this to be the end of things with regards to the order and 
didnt think his account would be charged.
Mr S says he was surprised when a few days before Christmas some  of the items hed 
ordered were delivered to his house. He says he kept a table but gave the other items away 
to charity. 
Mr S says he then tried to pay off the balance of his account online but couldnt, as the 
website said his account didnt have any orders associated with it. He says he decided to 
leave the payment while his complaint was being  investigated. He later found out hed been 
charged a late payment  fee.
In February 2018  Mr S phoned Studio to pay the outstanding balance and arrears. He also 
discussed the complaint hed made during  the phone call. The late fee that had been applied 
to the account  was refunded, along  with interest  charged. 
Studio sent Mr S several updates saying it wasnt ready to give him an answer  to his 
complaint. Mr S brought  his complaint  to this service in May 2018.  He said hed been  credit 
checked more  than once when setting  up the account and Studio had recorded incorrect 
information about him and his address on his credit file. He also said he was unhappy with 
the late fee and overall service hed received.
In July 2018 Studio sent Mr S its final response  letter which  explained it wasnt upholding his 
complaint. It explained there were no issues with its website when Mr S tried to set up an 
account. It said Mr Ss email address wasnt registered with his online account  which is 
why he couldnt  make a payment. It explained  he couldve paid via several  other methods. It 
also said Mr S had only been credit checked once. Mr S says he is unhappy  with how long it 
took to get this response.
Mr S was unhappy with this response and our service began  to investigate. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. She said she thought the incorrect information on the file was 
due to a genuine mistake  and she said it wasnt visible anymore. She listened  to a call 
recording Mr S played  down the phone  to her, but said she didnt think the customer service  
received was unreasonable. And she said she didnt think Studio had done anything wrong 
by charging a late fee.
Ref: DRN31845922Mr S was unhappy with this, so the case was passed to me to decide. I sent Mr S and Studio 
a provisional decision  on 12 December 2019. This explained that I initially intended to uphold  
the complaint.  My findings  from this decision were  as follows:
When Mr S brought the complaint to our service,  he raised an issue  about the quality of a 
table he received as part of his order from Studio. But, I cant see that this formed  part of his 
complaint to the business. So, I havent considered  this as part of my decision.  
This complaint is about catalogue  shopping. This service can consider this type of case  as 
its about providing restricted credit  which is a regulated activity.  Mr S is complaining about 
his catalogue  account and the service received when he was setting up, using and 
maintaining the account. So, we can investigate the issues  Mr S has raised.
Mr S has complained about several different issues, so Ill consider these in turn.
did Studio  record incorrect information on Mr Ss credit  file?
Studio is required  to report accurate information  to credit reference agencies.  So, Ill 
consider if it did this in Mr Ss case. Its worth  pointing  out that this took place some time 
ago, so not all of the evidence Id like is available here. But, Ill consider what I think  is most 
likely to have happened.
Ive reviewed the information from Mr Ss credit file that he sent in. I can see an entry  from 
September 2017 that records him as Mrs S. Studio says this search  is from an online 
application that Mr S made. Mr S also told us he initially applied  online  so Im satisfied this 
search is from an online application. Because the application was completed  online, I think  
its likely  Mr S keyed  the information about his details himself.  Thinking about this, I havent  
seen enough to make me think Studio made  a mistake  here.  I think its more likely Mr S 
completed his details incorrectly on the website  and they were automatically reported  to 
credit reference agencies as Mr S input them.
There are also entries from 24 November 2017  in relation to Studio on Mr Ss credit file. I 
believe this was around the date Mr S phoned Studio to set up an account and make  an 
order. The records include an ID check and two credit searches. So, it appears Mr S was 
correct when he says Studio  credit checked him twice to set up his account. I asked Studio 
to explain why this was the case. It said due to the passage of time it couldnt  tell - but it may 
have been because his order was reprocessed. 
I can also see on the credit file that on three  of the entries by Studio Mr Ss address  is 
recorded with Flat in front of the street number, when Mr S says his address should  contain 
just the number. I dont  know  if this issue  was caused by studio or not.
I appreciate Mr S was concerned when he saw the credit searches on his file and that his 
address was recorded incorrectly.  He told us he was advised  not to apply for a mortgage 
due to these searches. But, I dont know the full circumstances around this. As he didnt 
apply for the mortgage, its impossible for me to know if this wouldve had any impact on an 
application or not. So, I havent seen enough to make me think Mr S couldve been  approved  
for a mortgage if it hadnt been  for the additional search or the incorrect  recording of his 
address.
So, in summary,  Im not sure if Studio made  a mistake with Mr Ss address or not. And I 
dont think its likely  the issues with the credit file caused Mr S any financial detriment. But, I 
Ref: DRN31845923have considered that Mr S told us he found  this situation was very stressful. Im satisfied that 
it wouldve  caused him distress and inconvenience by finding  more than one check  on his 
credit record.
Studio said that these  records  would drop  off after a year  so it believes these arent  visible 
anymore. I can see from the date in the screenshots of the credit file Mr S sent in that these  
were taken within a year of the searches being carried  out. I havent seen anything  to 
suggest these  are still visible on Mr Ss credit  file. So, I dont  think  Studio needs to edit 
Mr Ss credit  file at this point.
should Studio have  applied a late fee?
Looking at the terms and conditions for Mr Ss account, these explain a charge may be 
applied if the minimum payment  isnt paid on time. Its provided statements showing Mr S 
didnt make any payment  towards the account  for the order  until February 2018.
Mr S says it was unfair to apply a fee as he tried to pay online but couldnt.  Hes provided a 
screenshot from Studios website that says he hasnt placed any orders on his account. 
Studio has said this was because  he didnt  register his email address. I dont know  exactly 
what happened here. But, Studios explanation  doesnt seem unreasonable to me. Ive also 
considered that Studio  has said Mr S couldve  paid in other  ways,  such as by phone or 
cheque. I think,  given  Mr S was aware money was owed, it mightve been prudent  of him to 
at least speak to Studio  about other repayment  options at the time.
Having said this, Studio has shown it reversed  the late payment charge  and refunded the 
interest applied  to Mr Ss order when  he paid off the balance  as a gesture of goodwill. So, I 
dont think I need  to consider this further.
were there customer service issues?
Mr S is unhappy with the service provided  to him by Studio in relation to the account. He 
says he couldnt  set up the account and order online when he tried.  He says he also 
cancelled the order that came  through and spent a long time on the phone trying to resolve  
the issue.
Studio says there were no issues with other customers using its website at this time. Ive 
thought about what Mr S said.  But, I havent  seen anything to show  Studio made  any error 
here.
Ive considered whether Mr Ss order was charged to his account incorrectly   as he says he 
cancelled it. I can see he emailed Studio on 28 November 2017 where he complained about 
the service and credit checks. He also says in this email that he would buy the items 
elsewhere. 
Studio replied to Mr S on 1 December 2017 and said, In order  for us to deal with your query,  
kindly confirm to us your account number for security reason (sic). 
Studio also sent Mr S another  email on the same day. It again says it would need some 
further details  from Mr S to speed up the resolution  of your query. But, this email  explains 
an account number  will be given once you have received your first order.  So, at this point, it 
appears Mr S may not have had an account  number. This email asks to provide other  
information, such as Mr Ss name and address.
Ref: DRN31845924Mr S replied  to this email  and gave Studio the information it asked  for, without the account  
number. I cant see a date on this email, so I dont know for sure exactly when it was sent. 
But, assuming this was before the order was processed,  it seems to be the case that Studio 
would have had enough information  to identify Mr S and cancel the order  from his account.
It must have been annoying for Mr S to receive the goods and for his account to get charged 
when he thought the order  was cancelled. And I can understand his frustration when this 
happened. But, Mr S gave  most of the items away to charity, keeping one for himself. So, I 
have to consider  that he didnt return, or attempt to return, the goods. Im satisfied by doing  
this, Mr S accepted the order.
So, even if it couldve cancelled Mr Ss order and therefore not charged his account, I dont 
think it would  be fair to ask Studio to refund anything at this point, given Mr S kept the 
delivery. 
Mr S says he has spent around  two hours  on the phone over several calls with Studio trying 
to sort his account  and the issues out. And, he says the customer  service he received on the 
calls was very poor. 
Mr S has provided a screen  shot from his phone showing he was on a call to Studio  for 
around 18 minutes when  he placed his order. I havent been  able to listen to this call  so I 
dont know what was said. But, thinking  about the overall time,  I dont think  this seems  
unreasonable for Mr S to get through to Studio, give his details, set up an account and order 
several different  items. Ive also thought about  the fact that this was coming up to a holiday 
period - which I think would mean Studio would be busier than normal.  Ive considered 
carefully what Mr S told us. But I dont think its likely Studio did anything unreasonable here.
Mr S provided a recording of another call with Studio when he was on the phone for just over 
35 minutes. Ive listened to this call and thought carefully about what happened. Mr S spoke 
to a staff member at the start of the call and explained the issues he was having with his 
account. This member  of staff then put him through  to the collections department, who 
arranged repayment  of the outstanding balance. Then he was put through to another 
department to discuss his complaint.
I understand its frustrating to have to speak to different people when contacting a business. 
But, I dont think this is unusual. I can also appreciate Mr S had to explain the situation to 
different people on the phone. But Im also satisfied this isnt particularly out of the ordinary. 
The staff members Mr S spoke to seemed to be trying  to help him. Thinking about this, I 
dont think Mr S received  an unreasonable level of customer service on this call. But, I do 
appreciate he wouldnt  have had to make  this call had nothing gone  wrong.
I understand Mr S has said there were more  phone calls than this. But, I havent seen any 
evidence of these.
Finally, I agree with Mr S that it took far too long for Studio to give him an answer  to his 
complaint. 
Overall, I think the service Mr S received  from Studio fell below what I would expect.  It 
recorded more  than one credit check  on his record. It sent him an order that it appears  he 
asked to be cancelled  before it was processed. And, it took too long to respond  to his 
Ref: DRN31845925complaint. Im satisfied  Mr S has suffered distress and inconvenience  because of what  
happened. So, I think Studio should pay him £100 to reflect this.
Mr S replied  and said he accepted the provisional decision. Studio  responded and said it 
disagreed.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Studio said in its response to my provisional decision.  It said the only 
reason I awarded  compensation  was due to two credit searches being recorded for which 
£100 was excessive. But, this isnt the case.  I explained I thought there  were  issues  with the 
credit checks, the order and Studios  response  to Mr Ss complaint.
Studio also said that the only reason there  were  two credit searches is because one was 
from when Mr S tried to open  his account  online and one was from when he applied for an 
account on the phone.  But, I dont agree with this. As I explained  in my provisional decision, I 
think there was an entry  on Mr Ss file from when  he applied online  but this was from 
September 2017. Two credit  checks were recorded  by Studio in November 2017. So, I dont 
think this is a reasonable explanation for why Studio credit checked  Mr S twice  in November.
Ive considered everything else Studio  said. And, Ive thought about all the information on the 
case again. Having  done so, I still think this complaint should  be upheld, for the reasons 
explained in my provisional decision  and set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Studio  Retail  Limited Trading as 
Studio to pay Mr S £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3184592