K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about the sale of a shared appreciation mortgage by Barclays  Bank  UK Plc 
to the late Mr and Mrs W. And about  the later administration of this mortgage. 
Background
This complaint has been brought by the estate of the Mrs W, represented by Mrs H and 
Miss L. Mrs H and Miss L are Mr and Mrs Ws daughters and have both explained the 
reasons for this complaint. For the sake of convenience,  I will just refer to Mrs H in this 
decision. 
The main  complaint is that Mr and Mrs W were not provided with clear enough information  to 
understand the shared  appreciation mortgage (SAM) they were sold in 1998 or the real 
financial implications of this. 
Mrs H has said that, based  on what her parents had told her, Mr and Mrs Ws understanding  
was that they had agreed to provide the bank with 25% of the equity in their property. Mrs H 
considers that the product  was fundamentally unfair, and that the level of repayment should 
have been capped. She has also expressed  concerns about the level of information provided 
to them  in the years following the sale. 
Barclays Bank responded to the complaint, saying they are unable  to make any changes to 
the terms and conditions of the SAM.  They said that the sale was carried  out on an 
information only basis and that this information  was entirely  transparent and set out the 
terms of the SAM clearly. 
Barclays Bank said they did not provide  any advice  to Mr and Mrs W, and that the bank 
instead suggested they take independent financial advice. Barclays  Bank  confirmed that Mr 
and Mrs Ws solicitors had declared  that they had carried  out the actions required. 
Barclays Bank also explained that, as the amount repayable on the SAM was dependant  on 
the value of the mortgaged property at the time of sale, the annual statements they provided 
could not reflect what this sum would be. But that the letter  that accompanied the statements 
advised the sum shown was not the current amount to settle the mortgage  in full.
On this basis, Barclays Bank did not uphold the complaint. And Mrs H, on behalf of her 
parents estate, brought it to this service to consider. Barclays Bank objected  to this service  
considering this complaint due to the rules relating to our jurisdiction. 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2020. However, before I go on 
to explain what my provisional findings  were, I feel it is worthwhile repeating some of the 
explanation of and background to SAMs, and the events of this particular case, which  was 
set out in further detail in that provisional  decision.
Background to SAMs  and the sale of Mr and Mrs Ws SAM
In 1998 Barclays  Bank  launched a new lending product; SAMs. Barclays  Bank  was not the 
actual lender for this product though. Barclays Bank  established a wholly  owned subsidiary 
company, Barclays SAMS Limited,  which acted as lender. Mr and Mrs Ws contract was with 
Barclays SAMS Limited .
Ref: DRN36369572A SAM was an equity  release  product,  which provided customers  with a loan that could last 
the lifetime of the borrower. The loan was secured  via a mortgage on their property. 
These SAMs  didnt  require any monthly payments from customers  and no interest was 
added to the loan. Instead,  at the time of repayment,  the customer  would have to repay the 
loan and a percentage  of the appreciation in the value of the mortgaged  property. This 
percentage was three times the loan to value ratio (LTV)  of the mortgage at the time of 
borrowing.
The maximum a customer could borrow was 25% LTV, which would lead to a repayment  of 
the loan and 75% of any appreciation. However, if the property  did not increase in value, the 
customer would only have  to repay  the amount of the initial  loan  with no appreciation.
Barclays Bank told us that it acted  as the lenders  agent, arranging and then administering  
the mortgages on behalf of Barclays SAMS Limited.  Barclays Bank has said that all activities  
involved were carried out by Barclays Bank staff, but as agent of Barclays  SAMS Limited. 
As a result of the sales of SAMs having  taken  place more than 20 years ago, not all of the 
evidence from the time is still available. However,  in addition to some case  specific  
evidence, Barclays Bank has been  able to provide  some standard  documents  as well as an 
explanation of both the product  launch  and the standard sales  process. 
Prior to the products launch, Barclays Bank  provided branch managers with information 
about SAMs, including  a Mortgage Information Manual (Manual) and training  support 
booklet. I have  not repeated the content  of these  here. 
The SAMs were advertised  via a number of means, including  posters in Barclays Bank 
branches, and adverts in at least one national newspaper. Unfortunately, due to the passage 
of time, Barclays Bank hasnt been able to provide  this service with examples of these.
However, the adverts apparently directed  interested parties to request a free 'Guide to 
Unlocking the Capital  in Your Home' (Guide) written by the Daily Telegraphs  Personal 
Finance Editor and sponsored by Barclays Mortgages. A copy of this Guide has been 
provided, though  it isnt known if Mr and Mrs W saw a copy of this. 
The Guide explained some of the potential risks with SAMs as well as the potential benefits  
of the product. But it did not refer to any separation  of the lender from Barclays Bank. The 
front page  of the Guide  says that it has been  sponsored by Barclays  Mortgages. 
The Guide also set out the mechanics for calculating the repayment, repeatedly saying that 
the repayment amount was the loan plus three  times the increase in the proportion  of value 
borrowed which occurs after the loan is advanced. It included several worked examples 
demonstrating this. 
The final section of the Guide included the following:
in return for not having  to pay any interest on the capital unlocked  from the home by 
the SAM,  the owner  must currently repay  three times the proportion  of the original 
valuation borrowed from any increase in the house  price by the time it is sold or 
transferred. So the risk with a SAM is that house prices rise substantially and the 
homebuyer finds they have given up their right to receive up to 75 per cent of that 
uplift.
Ref: DRN36369573Parties interested in a SAM could also obtain  a copy of SAM product brochure (Brochure) 
from branches of Barclays Bank  and from Barclays Direct Mortgages.  Again, we dont know 
if Mr and Mrs W received  a copy of this Brochure.
The Brochure referred  only to Barclays Bank  and Barclays Mortgages, and did not mention 
that a separate company  was the lender.  As well as giving some  details about the product, 
the literature stated, under the heading With you all the way:
To assist you in making a decision,  the free expert advice of a Barclays  Mortgage 
Specialist is available whenever you want. And because there's a Mortgage  
Specialist in many of our 2100 branches, you can be confident  help will always be 
close by.
The following  section, titled The next step, then said that to apply customers  should speak 
to the Mortgage  Specialist in branch or phone Barclays Direct Mortgages.
The Brochure gave the following explanation of how the SAM worked:
You simply borrow a percentage of your property's current  value for as long as you 
want without making  any monthly  payments, until you come  to part with your property 
(or die or wish to repay the loan).  
When you repay the loan,  you also pay a percentage of any increase in the value of 
the property at that time. It really  is that straightforward
Basically, if you come to sell your home  (or if you should die) you must pay the 
original amount borrowed plus a share of the increase in the value of your property at 
that time  The share will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by 
three and then multiplying  that by how much the property has gained  in value.
It also included an example of how some typical Shared Appreciation Mortgages work :
Original Valuation  (£) 100,000
Final Valuation (£) 150,000
Appreciation (£) 50,000
Amount Borrowed  (£) 15,000 20,000 25,000
Percentage  of Property 
Value  Borrowed (%)15 20 25
Lenders Share of 
Appreciation (£)(3x15%)x£50,000  
= 22,500(3x20%)x£50,000  
= 30,000(3x25%)x£50,000 
= 37,500
Total amount repayable (£)22,500 + 15,000 
= 37,50030,000 + 20,000 = 
50,00037,500 + 25,000 
= 62,500
Remaining equity (£) 112,500 100,000 87,500
Attached to the Brochure was an Important  Information You Must Read leaflet (Leaflet). 
This included a further example of a SAM:
Ref: DRN36369574The Leaflet  referred to the obligation to pay the Shared Appreciation to Barclays and that 
Barclays  is a responsible  lender.  
The Brochure and the Leaflet also referred  to Barclays  Bank  being  a member of the Banking  
Ombudsman Scheme.  And said that: 
Barclays  is committed  to The Mortgage Code and The Banking  Code,  both of which  
set out the commitments  and standards of banks in dealing  with their customers. As 
such, we ensure that our products and services comply with the terms of both Codes.
The Mortgage Code  relates specifically to the service we provide, the provision of 
information regarding  our mortgage  products and services  and how they operate.
This booklet therefore contains details regarding the following areas:
marketing of mortgages.
It should be noted here that the Mortgage  Code related  to loans that were  not governed by 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA).  And Mr and Mrs Ws loan was a regulated agreement 
under the CCA, so the Mortgage  Code did not apply. However, the Banking Code did not 
contain this limitation  and, as far as is relevant to this decision, contains similar provisions to 
the Mortgage Code.
Included in the Banking Code are the levels of service that can be provided under the code. 
These were  for Barclays Bank to provide;
advice and recommendation as to which mortgage is most suitable  for the customer  
(Level A service), 
information on the different types  of mortgage product available  (Level B service),  
and 
information on a single mortgage  product only (Level C service). 
It seems  that, in many cases, sales involved a conversation in Barclays Bank branch. An 
internal confirmation  of discussion form was completed at the time of such discussions, 
noting the level of service  provided. Customers would likely not have seen this form though.
The confirmation of discussion form completed  when Mr and Mrs W apparently discussed 
the SAM  in a branch  of Barclays Bank  is dated  21 May 1998.  It is completed  on the basis of 
them having  been provided  with information about a single  product   a Level C service.
Consumers like Mr and Mrs W who chose  to pursue the mortgage  then had an application 
form submitted. This application was on a Barclays Mortgages headed form. 
Mr and Mrs Ws application form set out their personal details and the loan sum required. 
This was originally marked as 25% of valuation, which was estimated as £60,000. The loan 
amount was later added as £15,625  (25% of £62,500). The form did not include details of 
the purpose of the loan. 
Attached to the application  was a declaration form that consumers were  required to sign.  Mr 
and Mrs W signed this on 1 June 1998. The first point on this declaration form stated:
I apply for a Shared Appreciation  Mortgage  from Barclays SAMS Limited a 
subsidiary of Barclays Bank PLC.
Ref: DRN36369575No further information on this was given though. There were also references to the 
consumer agreeing to their information  being  used by the Barclays  Group, without  this 
group being  defined. 
In order to apply,  consumers needed to agree  to a booking fee, which was paid into a 
Barclays Bank Suspense  account. This would be retained by Barclays Bank  if the customer 
did not take the mortgage or if they redeemed it within the first year.
The application was considered and, if approved,  an offer was sent to consumers in the form 
of an Advance  Copy Agreement.  Mr and Mrs Ws offer was sent on 22 June 1998. 
The Advance Copy listed the lender as Barclays  SAMS Limited. After providing details of the 
offer, it included the following statement:
For the purposes of the Mortgage Code, we have provided you with information  on a 
mortgage product. 
Mr and Mrs Ws offer confirmed the amount of credit  being provided and the associated fees 
and charges. The offer stated the applicable APR as 3.1%, but clarified  this by saying:
The APR is based on the total charge for credit which includes fees. In calculating  
the APR we have not taken into account the Shared Appreciation Amount  (if any) 
since this will not be known at the date of the Agreement,  or any variation of fees... 
The rate of interest under this Agreement is zero.
The Advance Copy then explained the shared appreciation amount, as follows:
And later gave the following,  generic  example:
Mr and Mrs Ws Advance Copy  stated that the loan needed to be drawn  down by 
31 July 1998.  And set out Mr and Mrs Ws right to withdraw from the proposed  credit  
agreement. This gave  Mr and Mrs W a week to consider the terms of the agreement and 
explained that if they did not wish to enter it, they should not sign the actual agreement and 
should merely inform  the lender or broker of their decision. 
The Advance Copy also stated:
You should read [the proposed agreement] carefully. If you do not understand it, you 
may need to seek professional advice.
A week after the offer letter, an Agreement was sent for customers  to sign and return if they 
wanted to take out the mortgage. Mr and Mrs Ws Agreement was sent to them  on 
29 June 1998  and they signed this on 1 July 1998.  The Agreement included  the same terms 
and explanations as the Advance  Copy. This also included the following:
You confirm that you have read and understood this Agreement (including  the 
Conditions and any special conditions). In particular,  you confirm that we have 
Ref: DRN36369576recommended that you obtain independent legal  advice  on the meaning and effect of 
this Agreement  and the Mortgage .
When the Advance Copy was sent to Mr and Mrs W, a copy was also sent their 
conveyancer, along with a request for a report on the title of the property and Instructions to 
Solicitors. These Instructions directed, in part, that the solicitors confirm the consumers 
understood the terms and conditions of the mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs Ws solicitors wrote to Barclays Bank on 16 July 1998  with the completed Report 
on Title. The points  that Mr and Mrs Ws solicitor agreed to in completing this included that 
they had complied with the Instructions, including that the terms and conditions  of the 
mortgage had been explained to Mr and Mrs W. It isnt known whether or not this 
explanation was given prior to Mr and Mrs W signing  the Agreement  or at some  point in the 
following 15 days,  before  solicitors  letter  was sent.  But there is no indication  Mr and Mrs W 
raised any concerns  at the time.
Barclays Bank has said Mr and Mrs Ws loan was drawn down on 29 July 1998.  
Activity since  the sale
Mr and Mrs W were apparently sent annual mortgage statements each year. An example 
from 2013 has been provided.  Also provided to us by Barclays  Bank are other examples of 
mortgage statements  for other customers. Until the last few years (potentially after Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage was redeemed), these statements have not given any explanation of the 
potential liability attached to the loan. The statement merely confirms  the outstanding  
balance, which is the amount of the initial loan; £15,625 in Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
The letter accompanying the statements included the following, without further explanation:
this is not the current amount  required  to repay  your mortgage in full.
An example  of a statement sent to a customer in 2018, which we have been provided with, 
details the cost of paying  off the mortgage as the outstanding balance  plus the shared 
appreciation amount. It then gives an explanation of how this is calculated.  
Sadly, Mr and Mrs W have passed  away since their loan was taken out. And the mortgaged  
property was sold in April 2017. In order to redeem  the mortgage,  Mrs H has said the estate 
had to pay £81,460. Mrs H had raised the estates complaint  to Barclays  Bank by this point. 
My provisional findings
As mentioned, I issued  my provisional  decision  on this complaint in February 2020. 
I firstly considered whether or not this service  had jurisdiction to consider this complaint. 
Having taken into account the relevant facts,  I thought that this service  did have jurisdiction 
to consider some aspects  of this complaint, but not others. 
I explained that the ability of this service to consider  complaints  stems  from the Financial 
Services and Markets  Act 2000. The relevant provisions and associated rules have been 
incorporated into the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook,  particularly the Dispute 
Resolution: Complaints (DISP)  section  of this Handbook. DISP sets out the extent of this 
Ref: DRN36369577services jurisdiction. We are bound to follow these  rules and so can only look at a complaint 
if allowed  by the rules.
Part of Barclays Banks objections related to the fact that this complaint had been made 
many years after the sale of the SAM. But whilst I agreed that the complaint had been 
brought more  than six years after the event  being  complained about, I was not persuaded 
that Mr and Mrs W ought reasonably to have been aware of any cause for complaint. And 
that the rules  allowed  the complaint to be brought within three  years  of such awareness.
Although there had been media interest and some legal action, this did not involve Mr and 
Mrs W. And, I was not persuaded that they would have been  or ought reasonably to have 
been aware of this. I considered that it was discovering the amount ultimately payable  on 
redemption that led to this complaint being made. And as the complaint had been made 
within three years of this, I considered the complaint was within our jurisdiction in terms of 
this aspect of the rules.
Barclays other main objection related to its assertion that it was acting  as the agent of 
Barclays SAMS Limited  and had not provided  Mr and Mrs W with any service of its own.  
The main  part of this complaint relates to the sale of the SAM, which  took place in 1998  - 
before the start of the Financial Ombudsman Services  compulsory jurisdiction on 
1 December 2001. In my provisional decision, I explained that, by virtue of the Financial  
Services and Markets  Act 2000 (Transitional Provisions) (Ombudsman Scheme and 
Complaints Scheme) Order 2001 (the Ombudsman Transitional Order), this service can 
consider a complaint that happened prior to 2001,  if that complaint would have been 
considered by one of our predecessor schemes.
However, article 7 of the Ombudsman Transitional Order explains that, if we are able to 
consider a complaint, we need to do so on the same basis as the former scheme would  
have.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that the Office of the Banking  Ombudsman (OBO) 
would have considered complaints about certain  actions of members, or designated 
associates, of that scheme and that Barclays Bank  was such a member. The OBO would 
have considered complaints relating to Barclays Bank providing a banking service. 
I also explained that, in my view, the OBO would have been  considered  Barclays  Bank  to 
have been providing a banking service in a situation  where it was providing information 
about or, where  relevant,  advice on a credit agreement secured on land by a first charge 
mortgage. And that, as Barclays Bank  provided  such a service  to Mr and Mrs W during the 
sale of their SAM, in my view, the OBO  would  have considered a complaint about this. 
But I confirmed that this complaint would be limited to considering  the information and any 
advice provided  about the product, as this was the extent of Barclays Banks  direct  
involvement. 
I further set out that Barclays SAMS Limited was not a member or a designated associate of 
the OBO  scheme or any other relevant former  scheme. Nor has Barclays  SAMS  Limited  
been directly covered  by this services Compulsory  Jurisdiction. So, I considered that this 
service did not have jurisdiction to consider  a complaint against  Barclays SAMS Limited itself 
about the sale of the SAM.  And that, as it was Barclays  SAMS  Limited that was responsible  
Ref: DRN36369578for the terms and conditions of the SAM, rather than Barclays  Bank, I considered this service 
did not have jurisdiction to consider a complaint about these terms or their fairness.  
The final part of this complaint relates to the administration  of the SAM, and whether suitable 
information has been provided  since the sale. In my provisional decision  I explained that, in 
April 2007, the jurisdiction of this service was expanded to include certain complaints about 
consumer credit activities. And that, in administering the SAM, Barclays  Bank had been 
carrying out either the consumer credit activity and, later, the regulated activity of debt  
administration. So, I considered that this service could consider this part of this complaint.  
Having established  what parts of this complaint I considered to be within the jurisdiction of 
this service, I went on to consider what I thought  was the fair and reasonable outcome  of this 
complaint was. 
Whilst I was satisfied that, in some  situations, Barclays  Bank may have advised customers  in 
relation to taking  out a SAM, I was not persuaded that such  advice had been provided to Mr 
and Mrs W. The application form only included basic information, rather than the detail I 
considered would have been  required in order for Barclays  Bank to have provided advice. 
And whilst Mr and Mrs W may not have seen the confirmation of discussion form, it has been 
completed on the basis that advice was not being given. 
I explained that, taking all of the circumstances into account, I did not consider it to be more  
likely than not that Barclays Bank provided, or acted so as to lead Mr and Mrs W to believe 
they were providing,  advice in relation to the sale of this SAM.
I also thought  about the information  provided  to Mr and Mrs W at the time, and whether this 
would have allowed  them  to understand  the SAM. In doing so, I took into account the 
approach the OBO would have taken,  had a complaint about this been referred to them.
I thought the main  concern that Mrs H had raised  was that the information and examples 
used were not clear  enough for her parents to understand the real financial implications of 
the SAM.  And that the result of this was that they understood they had only agreed to hand 
over 25% of the equity in their home.  
But I explained that I considered the written  information Barclays  Bank  provided made it 
clear that the sum to be repaid was not a direct equivalent of the LTV of the loan. 
Before providing  several examples of how this might work  in practice, the Brochure  set out 
the mechanism  for how the shared appreciation amount payable  on redemption  was 
calculated as follows:
The share  will be calculated by multiplying the percentage borrowed by three and 
then multiplying that by how much  the property has gained in value.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  I considered this provided  a reader with a reasonable 
level of information  to allow them to understand the basic mechanism behind  the mortgage.  
Further written examples of how the SAM  worked  were provided in the Leaflet and the 
Agreement (both the Advance Copy and the signed Agreement). Even if Mr and Mrs W had 
not seen the promotional material,  they had been given the Agreement. Although the 
examples in these  documents used  different  figures,  I considered these differences gave the 
reader more opportunity  to see possible  outcomes. 
Ref: DRN36369579I also thought  about Mrs Hs comments that jargon was used in the literature, but I explained 
that I didnt  consider the language used was inappropriate. Whilst a number of terms were 
used which  had specific meanings, definitions of these were clearly provided.  Barclays  Bank 
also highlighted issues that were unknown  for example the fact that the shared 
appreciation could not be known at the time the agreement was entered. 
I didnt think it was most likely that Barclays Bank had verbally provided incorrect  information  
about the mechanism of the SAM. The Manual  and training material  gave branch staff 
examples and explanations of how the SAM worked  and I thought  it most likely they would 
have relied on these and the promotional material when discussing  the SAM with Mr and 
Mrs W.
Ultimately, I thought Barclays Bank had provided  information that would have allowed Mr 
and Mrs W to understand the financial implications of the SAM.
However, the last part of my provisional decision concerned  the information provided  since  
April 2007. Whilst I did not consider Barclays  Bank had any obligation to advise  Mr and 
Mrs W to seek independent financial advice  on a year on year basis, I did not think  Barclays  
Bank had provided  them  with annual statements that met the relevant requirements. 
I explained that the annual statements should have set out, in part, the cost of redeeming  the 
loan. And that where this cost could  not be quantified, a warning to that effect, or the basis  
on which the calculation  would be made,  should  have been  included. But that the statements 
Barclays Bank had provided  to Mr and Mrs W did not include the actual cost of redemption  
or details  of the method  of calculating this. Without this, I did not feel Barclays  Bank  had 
given Mr and Mrs W the appropriate level of information in relation to their debt.
I did however need to consider if this had caused a detriment to Mr and Mrs W. I also 
needed to bear in mind I could only consider this issue in the period from April 2007  at the 
earliest. I felt that whilst the information provided at the time the SAM was sold was 
appropriate it was possible Mr and Mrs W did not appreciate, in the period since April 2007, 
how much  the cost of redeeming their SAM would be. 
But this was not something  Mr and Mrs W ever apparently became aware of. And although 
this discovery was no doubt distressing  for Mrs H and the other  members  of her family,  the 
complainant in this case is Mr and Mrs Ws estate. I explained it is not possible for this 
service to make an award in relation to upset caused to an estate. So, I didnt consider I 
could make an award here. 
I did consider whether  Mr and Mrs W might have  taken  a different course of action had they 
been provided with more  appropriate information  from April 2007.  But I had not been 
provided with persuasive evidence  that they were in a position to repay the SAM without 
selling their property.  And as this was their home, I didnt consider it more likely than not that 
they would  have been inclined to do this.
So, whilst I considered the information  Barclays Bank provided since April 2007  wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been, I didnt consider this caused a detriment to Mr and Mrs W or 
their estate for which I could make  an award.
Ref: DRN363695710Ultimately, my provisional decision was that this complaint was partly  within  the jurisdiction 
of this service. But that no award  should be made to Mr and Mrs Ws estate. I invited both 
parties to provide any further comments or evidence.
Responses of the parties to the provisional  decision
Barclays Bank responded. They accepted  the provisional jurisdiction findings  and made no 
substantial further  representations in relation  to the merits of the complaint. 
Mrs H also responded  to the provisional  decision.  She maintained her comments that the 
terms of the SAM were not fair. 
Mrs H said that her parents had trusted Barclays Bank and had believed they were the 
lender. And was adamant  that Mr and Mrs Ws belief, even toward the end of their lives, was 
that only 25% of the equity in their property was payable to redeem the mortgage.  
Mrs H referred  to having read many other accounts of customers who had taken out SAMs 
having the same belief.  And she felt that this had been the result of onerous  paperwork and 
misleading conversations.
She also referred to the actions of Barclays Bank in relation to the previous court action 
(which had not included Mr and Mrs W). 
Mrs H also said that her parents had funds that they would have used to repay the loan and 
that, had clearer  information been  provided in the annual statements, they would have done 
so. She provided some evidence of the funds and said that they had more than £25,000 in 
cash, as well as other  assets and the help of family, which would have  been  used.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Largely speaking my provisional findings over the jurisdiction of this service  in terms of this 
complaint have not been contested by either party. But I appreciate  Mrs H still has concerns  
over what  she considers to be the fairness of the loan.
A complaint about whether the terms and conditions of a SAM  were unfair would  need  to be 
considered against the lender itself though. The terms of a loan are set by the lender, not the 
intermediary. 
As has been previously  explained, the lender of Mr and Mrs Ws SAM was Barclays SAMs 
Limited. It is Barclays  SAM Limited that is responsible  for the terms of the SAM.
I appreciate that Barclays SAMs Limited  is a subsidiary of Barclays Bank and that it was 
Barclays Bank that decided to launch this product. But Barclays SAMs  Limited  is 
nevertheless a separate company and Barclays Bank cannot be held liable for the actions of 
this separate company. These actions include the terms of the credit  agreement.  And this 
applies also to the relationship between  the borrower and the lender.
I also appreciate Mrs Hs strength of feeling  regarding what  her parents believed to be the 
lending arrangement. I have no reason to doubt that this was the basis  on which Mr and 
Ref: DRN363695711Mrs W explained things to their children, nor do I think it most likely that Mr and Mrs W would 
have misled their children.  
However, the issue I need to determine is not whether Mr and Mrs W understood the 
arrangement correctly, but whether  Barclays Bank provided them with appropriate 
information at the time of the sale to allow them to correctly understand it. 
I have not been provided with any further  evidence in relation to the written information they 
were provided with at time. And as such,  I have  come to the same findings here as I did in 
my provisional decision. 
As Barclays Bank has said, it was not possible to accurately predict what  would happen to 
the value of Mr and Mrs Ws property,  nor how long it would be until the loan was redeemed.  
I consider this means all that could reasonably be provided was the formula  for the 
calculation and some  examples  of possible outcomes. This is what Barclays  Bank provided, 
and I consider they did this with the appropriate  level of clarity.  
Mrs H has referred  to a number of other customers who have  made complaints about SAMs,  
and who have said that their understanding was that the repayment of the mortgage was 
based on an equivalent LTV of the borrowing  rather than the 3:1 ratio of the appreciation in 
the property value. Mrs H has said that this was in part likely caused by selling techniques of 
Barclays Bank staff.
Whilst we consider each  complaint brought to us individually, I have thought carefully  about  
the wider information  we have about the sale of SAMs. And it is true that a number of other 
customers have made  complaints of a similar  nature; this includes customers who have 
been able to provide their own testimony. 
But whilst it is not possible for to know what exactly was discussed by the parties involved at 
the time Mr and Mrs Ws SAM was sold,  I do consider the training material  and the sales  
literature would have  meant that the staff in branch did understand how the SAM  worked.  I 
am not persuaded it is most likely they actively misled customers, including Mr and Mrs W. 
And any consideration of the sales literature  would have  made it clear  that the mechanism 
was not based a like-for-like LTV. 
Taking all of the circumstances into account,  I consider Barclays Bank provided Mr and 
Mrs W with appropriate information  for them to understand the SAM.  And I have seen no 
persuasive evidence  that Barclays Bank provided advice in relation to Mr and Mrs Ws SAM.
Barclays Bank has not provided  any comments in relation to the level of information provided  
since the sale. As a result  of the jurisdictional limits referred to above, any complaint about 
this can only take into account information provided  since April 2007. Mrs H has said that, 
had better  information  been provided,  Mr and Mrs W would have used other  means to repay  
the mortgage. 
Mrs H has referred  to some of the other  means that Mr and Mrs W might have had available 
to them.  This included an amount of savings, and assets such  as caravans/cars. Mrs H has 
also said that family could  have also contributed. 
However, looking at the average house  prices  for comparable properties  in the same 
location, it seems likely that the value of Mr and Mrs Ws property had already considerably 
Ref: DRN363695712increased prior to 2007. And had Mr and Mrs W sought to repay the SAM  after this, a 
redemption sum similar  to that paid in 2017 would have been payable. 
Given the size of this, I am not persuaded Mr and Mrs W had the necessary funds to repay 
the SAM  without selling their property. And as this was their home, I am also not persuaded 
that they would have  done this. 
As such,  whilst I remain satisfied Barclays Bank did not provide the level of information it 
should have in the period  after April 2007,  I also still consider that this did not cause any 
detriment to Mr and Mrs W.  
Mrs H has referred  to Barclays  Banks  actions in relation to court action a number of other 
customers were  involved  in. But this did not include Mr and Mrs W. So, whilst I note Mrs Hs 
comments as well as the actual events in question, I do not consider this directly relevant to 
this case. 
I do appreciate the strength of feeling  expressed by Mrs H and Miss L. And I realise that this 
decision will come as a disappointment to them. But having considered  all of the 
circumstances of this case,  I am not persuaded  that Mr and Mrs W, or their estate, have 
been caused a detriment  by any action of Barclays Bank that was inappropriate. 
My decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H, on behalf  of 
Mrs Ws estate, to accept  or reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3636957