K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs K have  complained that they were  mis-sold a number of packaged bank 
account by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). Mr H and Mrs K have said that they needed to take 
out these accounts in order to get an overdraft facility. Their account history  is as follows
Classic account taken  out in April 2004
Upgraded to a Select account  in June 2004 in Mr Hs sole name
Upgraded to a joint Gold  account  in January 2008 
Upgraded to a joint Platinum  Plus account  in October 2008
Upgraded to a joint Premier account  in February  2010
Mrs K has also complained that she was not able to remove herself  from the account despite  
requesting this on several occasions.
background
Prior to this complaint being  brought  to this service Lloyds agreed that it should not have 
recommended the Premier account in February 2010 to Mr H and Mrs K and should have 
instead recommended  that they stay on the Platinum account they already held. Lloyds tried 
to put things right by refunding the difference in what Mr H and Mrs K paid for the Premier  
and what they wouldve  paid for the cheaper Platinum account. Lloyds added  interest  to this 
refund in line with our approach.
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  already,  and they did not think  that the 
Select, Gold or Platinum  accounts were mis-sold. They also believed  that what  Lloyds has 
already done in relation  to the Premier account  was sufficient.  Mr H and Mrs K did not agree 
with this and requested  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr H and Mrs Ks complaint.  
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I think  that what Lloyds 
has already done  to put things right is fair. So Im not going  to ask it to pay Mr H and Mrs K 
any more money and Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
why I think that Mr H and Mrs K were given a clear choice to take all of their packaged  
accounts
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr H and Mrs K were  given a clear choice in taking  
the respective  packaged accounts. At this point, it may help for me to explain that where 
matters are in dispute  such as here - I have to make my decision  based on what  I think  is 
more likely than not to have happened  based on the available  evidence.
I can see that Mr H has held a free account with Lloyds prior to the upgrades so I think at the 
very least he would  have been  aware that free accounts were available. Mr H and Mrs K say 
that they were  told they needed to upgrade  to get overdraft and loans and to increase their 
overdraft. I can see that Mr H did take out a £650 overdraft at the time of the upgrade to the 
Ref: DRN32696632Select account. But I am also aware that the Select account did come with a £50 interest  
free overdraft with a preferential interest  rate above this figure so I think that it is more likely 
that Mr H took out the Select  account  in order to get a better rate on his overdraft rather to 
get the overdraft  in the first instance.
In additions to this, I note that Mr H and Mrs K increased and decreased  their overdraft on a 
number of occasions after this point at times  when their accounts stayed the same. So I 
think that overall they would have been aware  that altering or obtaining an overdraft was not 
related to the type of account they held.  Moreover, I cant  see that there  were  any other 
applications for credit around the time of any of the upgrades. I think  it is more  likely that 
they agreed to the upgrades knowing that they did not have to due to the benefits that the 
accounts came with.
The sale of the Select  account 
A personal  recommendation was made when this account was sold. So Lloyds had to 
ensure that this recommendation was appropriate  given Mr Hs circumstances at the time it 
was taken out the account came with Breakdown cover, Mobile  Phone  insurance and 
preferential rates on overdrafts with an interest free £50 element. I can see that Mr H had a 
mobile phone at the time and used  his overdraft and while Mr H may not have used the 
breakdown cover the Select account  was the cheapest account  that came  with Mobile 
Phone insurance so I dont think that Lloydss recommendation of this account in 
appropriate.
The sale of the Gold account  
Again a personal recommendation  was made  when this account was sold so Lloyds  had to 
ensure that this recommendation was appropriate  given Mr H and Mrs Ks circumstances.
The benefits  at the time the Gold account  was taken out as compared to the Select account 
they already held was more comprehensive  breakdown cover,  Worldwide Travel  insurance 
and an increased  interest  free overdraft. From  what I can see Mr H and Mrs K did travel 
worldwide and did use their overdraft and as this account was the cheapest account with 
worldwide travel insurance I think that this recommendation was appropriate. 
The sale of the Platinum account
This account was taken  out online without the presence of Lloyds staff. I think the main  
benefits wouldve  been highlighted to Mr H and Mrs K during the process and it was 
ultimately up to them  to decide whether this account  was right for them. I also cannot  see 
anything specific raised by Mr H and Mrs K as to why they feel that this online upgrade  was 
mis-sold by Lloyds.
In relation to all of these  upgrades I accept  that Mr H and Mrs K may not have been told 
every details of every  benefit that the accounts came with. But I cant see anything  specific  
that Mr H and Mrs K were not told that I think wouldve altered their decision to take out the 
accounts.
The sale of the Premier  account
In this instance by refunding the difference in fees between this account and the Platinum 
account which Mr H and Mrs K selected  for themselves Lloyds have  essentially put Mr H and 
Ref: DRN32696633Mrs K back  into the situation that they would  have been in had this upgrade never  taken 
place.
I also think that given  that this account was the cheapest account that came with family  
travel insurance and as Mr H and Mrs K had a family by this point had this account  been 
recommended to Mr H and Mrs K at this time I do not think  that this wouldve been an 
unreasonable recommendation. So I think Lloyds had done  enough  in relation to this 
upgrade.
downgrade and removal  from account  issues
Lloyds has already paid £125  to Mrs K due to delays in its complaint process and due to   
Mrs K having to attend a branch to downgrade her account at the same time as Mr H. 
I understand that Mrs K has said that she tried to downgrade the account and also remove 
herself from the account on a number of occasions. Mrs K has further explained that due to 
her personal  circumstances at the time she shouldve  been removed from the account. I 
have carefully considered  this, but I cant see any records of Mrs K attempting to downgrade 
the accounts or asking Lloyds to remove her from the account prior to when she was 
removed or that she made Lloyds aware  of her situation Given  this I think I dont think that 
Lloyds needs  to do anything more than it has already done  by paying Mrs K the £125.
Overall I can understand that this will be disappointing  for Mr H and Mrs K and I can see that 
with hindsight Mr H and Mrs K may not have felt that these account provided value for 
money. But I cant see that the Select,  Gold and Platinum account were mis-sold or that 
Lloyds needs  to do anything more than it has in relation to the sale of the Premier  account or 
in relation to the issues that Mrs K has highlighted.
my final decision
My final decision is that what Lloyds has already done is enough and I dont require it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3269663