K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs B says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mrs B took out in 1999 and it 
was sold to her by phone.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs B aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  Mrs B says the PPI wasnt discussed with her and she wasnt  aware it 
had been added to her card. I wasnt present when Mrs B applied  for the PPI so I dont know  
for certain  what was said. But from what information  is available  I dont have enough to say 
FICL didnt  present the policy as optional,  or that Mrs B didnt choose to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mrs B has told us that she was entitled  to sick pay and could have relied on her father 
for help if she was unable to make her repayments.  But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to Mrs Bs sick pay and for longer  than she would  have  received  full pay. And while 
Mrs Bs father would have  wanted  to help his ability to would have been dependent on his 
circumstances at the time which  could have changed. So I dont think this offer of help could 
be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Ref: DRN35378582my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3537858