K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Lloyds Bank  plc mis-sold him a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1998 Mr J took out a personal  loan with Lloyds and the bank recommended  that he also 
take out PPI to protect his repayments.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available  
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Js case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are the same as those set out on 
our website. And the main questions I need  to consider are:
-If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation,  did it make  sure the product it 
recommended was suitable for Mr Js needs?
-Did Lloyds give Mr J the information  he needed to decide  whether to take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr J 
is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not taking 
out the policy  if there hadnt  been  any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Fs complaint  and Ive set out below my reasons for this.
Mr J says Lloyds told him he had a better chance  of getting the loan he wanted if he bought  
the PPI. So he doesnt consider Lloyds gave him a proper choice.  
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr J and Lloyds 
when the policy was sold, and the documents from the point of sale are no longer  available. 
Im also mindful that its many years since the policy was sold,  and that exact  recollections  of 
what happened can fade over time.
Lloyds has provided  a sample  of the loan agreement that was in use at the time Mr J 
arranged his borrowing. I think  its likely that Mr J wouldve signed an agreement similar to 
the sample Ive seen.  And I note that the PPI is described in the document as Optional  Loan 
Repayment Protection. From what Ive seen, theres nothing in the agreement  to suggest 
that buying the PPI was a condition  of getting the loan. So I think  it wouldve been 
reasonable for Mr J to realise that the cover  was optional.
Ref: DRN31690822Ive noted everything  that Mr J has said. But without  anything else to support what  hes told 
me, I havent  been able to safely conclude that Lloyds  didnt make  the optional  nature of the 
policy clear to Mr J.
The bank has accepted that it advised  Mr J to take out the policy  and it doesnt look as if it 
was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this 
because:
-Theres nothing to suggest that Mr J wasnt eligible for the policy  given his 
circumstances and the PPI terms and conditions.
-It doesnt appear  that Mr J would have been  affected by any of the significant  limitations  
or exclusions  of the cover - such as those  relating  to pre-existing medical  conditions.  
-Mr J says he wouldve received some work-related benefits if he couldnt work due to  
sickness or accident, and that he had some savings.  But the policy wouldve paid out in 
addition to Mr Js employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having the 
policy in place  would mean Mr J could use his employer benefits and savings to pay for 
other expenses if he couldnt  work. So I think Mr J would have had some  use for the 
policy despite  his existing arrangements.
-If the loan had been repaid early Mr J would not have been given a pro-rata refund and 
that made  the policy relatively inflexible. I cant be sure that the bank considered this or 
explained the situation clearly to Mr J. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr J thought 
he might repay the loan early, so that feature of the policy  didnt make  it unsuitable  for 
him.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr J about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But he chose to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type of 
cover. As Ive already  said,  Mr J was not affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and 
the policy seems to have  been affordable. So I think it unlikely he would have made a 
different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think  Mr J would still 
have taken out the policy. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3169082