K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains TenetLime Limited  hasnt kept to an agreement  to reduce the premium on 
her term assurance policy.
background
In July 2017 Ms N wanted to replace her employers death in service benefit  with a life 
assurance policy providing cover of £200,000  for a period  of ten years.  She needed this level 
of cover to reflect the term of her interest-only  mortgage of £150,000. And she still had a 
child in education.  She phoned an appointed  representative of TenetLime and the agent 
sourced policies from two providers  which fit her requirements. 
Provider A was cheaper but Ms N already had a policy with them, so an application of 
£200,000 put her over As cover limit. So that left provider B. In response to the health  and 
lifestyle questions in the set up call Ms N mentioned she was currently on an extended 
absence from work  due to stress, but expected  to return to work in four weeks.  The agent 
said once she returned to work the premium would  be reviewed and Ms N would get a better  
deal.  
In May 2018  Ms N queried why her policy hadnt  been reviewed. She told TenetLime the 
sales agent had led her to believe that as the stress was a one-off episode, once shed 
recovered shed  be entitled to increased  cover or a lower premium. When it reviewed  the 
policy TenetLime discovered that as Ms N had actually been off sick for six months  not four 
the premium would actually be higher. But it admitted its agent gave her the wrong 
information. So it offered to pay Ms N £630, made up of three payments of £200 six months  
apart (November 2018, May 2019 and November 2019), provided the policy  remained  in 
force, and £30 for the trouble and upset.
Ms N rejected this proposal so she complained to this service. Our investigator listened  to 
the call and concluded Ms N had already agreed  to the policy  and the increased premium 
before the agent said the premium would be reviewed when Ms N returned to work. So she 
didnt think Ms N would have done  anything  differently if TenetLime hadnt given her the 
wrong information. And she agreed  with TenetLime Ms N hasnt suffered a financial loss - 
shes just disappointed it will be some time before insurers stop weighting  her premiums. 
She couldnt make TenetLime reduce Ms Ns premium or increase the level of cover.  But 
she thought the compensation proposed by TenetLime was fair and probably more than she 
would have recommended.  
Ms N feels  shes  been financially disadvantaged for the rest of the term. And now shes  60, 
obtaining cover  elsewhere is more  expensive. So she thinks TenetLime should pay her £200 
every six months for the life of the policy.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, its been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. Let me explain why.
The policy was set up over four calls  three  on Friday 28 July 2017 and one on Monday 
Ref: DRN3099695231 July 2017.  They involved extensive questions about Ms Ns health  and lifestyle. As well 
as her current absence due to work-related  stress,  the agent was interested  in a medical 
problem from the year before, and a previous instance of depression several  years  ago. The 
agent needed to understand Ms Ns current and past medical history, as this would 
determine whether  cover  would be offered and at what premium. And he told Ms N that due 
to her circumstances  the application might be referred (meaning it would be reviewed by 
underwriters). 
I think this decision turns on what information Ms N relied on when she decided  to proceed 
with the policy.  So Ive summarised  what was discussed in the four set-up calls. During the 
calls the agent  was submitting the information  provided by Ms N into a system which 
prompts questions and provides quotes.
Call 1  This is the initial call where Ms N describes her requirements  as set out in the 
background. The agent asks brief health  and lifestyle questions  and mentions  two potential 
providers. Provider A is cheaper with an initial premium of £54, but has stricter underwriting 
criteria. When asked  when she last experienced symptoms relating to the work related 
stress Ms N says shes  currently  off sick and had been for the past 16 weeks. As this 
changes things the agent asks if Ms N has a policy with A and she does. This means theyre  
unlikely to refuse cover, but it will need  to be referred. He says the premium  will now be in 
the region of £90-£95  a month, and asks if this is unaffordable. Ms N says its not 
unaffordable but queries  the impact  of the stress, given its in relation to a specific,  work-
related incident.  The agent explains the cause of the stress wouldnt be a factor. But he tells 
her if she takes the policy it can be reviewed  when shes in better  health. He tells her shes  
got options and we can drop the cover down or look to increase it. Ms N agrees to leave 
the quote as it is and see what  happens. 
Call 2  the agent explains that the application of £200,000 will put her over As cover limit. 
So hes spoken  to the alternative  provider B about  her work related stress and needs  to 
ask her more questions.  He asked about a previous episode of depression, which Ms N 
explains followed a bereavement. Ms N confirms shes currently  off sick and taking 
medication, but expects  her doctor  to sign her as fit to go back  to work within four weeks.  
The agent  tells Ms N hell get back to her after speaking to B. 
Call 3  the agent confirms only B will provide cover  without needing a medical report. So he 
takes Ms N through Bs medical questionnaire and asks more  details about the incident in 
2016 and the current stress from March 2017.
Call 4  the agent tells Ms N the process  is nearly complete, but B has asked for more 
details about the precise  nature and cause of the medical incident  the previous year.  At the 
end of a lengthy series  of questions about this the agent says it looks  like the applications 
been approved  and B will provide £150,000 of cover  for £87.29.  Theyll  get the final decision 
later that day or tomorrow. Ms N still wants the full £200,000. So the agent says the premium  
will be £112  a month, and Ms N says shell go with that. The call then continues  for a further 
four minutes as the agent runs through the next steps including  agreeing the premium  
payment date, the policy documentation, how to make any changes, the forms shell  need to 
complete to nominate her beneficiaries and the 30 day cooling off period. He also asks her 
to confirm he hasnt  given advice.  Its only at this point the agent says once Ms Ns back to 
work and her health has improved theyd review and look to get her more  cover for the same 
price. He tells her so the good news is that it only gets better from here.
Ref: DRN30996953The next day the agent confirmed B had accepted her application for the full £200,000 at a 
monthly premium of £112.64. He says theyd be happy to review it in a few months and 
either increase the cover or get the price down.  So Im persuaded Ms N had already decided 
to go ahead with the policy at a premium of £112  before the agent  even mentioned  the policy  
could be reviewed once  she was back at work. 
In May 2018  Ms N told TenetLime shed been  told the premium could be reduced due to the 
stress being  a one-off, work-related incident. But the agent  didnt  say this  he said it could  
be reviewed when Ms N was back at work. Its clear in the first call Ms N thinks theres a 
distinction between  work-related and other types of stress. But the agent corrected her on 
this point. And from the number of questions about  her medical issues  its clear  these as well 
as the stress impacted  the premium. Although Ms N said she was fully recovered , she 
never actually returned to work. And at the outset, she knew  returning to work was unlikely, 
as she needed  the life cover to replace the employee benefits shed lose if she didnt do so.
But TenetLime accepts  its agent gave Ms N incorrect information, and so has made an offer 
of compensation  which I think  is fair. Ms N believes she should receive £200 every six 
months for the life of the policy to reflect her financial disadvantage. But I disagree. The 
premium was based on Ms N being  off sick for 16 weeks (from March to July 2017), and in 
the call she said she expected her doctor to sign her fit to return to work within  four weeks. 
But Ms N accepted redundancy in October 2017  and hadnt returned  to work in the interim.  
As the actual period of sick leave was longer than she originally declared, the premium is 
likely to increase if the policy was reviewed.  And shed already decided to proceed before 
being told the policy could be reviewed. So taking everything into consideration Im not going  
to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint in the sense the redress offered by TenetLime  Limited  is fair.
So TenetLime should pay Ms N a total of £630 as set out in its final response,  as long as 
shes maintained  the monthly premiums, and less any amounts already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3099695