K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about a number of loans  he took out through a company called  Elevate  
Credit International  Limited, trading at the time as Sunny. To keep things simple,  Ill refer 
mainly to Sunny.
Mr B says he was lent to irresponsibly and the loans caused him financial problems.
background
We now know that Mr B took out 6 loans from Sunny  between  June 2016 and December 
2016. Ive enclosed a summary  of Mr Bs borrowing with Sunny, based  on the information it 
provided to us. It can be found in the appendix at the end of this decision. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
from the point of loan 3 onwards. Sunny doesnt  agree with this and has asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Bs 
complaint.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr B could repay the loan he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks  ought  to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount  and the consumers income  and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Sunny should  have  fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN30598472There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  the loans, not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr B 
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Sunny told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr B, including 
assessing his income,  expenditure  and net disposable income.  It says it also carried  out a 
credit check  to assess his creditworthiness. It says that all this information showed  that he 
would be able to make the loan repayments he was committing  to.  
Ive looked carefully  at all this and also applied what Ive said above,  particularly about the 
length of the lending relationship, to the circumstances  of loans 1 and 2. And I dont think  its 
clear enough  at this particular  point  that what Sunny would have would have seen,  from its 
checks, suggested the loans were unaffordable for him. 
I accept that during the period of loans 1 and 2, Mr B may have already been  indebted  to 
other short-term loan providers. However,  theres  no clear record that the type or depth of 
credit checks that were carried out at that time would have shown the extent to which Mr B 
was borrowing from other short-term lenders. So Im afraid I dont agree that Sunny knew  its 
lending was unsustainable for Mr B in respect of loans 1 and 2. I therefore dont uphold  this 
part of his complaint.
However, I think from the point of loan 3 onwards the situation  was different. Here, I think  
that proportionate and more comprehensive checks about Mr Bs financial situation were 
called for. This is because  in applying for loan 3 Mr B still had his first two Sunny loans 
outstanding with many instalments yet to pay. This was also his third such application  within 
a month  and consequently, his monthly loan repayments were  rapidly  adding  up.
In my view, Sunny ought  to have recognised the need to carry out more proportionate 
financial checks about Mr Bs situation at this point. Those checks would have clearly  shown 
not only that his Sunny  debts were  mounting, but that that he had several  other, short-term 
loans outstanding with different lenders at the same time. We now know  there were debts he 
had with at least  two such lenders and this would have demonstrated that he was having 
trouble managing his money and relying  heavily on high interest  short-term  lending. 
Ive considered with care everything that Sunny has said about the differing sizes of each  
loan Mr B was given and I note,  for example, that loan 3 was smaller  than the first two. 
However, in my view this doesnt  negate  the responsibility Sunny had to make sure its 
overall lending  was sustainable.  Although loan 3 was indeed relatively low, loans 4 and 5 
increased again, markedly. Again, this demonstrates the importance in carrying  out 
comprehensive checks to ensure it was right to lend to Mr B. Sunny failed to carry out 
proportionate checks for loans  3, 4 and 5.
Ref: DRN30598473By loan 6, the same situation applied,  namely that the financial checking  fell well short of 
what was proportionate. But added to these  failures, for this specific  loan there was also a 
clear pattern  emerging of repeated lending, demonstrated by the length of time Mr B had by 
then been indebted to Sunny. 
By this point  we know he had been borrowing from Sunny for over 6 months. It ought 
therefore to have realised that Mr B was probably  borrowing to meet  regular shortfalls in his 
income and to meet an ongoing need. For loan 6, he increased his borrowing  again  whilst 
still indebted to Sunny for previous loans; all strong evidence  that he was having  to 
consistently take out high interest, short-term  lending and his indebtedness  was becoming 
unsustainable. 
So by loan 6 Sunny had repeatedly lent to Mr B in an unsustainable  manner because,  in 
addition to what Ive said about the other  loans:
 
loan 6 had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging his indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use, over an extended  time period; and
the length of time over which Mr B borrowed  was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost  loans.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr B, Sunny should:
Refund all interest  and charges Mr B paid on loans 3, 4, 5 and 6;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date
they were paid to the date of settlement;
Remove any adverse  information Sunny has recorded on Mr Bs credit file in relation 
to loans 3, 4 and 5
For loan 6 any information recorded  about  it is likely to be adverse. So all entries 
about loan 6 should be completely  removed from Mr Bs credit file. If Sunny has sold 
any of the loans it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr B a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Bs complaint and direct  Elevate  Credit  International Limited  to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman 
Appendix
Ref: DRN30598474Loan Date  Taken Date Repaid Instalments Loan Amount
1 08/06/2016 25/11/2016 6 £650.00
2 21/06/2016 25/11/2016 6 £200.00
3 02/07/2016 01/09/2016 6 £100.00
4 07/09/2016 30/12/2016 6 £300.00
5 06/12/2016 30/12/2016 6 £600.00
6 10/12/2016 22/12/2016 6 £50.00
Ref: DRN3059847