K821x#15Complaint
Mr S is seeking to recover £9,450 from HSBC UK Bank plc (HSBC), which was stolen from 
his bank account as a result of a third-party scam.
HSBC says it is not liable for the loss because Mr S inadvertently  authorised the payment  
and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from 
the payee bank. 
Background
I issued my provisional decision on 18 December 2020 explaining why I was thinking of 
reaching the same outcome as the investigator  but the way I was proposing HSBC should 
put things right for Mr S was different.
Mr S has confirmed  he has nothing further  to add. HSBC feels  it would be appropriate for Mr 
S to share some of the responsibility for his losses by way of contributory negligence.
My findings
Ive considered HSBCs  response to my provisional decision, along with all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, my decision remains the same.  For completeness, I have set my 
provisional decision out below and addressed HSBCs arguments within  it to form my final 
decision.
It is not in dispute  that Mr S authorised the two scam  payments of £4,700 and £4,750.  He 
was tricked by the scammers into making the first payment via his mobile  banking  and the 
second payment  via an electronic kiosk  in the branch. Scammers deceived  Mr S over the 
phone into thinking  that he owed HMRC  money for a tax bill.
I accept that these were  authorised payments even though Mr S was the victim of a scam.  
He used his security credentials to request the payments.  So, although he did not intend the 
money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms 
and conditions of his account,  Mr S is presumed  liable for the loss in the first instance.  
Ref: DRN33359052However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I think  HSBC  
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
For branch transactions like the second  one in this case, those steps may include 
following the Banking Protocol where  appropriate.
It is accepted that there were fraud triggers with the first transaction because HSBC  did in 
fact intervene.  This was a scam that is well-known to banks  and on this occasion, Mr S 
was questioned by the advances fraud  team  before the transfer was executed. A £4,700 
payment was unusual  and uncharacteristic  for him and the account, particularly as it was 
being sent to a new payee. There had been no comparable legitimate payments in recent  
times. The staff were right to question Mr S about  it. 
So, staff were sufficiently concerned about the possibility  of fraud to call about the first 
transaction. In other words, HSBC  had been  triggered by unusual or uncharacteristic activity. 
Accordingly, its just a question of whether they did enough in all the circumstances. 
But the evidence  before us indicates  that the advances fraud team did not ask Mr S any 
appropriate follow-up  or probing questions. According to HSBCs records,  they merely asked 
him whether he had set up the payment by his own choice/by himself. They did not 
challenge the authenticity  when Mr S repeated the story the scammers had coached  him into 
telling. They did not give him general  information about fraud and scams. In my view, they 
could and should have done more, particularly given the BSI Code of Practice.  Whilst HSBC  
hasnt signed  up to the principles set out in the Code, I still consider it relevant here as it 
does codify what was already considered good  industry practice at the time.
I understand that HSBC argues that Mr S told it that the payment was a transfer to his own 
(different) account  funds  to be used when he was abroad  so it had no further concerns. 
But HSBC  called Mr S because it was (rightly) concerned that he was at risk of financial 
harm. Im not satisfied  that it should have  automatically accepted what he said about the 
payment being  to himself, when it knows that victims of fraud are commonly coached on 
what to say to their bank.  I think even  a general fraud  and scams  warning, during that call, 
most likely would have  resulted  in the scam being unearthed and Mr Ss losses avoided. 
Ref: DRN33359053There was in fact an earlier  opportunity  for HSBC to stop both payments here - as the 
second payment  was made in branch before the advances fraud team  call. The Banking 
Protocol recognises  that victims are often given cover stories and encourages staff to ask 
probing questions  and to get into the detail in order to test the purpose of the payment.  But it 
seems that branch  staff did not ask Mr S about the payment at all. A member of staff set up 
the new payee details and Mr S completed  the transaction himself at an electronic kiosk. A 
few basic questions would have revealed  this was the second payment Mr S had made of a 
similar amount  in a very short space  of time.  A closer look at the account would have 
revealed this was unusual activity and should have caused sufficient concern to ask more 
questions and establish more detail.
This is a well-known scam. If the fraud team and bank staff had probed a bit moree.g. 
asking for the details  of where he was going and why he urgently needed the money; 
whether he had received a phone call from any stranger purporting to be from a recognised  
organisation - it seems likely  that Mr Ss false story would have unravelled and he and/or the 
staff would have  realised that something was amiss before it was too late. In other  words,  
but for HSBCs failure to probe in an appropriate and sensitive waythe scam would 
probably not have  succeeded. 
My conclusions about what is likely to have happened if HSBC had asked probing questions  
are reinforced by the fact that Mr S went straight back  to the branch shortly  after the second 
payment had been made. He saysand I acceptthat, reflecting on what  had just occurred  
he called  his accountant as he started to entertain doubts. But by then it was too late  the 
funds had already  left and were almost immediately  removed  by the scammers (which 
meant HSBC could not, despite efforts, recover from the payee bank). In other words, if the 
staff had carried out further or better questioning  in line with a banks duty of care,  it seems  
probable that Mr S would  have become credulous about  the scam in time and stopped the 
payment in its tracks. The fraud  would have  failed; and Mr S would not have lost £9,450.00.  
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers.
I have also reconsidered  whether Mr S should  bear some responsibility  by way of 
contributory negligence. HSBC says it is a question of whether a reasonable person in their 
circumstances would  have reasonably  foreseen the risk of loss and that it is a fact sensitive 
test and about the characteristics of the individual. I dont  disagree with this.
I understand the points HSBC has made in this respect. However,  these are made  from the 
perspective of a large sophisticated bank with clear knowledge and exposure to fraud and 
scams methods. And I am not persuaded it was unreasonable  for Mr S to not recognise the 
risk without prompting from HSBC of this type of scam.
Mr S is professional person who occasionally works on a self-employed  basis.  For this 
reason, he was expecting a tax bill. So, it wasnt - as HSBC  suggests - out of the blue and it 
wasnt in respect of a liability about which he didnt have knowledge. Mr S was called by a 
number which appeared to be one of HMRCs legitimate numbers. He was convinced that 
this was a genuine demand for taxes and was scared of the potential  consequences of not 
complying. I have seen  nothing  that persuades me that Mr S was aware  of how these types 
of scams occur  or that he ought reasonably to have been concerned  about  this.
Ref: DRN33359054The reason  why Mr S retained an accountant  to manage his financial affairs was because  of 
his self-employed  work and therefore needs  to pay additional tax. I dont think  there is 
anything peculiar about this  it is quite  usual for self-employed to enlist  the help of a 
professional in such affairs- especially if they feel unable  to do this themselves. I dont agree 
Mr Ss occupation or the fact he had an accountant  demonstrates Mr S would reasonably  be 
able to foresee  the risks.
As the adjudicator mentioned, the scammers told Mr S to use the reason that he was 
needing to use funds abroad so that HSBC  wouldnt  question him. As I said in my provisional 
decision, people  under pressure often dont think or see things clearly  but then suddenly 
have a lightbulb moment as soon as they are out of the room or freed from the stressful 
situation. 
HSBC hasnt persuaded me that Mr S recognised (or ought reasonably  to have recognised) 
the risk or contributed  to his own misfortune through careless acts or omissions when 
making the payments. So, whilst there  may be cases where a proportionate reduction  in 
compensation is justified for a customers contributory negligence, I am not satisfied that this 
is one of them. Mr S was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever  fraudster.  The 
bank was the professional in financial matters; Mr S was the layperson.  In my view, it was 
the failure of HSBC  that really caused  the loss  but for its insufficient action in the face of 
unusual and uncharacteristic  activity  the loss probably wouldnt have occurred. 
Overall, on balance, I havent seen anything that persuades me this was anything other than 
a situation where  Mr S was expecting to pay a tax bill, not unreasonably,  took the 
communications he received at face value  as most consumers, unfamiliar with the 
sophisticated techniques of this type of scam, would. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied HSBC should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse Mr S for 
the loss he suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate him for being 
deprived of the money he lost.  I am satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the money  
from Mr S it would have remained in his savings account, so interest should be at that rate.  
Finally, Ive considered  whether HSBC should pay Mr S compensation for distress and 
inconvenience hes experienced as a result of HSBCs actions. In considering  this, Ive 
specifically thought about the impact of HSBCs  actions, rather  than the impact  of the crime 
itself. HSBCs failure to sufficiently act has had an impact on Mr S, not least because he has 
been facing the very real possibility that he would not get his money back. As Ive explained, 
HSBC had an opportunity to prevent  the scam and the loss. For these reasons, Im satisfied 
that HSBC should also pay Mr S £200  for distress and inconvenience. 
Putting things  right
In order to put things  right, I think HSBC should  do the following:
Pay Mr S £9,450; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the savings  account rate from the date of loss to the date 
of refund1. 
Pay Mr S £200 for distress and inconvenience  
1 If HSBC is legally required to deduct tax from the interest it should send Mr S a tax deduction  
certificate so he can claim it back  from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN33359055My final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is to 
uphold this complaint.  HSBC UK Bank plc should put things  right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3335905