K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that, in 2012, a predecessor firm of AIG Life Limited  has altered the 
nature and terms of a term assurance policy he took out in March 2010 by removing the 
option to increase the sum assured each year. 
When he was sold this policy by an independent  financial adviser, he says he was given to 
understand that the level of life cover it provided  could be increased each year for an 
appropriate increase in the monthly  premium. 
And, when  the product provider wrote  to him at the policys first anniversary in January 2011, 
it did invite him to increase his level of cover. Only when it offered Mr H the option to 
increase his cover again in January 2012 did it explain to him that this offer hadnt been part 
of the terms and conditions of the policy when his application was accepted in March  2010.
Mr H has requested AIG to allow  him the option to increase  the level of life cover  under the 
policy he was offered at outset, in 2011  and in 2012.
Background
Mr H applied for a term assurance policy in December  2009 providing joint life cover of 
£50,000 for him and his wife over 15 years at a monthly premium  of £179.
It seems  that, following a number of underwriting assessments and several revised 
statements of cover  Mr H received to March  2010,  he took out a term assurance policy on 
his life only which provided a level death benefit  of £15,000 over 15 years  at a monthly 
premium of £32.00.  All previous statements of cover Mr H had received stated: Increasing 
Sum Assured: Not Included. Applicants could have chosen an increasing sum assured 
which contractually indexed the death benefit  each year by five per cent.  Mr H didnt qualify 
for this option and didnt apply for it. 
But, when Mr H received  his Acceptance Letter  from the policy  provider dated 2 March 2010, 
the section headed: A2 Changes you can make  to your cover,  these changes to make  sure 
that it is still meeting  your needs  included stopping and starting  annual  increases. AIG has 
said this statement was incorrectly included on the Acceptance Letter due to a system  error. 
Mr H didnt qualify for increases to the sum assured due to his age and medical history and 
this had been confirmed to him on all his previous applications.
Nevertheless, Mr H received a renewal  letter from the policy provider in January 2011  
confirming that his death benefits would automatically increase in March  by five per cent,  as 
if his policy  included contractual indexation. This raised his sum assured to £15,750 and 
the monthly premium  to £34.24.
In January 2012, he received a similar renewal letter confirming again that Your cover is 
designed to increase by five per cent of the current sum assured each year and quoted  a 
revised death benefit of £16,537  and a monthly  premium of £36.64. But the letter  also 
confirmed that: However, you have since told us to stop increasing your sum assured.
This prompted Mr H to complain to AIG, which confirmed on 1 February 2012 that his policy 
never included  the option  to increase his sum assured and that the original  policy documents  
and the two renewal  letters wrongly included this option due to a system error. It also 
confirmed that all previous statements of policy terms had been sent to him via his financial 
Ref: DRN37721892adviser. Mr H says his adviser had never  passed  this documentation on to him and led him 
to believe that the policy  did allow him to increase his level of cover  annually.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators, who felt it couldnt be upheld. 
She said that:
she could only ask AIG Life to reinstate  this benefit on his policy if she was 
satisfied that it had removed it in error. And she didnt believe that was so;
in March 2010, AIG Life offered Mr H a term assurance policy  based on 
certain conditions  and provided him a statement of terms outlining the 
scope of cover available.
the policy never offered an increasing sum assured. Due to a system error 
an increasing benefit was applied in March 2011. As a gesture of goodwill, 
AIG Life honoured its error by allowing Mr H to retain the increased  sum 
assured of £15,750 and returned  to the original  terms of his agreement,  
which didnt include an increasing benefit;
she appreciated Mr H had been  provided  conflicting information, but she 
didnt think AIG had done much  wrong. So, she wouldnt be asking it to do 
anything further;
if Mr H was dissatisfied with his financial advisers role in this matter, he 
would need to contact the Financial Services Compensation  Scheme 
(FSCS) to investigate, as this adviser has ceased to trade.
In response, Mr H disagreed with the investigators  assessment  and said that his financial 
adviser, who represented the policy  provider,  assured him that the policy  included  an option  
to increase the sum assured. Also, the original policy document he received in March 2010, 
and the renewal letters in January 2011 and January 2012, confirmed this option  applied.
As no agreement has been reached in this complaint, it has been  referred  to me for review.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, if Mr H alleges that his financial adviser led him to believe that the policy  included  the 
option to increase the sum assured annually, that is a matter  he would need to take up with 
the adviser separately because the adviser  was not a representative of AIG. 
But, as I understand  this advisory firm has creased to trade,  Mr H would need to make  this 
complaint to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
In any event, its difficult to envisage what financial loss this matter  has caused Mr H other 
than an expectation  that he could increase his future level of cover  under the policy, for 
which he would be required to pay the appropriate increase in premium.  Theres  no financial 
compensation due to Mr H, and any action needed to rectify matters  as he wishes - to 
rewrite the terms of the policy - would  need  to be taken by AIG.
The issue  for me to consider in this decision is whether Mr H has suffered financial loss, 
material distress  or material inconvenience  by the actions of AIG and its processor firms in 
Ref: DRN37721893issuing documentation  that led him to believe his level of cover  under the policy  could 
increase annually.
In my view, the policy documentation Mr H received in March  2010 (as it reads in isolation) 
would undoubtedly  lead him to believe AIG had offered him terms that allowed him to 
increase the sum assured under the policy annually. Furthermore, the two annual renewal 
letters In January 2011 and January 2012  confirmed that his policy included contractual  
indexation of the sum assured of five per cent per annum.  The second letter also stated that 
Mr H had requested the sum assured increases to stop when he had never  given any such  
instructions.
AIG resolved Mr Hs complaint in February 2012  by allowing him to retain the sum assured 
increase he was given in 2011, even though he applied for, and received, life cover  on a 
level basis in 2010. So, cover provided by his policy is £15,750 for a monthly premium of 
£34.24, even though  it should have remained at £15,000 for a monthly premium of £32.00.
Having reviewed the documentation Mr H received when the policy completed, I agree that 
this paperwork does  indicate he could increase the future level of life cover annually.
But I also believe AIG when it says that the inclusion of this option in the policy document  
(which Mr H was never granted)  was due to a system  error.  All previous policy  terms he was 
provided confirmed  that the Sum  Assured  Increase option was not included due to his 
medical history and also because the policy terms and conditions didnt allow sum assured 
increases for policyholders aged over 55. In March 2010, Mr H was over 60 years old.
While I do sympathise with Mr H that his expectations of being able to increase  the level of 
life cover provided by his policy  have not been realised, AIG agreed  in 2012 to honour the 
sum assured increase  his policy received in 2011 that should not have applied.
I appreciate that Mr H has complained at how AIG resolved his complaint in 2012. But, in my 
view, given he was never  entitled to sum assured  increases, I think it was fair and 
reasonable for AIG to allow  the sum assured increase in 2011 to remain.  But it was right that 
no sum assured  increases should apply thereafter  because the terms and conditions  of the 
policy he took out didnt allow him that option.  
In any event, I cant see that Mr H has otherwise suffered a financial loss, material  distress 
or material inconvenience in this matter.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to accept or reject 
my decision  before 27 April 2020..
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3772189