K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Evolution Insurance Company  Limited didn't pay a refund of 
premium when he cancelled his breakdown insurance policy.
background
In March 2018, Mr K sourced a breakdown  policy through a comparison website. Mr K 
completed the sale on a brokers website. The broker, who Ill refer to as D, also 
administered the policy but it doesn't actually provide the cover,  which is Evolutions 
responsibility.
In September  2018, Mr K replaced his car and asked D to transfer his breakdown cover to 
his new car. D told Mr K that the policy wasnt transferable and if he wanted cover for his 
new car he would have to buy a new policy. Mr K asked for his existing  policy to be 
cancelled and to be refunded the unused portion of his premium. D explained that, in 
accordance with the policys  terms and conditions, no refund was due and Mr K would have 
to pay a cancellation fee of £6.99.  But D said it would waive the cancellation  fee if Mr K 
wanted to take out a new policy, at a discounted rate, for his new car.
Mr K complained and said it was unfair  that Evolution wouldnt pay a refund despite his 
policy still having six months to run. He brought  his complaint to us. I issued a provisional 
decision on 18 January  2021. For ease, I've copied my provisional findings below, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Evolution said it didn't  think  it was responsible  to respond to the complaint. It said the 
complaint centred on the sale of the policy and that it hadn't  had any contact with Mr K itself. 
So it felt that D should remain responsible for the complaint. But I don't think  thats right.
As far as I'm aware Mr K didn't ever complain about the sale of the policy. Instead he said its 
terms and conditions were unfair  because they don't allow  a premium  refund if it was 
cancelled outside  of the 14 day cooling off period.  So Mr Ks complaint is that the terms of 
the policy are unfair. And although Mr K became aware of the issue because of Ds 
application of those policy terms, Evolution remains responsible to respond  to that complaint 
because it set the policy terms Mr K feels are unfair.  So I've gone  on to consider the 
complaint against  Evolution. And, for the rest of this decision, where  appropriate I will refer to 
Ds actions as being those of Evolution.
Ref: DRN31798702cancellation of the policy
While looking  for a breakdown policy Mr K used a comparison site which gave him a number 
of providers of breakdown  cover.  That comparison site had a link to the terms and conditions  
of Evolutions policy. Mr K selected the cover  offered  by Evolution and was directed to Ds 
website. Before buying the policy the website presented Mr K with the policys terms. And 
the policys key facts make it clear  that if the policy is cancelled outside of the 14 day cooling 
off period then no refund  will be paid. And Mr K had to tick a box that said I confirm that I 
have read the Motor  Breakdown Policy wording and terms of business.  And  It wasnt 
possible for him to buy the policy without ticking that box. So, I think  Evolution  did enough to 
bring the terms covering cancellation  to Mr Ks attention before he bought  the policy. 
Mr K feels  that the terms themselves are unfair,  so it's not reasonable for Evolution  to apply 
those. Were  not the industry regulator.  That means it's not my role to tell a business what  
their policies terms and conditions should be. But, if I did find that a policys terms were 
fundamentally unfair then I would agree with Mr K that it wouldn't be reasonable for 
Evolution to apply those  terms.  But, in this case,  I've noted that the policy  was relatively  
inexpensive. 12 months cover cost Mr K around  £43. And administering a policy, including 
cancelling it, will attract its own costs.  And we would generally think  its reasonable for an 
insurer like Evolution to wish to recover those  administrative costs.  And generally,  we say 
that its fair for an insurer  to charge in the region  of £50 to cancel a policy. But, in this case, 
the full policy  premium is less than that. And in those circumstances, I don't find it unfair that 
Evolution might wish to protect itself from such costs by writing  a term into the policy that no 
refund would be payable on cancellation, after the cooling  off period.  
Mr K has argued that the policy says Evolution will charge £6.99 to cancel it. So he says it 
would be fair for Evolution to deduct  that sum from any policy refund, as otherwise the 
policyholder is paying  a £6.99 fee to receive  no service. But as I've said above, I think its 
likely that the actual administrative costs for Evolution to cancel a policy  are higher than that 
sum. And the £6.99 charge is intended  so that it receives some recompense for its work  
when the policy is closed within the first 14 days.  However, after that date policyholders who 
no longer benefit  from the policy are under no obligation to physically cancel it and pay the 
administrative charge.  So I don't think  that Evolutions policy terms are fundamentally unfair. 
the cars  age
D initially told us that Mr Ks car was too old to benefit from the cover the policy offered. But 
Evolution has since confirmed that wasn't  the case and that D had made a mistake.  So I'm 
satisfied that the policy  was suitable  for Mr K and I don't  require Evolution  to take any further 
action on that point.
developments
Mr K accepted my provisional decision but asked  for details of the relevant regulator.  
Evolution didn't  reply.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
As neither Evolution nor Mr K objected to my provisional decision I see no reason  to change 
Ref: DRN31798703it. But to answer Mr Ks question the relevant regulator for this matter  would be the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA).
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2021.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3179870