K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about the service she received from 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited  
(the business).
She says:  
She was given an out-of-date valuation at the investment review which showed the 
investment was doing fine when it wasnt. 
She wouldve  surrendered her investment  had she known about the correct value 
when she had her investment review.   
background
In my provisional decision of 26 October 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part of 
this, my final decision, I said I was minded to uphold  the complaint.  
In short,  I said:
So the issue  at the heart of this complaint is what  impact this has had on Mrs C, and 
whether (or not) she was likely to surrender her investment in October 2018, if shed been 
provided with the correct  valuation.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  the business says, I think if given 
the correct valuation, it was more likely (than not) Mrs C wouldve surrendered her 
investment before December 2018.   
My conclusion is supported by her account of events, the fact she wanted to use the 
proceeds towards purchasing a house, and her actions in December 2018, when she 
surrendered the investment immediately after finding out the correct value.
And: 
In short the wrong value was provided   probably  as a result of changes to the review  date 
 and it was the advisers responsibility  to supply Mrs C with the correct  information on the 
review date. 
By way of redress, I think the business should compare the value of Mrs Cs investment 
upon surrender  on 21 December 2018,  with the value  of it if shed surrendered  it in 15 
October 2018. If there  is a loss, the business  should  play Mrs C the difference,  with 8% 
simple interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Im aware that the business  offered to pay Mrs C £500 compensation for the trouble and 
upset caused.  I think  this is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.   
Mr C responded and accepted my provisional decision. 
The business also responded  but didnt accept my provisional decision. It made a number of 
points, but in summary it made the following key points:
The investigator agreed that the offer made by the business was reasonable.
Ref: DRN33906252It doesnt agree with my findings that Mrs C wouldve surrendered her investment if 
she was given the correct information at review. It has never said that she was going 
to surrender her investment to buy a house.  
oMrs C took the investment out in August 2016  and wanted  to invest  for 10 
years and there was no information that she was buying  a house.
oTwo annual reviews were completed   In July 2017 and the in 2018  there  
was no record that Mrs C wanted to buy a house.  
Theres no evidence Mrs C wouldve surrendered the investment  purely  based  on the 
fall in investment  value.
Mrs C was aware of the risks involved. 
If she was intending  to buy a house surely a drop in value wouldnt affect her 
decision to surrender the investment.  
There is no evidence Mrs C was intending to buy a house,  and she, nor the 
ombudsman service  has provided  any evidence to back up this assumption. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, considering the responses from the parties, my conclusion  regarding the 
uphold, remains as set out previously, and for the same reasons. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by the parties  afresh  and reach what  I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case. In other words, Im not bound by the 
investigators view. 
In this instance, despite what the business says,  I dont consider that any new points have 
been raised, other than those key points  already  made  and considered by me in my 
provisional decision. 
But it is worth making clear that in deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the 
relevant law, regulation and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  
happened. And on balance I find Mrs Cs account  credible, believable  and consistent  with 
her actions.  
As I said in my provisional decision,  theres no suggestion by any party as far as I can see 
that the business had acted deliberately or with malice. So, Im not sure why this is meant to 
absolve it of its responsibility, and I dont think it should. 
I note Mrs C says she doesnt care what its motivation was. In my opinion  the fact that the 
business didnt  act deliberately is no justification. Im mindful  that administrative errors 
happen a lot of the time as a result of systematic  error or genuine human oversight but its 
no mitigation.     
In my provisional decision I said I appreciate the business says that Mrs C was likely  to 
surrender her investment at some  point to buy a house anyway.  I apologise if this gave the 
impression that I thought  the business  accepted that Mrs C wanted  to buy a house. I know  
that it does not. Perhaps to be clearer I should  have  said, if Mrs C was going  to buy a house 
Ref: DRN33906253she wouldve surrendered  at some point anyway.  Regardless, it makes no difference  to my 
decision. 
I appreciate Mrs C was aware  the value of the investment could go up or down, and she 
couldve surrendered  the investment at the time to buy a house. But I dont think shed 
intended to take the money  out to buy a house  at that very instance.  
I think the deciding  factor  as to whether or not she surrendered  at the time  was the value 
of the investment  and she wanted to come out of the investment when shed have  best 
value that she could then put towards  a house.   
Ive considered all the points  that I consider relevant to my decision. Im sorry the business 
doesnt agree, but my decision remains unchanged.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  I uphold this complaint. 
2 Plan Wealth Management  Limited should  compare the value of Mrs Cs investment upon 
surrender on 21 December 2018,  with the value of it if shed surrendered  it in 15 October 
2018. If there is a loss, the business  should play Mrs C the difference, with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment  to the date of settlement. 
Im aware that 2 Plan Wealth Management  Limited  offered  to pay Mrs C £500 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  caused. I think this is broadly fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33906254COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL 
complaint
Mrs C complains about the service she received from 2 Plan Wealth Management Limited  (the 
business).
She says: 
She was given an out of date valuation at the investment  review which  showed the 
investment was doing fine when it wasnt. 
She wouldve  surrendered her investment had she known about  the correct  value  when she 
had her investment  review.    
background
The business  didnt uphold the complaint. It said that whilst an error was made on this occasion  with 
the valuation, Mrs C knew  that the investment could fluctuate over the medium to long term,  so the 
information wouldve had a limited impact. However it acknowledged that the ordeal had caused her 
trouble and upset so offered  her £500 compensation for this. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint  but didnt think  it should be upheld.  In summary,  he 
said:
Although the adviser gave Mrs C incorrect information by way of an out of date valuation, it 
wasnt done deliberately.  And Mrs C was already aware that the investment could fluctuate  
and the valuations werent guaranteed. 
Even if the value had been correct at the time of the review, it might not be the same value 
upon surrender,  and the actual value could  still have been lower.  
Although Mrs C took out her money two months later  when  she found out the valuation was 
incorrect  she was likely to do this anyway for the purposes of purchasing a house.  
The money was withdrawn on 21 December 2018, which wouldve  been no faster than if 
shed completed a paper  withdrawal form on 15 October 2018.  
The £500  offered for trouble and upset is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mrs C disagreed with the investigators conclusions. In summary, she said:
Her right to take her money out, when the investment was losing  value, was taken away  from 
her. And this was because of the incorrect advice she received  from the businesss adviser.  
The actions of the adviser caused her financial  loss. She hasnt  been compensated  for the 
loss when  the adviser  came  to her home with the wrong valuation on 15 October 2018. 
Shes not concerned  about  whether  or not the wrong  information was provided  deliberately  
she doesnt care what the advisers motivation was. But there  was no point of coming round 
other than this review.   
She doesnt think the offer to pay £500 compensation for trouble and upset adequately 
compensates her for the financial loss shes suffered. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions provisionally Im minded to uphold  this complaint.  
Ref: DRN33906255On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite  what the business  says, Im not satisfied that it 
has dealt with this complaint fairly.  
Theres no dispute that Mrs C was provided  with the incorrect valuation.  
So the issue  at the heart of this complaint is what impact this has had on Mrs C, and whether (or not) 
she was likely  to surrender  her investment in October 2018, if shed been provided with the correct 
valuation.  
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite  what the business  says, I think if given the 
correct valuation,  it was more likely  (than not) Mrs C wouldve surrendered  her investment before 
December 2018.  
My conclusion is supported  by her account of events, the fact she wanted to use the proceeds 
towards purchasing  a house, and her actions in December 2018,  when she surrendered  the 
investment immediately  after finding out the correct  value.   
I appreciate the business  says that Mrs C was likely  to surrender her investment at some point  to buy 
a house anyway.  But in my opinion it firmly lends  support to the conclusion  that she was likely  to have 
done so sooner and upon news of her investment going  down in value in October  2018  so as to still 
have money  (and as much  money  as possible)  to put towards the house.  
Im satisfied that Mrs C was aware the value of her investment could fluctuate, and that there were  no 
guarantees. I also think she was aware  that the value of her investment  upon surrender might not be 
the same as the value given at review.  It  may well have been the case  that she wouldnt have got 
exactly the same  value  by the time the investment  was surrendered, but I dont think  this is what  shes 
complaining about.
Mrs C has made  clear  that the incorrect valuation has deprived her of her right to decide  when to 
surrender the investment for the purposes  of buying a house. And I agree  with that. 
Theres no suggestion by any party as far as I can see that the business had acted deliberately or 
with malice. So Im not sure why this is meant to absolve it of its responsibility. I note Mrs C says she 
doesnt care what its motivation was. In my opinion  the fact that the business didnt act deliberately is 
no justification.  Im mindful that administrative errors happen a lot of the time as a result of systematic 
error or genuine human oversight but its no mitigation.     
In short the wrong value was provided   probably as a result  of changes to the review date  and it 
was the advisers responsibility  to supply  Mrs C with the correct information on the review date. 
By way of redress, I think the business should compare  the value  of Mrs Cs investment upon 
surrender on 21 December 2018, with the value  of it if shed surrendered it in 15 October 2018. If 
there is a loss, the business  should play Mrs C the difference,  with 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
Im aware that the business  offered to pay Mrs C £500 compensation  for the trouble  and upset  
caused. I think this is broadly fair and reasonable in the circumstances.    
Ref: DRN33906256my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold 
this complaint. 
2 Plan Wealth  Management Limited  should  pay Mrs C redress as set out above. 
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3390625