K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave  him the wrong information when he had 
problems paying  into his Help To Buy (HTB) ISA.
background
On 9 March 2018 Mr P opened a HTB ISA with an initial deposit of £1,000.  He wanted to 
make regular monthly payments of £200  but when he first tried to do this Lloyds online 
system kept rejecting the payment. He phoned to try and find out what the problem  was and 
says the bank told him to withdraw the £1,000 so he could start to make  the monthly  
payments by direct debit.  He did this and tried to transfer the £1,000 back into the account  
but couldnt do so. He then discovered  hed lost his eligibility for the Government bonus on 
the funds. He complained to Lloyds and got a very poor service.
Lloyds could see hed withdrawn £1,000 from his HTB ISA on 11 April 2018. And in line with 
its terms and conditions  funds that were  withdrawn couldnt be replaced. It could see he was 
trying to make the £200 monthly  payment.  But this wasnt working because Mr P was trying 
to transfer this amount instead of setting up a standing order.  It wasnt  able to find a record 
of the telephone call and it didnt  accept itd had given Mr P the wrong  information.  But it 
accepted itd given him poor customer service  and paid him £105 compensation.
The adjudicator didnt think Lloyds should  do anything  more. She was satisfied Lloyds had 
done what it could  to try to trace the phone call based on the information Mr P had given  her. 
And from the information she had from the bank  and Mr P she couldnt conclude  Lloyds had 
given him the wrong advise.
Mr P wasnt  happy with this. He said the bank hadnt given him thorough information and 
he had a poor service.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive come  to the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for very similar reasons.
Mr P said that when he had problems making his monthly payment Lloyds told him to 
withdraw the initial deposit.  Lloyds hasnt been  able to trace  the call based on the dates  Mr P 
has given us. So I have  to decide what I think is likely to have happened  based on the 
surrounding circumstances.  
One of the conditions of this type of account  is that withdrawals can be made but they arent 
eligible for the bonus. Another is that the maximum amount that can be paid into the account 
every month is £200 by standing order. So I dont think its likely that Lloyds would tell Mr P to 
withdraw £1,000  in order to sort out the problem  he was having with his monthly deposit of £200.
When Mr P complained about this in September 2018 Lloyds didnt  give him a very good 
service. Lloyds accepted  this and paid him £105  compensation.  I think thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Ref: DRN33840712my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3384071