K821x#15complaint
Mrs L has complained  that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a credit  card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs L took out the card and PPI in July 2008 via an internet application.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs L says she was unaware that PPI had been  added to the credit  card account  therefore  
it was added without  her knowledge or consent. Mrs L applied  for the credit card online. 
Weve seen copies  of the web pages that Mrs L would have seen  during  the application 
process. There was a specific section for PPI and Mrs L would have needed  to select either 
a yes or no option to request or decline the policy. These options had equal  prominence 
and neither had been  pre-selected. Therefore I consider that Mrs L would have understood 
from the wording and layout of the page  that the PPI was optional. There  was also a link to 
the terms and conditions. The application  process couldnt be progressed until an applicant  
had selected either  yes or no. Barclays has provided a copy  of Mrs Ls application report 
which recorded the answers  that she gave  and this shows  that she chose the yes option 
for PPI.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mrs Ls recollection  of the 
sale has faded. Looking  at the available  evidence, it seems to me that she decided to take 
out the policy, knowing that she didnt  have to, even if she no longer remembers  doing so.
Barclays didnt advise  Mrs L to buy the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide her with enough  information to make an informed decision 
about whether  or not it was right for her.
Mrs Ls employer would  have given her six months  full pay, followed by six months half pay, 
if she was off sick. But the policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and 
potentially for longer  than Mrs L would have received  full pay for.
Mrs L has said that she had some limited savings.  But the policy would  have allowed her to 
retain any savings or use them to cover other  outgoings  at what  would have been a difficult  
time. Overall I think that Mrs L had a need  for the policy and could  have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Barclays didnt provide  as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mrs L wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that she had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont  
think that further information  would have caused  her to change her mind.
Ref: DRN33283082This means  that Barclays  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because: 
When the policy was sold,  Barclays expected  to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mrs L about that. 
Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2020.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3328308