K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
April 1991. Mr and Mrs D say Bradford & Bingley  Plc mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
The policy was taken  out to cover a joint mortgage but only Mr D had the benefit  of cover. 
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and 
Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations 
and exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information  here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  
Mr and Mrs Ds representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ds. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ds complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Bradford & Bingley Plc should have 
disclosed the commission it received - but that Bradford & Bingley Plcs offer to refund some  
of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive 
summarised my reasons for each  of these conclusions below. 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Bradford & Bingley Plc made it clear that Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out the 
PPI and they chose  to take it out. I say this because Ive seen that Mr and Mrs D ticked a 
box on their mortgage  application  form to show they wanted the cover and also indicated 
that only Mr D was to have the cover.  
Ref: DRN30438682Bradford & Bingley  Plc didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs D - so it didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable  for them. But it did have to give Mr and Mrs D 
enough clear and timely information  so they could decide for themselves if it was right for 
them.
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley Plc gave  Mr and Mrs D about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But Ive found  that they chose to take it out - so it 
looks like they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for 
them. Although  Mr D told us about a number  of medical conditions  he had sometime 
before the policy was taken out, Ive noticed that these  were either commonplace 
childhood illnesses  with no long-term  effects if treated properly. Mr D also told us about 
another condition  for which he was able to make a successful  claim on the policy  in 
1999. However, when  he tried to claim again  in 2003 it looks like that claim was turned 
down as he was unemployed at the time.  So I dont think better information about  the 
policys medical exclusion wouldve caused  him and Mrs D to change their minds  about 
taking out the policy.  There were  also no additional restrictions  on cover for mental 
health or back problems. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable  so it seems like it would have  been  useful for 
them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr and Mrs D would have  
declined the cover  had Bradford & Bingley Plc done anything  more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs D would  have still taken out PPI. The policy  was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting, and I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that they would have  taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Bradford & Bingley Plc should have disclosed 
the poor value  and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions and the 
impact it had on the chances  of making a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ds representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ds individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ds particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Bradford & Bingley  Plc doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs D.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Ref: DRN30438683Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Bradford & Bingley Plc should have disclosed the commission  it 
received and that Bradford & Bingley Plcs offer to refund some  of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Bradford & Bingley  Plc didnt tell Mr and Mrs D about the high levels  of commission  and 
profit share paid arising from the sale of the policy. So taking into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc and Mr and Mrs D was unfair under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit  Act because Bradford & Bingley Plc didnt tell them  about the high 
levels of commission and profit  share in this case 
I dont think Bradford & Bingley  Plc acted fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr and 
Mrs D because it failed to disclose the high commission  and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr and Mrs Ds representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs D should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  Bradford  & Bingley Plc failed to tell Mr and Mrs D about  the high commission  
and profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs D 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund  of all the premiums they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN30438684-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140 B to remedy  the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs D in order to remedy the unfairness caused by Bradford & Bingley Plc not 
disclosing the high level of commission to them before they purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr and Mrs Ds representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for Bradford & Bingley Plcs failure to disclose 
the level of commission for the reasons Ive given  above.
I think it was fair for Bradford & Bingley Plc to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money  Mr and Mrs D paid for their PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves Mr and 
Mrs D with the policy Ive concluded above  they would still have taken out if Bradford & 
Bingley Plc had done everything  it should have done  but with lower commission and profit 
share levels.
So I consider that Bradford & Bingley Plcs  offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  costs  (plus associated 
interest where applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN30438685my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Ds complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that Bradford 
& Bingley Plc should pay Mr and Mrs D an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable)  if it 
hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 October  2021.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3043868