K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva) wouldnt agree to both supply and fit a 
new boiler when  her existing boiler became beyond economic repair  (BER).
background
Ms R had a  HomeServe  boiler insurance policy from Aviva that she took out in 2014. When 
the policy was due for renewal on 19 November 2018 she paid £298.80 to renew the cover 
for another  year.
In February 2019,  Ms R had a problem with her boiler. After investigation, it was deemed by 
Avivas engineer to be BER. Avivas records showed  the boiler was 10 years old.
Under the terms of her HomeServe  policy, Ms R was entitled to a replacement boiler, but 
this didnt include the cost of fitting  it. Aviva quoted her £1,457.35 for fitting.
Ms R decided to obtain an independent estimate  for the supply and fitting of a new boiler. 
She obtained a quote of £1,350 for this. 
Ms R asked Aviva to supply a boiler  which shed arrange to have fitted herself, but Aviva  
didnt agree to this. But it did offer to make a payment  of £460 towards the cost of a new 
boiler. This was based on the cost price of the make and model of boiler it recommended for 
her property. It said that in order to make this payment,  Ms R would need to provide it with a 
quote from a gas safe engineer confirming a lower installation  cost that the £1,457.35 it had 
quoted her.
Ms R wants  Aviva to pay the entire cost of supplying and fitting a new boiler,  or alternatively 
to refund to her the premiums shes paid between December 2014 and December 2018 
amounting to £1,224.16, but Aviva  declined to do this.
Not satisfied with Avivas response to her complaint, Ms R brought it to this service. Our 
investigator considered  that Aviva had acted  in accordance with the terms of the policy  and 
didnt think it would  be fair to require it to pay anything  more.
Ms R doesnt accept our investigators view, so her complaint has now been referred to me 
to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Ms Rs complaint 
and Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the terms of Ms Rs policy. I think they are clear. The relevant part of the policy  
states:
If upon  making a claim  after the first 6 months  of cover your boiler is deemed to be 
BER or the parts required  to fix your boiler  are obsolete and the boiler  is less than 7 
years old, we will source, replace and install a new boiler. If the boiler  is deemed 
beyond economic repair and is 7 years  old or older, we will source, replace and 
install a new boiler  but you will be required to pay the installation  costs. We will 
provide you with a quote for his work.  The new boiler will provide the same heating 
and hot water requirements as your existing boiler  and will match your existing type 
of boiler eg a combination boiler  will be replaced with a combination  boiler and a 
Ref: DRN39947162'heat only' boiler will be replaced with a 'heat only' boiler. System  upgrade  costs  are 
therefore not included.   (my emphasis added)
Firstly, I should address the point Ms R makes  about the age of her boiler, as this is relevant 
to Avivas decision. Shes provided evidence that she purchased  it less than seven years  
before Aviva  declared it BER. So if Ms Rs boiler had been less than seven years  old, under 
the policy Aviva would be required to source, replace and install a new boiler  at no cost to 
her.
But Aviva has explained that the serial number on a boiler  indicates  when it was 
manufactured.  Based on this method  of calculating age, its records show  that Ms Rs boiler 
was 10 years old. I think its reasonable for Aviva  to take this as the most accurate  way of 
determining the age of a boiler. And as it was over seven years old, Aviva is only required by 
the policy to source  and replace a new boiler. Ms R is responsible  for the Installation  costs. 
So Im satisfied that Aviva has acted  reasonably  in taking  the position  that it isnt responsible  
for the installation costs  of Ms Rs new boiler because  her old boiler was more  than seven 
years old. If, when  it was originally fitted,  it was already three years old, which  appears to be 
the case, this is something Ms R should take up with whoever fitted it for her. And I have no 
information that would make  me query Avivas decision  that the boiler was BER.
Theres nothing in the policy that says that if a boiler  needs  to be replaced because its 
become BER, Aviva will offer a customer a boiler that it can then have fitted independently,  
so I dont think Aviva acted unreasonably in declining Ms Rs request for this. 
Theres also nothing in the policy that says that a customer can have a cash contribution 
towards a new boiler not provided  by Aviva, but Aviva has offered this to Ms R in giving her 
£460 towards the cost of the supply and installation of a new boiler  by an independent 
engineer. I think it was fair and reasonable of it to have done so. 
So whilst I appreciate  that Ms R says she experienced some difficulties in communicating  
with Aviva,  and believes that Aviva shouldve provided her with a free boiler and installation, 
I think Aviva  has acted  reasonably, and indeed beyond  what the policy  provides for, by 
giving her a contribution of £460 towards  a new boiler.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Ms Rs complaint and Im not going to 
ask Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3994716