K821x#15complaint
Mrs J is unhappy with the settlement offered by HDI Global Specialty SE after she made a 
claim under her home  insurance  policy for accidental damage.
background
Mrs J made  a claim to HDI for accidental damage in September 2018. She said a panel  in 
her conservatory had been damaged  by a stray  firework. She told HDI shed been quoted 
£1,980 to replace  the entire conservatory roof since the single damaged panel couldnt  be 
replaced.
HDI sent a surveyor to inspect the damage. He reported that the conservatory roof was 
faulty and suffering  from general wear  and tear. HDI decided to decline the claim. But it 
didnt tell Mrs J until she contacted it for an update  in early  November.
Mrs J asked HDI to review its decision.  It did so and accepted that a roof panel had been 
damaged by a firework.  It said it couldnt replace the panel  due to the poor condition  of the 
remaining roof structure but it said if the roof had been in a better  condition,  the damage 
would have cost £240 to repair. So it offered this amount to Mrs J after deducting the policy 
excess.
It also apologised for incorrectly declining the claim originally and offered Mrs J £200 
compensation for this.
Mrs J brought her complaint to this service. I issued a provisional decision explaining why 
I was minded to uphold  her complaint. An extract from my provisional  decision is set out 
below:
HDI has now accepted the claim made  because of accidental damage.  So I dont need to 
consider that. What I need  to consider is whether the offer made by HDI is sufficient to put 
Mrs J back  into the position  she was in before the damage happened.
Although I can see from HDls photos  that the roof panels have started to become a bit 
distorted, I havent  seen  any evidence to persuade me that the roof was leaking or unfit for 
purpose before  the damage happened. I think the main reason the damaged roof panel  
couldnt be replaced was because replacement  panels were  no longer available  rather  than
the fact that the roof might  have been  in poor condition.
Under the terms of the policy, and strictly speaking,  Mrs J is only entitled  to have the one 
damaged conservatory roof panel  replaced. But HDI and Mrs Js contractor agree that isnt 
possible. So the only way to carry out an effective and lasting repair  to the insured damage  
(that is the damage caused by the firework that HDI will cover) is to carry out work on 
uninsured damage (that is replacing  the undamaged roof panels) as well. If the uninsured 
work isnt carried  out, it wont be possible for the insured work to be effective and lasting - 
and that wont put Mrs J back into the position  she was in just before the accident 
happened. So although this isnt written in the policy, I think the fair approach to ensure 
that Mrs J is put back into the position she was in just before the accident happened would 
be for HDI to cover  the cost of that uninsured work  as well as replacing  the damaged 
panel.
Ref: DRN39042592In view of the amount  of time thats passed since  Mrs J made the claim, I also think HDI 
should pay interest at the rate of 8 per cent a year on the balance of the cash  settlement.
Ive also looked  at how HDI handled this claim.  Mrs J has suffered a degree of trouble and 
upset by having her claim incorrectly declined. But overall I think the amount of £200 paid 
by HDI to compensate her for this was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances.
In response to my provisional decision Mrs J obtained an updated quote from her contractor 
showing that the price to repair her roof was now £2,100. She also said she hadnt  cashed 
HDIs cheque for the compensation  and cash settlement.
HDI didnt comment on my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has disagreed with my opinion that the fair approach to ensure that Mrs J 
is put back into the position she was in just before the accident happened  would be for HDI 
to cover  the cost of replacing  all Mrs Js conservatory roof panels, I see no reason to 
change it.
If an insurer chooses the option  of a cash settlement, the aim is to put the consumer back  
in the position  they were  in before the loss or damage. In view of the time thats passed in 
this case  since  the accident  happened, its not surprising  that the cost of repairs has 
increased by £120 in the meantime. So to treat Mrs J fairly I think  HDI should base the 
cash settlement on £2,100  being the amount  required to repair the roof now.
Although the amount Im requiring HDI to pay is sufficient for Mrs J to repair her 
conservatory at current  prices,  she has been deprived of the balance  of the cash  
settlement for just under  two years. So I still feel its fair for HDI to pay simple interest on 
the balance  of the cash settlement at the rate of 8 per cent a year.
Mrs J should contact  HDI direct to ask it to issue another cheque  for the compensation of 
£200.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require HDI Global Specialty SE to pay Mrs J £2,100 (less the 
policy excess and any sum already paid in respect of this) to repair  her roof plus simple 
interest* at the rate of 8 per cent a year on the balance  of the cash settlement being  £1,860  
from the date it made the original cash settlement to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 August 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39042593*If HDI Global  Specialty  SE considers  that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct  income  tax 
from that interest,  it should  tell Mrs J how much  its taken  off. It should  also give Mrs J a certificate  showing  
this if she asks  for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3904259