K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains as a representative of Mrs N about  the way that Erudio Student Loans 
Limited (Erudio) deals  with deferment of loans and how they treat customers  with mental  
health conditions.  
background
Mrs N has several  student loans managed by Erudio. For several years Mrs N successfully  
applied for deferment  of her loans due to her income  falling below the required threshold  to 
repay the loans.  Mrs N had to re-apply for deferment  each  year in order  to show her 
eligibility to defer the loans.
Erudio says that in 2014  they sent Mrs N a deferment application. Having had no response  
after two months, Erudio sent Mrs N a letter  explaining that the deferral period had ended, 
and she needed  to start repaying the loans. Mrs N contacted Erudio to say that her income 
was still under the required  threshold. And so, Erudio sent out an application  pack which  was 
completed by Mrs N. Over the next two months Erudio asked Mrs N to supply more 
documents to them in order  to evidence her application before it was accepted.  Once the 
application was accepted  Erudio said they could only roll back  the deferment for three 
months. This left one month  of arrears on the account as no repayments had been made by 
Mrs N during this time.
In 2015 Erudio sent a deferment application  to Mrs N which  she filled out and returned. 
Because Mrs N said she wasnt working  and had no income, Erudio requested a signed 
letter from Mrs Ns husband to confirm  he was financially supporting  her. Mrs N says that 
her husband  sent this letter. However,  Erudio have said that this document  was never  
received and so the loans were not deferred.  Erudio  sent letters  to Mrs N to tell her that she 
needed to repay her loans and arrears started to be added to the account  as Mrs N made  
no repayments. 
In 2016 Mrs N requested  a deferment  application  from Erudio. During this call Mrs N 
disclosed that she was suffering  from mental  health  conditions. Erudio placed a note on their 
system, added Mr B as a representative and froze the interest on the account from the 
previous month onwards.  Erudio  also suggested to Mrs N that if she got a letter from her GP, 
she may be able to defer her loans over a longer period or even have it written  off. Erudio 
put a hold on the account for 30 days to allow Mrs N to see her GP.
Mrs N returned the deferment form to Erudio however they said that the application did not 
contain enough evidence of Mrs Ns income so was marked  as incomplete. Three  months  
later Mr B phoned Erudio  and was told that the deferment application had been 
unsuccessful. Erudio followed this up with several  letters informing Mrs N that the loans were 
not in deferment,  and arrears continued  to be added to the account.
In 2017 Mrs N applied  for deferment of her loans  online, Erudio were not happy to accept  bank 
statements as evidence  of her husbands  financial support  so asked for a signed  letter  from 
him. Mrs Ns husband supplied a signed  letter and Mrs Ns loans were successfully deferred. 
Later that year Mrs N supplied a GPs  letter to Erudio detailing  her diagnosis and medication. 
Erudio said that the contents were insufficient  for them  to write off the loans or apply for 
longer deferment  as they did not reference Mrs Ns ability to work.  
Ref: DRN38996822In 2018 Erudio sent a default notice to Mrs N due to the arrears on the accounts.  
Mr B complained to Erudio on Mrs Ns behalf saying that the deferment  process  was not 
clear, and so it had been Erudios errors  which had led to arrears being  added to Mrs Ns 
account. He was also unhappy  that Erudio wouldnt accept historical evidence to show  her 
loans should have been deferred in earlier years. And he had told Erudio not to contact 
Mrs N directly. 
In response, Erudio  said that the arrears had been added  correctly in line with their terms 
and conditions. Erudio  said that regulations state they can only roll back loan deferment for 
three months and so they could not accept historical  evidence to defer arrears arising 
previously. Finally, Erudio  said that they had no record of Mrs Ns contact preferences  and 
so they updated their records  accordingly for future  contact.
Mr B was not happy with Erudios response  and so brought  Mrs Ns complaint to us. Mr B 
also added  that he was unhappy  with the way in which Erudio treat customers with mental 
health conditions.  I sent Mrs N and Erudio my provisional decision on 24 January 2020. I 
explained that I thought  Erudio hadnt  acted  unfairly or outside of the terms and conditions  of 
the loans. Ive copied my findings  from my provisional decision below.
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said;
Our investigator felt that Erudio hadnt  provided any evidence that they had sent a deferment  
application to Mrs N in March 2014. However,  Erudio have since  sent in their system notes 
from the time which do indicate that a deferment  application was sent to Mrs N in 2014. I can 
see that Mrs Ns address is written correctly  on all the other correspondence and so I am 
satisfied that its more likely than not that it was sent correctly. Of course, this doesnt mean 
that Mrs N received it  post does go astray sometimes. But this would be something  outside 
of Erudios control and not something I can hold them responsible  for. 
The loan agreements  made it clear it was up to Mrs N to apply each year to defer  as she had 
done each previous year. So, having  not heard from Erudio Mrs N would have known that 
she needed to get in touch with them. Because there was no further  deferment,  the terms 
and conditions of the loans said Mrs N should  have started making monthly payments. 
But Mrs N didnt make  any repayments and so her account went  into arrears. 
When Mrs Ns deferment application was successful later that year,  Erudio rolled back the 
deferment by three months. This still left one months arrears on the account. Regulations 
say that deferment  can only be rolled  back by a maximum of three months and so I dont 
think that Erudio  have done  anything  wrong  by following the rules. So, I would not ask Erudio 
to remove the one month of arrears left on the account.
I have carefully considered the information provided  by Mrs N and Erudio in relation to the 
deferment applications in 2014,  2015 and 2016. I appreciate that the information required 
from Mrs N in order to evidence  her deferment application may have been different to 
previous years. However,  Mrs N was sent letters and a How To guide  each  year by 
Erudio stating exactly what information was required in order to defer  her loans. These  
documents also made it clear that Mrs N must continue to make  repayments until Erudio 
confirmed, in writing, that her deferment application  was successful. 
In early July 2015  Erudio  asked for a signed letter from Mrs Ns husband as evidence  of his 
financial support. Mrs Ns husband had already provided this information by e-mail  Erudio 
Ref: DRN38996823just wouldnt accept it in that format. Mrs N said that this letter was sent to Erudio who said 
they never received it. 
At the end of July Erudio wrote to Mrs N saying they hadnt  received sufficient evidence to 
support her deferment  application and the application had expired. It appears that this led 
Mrs N to call Erudio in early August.  Erudio  have supplied a call note from that time. 
The note said that Mrs N was asked to send in a letter from her husband, along with a bank 
statement. She was advised  there was already two months of arrears on the account and 
that they could  only roll back  the arrears by three months. They asked her to supply the 
evidence as soon  as possible.
The call note leads me to think its more likely that the letter  wasnt sent to Erudio in 
July 2015, as I cant see why Mrs N would be asked to send this in the call in August had it 
already been sent. There isnt any record of Mrs N returning the second application with a 
signed letter  in August  either.
Erudio sent Mrs N an annual statement in September which showed the account was in 
arrears. Had the application  and signed  letter been  sent in August  after the phone call in July 
I would have expected Mrs N to contact Erudio  having received  notification of arrears  on the 
account. So, Im not persuaded  that it was sent at that time. An arrears statement was sent 
in March 2016 also. So, I think its likely Mrs N knew there was no deferment  in place on her 
account during  that time. In 2016 I can see that Mrs N again  did not supply the required 
information to Erudio along with her deferment application in line with the how to guide.  I 
dont think Erudio were  wrong to mark Mrs Ns application as incomplete. However,  Erudio 
failed to tell Mrs N that her application was incomplete within  their own 28-day timeframe.  
Although Erudio clearly  fell outside  of this timeframe I cannot say that it made a difference.  
This is because once Mrs N was made aware the application was incomplete, the required 
information was still not supplied. Therefore, I dont think Erudio were wrong adding  arrears 
to Mrs Ns account from 2015 until 2017  when  Mrs N successfully completed a new 
deferment application. 
Our investigator has asked for Erudio to accept deferment applications every  36 months 
from Mrs N. Erudios terms and conditions allow for people receiving disability benefits to 
apply for deferment  every  36 months. Whilst I can see that Mrs Ns GP has provided a letter  
to Erudio regarding  Mrs Ns mental health  conditions. The letter does not go so far as to say 
Mrs N cannot work  or is not likely to work in the future. I am not saying that this isnt the case 
- simply that the evidence  supplied does not address this. Mrs N is also not in receipt of any 
disability benefits  that she has made us aware  of. Therefore, I would not ask Erudio to 
increase the deferment application period to 36 months unless  Mrs N provides further 
evidence for Erudio to review. 
As I think  Erudio were right to say arrears have  accrued, Ive thought  about  whether theyve  
treated her fairly when trying to seek repayment of those arrears.  In doing so Ive thought 
about the relevant rules and guidelines  Erudio were required  to follow. In Mrs Ns case she 
has said that she is unlikely to exceed the income  threshold  for repaying her loans in the 
future. If this was the case, and her arrears  payments were deferred indefinitely  alongside 
her repayments. It would prevent Mrs N from using the right of cancellation of her loans after 
25 years  or after reaching the age of 50. So, I think Erudio have acted fairly in the 
circumstances in seeking repayment of the arrears.   
Mrs N complained that how the arrears were calculated was unclear. Mrs N has already 
been sent a breakdown of the interest rates of student loans set by the government. And, I 
Ref: DRN38996824can see Erudio sent regular letters to Mrs N to inform her of the balance  of her arrears.  
However, I think it is fair to ask Erudio to provide a monthly breakdown  of arrears  to Mrs N.
I have not seen any evidence that Erudio were asked not to contact Mrs N directly, Mr B was 
added as a representative on the account  at Mrs Ns request  but there does not appear to be 
a request to only contact  Mr B until he complained to Erudio. As a result  of the complaint 
Erudio have updated Mrs Ns contact preferences to reflect  this request which  I think is fair. 
I think Erudio have  generally acted reasonably on being informed of Mrs Ns mental  health  
conditions. They froze the interest on the account  and added  Mr B as a representative to 
allow him to discuss the account with Erudio. A note was also added to Mrs Ns account. 
However, our investigator felt that a letter  sent to Mrs N in July 2018 had a tone which was 
likely to cause Mrs N undue upset considering Erudio knew  at that time of her mental health 
conditions. The letter sent to Mrs N is a formal notice of default that Erudio are bound  by 
regulations to send.  I think  the tone of the letter indicates the seriousness of the issue  and 
potential consequences  should Mrs N not take any action. The letter does  highlight  debt 
management advice  organisations  which could have assisted Mrs N. It also included an 
information sheet  from the FCA highlighting important information. Therefore, I do not think 
that the tone of this letter  intended  to cause  Mrs N any undue stress. And so, I would not ask 
Erudio to compensate  Mrs N for sending it. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think Erudio acted unfairly or outside the terms and 
conditions of the loans.
Erudio has offered to work with Mrs N to reach a reasonable repayment  arrangement, and it 
has asked Mrs N to provide her income  and expenditure details to that end. I think thats  fair 
and I would urge Mrs N to get in touch with Erudio  to discuss this.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr B has said that he doesnt  accept  my provisional  decision. Mr B was given an opportunity 
for Mrs N to provide any further comments for my consideration but he hasnt provided any.
Erudio also havent  made any further  comments for my consideration.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
Neither side have  made any further comments or submissions for me to consider. So, I see 
no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. Therefore, my 
decision remains the same.
Ref: DRN38996825my decision
For the reasons  Ive explained and those set out in my provisional decision,  my final decision 
is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Tim Wilkes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3899682