K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that AIG Europe Limited  turned down  a claim under his personal  accident 
policy. 
background
Mr K holds a personal accident policy. The policy provides cover  if he suffers a bodily injury 
caused by an accident. The policy defines accident as:
A sudden unexpected and specific event, external to the body, which  occurs  at an 
identifiable time and place.
Mr K was playing  hockey and when he turned to sprint for the ball, he heard a loud pop and 
felt excruciating pain. This resulted  in the almost  complete avulsion of Mr Ks abductor 
tendon. He made a claim under the policy.
AIG turned down  Mr Ks claim. It said there  hadnt  been an external event which had caused 
the injury. Consequently,  it thought  Mr K hadnt had an accident,  as defined by the policy.  
Unhappy with AIGs decision, Mr K brought a complaint to this service.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 August 2019. My provisional findings were:
Mr Ks injury occurred  whilst he was playing a game of hockey. He says he had turned to 
sprint for the hockey  ball and either  his foot slipped or someone caused him to lose his 
balance. He said he immediately felt catastrophic pain and hit the floor in agony.
Whilst I appreciate this was a sudden,  unexpected and specific  event, I dont agree with our 
adjudicator that the event was external to the body. I say that because  Mr K didnt fall over, 
or come into contact with anything external  that could have caused  the injury.  
Mr K thinks  his injury was an accident, which I appreciate. But for the claim to be payable, it 
has to meet  the definition in the policy. Although  the injury wasnt  expected, the policy  
doesnt cover sporting  injuries of this type. Its for this reason that the policy  specifically 
defines what is meant by an accident.  
Whilst I recognise my decision will disappoint  Mr K, I dont think the circumstances  in which  
he suffered his injury  meets the policy definition of an accident.  It therefore follows  that I 
think it was reasonable  for AIG to turn down the claim. 
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  comments they wished to make. 
AIG confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
Mr K responded to say he was disappointed  with my findings, and thinks  AIGs marketing 
and sales pitch is fundamentally flawed if they arent covering sports.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN38856782Mr K says he thinks AIGs  marketing and sales pitch is fundamentally flawed if they arent  
covering sports.  
I should point  out that whilst  my provisional decision said the policy doesnt cover sporting 
injuries of this type (in other words, the way in which Mr Ks injury  occurred),  that doesnt 
mean the policy doesnt cover any sporting injuries. 
A claim  is payable in the event of a bodily  injury caused by an accident. However, the policy 
does specifically define what is meant  by an accident, and that definition needs  to be met for 
a claim to be paid. Unfortunately, the circumstances in which  Mr Ks injury occurred didnt 
meet the policy definition  of an accident,  and so I remain satisfied it was appropriate for AIG 
to turn down  the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.  
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3885678