K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are complaining about Lifesearch Partners Limited because they say its 
adviser didnt properly explain the difference between terminal  and critical illness  cover, 
meaning they took a policy without critical illness cover.
background
In 2012, I understand Mr W contacted Lifesearch  as he was considering his options. Prior to 
that, he and his wife had two term insurance  policies with Ageas. These  provided  life cover 
only, with no cover for critical illness.
After discussions with one of its advisers,  Mr and Mrs W took out a new life insurance policy 
with Prudential. It provided a similar  amount of cover to the original Ageas policies over a 
similar term, but the monthly premium was around £20 less. It also didnt include critical 
illness cover.  The Ageas policies were cancelled at the same  time.
Sadly, Mr W has since become seriously ill. Hes unable to claim the terminal  illness  benefit  
on his Prudential policy because hes currently expected to live for more than 12 months.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Mr W hadnt asked for 
critical illness cover and felt the policy Lifesearch  offered was in line with what he wanted  at 
the time.  She also noted that the adviser  did discuss other  types of cover, including for 
critical illness, with Mr W but he chose not to pursue it at the time.
Mr W didnt accept the investigators assessment. He says he didnt understand the 
difference between  critical illness and terminal  illness  cover  and thinks the adviser  should  
have explained  this. He also says he was driving when he discussed  his arrangements with 
the adviser. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigators conclusions  for much  the same  reasons. Im not upholding it.
Before going any further, I was sorry to learn of Mr Ws health  problems and I realise hes 
going through a very difficult time. I have nothing  but sympathy for the position in which he 
now finds himself.
The sale of Mr and Mrs Ws Prudential policy was completed over the telephone and 
Lifesearch has provided recordings of the conversations  that took place. I note Mr W says he 
was driving for at least some of the calls, but he seems  to have been happy enough to 
discuss things with the adviser at the time. If he wasnt,  he had the option of saying so and 
arranging a more  convenient time.
From what  Ive seen and heard, it seems Mr W asked for life cover and thats  what  he got. I 
havent found Lifesearch did anything  that I think could reasonably  have led him to believe 
he was taking critical illness cover. In fact, Mr W did ask about additional sickness  insurance 
during his discussions with the adviser  and was also told about critical illness  cover  that the 
adviser explained would pay out for serious  illnesses, including  cancer. I think  this exchange 
should also have  made it clear  this cover wasnt included in the policy he was taking out.
Ref: DRN38293352The adviser had a responsibility to make sure any recommendation was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs Ws circumstances and needs.  The policy sold was consistent  with what Mr W asked for 
and provided comparable cover to the policies he held before at a lower premium.  On 
balance, Im satisfied the advice given was suitable.  Im also conscious Ageas has confirmed 
Mr and Mrs W didnt  have critical illness cover on the policies they cancelled,  so I certainly 
dont think Lifesearch  did anything to make  him worse off than they were before.
With the benefit of hindsight,  I fully understand Mr and Mrs W may now feel they would have 
taken critical illness  cover if it had been offered. But I think its relevant to highlight  that this 
typically costs more  than life cover and would have significantly increased their monthly 
premium. At a time when they didnt know what would  happen  in the future, I think  its 
difficult to say with any certainty that they would  definitely have been  willing  to pay the 
additional amount.  And the fact Mr W chose not to pursue this option  after it was discussed  
with the adviser  doesnt really support any suggestion they would  have. 
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr and Mrs W and isnt what  they 
were hoping to hear. I understand why they now feel they should have had a policy that 
included additional  critical illness cover.  But based on the information  available to Mr W and 
the adviser at the time, Im satisfied the advice he received was appropriate. And I dont 
think Lifesearch did anything to make him believe he would be covered if he became 
seriously ill.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 February  2019.
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3829335