K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy Kindertons Ltd wont  cover the cost of repairs after he was involved in a 
road traffic accident.
background
In December 2018, Mr S, a taxi driver, was involved in a road traffic accident  that wasnt his 
fault. His vehicle  suffered  damage to the bumper. Mr S agreed for Kindertons, an accident  
management company  to oversee his claim.  Kindertons arranged  for his vehicle to be 
repaired and supplied  him with a hire vehicle.
Mr S said that when he collected  his vehicle from the repairers,  warning lights were showing 
on the dashboard that he hadnt  seen before the accident. He said the repairers told him this 
was due to freezing conditions on the roads. But the warning lights  continued to be 
displayed. Mr S spoke to Kindertons who advised  him to return  his vehicle to the repairers. 
Mr S didnt want to return his vehicle to the original repairers, as he said the sensor lights  to 
the rear bumper hadnt been fitted  correctly.  Mr S said this meant his vehicle couldnt  be 
relicensed, so he hadnt  been  able to work for two weeks. 
Kindertons arranged for Mr S to take his vehicle  to another repairer. And for an independent 
engineer to inspect  it. 
The independent engineer said the warning light fault wasnt associated with the accident  
damage but to the vehicles steering column. Mr S was advised to get his vehicle diagnosed, 
at his own cost, at a Mercedes dealer.  And if anything presented as being  accident related 
Kindertons would look to get these costs  recovered  from the third-party insurer. Kindertons  
arranged for the return of the hire vehicle.
The diagnostic report from the Mercedes dealer said there  was a parking sensor fault, but 
also linked  this to the steering column  light. Kindertons  sent the report  to an independent 
engineer who said they couldnt  deem  the fault to be accident related.
Mr S wasnt  happy with Kindertons response  as he said the original repairer  had mis-used 
his vehicle while it was with them for repair. And he had suffered a financial loss as hed had 
to pay for the repairs to be done.  He referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator said the reports from the independent engineer  and the Mercedes dealer 
had said the issues  werent accident  related. And there wasnt any evidence  to show  Mr Ss 
vehicle had been misused. So, she hasnt  asked Kindertons to do anything further.
Mr S didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why.
Kindertons provided  Mr S with an accident  management service  based on the fact that he 
was involved in a non-fault  accident. They aim to provide their customers  with a hire vehicle 
Ref: DRN37219202and repair  of the damage caused to the vehicle by the accident. And claim the cost of this 
from the third-party insurer.
I can see Kindertons did arrange for Mr Ss vehicle to be repaired, and for it to be inspected  
by an independent engineer. Kindertons also arranged  for Mr S to take his vehicle to another  
garage. And asked the repairer to cover  the cost of the second  garage carrying  out 
rectification work to fix the warning  light fault.  
But the repairer didnt take any responsibility  for the warning light fault as the independent  
engineers report  said the fault wasnt related to the accident. 
Mr S did take his vehicle  to a Mercedes dealer as the independent engineer  advised  him to 
do. And I can see Kindertons were  proactive  in trying to get the findings of their diagnostic 
check. When this report  was received it confirmed the fault wasnt as a result  of the accident:
Steering Wheel control unit faulty  however according to the Technician this is not the result 
of the accident. 
As the fault wasnt  deemed to be accident  related, I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
Kindertons to accept  they couldnt  justify getting  the fault repaired by the new garage  as the 
costs couldnt  be recovered from the third-party insurer.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration as he feels the repairer was doing  wheel spins  in the 
snow which caused the damage  to the steering wheel column, with the dashboard warning 
lights showing the fault. But Ive not seen any evidence  to support this. And so, I cant  hold 
Kindertons responsible for the repair for the steering column fault.
While I appreciate that Mr S wont agree with me, I think it was reasonable for Kindertons  to 
accept the engineers opinion, especially as it was supported by the independent dealers 
findings as well. And so, I cant  ask them  to do anything  differently as it isnt possible to hold 
the repairer liable for rectification of the fault as it isnt accident related.
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3721920