K821x#15complaint
Miss B has complained  about  the interest and charges that have  been  applied to her 
account, after purchasing items with Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct). 
She is unhappy with the service shes received and says that the agreement  was that she 
could pay for her items  at a later date. 
background
Miss B purchased several items through Shop Direct in September 2018. She believed she 
had purchased these items through Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) terms, a promotion  where  
she could receive  the items but pay for them at a later date. 
Miss B says that she then received several  calls from Shop  Direct  in regard to non-receipt  of 
payment, before she called them at the end of October 2018 to query  why a payment was 
being requested  on her account. Shop Direct promised to call her back later that day but this 
didnt happen.  
Miss B raised a complaint  about  this in November 2018. It was confirmed with her on the 
phone that the purchases she had made had not gone through  on BNPL terms, because 
there was a small amount of arrears  on her account.  So the purchases had instead been 
made using  her running credit account with Shop Direct, therefore  a minimum payment was 
due, as per the terms of the account.   
Shop Direct credited  Miss Bs account  with £20 and apologised for not calling her back as 
promised. Miss B remained unhappy  and brought the complaint to our service to investigate. 
She said that she selected  BNPL terms and wasnt told soon enough that they werent being 
applied. She was also unhappy with how long it has taken to resolve this complaint. 
After the case had been brought to us, Shop Direct agreed that the customer  service  
provided to Miss B had fallen below the standards they would expect. They offered her a 
further £15 for the inconvenience caused by not calling her back and offered to refund an 
administration fee of £12. 
The investigator concluded that Miss B had not selected BNPL terms and had been  fairly 
compensated for the service  issues she had encountered. Miss B remained  unhappy  and 
the case has been passed  to me to issue a decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss B has said that when  she purchased  items in September 2018, she selected to pay for 
them at a later date. So I have carefully  considered the online journey taken when customers  
select BNPL. I have  been  provided  with a document that shows the online journey that 
Miss B followed when purchasing these items and I have compared  this against the journey 
when BNPL has been selected. Having done  so, I am not persuaded that Miss B selected 
BNPL in respect of her September  2018 purchases. 
Ref: DRN35858172Further to this, Miss Bs online statements show that the account  balance prior to making  
these purchases shows  the account  was in arrears.  The terms for the BNPL  promotion mean 
that you do not qualify if you have any arrears  on your account  and that BNPL only applies if 
you have been  specifically told so. I am satisfied that Miss B did not qualify for that 
promotion at the time of purchasing these items and I have not been provided  with anything 
to suggest that she was told anything that contradicted  this. 
Miss B has also argued that she should have  been made aware  sooner that interest was 
accruing on her account. Im satisfied that Shop Direct did enough to make Miss B aware of 
this. They  have provided screenshots of Miss Bs online account summary which shows  
these purchases being  made through the running  credit account. As Miss B has also 
confirmed, they called her to make her aware  that there was a minimum payment due on the 
account. At that stage, Miss B was on notice that to avoid interest  or adverse payment 
information, she needed to make payments.  
I believe that the offer from Shop Direct  fairly compensates Miss B for the inconvenience of 
not calling  her back. Miss B has also said that she is unhappy with how long this has taken 
to resolve. However,  this complaint  was previously marked as resolved in November before 
being raised again in February 2019.  This has been  the main  factor  behind  how long this has 
taken and I am satisfied  with how long Shop Direct  took to respond following when they 
reopened the complaint  in February. 
In the circumstances, I think the offer is reasonable and Im not going to tell Shop Direct to 
do anything further.  I say this because apart from this poor service they acted  fairly,  
reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
my final decision
I understand that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited have offered Miss B £15 
compensation and to refund a £12 administration fee. I conclude thats fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.  So my final decision is that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited 
should pay Miss B £15 and a refund of £12, if they havent already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3585817