K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Eldon Insurance Services Limited proceeded with the cancellation of 
her motor insurance policy despite  her contacting it to change her car on the policy. She 
wants compensation for the consequences  and impact.
background
Miss S called Eldon to cancel her policy as the finance company  was taking her car back  
due to faults. Miss S said she called back the same day to say that she had found a 
replacement. There are no records of this call. Miss S said she was told to make the change 
online, which she did, paying the £35 fee and she received a new Certificate of Insurance.  
The policy was due to be cancelled the next day. 
Eldon noticed this and left a voice mail for Miss S to check that the cancellation was still 
required. The policy then cancelled. Miss S was upset about this and a new policy was 
arranged. Eldon waived its cancellation and administration fees but Miss S was unhappy 
with this.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Eldon  
should have done more  to contact Miss S and check whether  the cancellation was still 
required. She thought it should compensate Miss S for the inconvenience  caused her. She 
thought it should refund any fees, with interest,  and pay Miss S £100 compensation for her 
trouble in taking  out a new policy.
Eldon replied that it thought Miss S should  have done more to make  sure her policy 
remained active. It said it had partially upheld her complaint and waived fees for the old 
policy as a result. It didnt  think it should  refund the arrangement fee for the new policy or 
pay Miss S any compensation. Miss S replied that the annual  fee for her new policy was 
higher than for the old one. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Eldon said it upheld Miss Ss complaint in part. It said it should have done more to try to 
contact her to check her intentions after she made the change  of vehicle online. But Eldon 
said there was some  responsibility on Miss S to contact it about her change  of mind.  
Miss S said shed called  Eldon, but as theres no recording or notes about this call on 
Eldons file, then I cant consider this. But Miss S did make  her change online and this 
generated a fee and a new Certificate.  Eldon later told us that it was probable that no 
additional premium  had been  generated online at the time as the cancellation was 
proceeding. But I dont think its reasonable to expect Miss S to have known this. So I think 
Miss S was left thinking shed made the change of car and that her policy would continue.  
Eldon noticed the change of vehicle and tried to check this with Miss S. But I think, given the 
circumstances of the cancellation and Miss Ss call to Eldon to cancel her policy, it should  
reasonably have thought  that now she had a new car she would want to retain her policy.  
Ref: DRN31536572However, I cant see that Eldon listened to the call or checked  the records at the time. So 
Eldon left Miss S one voice mail message and the cancellation proceeded. I agree that, in 
these particular circumstances,  this wasnt enough.  
When a business  makes a mistake, as Eldon agrees it has done  here,  we expect it to restore 
the consumers  position as far as its possible to do so. 
I think that if Eldon had done more, then Miss Ss policy wouldnt have been cancelled,  and 
she would  have been spared the trouble of arranging a new one. So I think  it should 
compensate Miss S for this. 
Eldon had already waived its cancellation charge for the old policy. It now waived its broker  
fee and the change of vehicle fee. But I think it should also waive  its arrangement fee for the 
new policy because Miss S wouldnt have needed to pay this if it had provided  better  service.  
Miss S has been without  her money  for some  time,  so I think it should  add interest to this. I 
can see that Eldon refunded Miss Ss premium for her old policy  on a pro-rata basis.  I think 
thats fair and reasonable. 
Miss S had to make many  frustrating calls to try and resolve the issue and then she had to 
take out a new policy.  She lost eight months  towards a years No Claim Discount 
entitlement. The adjudicator recommended that Eldon pay her £100 compensation for this 
trouble and upset.  I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar  
circumstances. 
Miss S said her new policy had a higher premium. But the new policy was for a different car 
and Eldon doesnt set the premium, so I cant hold it responsible for this increase. I can see 
that Eldon  offered Miss S the lowest priced policy available at the time. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Eldon Insurance  Services  Limited to 
do the following:
1.Refund Miss S the new policy arrangement fee, adding interest  at 8% simple  per year 
from the date it was paid to the date of settlement. 
2.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Eldon to withhold income tax from that interest. It must 
give Miss S a certificate  showing how much its taken off if she asks for one.
3.Pay Miss S £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its level of 
service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3153657