K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc told him that they were migrating an old card of his 
to a new card. Because of this, Mr O stopped making payments to decrease  his old card 
balance and started making  them  to his new card. He thinks  that a payment that he made for 
£300 has gone missing during the migration. 
He would like his money plus compensation for the distress and inconvenience suffered.  
background
Mr O had a corporate  card with HSBC.  It had a balance owing. On 30 November 2017, it 
appears that the details from this card were  migrated  to a new card.  But, the balance owing 
remained on the old card.  
Mr O says that he received a letter telling him that the old card balance would be transferred  
to the new card. So, he stopped his payments  to the old card to make payments onto his 
new card instead. 
He was then contacted  by HSBC to say that he still owed the balance on the old card.  Mr O 
believed that he had paid off this balance so he raised a complaint. 
HSBC found that there had been a misunderstanding. They  explained that the balance had 
remained on the old card and hadnt  been  transferred to the new card. They  said that all 
payments that had been made to the new card were used for transactions  Mr O had made 
using that card. So, the balance on the old card still remained to be paid.
Mr O didnt agree with this decision so he came  to us. He said that he had made a payment 
of £300 which hadnt been  taken off his balance.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think that HSBC had done  anything wrong. Neither  Mr O nor HSBC  
had been unable to provide him with the letter saying that the old card balance  would be 
transferred to the new card so he found that there had been  a misunderstanding but that the 
balance still remained on the old card.  
He investigated  the lost £300 but found  that it hadnt  been lost. Mr O had provided him with a 
list of his payments  and when they had been  made. Our adjudicator found that a payment of 
£300 made on 22 December 2017 had been  credited  to Mr Os new card balance  on 23 
December 2017.  He didnt think the money  had been lost. 
Mr O wasnt happy with this decision so the complaint  has now come  to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr O wont  be happy with my decision. I think  that the balance on the old card is 
still owed and that £300 that Mr O paid hasnt been lost. I will explain why. 
I have looked  at the list of payments made  by Mr O which he has given to us. I can see that 
there were two payments of £300 made  on 22 December 2017 and on 19 January 2018. 
Ref: DRN35055672Looking at Mr Os statements, I can see that £300  has been credited to his new card 
balance on 23 December  2017 and on 19 January 2018. So, I dont think £300 has been 
lost. It seems to me that it has been  accounted  for. 
I believe that there was a misunderstanding about what  would happen to the old card 
balance. I can see why Mr O thought that this would happen. But, upon  looking at his 
statements for his new card,  it seems clear to me that the payments made to it are for 
transactions on his new card. So, it seems to me that Mr O shouldve  been aware that the 
old card balance still remained  to be paid. 
I think HSBC acted  fairly and reasonably in not applying any interest or charges from 
February 2018 and in also refunding those  for February 2018. I dont think that they couldve 
done anymore.  
my final decision
I dont think that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has done  anything wrong.  So, I wont be asking them  to 
do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3505567