K821x#15Mrs T has complained about her home  insurer Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited 
because it has avoided  her policy (treated it as though it never existed)  and, by association, 
declined a claim she made for accidental damage to her mobile phone.
background
In March 2017 Mrs T arranged cover  with Admiral through  an on-line price comparison 
website (PCW).  She answered  various questions as part of the process, including  one about  
bankruptcy and IVAs.  She confirmed that no-one at her home was bankrupt or had any 
IVAs. When in September 2017 Mrs T made the claim for her phone  she told Admiral her 
husband had an IVA. Admiral wrote  to Mrs T stating it wouldnt have offered her cover  if it 
had known, so it was avoiding her policy and refunding her premium. Mrs T then found  it 
impossible to get cover at a reasonable price.
In February 2019  Mrs T complained to Admiral about its decision.  It issued  a final response  
in April 2019 which confirmed it felt its decision in 2017 had been correct.  Mrs T complained 
to us. She said she had been pregnant when she arranged the cover and hadnt spotted the 
question about  IVAs, nor had she read the policy documents Admiral  sent to her after the 
policy was arranged. She said she wouldnt have sought to mislead  Admiral  about this, 
indeed she hadnt  when asked about IVAs when making her claim.
Our investigator felt Mrs T was likely asked about IVAs when the policy  was arranged, that 
she had likely given it incorrect information and that it wouldnt have offered her cover  if she 
had told it about  the IVA. So he didnt  uphold the complaint.
Mrs T didnt  agree with the findings. The complaint came to me for a decision to be made.  
I noted that Admiral  hadnt provided us a copy of its underwriting guide to show what  it would 
do in respect of certain risks. Nor had it shown us what  question  Mrs T had actually been 
asked (because it didnt have a copy of her application). 
I asked Admiral to provide  further  evidence. It did so, although  I noted  it still didnt provide its 
underwriting guide.  I felt, based  on the available evidence, that Admirals act of avoidance 
had not been fair or reasonable because its application process had not been clear and it 
hadnt shown  what it would have done  if it had been told about  the IVA. I said it should 
remove the record of the avoidance, reinstate the cover, consider the claim if Mrs T wanted it 
to, and pay Mrs T £250 compensation.
Mrs T said she was pleased  by the findings.  Admiral responded by sending  us the same 
information it had provided prior to my provisional decision being made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were:
Admiral has provided detail from its IT department confirming what Mrs T would have been 
asked in 2017. That question did include IVAs. But the difficulty  for Admiral  is that its 
question  which included  reference to IVAs   was different to the question Mrs T was first 
asked to answer on the PCW. 
Ref: DRN35710092When Mrs T went through the application  on the PCW she was sked:
Have you or anyone living in the property ever been  declared bankrupt?
I understand Mrs T must  have said no or her application would not have progressed.  And 
no was the correct answer  for that question.
Admiral says the application  would then have progressed to its own website and there Mrs T 
was asked to answer another set of similar questions. Admirals IT department has 
confirmed Mrs T would then have had to answer yes or no to the following question  
(although I note Admiral  told Mrs T something different when it responded to her during her 
complaint):
Are you or any other  occupants of your home, currently bankrupt or making payments under 
an Individual  Voluntary Agreement  (IVA).
Mrs T says she doesnt recall this question. And Admiral has not been able to show  her 
application. However, given the evidence from Admirals IT department,  I accept its most 
likely that Mrs T, on completing the PCW  application, would have been forwarded  to 
Admirals own website  in order  to complete the application. I accept its most  likely that she 
was then presented  with the above question which included  reference to IVAs.
But what  Admiral hasnt  shown me is that in being forwarded to its site, and in being asked 
to answer its own question, Mrs T was sufficiently warned that she had to pay careful 
attention to these  new and different questions. It isnt fair to say that Mrs T failed to take 
reasonable care in completing the application  when Admiral hasnt shown  that she wasnt  
misled by an unclear  process. It has long been  accepted by this service that the insurer, in 
using the PCW website,  adopts the PCWs  questions  as its own  and if it wants  to rely on 
different information  to that the prospective  policyholder was asked by the PCW, it must 
make that abundantly  clear, along with giving fair warning about the risks of failing to pay 
proper attention to its questions. 
I accept Mrs Ts word  that she doesnt recall the IVA question being asked. I think it would 
have been quite easy for her  based  on what detail lve seen about the likely application 
process  to not spot that a question shed already answered about bankruptcy had now 
changed and now required her to also answer in respect of IVAs. 
At this point, Im also mindful that Admiral, to date, has not shown me that IVAs specifically, 
are an unattractive  risk for it. It has sent me some screen shots  which,  I think, show  the 
system process which applications go through. It is certainly not its underwriting guide. But 
the screen shots only allow  for bankruptcy to be detailed, which  creates a bar to the cover 
progressing unless the bankruptcy is approved.  This tells me nothing  about IVAs, or 
indeed in what circumstances the bankruptcy might be approved.  The detail also refers  to 
some discretion and consideration  being  allowed to be given by senior  underwriters.  What 
Admiral has provided is not sufficient  proof  of what it would have done if Mrs T told it about  
the IVA  it has not persuaded  me that if Mrs T had disclosed the IVA, it wouldnt have 
offered cover.  
So, at the minute  anyway,  I think Admirals avoidance was unfair and unreasonable.  As a 
result of its unfair  and unreasonable action  Mrs T has been without cover since  2017. If I just 
require Admiral to remove  the avoidance,  Mrs T will still likely have trouble getting cover  in 
the future  with a gap in insurance  of nearly  four years. So Admiral,  in addition  to removing 
Ref: DRN35710093the record of the avoidance and reinstating  the cover, will have to provide her cover for the 
years since,  until the date of the next renewal  following my final decision, should  it remain 
the same  and if Mrs T accepts  it. Mrs T will need  to pay for that cover. It will be up to the 
parties what they want to do when  the policy is due for renewal  following my final decision. 
If Mrs T wants the mobile phone  claim to be assessed, it should do so. But Ill include this as 
an option for Mrs T to choose if she wishes, as Im mindful that the need  for this small claim 
may well, by now, have fallen away. 
Finally, I think  Admiral  should pay £250 compensation, as I accept  that its unfair and 
unreasonable act caused  Mrs T some upset  not least as I note she felt it brought  her 
integrity into question.
As Mrs T has accepted  my findings, and Admiral hasnt objected to them  or provided  any 
new evidence which might cause  me to change my view, my decision remains as that 
provisionally stated.  My provisional findings  are now the findings of this, my final decision.   
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  to:
Remove the record of the avoidance from its own and any industry  databases.
Reinstate the policy in line with my comments above.
If Mrs T wants it to, assess the mobile phone claim.
Pay Mrs T £250 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3571009