K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Phoenix Life Limited  (Phoenix)  has already applied  a loyalty  bonus to 
his pension plan that he says shouldnt  be paid until his actual normal  retirement age (NRA). 
He wants the difference between the bonus  hes already had allocated to his plan and what 
hes due at his NRA  to be paid to him.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 12 August 2019  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint should be upheld  and 
invited both parties to send any additional comments  or evidence they wished to make. 
Mr D accepted the provisional decision  but made the following  points  in a submission:
The NRA should have been defined more clearly within the pensions terms and 
conditions, but it wasnt.
He was entitled to defer the NRA under the terms and conditions (T&Cs) of the plan. 
The product particulars also said the loyalty bonus would be paid on regular 
contributions made until the NRA  or age 65 if earlier. 
Phoenixs suggestion that in 2007  he opted to switch to a lower risk fund, five years 
prior to his NRA  wasnt true. He said the policy conditions stated that such a switch  
would be automatic unless the policyholder  elects  otherwise. He had elected not to 
switch as could  be seen by the fact that he remains invested in the same funds as he 
chose at the outset.
He still continues to make the regular monthly contribution  hes always made.
He had returned the cheque for the £100 compensation that Phoenix had previously 
offered.  So it hadnt been paid to him. 
He remained unhappy about  the lack of transparency as to when the initial  5% loyalty 
bonus was added to his fund.
Phoenix didnt  accept the provisional decision.  In its response it said that when Mr D 
deferred his retirement  both in 1996 and 2007 it classed these as formal  requests and 
changed the NRA on his policy. Therefore the original NRA became 24 April 2015. It said 
that as Mr D confirmed he wanted  to switch  to lower risk funds five years before the new 
NRA (phased switching)  this wasnt seen as formal deferment but just a delay in drawing 
his benefits. So the various  features that applied to his policy  at NRA   including the addition  
of loyalty bonuses, remained applicable at the current NRA of 58 (April 2015).
Phoenix said that it didnt  agree with my provisional decision as it believed  the loyalty bonus 
had been added correctly and it hadnt made  an error.   
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But having  carefully  considered all the 
further submissions,  I see no reason to change  the conclusions I came to in my provisional 
decision. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN31900362Phoenix has said that it changed the original NRA following Mr Ds first two requests to defer 
from 1996 and 2007. It said the 2007 request set the new NRA to age 58  which  is the age 
at which  it decided to apply the loyalty bonus according to its T&Cs.
But Phoenix has suggested that when  Mr D elected  to transfer  investments  into a lower  risk 
fund five years prior to his NRA, it decided that any future deferments wouldnt be seen as 
formal requests to change  the NRA but simply delaying drawing benefits from the plan. Ive 
seen a copy of the signed  form Mr D sent to Phoenix in January  2010 stating that he didnt 
wish to transfer the units in his plan to a lower  risk fund. This is also the letter he used to 
notify a change of his NRA to age 60, which Phoenix did subsequently amend, so it would 
seem Phoenix received  that instruction. 
This is consistent with Mr Ds view that he didnt  ever consent to this switch. Indeed hes 
confirmed his money remains invested in the same  funds that he chose originally. 
The T&Cs section 8  conversion of funds  state that (C) Unless  the policyholder elects  to 
the contrary units allocated to the policy shall be converted  at a rate determined by the 
actuary to the pensions  security fund or other  such fund as the actuary  may from time to 
time decide for the purpose of this provision: - (i) five years  before normal  retirement date in 
respect of such units as may compromise  the benefits fund in accordance  with clause  9.
The letter showed that Mr D clearly indicated he elected to the contrary,  but in any case 
theres no reference within that clause which suggests that the original NRA cant be 
changed because  of such provision. And as I concluded within my provisional  decision  
having carefully considered the documents that were available  when the plan was first taken 
out  theres no reference in the T&Cs to the fact that the loyalty  bonus should  be paid at 
the original NRA.  
So Im not persuaded that Mr Ds later requests to defer the NRA on his plan should have 
been treated any differently to the first two requests. I dont believe Mr D would have 
expected any other  outcome than what did occur  when he requested  deferments in 1996 
and 2007, and theres no evidence to show that Phoenix did make him aware  that they 
would be treated differently  especially as hed chosen  not to have  phased  switching  to 
lower risk funds prior to his NRA.
Im not satisfied that Phoenix has been able to demonstrate that it did act according to the 
T&Cs and was obliged  to pay the loyalty bonus at the original NRA, which I note has 
actually been  amended  twice previously. I dont think Phoenix has acted fairly in the way its 
interpreted the T&Cs and I think the bonus  should be allocated  to the plan on the last NRA  
that Mr D requested.  
Mr D has also raised the question of his further dissatisfaction about  the lack of transparency  
in the communication from Phoenix about the loyalty  bonus.  For the sake  of clarity that 
matter hasnt been considered here because  it wasnt  originally put to Phoenix. As Ive 
already said if Mr D remains unhappy  about that issue he should raise it as separate  matter 
to Phoenix.
Ref: DRN31900363my final decision
For the same reasons  Ive already given in my provisional decision, I uphold  Mr Ds 
complaint against  Phoenix Life Limited.
Phoenix Life Limited should  calculate the amount  of loyalty  bonus that Mr D would accrue at 
his NRA  of age 63 (March 2020) as confirmed in his letter of January 2019  assuming he 
continues his contributions to that date.
Phoenix should subtract the amount that it already  paid Mr D at age 58 and if there is a loss, 
it should pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the 
compensation. The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance. 
If Phoenix is unable to pay the total amount into Mr D's pension  plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced  to notionally allow for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr D's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected  retirement  age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr D would have been able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
If Mr D fails to make  his contractual contributions up to his NRA  then Phoenix  can calculate 
any extra  bonus  that it may have paid him based  on those contributions  and take it from his 
fund value after March  2020. And as Mr D has brought  his complaint to us now,  I need  to 
make sure any redress puts him as close to the position he would be in now if Phoenix 
hadnt made an error. So Im not going to allow any further bonus to be allocated  if Mr D 
decides to extend his NRA further. My decision is based on resolving this issue  assuming 
that Mr D takes his benefits  at the NRA he last requested.
I also think Phoenixs offer to pay Mr D £100  for the disruption to his retirement planning is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  and it should pay this sum to him in addition  to 
the above redress.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31900364copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr D complains that Phoenix Life Limited  (Phoenix) has already applied a loyalty bonus to his pension 
plan that he says shouldnt be paid until his actual normal  retirement age (NRA). He wants  the 
difference between the bonus hes already had allocated  to his plan and what hes due at his NRA to 
be paid to him.
background 
In 1994 Mr D took out a personal pension with Abbey  Life (now part of Phoenix)  to replace a paid up 
pension plan that he held.  He says this was because the old plan didnt  include a loyalty bonus that 
was paid at NRA. And he says it was agreed that the loyalty bonus that would be applied to the new 
plan would outweigh any initial charges he had to pay for starting  up the new plan instead of reviving 
the existing paid up plan.  The plan was set up with an NRA of 50.
In 1996 Mr D asked to defer his NRA to age 55 and then in 2007 he contacted  Phoenix to explain that 
he wanted to change his NRA  to 58  which Phoenix noted. But Phoenix also changed this age on its 
systems which meant that an allocation  of bonus units  due to be paid at age 55  wasnt paid at the 
original NRA,  but at age 58 instead.
In 2010 Mr D again  deferred  his NRA to age 60 and subsequently  in 2014 to age 62.
In November 2018  after Mr D received a pre-retirement pack for the plan, he contacted Phoenix to 
ask when  the loyalty bonus would be applied  to his plan and what  the plans total value might then be. 
He wanted to decide if he could take his pension benefits at that point.
Phoenix confirmed it had applied  the bonus units in 2015  when Mr D was 58  but Mr D wanted 
confirmation of why that had happened and clarification that Phoenix would continue  to pay further 
loyalty bonuses until he retired as he felt the bonus should be applied when he reached his actual 
NRA  which  by then had been deferred to age 63 (March 2020). He said the terms and conditions of 
the plan made no mention  of what  NRA the bonus should be applied to, so he thought Phoenix should  
agree to pay the bonus  at his final NRA-  less what it had paid him at age 58.
Phoenix said it should have paid the additional bonus units at age 55, and in line with the plans terms 
and conditions it should have applied the bonus on the NRA that was agreed initially.  But it said it had 
calculated that Mr D was better  off with the bonus being applied at age 58 as the fund value was over 
£1,600 higher. Although Phoenix did decide to pay Mr D £100 for the inconvenience the matter had 
caused.
But Mr D remained unhappy as he was of the view that the bonus hadnt been applied correctly   so 
he brought his complaint  to us.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint  and thought the plan had been set up so that 
benefits didnt have to be taken on the NRA  - which  allowed for the NRA and the date benefits  could 
be taken, to be different.  So he thought Phoenix should have applied the bonus when Mr D was age 
50, and in that case  it had already calculated  that Mr D was better off with the bonus being applied  at 
age 58.  He also thought the £100 Phoenix had paid Mr D for the inconvenience caused was fair and 
reasonable.
Mr D didnt agree. He said this distinction wasnt explained to him when he took the plan out and he 
didnt think any of the documents hed seen made  it clear  the bonus would only be paid at the original 
NRA. He said the question  of when he wanted  to stop work wasnt an exact science and it was unfair  
to base the application of the bonus on the answer to that question.
Ref: DRN31900365Phoenix has said there is only one bonus allocation  of units and this took place at the original 
selected NRA. So as no resolution  could be found the complaint has been passed to me for review 
and a decision.
 
I can see Mr D has further raised the issue of the lack of communication he received from Phoenix in 
2015 and weve told him to make a separate complaint about that matter.
So to be clear what  Im considering here is the matter  of when Phoenix should  have applied  the 
loyalty bonus to Mr Ds plan.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And, having done so, Ive reached a different conclusion to the 
investigator, so Ill explain why.
Mr D has said that the loyalty bonus payable on his pension should  be paid at his final NRA  hes 
deferred that age a number of times, whereas  Phoenix says the allocation of units  for the bonus can 
only be paid once  at the original selected retirement date. 
Ive seen a request  for amendment Mr D sent Abbey Life in July 1996 which  asked to defer his 
retirement to age 55. And Ive also seen a copy of the policy particulars from 1994 which  showed the 
original NRA  was in April 2007  Mr Ds 50th birthday. So Im satisfied, based on that evidence, that 
the original  NRA  of the plan was age 50, and I dont think Phoenix has acted according to its 
understanding of the policy conditions. If it had done so, it would have  paid the loyalty bonus when 
Mr D was age 50. But it didnt, it allocated  the bonus  when  he was age 58  the second different  age 
hed asked to defer to. So I dont think Phoenix has acted correctly  here.
Ive then gone  on to consider what Phoenix should have done in this situation, as it would seem there 
are two plausible outcomes  to when  Mr D should receive his loyalty  bonus, either  at age 50 as stated 
above or at Mr Ds final NRA.  
So Ive looked carefully at the relevant  policy  conditions of the plan from when  Mr D took it out. And it 
states that a bonus as determined by the actuary shall be applied  by the provider to the benefit  fund 
at normal retirement  date subject to regular premiums having been  paid in full and for the preceding 
ten years and such other conditions as the provider  may from time to time decide.
And Ive also considered the product particular extract  that Mr D has provided which states  that at 
normal retirement age...if regular contributions  have  been  maintained  in full up to your retirement or 
age 65 if earlier, there will be a bonus of 5% of the proportion of the fund value represented  by these 
regular contributions.
And the same extract  describes how on late retirementyour fund will remain  invested until you 
decide to take the benefits. Any bonus will be credited at your normal  retirement date or age 65 if 
earlier.
So, based on the available evidence of what was stated at the time the plan was taken out, I cant see 
any reference   as suggested by Phoenix  that the bonus should  be paid on the original normal  
retirement date. All the references Ive seen relate to the NRA, or age 65 if earlier,  and in my view that 
would suggest the bonus should be paid at NRA, whenever that may be, and regardless of if it had 
been changed  over the years. And I think the reference to age 65 if earlier, acts as a safety  
mechanism to stop a customer deferring their NRA  indefinitely and unreasonably,  so overall it seems 
fair to me that Phoenix should pay Mr Ds loyalty bonus at his new NRA. 
Phoenix has suggested  there are two ways to amend the NRA  on the plan.  The first would  seem to be 
where Mr D has contacted  it to ask that his NRA is altered (initially to 55 now to 62) which is a change 
to the original  policy terms but where regular contributions continue  to be made. 
Ref: DRN31900366The other  is a deferment to take benefits which Phoenix itself has said  in a letter dated 
7 November 2014  that is only possible  to defer retirement  if you are within 6 months of the NRA
Its not clear to me what Phoenix means when it says Mr D didnt want to change  his original NRA 
completely but just defer the date he received benefits to a new NRA. Im unsure what the difference  
between these  requests might be and I think its most likely Mr D just wanted to extend  his NRA when 
he made the requests. I dont think he would have been aware that there was any difference in 
definition of how he did this  I note his instruction to defer from 2007 said that this instruction  is an 
amendment to the policy  which would suggest  to me Mr D wanted to make a permanent  change  to 
the original  plan.
Its also unclear  how Phoenix  would  have realised when to allocate the bonus to Mr Ds policy. It 
didnt pick up his original NRA of 50, or his first deferred  NRA of 55, but instead allocated the bonus at 
the next age Mr D deferred  to  namely  58. So it wouldnt  seem that Phoenix systems automatically 
allocated the bonus at the original NRA, which would suggest to me thats its possible to specify what 
NRA is to be used and therefore that the NRA can be varied depending  on a customers 
circumstances. 
So, overall,  I havent  seen any evidence to suggest that the loyalty bonus must be paid on the original 
NRA, although the terms and conditions  make  it clear the bonus can only be paid once. Therefore I 
think Phoenix should use Mr Ds last request to defer to age 63 as his final request and should apply  
the bonus  to the contributions paid up to that point. It can offset the bonus that it paid him in 2015 as 
Ive set out below.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  minded to uphold  Mr Ds complaint  against Phoenix Life Limited. 
Phoenix should calculate  the amount  of loyalty bonus  that Mr D would accrue  at his NRA of age 63 
(March 2020) as confirmed in his letter  of January  2019  assuming he continues his contributions to 
that date.
Phoenix should subtract the amount that it already paid Mr D at age 58 and if there is a loss, it should  
pay into Mr D's pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of the compensation. The 
amount paid should  allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.
Compensation should  not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection 
or allowance.  
If Phoenix is unable to pay the total amount into Mr D's pension plan, it should pay that amount direct 
to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have  provided a taxable income.  
Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr D's actual or expected marginal  rate of tax at 
his selected retirement age. 
For example, if Mr D is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction 
would equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr D would have been able to take a tax free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
If Mr D fails to make his contractual contributions  up to his NRA then Phoenix can calculate any extra 
bonus that it may have paid him based on those contributions and take it from his fund value after 
March 2020. And as Mr D has brought his complaint to us now, I need to make sure any redress puts 
him as close  to the position he would  be in now if Phoenix hadnt made  an error. 
Ref: DRN31900367So Im not going to allow  any further bonus to be allocated if Mr D decides to extend  his NRA further.  
My decision  is based on resolving this issue assuming that Mr D takes his benefits  at the NRA he has 
now stated.
In addition I think Phoenixs  offer to pay Mr D £100  for the disruption  to his retirement  planning is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances. It should  confirm whether payment has been made, with 
evidence, before I finalise my decision.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3190036