K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  Bank of Scotland plc should have offered her a repayment mortgage when 
she took out her mortgage in 2008 and let her change it from interest to repayment  later on.
background
Ms B took out an interest only mortgage  of around £190,000 with a term of 20 years with 
Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) in August 2008.  She had an initial  fixed interest  rate product, 
subject to an early repayment  charge (ERC), until the end of August 2013.  
Ms Bs mortgage was reviewed in 2013, 2015  and 2017 when  successive fixed rate interest 
products came to an end. Shes unhappy  BoS didnt let her convert some of her mortgage to 
repayment at the time of the reviews. Although shes able to make  overpayments  in line with 
the terms of her mortgage to reduce what she owes at the end of the term, Ms B thinks  she 
has to pay more interest than she would if she had a repayment mortgage.
BoS acknowledged it made  an administrative error in 2015 when it was looking at when 
funds from Ms Bs pensions  would  mature to pay off some of her interest only mortgage. The 
term of part of her mortgage was shortened  to end when BoS thought  a lump sum would be 
available to pay it off. It paid her £250 to compensate her for their mistake and offered to 
reinstate that part of the mortgage  to its original term to end at the same  time as the rest of 
the mortgage.
But BoS didnt  uphold Ms Bs complaint it shouldve agreed to convert  some  or all of her 
mortgage to a repayment mortgage so she brought her complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  BoS had done  anything wrong. Ms Bs unhappy  with that view so Ive 
looked at her complaint afresh.  For reasons  Ill explain, I agree with our investigators 
opinion.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service cant look at Ms Bs complaint about  the mis-sale of her mortgage in 2008  as 
shes brought her complaint outside  the time limits allowed  by Financial Conduct Authority 
rules. So my decision deals with Ms Bs complaints about BoS refusing to let her switch  to a 
repayment mortgage in 2013, 2015  and 2017.
Ms B struggled to meet  her mortgage  payment  from around May 2009. Amongst other things 
she had to spend a lot of money on house  repairs. And shed had some health issues  that 
meant she was off work for a while. But she was in regular contact with BoS to manage her 
payments and she was able to clear the arrears by March 2015.  
Ms B says she wanted  to try and pay off some of the capital on the mortgage as she had no 
repayment vehicle  in place to pay off her mortgage  at the end of the term.
In around March 2013 BoS made changes to the way in which  it managed Ms Bs account 
and split Ms Bs account into several  sub-accounts.  Sub-accounts 1 and 2, made  up of fees, 
charges and unpaid interest, were put onto on a repayment basis with the original borrowing 
Ref: DRN31038712of £190,000 remaining on interest only. This is the only time any part of Ms Bs mortgage  
was put onto a repayment  basis.
Ms B says she asked  BoS in August 2013, when her initial five year fixed interest rate 
product came to an end, if she could convert  some of the interest  only part of her mortgage 
to repayment. She says BoS told her she had to stay on interest only but she could make  
overpayments to reduce  her balance. BoS doesnt  have any records  of this request.
In 2013 the relevant mortgage  rules required BoS to take into account  Ms Bs interests  and 
treat her fairly. And it had to lend responsibly. 
Although over the lifetime of the mortgage  the amount Ms B paid may have been less if 
shed been allowed to convert  some  of her mortgage to repayment, I dont think  it wouldve 
been in Ms Bs interests  for BoS to have agreed  to this in 2013. She was in arrears with her 
mortgage and struggling to make her CMP. Converting to repayment wouldve increased  her 
CMP. I think its likely her arrears wouldve gone  up if her CMP had risen,  making  her 
financial situation worse  and increasing the chance BoS would  seek to repossess her 
property. So I think BoS behaved reasonably and in line with its responsibilities in refusing 
her request  at this time.
BoS has explained its records for 2015 are limited.  From the information Ive seen it looks as 
if Ms B told BoS she wanted a fixed interest  rate product so she knew  what  she was paying 
each month  and a deal that was no longer than three years so she wouldnt be stuck on a 
higher rate if interest  rates  fell. BoS offered Ms B a new fixed  interest rate product at 1.89% 
for two years  from November  2015 for all sub-accounts making up the mortgage. 
By this time the balances for sub-accounts 1 and 2 on repayment terms had reduced. The 
offer recommended  sub-account 3 be split into two - sub-account  3 for around £27,500 with 
a reduced term of 5 years  which would come to an end in 2020, and sub-account  4 for the 
balance of the original mortgage,  around £155,360, for the rest of the original term. 
BoS made a mistake  in reviewing Ms Bs pensions. It thought  enough money would be 
available from them in 2020 to pay off sub-account 3. In fact only a small amount of Ms Bs 
pension fund will be available then. BoS has paid Ms B £250 to compensate  her for distress 
and inconvenience  caused by its mistake  and extended the term of sub-account 3 to end at 
the same  time as sub-account 4. But this doesnt address Ms Bs complaint that BoS 
wouldnt agree  to convert any of the interest  only part of her mortgage  to a repayment  basis.  
BoS has explained if a customer wants to make  a material change to their account  like 
Ms B did by changing  from interest  only to repayment  which would increase monthly 
payments - it would expect to carry out a full affordability assessment looking at Ms Bs 
income and outgoings. Its fair for BoS to think about  whether a change like this would be 
affordable. The rules of mortgage regulation do allow a lender to set aside the full detailed 
affordability assessment  if a change is otherwise in the borrowers best interests.  But in my 
view it wouldnt  have been  in Ms Bs best interests to commit her to making higher payments 
where doing so would be clearly unaffordable
But BoS has found no record of a full affordability  assessment  for Ms B in 2015. It says this 
is because no changes  were made  to way in which the mortgage was being  paid. 
Ive no reason to doubt Ms B made  the request. But I dont  think it wouldve been affordable 
for Ms B to have converted any of her mortgage  to repayment terms in 2015  even  if BoS had 
Ref: DRN31038713fully assessed  affordability then.  BoS had carried out an assessment of Ms Bs income  and 
expenditure in November  2014 when she was discussing  a payment arrangement  and her 
plans to pay off her arrears in 2015.  This showed she had a surplus  of around just £66 and 
had arrears on her utility bills. Ms B hasnt provided  any evidence  her financial position had 
improved significantly since then. 
In 2017 Ms B applied for a new interest rate product and her mortgage was reviewed. Ms B 
says she asked BoS again if she could  convert part of her interest only mortgage  to a 
repayment mortgage. She says she knew she wouldnt be able to meet the affordability 
criteria to convert the whole of the mortgage to repayment but shed  been  managing  to keep 
up with her payments  and paid off the arrears. 
The adviser assessed her income  and outgoings and explained it wasnt possible to include 
money she got from her lodger in assessing affordability given the uncertainty about  whether 
this would be a continuing source  of income.  For reasons Ive explained I think  it was 
reasonable for BoS to look at what was affordable for Ms B to work out what was in her best 
interests. I wouldnt  expect BoS to take the lodgers payments into account in assessing  this. 
From what  Ive seen, by 2017 Ms Bs financial situation  hadnt changed significantly from 
2015. The offer BoS made  to her in September 2017 also suggested she wanted  to keep her 
payments to £234  a month  and she planned to sell her house and downsize in around  two 
and half years time. So overall Im satisfied BoS treated Ms B fairly in refusing to convert  her 
mortgage to interest  only in 2017.  And BoS was able to offer Ms B a fixed interest rate 
product that would last for just over two years, which ties in with her plan to sell next year.
Bearing everything in mind, I think BoS has treated Ms B fairly and reasonably and I dont  
uphold her complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 September  2019.  
Julia Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3103871