K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that she was unaware  Cambria Automobiles (South East)  Limited  
(Cambria) had signed her up for a loan to fund insurance products.
background
In July 2016 Mrs C took out three  insurance policies for GAP insurance,  SMART repair  and 
tyre and alloy wheels, through Cambria. She subsequently discovered  that shed actually 
signed up for a fixed sum loan to fund these insurances and she says this wasnt made clear 
to her at the time and the policies were clearly  misrepresented  to her.
Mrs C said she became  aware of the issue when she decided  to cancel her insurances,  a 
couple of years after shed bought the car they were insuring. She said she was then told 
that it was a loan her direct debit was paying  off and not the insurance  policies. She wants 
Cambria to recognise  theyve mis-sold the loan and to pay off the balance.
Cambria didnt think theyd done anything wrong. They provided the signed loan and direct 
debit agreements and explained that the demands  and needs, finance disclaimer and duty of 
care documents for the loan were all emailed to Mrs C after she signed up for the loan.
But Mrs C disagreed. She said the sales agent  had rushed  her and that shed assumed the 
direct debit she was asked to pay was directly towards her insurance. So she referred her 
complaint to this service  and our investigator  took a look at the evidence.  She noted  that 
whilst some of the documents had been electronically signed  it was clear that the loan 
document and the direct  debit mandate  had been signed in person. She also noticed that the 
welcome letter that accompanied the loan agreement from the credit provider had listed the 
insurances it was funding so she said she didnt think she had evidence to demonstrate  the 
loan was mis-sold.
But Mrs C disagreed with the investigators view. She said she hadnt received  the welcome 
letter from the credit provider and hadnt  seen the loan agreement. She also questioned how 
the business manager could sign the loan agreement saying hed taken  all the necessary 
steps when it wasnt  him she had dealt with and he wasnt there. So she asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
If the finance deal was misrepresented to Mrs C, for instance, if it wasnt explained to her 
properly so she understood what she was entering  into. The relevant legislation  would allow 
me to ask Cambria to do something to put things right. 
Ref: DRN33042302But here I dont  think  I have enough  evidence  to suggest that was the case. I say that 
because:
Mrs C signed the loan agreement and the direct debit mandate  to say she agreed  to 
the finance
she completed the finance  application  form giving details of earnings and her 
employment and I think its most  likely she would have  understood this was for 
finance purposes
the vehicle  order form also shows the insurance product payment as finance due
the welcome letter from the credit provider lists the products its funding
I can see that Mrs C disputes having received much of this information but when taken 
together I think it builds  a persuasive picture that the finance provided had been explained 
properly.
I understand that Mrs C had to sign a lot of documents  and things  may have  seemed  rushed 
but I can see the requisite 14 day cooling off period was provided,  when she received the 
loan documentation  and at a point I think it would have been most apparent that finance had 
been applied  for.
I dont think its unusual  for a business  manager unconnected  with the sale to sign the loan 
agreement documentation.  He would be doing so on behalf of the business and I dont think 
that in itself is indicative of anything untoward  taking place.
Im also not persuaded that there was anything wrong with the documentation Mrs C 
received or anything  that would suggest  it had been  modified. 
So Im afraid  I dont have  enough information to suggest  that the agreement was mis-sold to 
Mrs C and Im therefore not going  to be asking Cambria to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3304230