K821x#15complaint
Mr K says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 3 instalment loans Uncle Buck Finance provided to Mr K between  
June 2015 and December 2016. Mr Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan 
No:Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidNo: of 
InstalmentsLoan 
AmountHighest Monthly 
Repayment
1 06/06/2015 28/08/2015 3 £150.00 £71.87
2 30/08/2015 28/11/2015 3 £125.00 £62.77
3 14/01/2016 31/03/2016 3 £100.00 £45.81
4 04/04/2016 30/06/2016 3 £125.00 £61.58
5 09/12/2016 20/02/2017 3 £200.00 £89.07
Mr K said the loans he was given  were unaffordable if Uncle Buck  Finance  had taken 
account of his income and expenditure at the time of the drawdown. So he concludes  Uncle  
Buck Finance lent to him irresponsibly.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ks complaint  and thought  the loans from 4 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Our adjudicator said the interest and charges on the two loans 
should be refunded to Mr K with interest  and they should  be removed from Mr Ks credit file.
Uncle Buck  Finance disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter to be 
looked at again. It added the following points:
Complete removal of two loans  from Mr Ks credit file will not give the correct picture 
of his lending  relationships;
He wasnt reliant  on short-term lending because there was a 6 month gap between 
loans 4 and 5. 
None of the parties has commented on loans 1 to 3 being rejected. So in this decision, I 
wont be looking at loans  1 to 3 again.  I will only be considering loans 4 and 5. However,  I 
will look at the full borrowing history  to assess the case  fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  Finance needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried  out proportionate  checks to 
make sure Mr K could  repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
Ref: DRN36026802of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck Finance should  fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  
These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  Finance was required to 
establish whether  Mr K could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Uncle Buck Finances lending history  with Mr K, with a 
view to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck Finance should reasonably have 
seen that further  lending  was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so Uncle Buck  
Finance should  have  realised that it shouldnt  have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ks case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
At this point Uncle Buck Finance ought to have realised Mr K was not managing  to 
repay his loans sustainably. Mr K had taken out 3 loans within  7 months and Mr K 
had been indebted  to Uncle Buck Finance for around 9 months. So Uncle Buck 
Finance ought  to have realised it was more  likely  than not Mr K was having to borrow  
further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous  loan was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Ks indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr Ks first loan was for £150  and loan 4 was for £125. At this point Uncle  Buck 
Finance ought  to have known that Mr K was not likely borrowing to meet  a temporary  
shortfall in their income but to meet  an ongoing need. 
Ref: DRN36026803Mr K wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Uncle  Buck Finance. 
Loan 5 was taken out around 12 months after Mr Ks first  allowing for a gap of 
around 6 months during which time Mr K cancelled three  loan applications with Uncle 
Buck Finance.  So although there was a gap between loans, I think  the three 
cancelled loan applications show Mr K would have continued the lending relationship 
with further short-term loans.
Also - although loan 5 wasnt  for a larger  amount  Mr K had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Uncle Buck Finance over an extended period.
I think that Mr K lost out because Uncle Buck Finance continued  to provide borrowing from 
loan 4 onwards  because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ks indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr K borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ks ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 4 and 5 and Uncle Buck  Finance should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck Finance LLP needs to do
refund  all interest, fees and charges Mr K paid on loans 4 and 5;
pay 8% simple interest per year on any refunded interest, fees and charges  from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 4 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So  having decided loans  4 and 5 should not have been 
given to Mr K - all entries about loans 4 and 5 should be removed from Mr Ks credit 
file. All other loans  will still remain on his credit  file and I think this still provides 
lenders with a picture of his financial status.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck Finance LLP to take off tax from this 
interest. Uncle Buck Finance LLP must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ks complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP should put things right for Mr K as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3602680