K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the term of his Hire Purchase  Agreement with Lex Autolease  Ltd (Lex 
Autolease) which he believes should have  been for 36 months  not 39 months.  He would like 
the agreement  to be taken as ending  after 36 months.
background
Mr C says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with Lex Autolease in October 2015. He 
believed the contract  was for a 36 month period as all of his previous hire periods had been. 
And says as he took out a service  subscription  for 36 months this shows he thought the 
contract was for 36 months.
He says he only realised  when Lex Autolease contacted him about  the end of his contract 
that the contract was for 39 not 36 months. He believes that the contract was altered to fit 
around the monthly amount  he wanted  to pay.
Our adjudicator considered Mr Cs complaint but didnt uphold it. She felt the documentation 
Mr C signed showed  the contract  was for 39 months.
Mr C didnt accept this view. He felt there were precedents to show  that proof that a 
customer had signed a contract  didnt in itself mean that a customers testimony  can be 
rebutted. 
Mr C also noted some additional points that he said he had not made in his original 
complaint. 
Firstly he said correspondence from Lex Autolease about extending the term of his 
agreement only mentioned in the small print its advice to book collection of a car a number 
of months in advance. Mr C felt this wasnt prominent but was also unreasonable.  And the 
additional costs  associated with a vehicle  being  collected after the end of a hire period 
werent mentioned
Secondly Mr C says Lex Autolease charged  him an additional 9 days rental when he should 
only have been  charged 5 days. He says he is still disputing this.
Thirdly Lex Autolease dropped a damage  charge of £250 as this had not been noted on an 
inspection report.  Mr C thinks  this should have been picked up without him having to 
question this. He feels this is further evidence  of Lex Auotlease not treating customers fairly.
Finally he noted Lex Autoleases final response letter did not set out Mr Cs referral rights to 
out service.
Since waiting for a final response from us Mr C has also noted that he expected his 
outstanding debt would be put on hold and not listed as a late payment with the Credit  
Reference Agencies (CRAs)
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN39657042Mr C feels strongly  about this. I am aware  he has requested on a number of occasions that 
he speaks with me about his complaint. I have considered Mr Cs request  we would 
normally only contact customers or businesses direct if there is a specific need to do so. I 
have decided not to speak to Mr C. Thats no disrespect  to him but having looked at all the 
evidence I have I feel I have sufficient information to make  a decision without needing to do 
so.
Ive noted that in Mr Cs response to our adjudicators view that he raised a number of points 
that he said he hadnt made in his original complaint. These were primarily around 
correspondence from Lex AutoLease when  Mr Cs Hire Purchase  Agreement  was due to 
end. And around  information on his credit file.
In this complaint  I can only look at the points Mr C originally complained  about  and which  
Lex Autolease has had a chance to respond  to. It wouldnt be fair to Lex Autolease  to do 
otherwise.  I understand Lex Autolease has responded  to Mr C about extra  charges at the 
end of his Hire Purchase Agreement.  If Mr C isnt happy with that response or with additional 
issues that werent part of this complaint  then he can, of course, consider putting in a further  
complaint to us.
Mr Cs main complaint is that he believed  he had agreed,  and signed  for, a Hire Purchase  
Agreement to last 36 months not 39 months.  He has said all of his previous agreements 
have been for 36 months. And he has given us some information to show he took out an 
InControl Remote  subscription for 36 months.  He says it would be illogical  to have  taken that 
out for 36 months  if he knew his contract was for 39 months.
I appreciate there is an anomaly between the contract and the remote control subscription 
length. I accept  it would be logical for the two to match and they dont. But I cant  be sure 
why that is  it may be that as Mr C says he genuinely thought  he signed a contract for 36 
not 39 months. It maybe  that Mr C made a mistake when he took out the subscription.
I cant be sure what was discussed when Mr C agreed the Hire Purchase. I dont have any 
written information that I can rely on other than the contract itself. Mr C says he only wanted 
monthly repayments of £500. He thinks the contract term may have been changed to fit in 
with that requirement   that is possible.
However I have to consider if I have any evidence to show  that Lex Auotlease did anything 
wrong and I dont think I have.
The signed  contract  which Mr C has been honest enough to say he just glanced  at but in 
the excitement  of getting his new car didnt go through in detail - clearly  states on the first 
page there is one advance  payment and 38 subsequent payments. With a total hire period of 
39 months. And the contract is for the amount  Mr C wanted at £498.98  per month.  
I can understand, in his excitement, Mr C might  not have read all of the small print in the 
contract but I am surprised he didnt take note of the key details on the first page. I believe 
they are sufficiently clear  for Mr C to have known  what  it was he was agreeing to.
As I dont believe I have any evidence to show that Lex AutoLease has done  anything wrong 
I dont think I can reasonably expect it to treat Mr Cs Hire Contract Agreement as being  for 
36 and not 39 months  as Mr C would  like.
Ref: DRN39657043my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman.
Ref: DRN3965704