K821x#15complaint
Mr W complained  that Evergreen Finance London  Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
MoneyBoat, sent emails  to his work  email  address, which  resulted in him receiving a 
disciplinary notice from his employer. 
background
In August  2018,  Mr W wanted to borrow £200  from MoneyBoat. He received an email at his 
work address asking  for copies of his payslips. He replied by email  at 9.54am on 13 August 
and asked that MoneyBoat only contact him via his personal email address. He explained 
that as well his concerns  about the emails being  a breach of the Data Protection  Act 
receiving personal emails via my work  email  address can hold me liable for disciplinary 
action. 
At 1.24pm MoneyBoat emailed Mr W again  at his work address. It referred to the loan 
agreement which Mr W had signed  and its need  to validate Mr Ws bank sort code. 
As a result of these emails Mr W had to attend an employee disciplinary hearing, at which he 
has said he was handed copies of the emails. Further  to the hearing he received  a written 
warning about  receiving personal communications received from a finance company on 
13/08/18 during  working hours. The warning was to remain on his personnel  records for 12 
months. 
Mr W complained  to MoneyBoat who apologised for the error and offered to write off the 
interest charges  on his loan which amounted to £43.77. Mr W didn't accept the offer and 
brought his complaint to this service. 
After correspondence  with Mr W and MoneyBoat,  and review of the disciplinary notices 
Mr W received  from his employer, one of adjudicators  upheld  the complaint and 
recommended that MoneyBoat pay a total of £250 to Mr W for the trouble and upset he had 
been caused. 
MoneyBoat didn't agree. In its correspondence  it queried the increase  in the recommended  
amount to be paid to Mr W. It explained that the contact  with Mr W had been made with the 
best of intentions in order to facilitate  his loan application. There  had been a crossover 
between the time Mr Ws email was seen  in the business relevant email  inbox and further  
contact being  made  with him. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so my conclusion is that Mr W is due some payment as a result  of the trouble 
and upset he was caused by MoneyBoat making  contact  with him on his work email  
address. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN31105392I have seen a copy of the loan agreement Mr W had with MoneyBoat  and note that Mr W 
had given his personal email  address.  Moneybox has said Mr Ws work  email address was 
supplied to it as part of the application  process  under  employment details. It said that whilst 
it does not specifically state  that the work  email would be used for there  is a link to our 
privacy policy  which  covers  this off (screenshots  attached).
The privacy  policy states Any contact details provided may be used to contact you to 
discuss any relevant issue (such as arrears,  underwriting verifications etc.).
MoneyBoat also said Furthermore consumer's  credit agreement also states:  '18. 
Miscellaneous: We reserve the right to attempt communication with you as reasonably 
required by us through any available means of contact. You also grant us permission to 
contact your employer at any time as may be reasonably required by us; the nature of the 
call will not be disclosed to any third party.'
Mr W had used his personal  email address as his contact point on the loan agreement,  so I 
dont agree MoneyBoat needed  to use the work email  address as being through any 
available means  of contact. I cant see that it was necessary and Mr W asked for this 
contact to stop and explained why. 
Receipt of Mr Ws 9.54am email is shown on MoneyBoats Account Notes records it has 
given us as being received at 9.58am. And this was reviewed as the receipt of the wage 
slips was recorded as being received at 10.03am. So this information  was available to 
MoneyBoat at the time the second email was sent at 1.24pm. 
I appreciate MoneyBoats comments that the contact made with Mr W was an error and was 
done with the best of intentions in order to facilitate the loan Mr W was asking for. But I think 
this misses the point.  The outcome of Mr W receiving contact from MoneyBoat at his work  
email address had significant implications for Mr W.
As a result of the emails  Mr W received a written warning which was to stay on his personnel  
records for 12 months  and according  to Mr W, on an otherwise spotless record. Mr W has 
also explained that during  the disciplinary hearing the emails had been printed out and 
handed to him  this seems likely and I have no reason to disbelieve Mr W. 
So, as well as having a written disciplinary on what Mr W has told us was an otherwise 
unblemished employee record,  Mr W had the additional embarrassment  of his employer 
being aware of his own personal financial circumstances. And undoubtedly Mr W would not 
wish for his financial information to be disclosed to anyone else,  and particularly his 
employer.
 As mentioned above, MoneyBoat was only trying to speed  up his application and I 
understand its good intentions. And I appreciate the error was a human one and there  was 
no deliberate intention to cause any harm  to Mr W. But the outcome is different, and Mr W 
has no doubt suffered,  and has had a difficult time as a result  of the communications. 
Id like to assure MoneyBoat, that any non-financial loss awards this service makes  are not 
plucked  out of thin air. A guide to what we consider reasonable under  various  
circumstances can be found on our website.
After taking account of what  we consider  reasonable, in Mr Ws particular circumstances I 
agree with the adjudicator  that the sum of £250 is a fair reflection of the trouble and upset 
Ref: DRN31105393Mr W has been caused. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and Evergreen Finance London Ltd 
should put things right by paying Mr W the amount of £250  in recognition of the trouble and 
upset he has been caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3110539