K822xcomplaint
L Limited, represented  by Mr W a director, complains about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc 
dealt with a Know Your Customer  exercise and threatened to close  its business bank 
account.
background 
HSBC says it tried unsuccessfully to contact  L Limited three  times  to obtain the information it 
required. As a consequence an account closure  letter was issued  on 1 October 2018 saying 
the account would be closed on 10 December  2018.  Its terms and conditions  say the 
account can be closed  for any reason by HSBC  giving  a minimum of two months  notice 
which it had done.  It normally tried three times  to contact  the customer but wasnt obliged  to 
do so. It subsequently confirmed in a letter on 15 October 2018 that the account wouldnt be 
closed and this was also communicated to Mr W the next day on the phone. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
HSBC hadnt  done anything technically wrong in relation to L Limiteds account. But 
there was poor customer service in some of the calls with Mr W and it didnt call back  
on some  occasions as promised. 
Mr W, acting  as a director,  says he had to spend considerable time resolving matters. 
Even so, hes confirmed L Limited  hasnt incurred any financial loss as a result. He 
says he personally  made  up for any lost productivity  due to the time spent dealing 
with HSBC and the business  hadnt lost any billed costs  to clients.  Theres also no 
evidence L Limited suffered any reputational damage.
The threatened account closure  and matter  was resolved by 16 October 2018. Prior 
to that there was only minor inconvenience to the company from the poor customer  
service. And a company cant suffer distress.
After that date Mr W continued calling HSBC despite the matter  being resolved and 
the account remaining open.  He cannot ask HSBC  to compensate Mr W for his own 
time he put in sorting things out for the company or for any distress and 
inconvenience he experienced personally after 16 October 2018. He doesnt  have 
the required personal relationship with HSBC to make a complaint  against it in his 
personal capacity. And the current complaint is brought by him as a director of and 
on behalf of L Limited.
HSBC has offered L Limited £250  compensation for the issues on a number  of calls. 
This is more than he would have been asking HSBC to do and so he cannot 
recommend it should have to do anything further.
Mr W remains very unhappy  and has made  and reiterated detailed submissions.  In summary 
he says HSBC hasnt  acted fairly. And its offer isnt enough to compensate for its significant 
failings. If he charged  for each phone call as HSBC does at say £50 an item, hed get a lot 
more compensation  than is on offer.  He continued  calling after 16 October as itd agreed to 
send a letter  confirming  the situation.  It dealt with him and his complaints poorly. He 
reasonably did some things in a personal  capacity  not as director of the company given he is 
the founder and main shareholder. He was also the only person with authority to deal with 
Ref: DRN35658812HSBC. Threatening  to close the companys bank account was as serious  as it can get. Hes 
asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W, as a director and on behalf of L limited,  has provided detailed submissions to support 
this complaint. Ive read and considered them all. But my findings  are expressed in 
considerably less detail. And they focus on what I think  are the main issues.
HSBC says it wasnt able to contact L Limited  despite trying a number of times when it 
needed more  information for a Know Your Customer exercise.  Mr W disputes HSBC tried to 
contact the company on the three occasions it says it did. But whatever happened  HSBC 
wasnt obliged to make  a set number of attempts to do so.
HSBC was entitled to close L Limiteds account for any reason by giving it a minimum of two 
months notice. And it was acting within the terms and conditions of the account when it sent 
an account closure letter on 1 October  2018 saying the account  would be closed on 10 
December 2018.  
I understand the problems an account  closure wouldve caused the company. As Mr W says 
it was its only business account. And I can therefore fully understand his frustration  at the 
situation and his desire to resolve  things  as quickly as possible.
Mr W, on behalf of L Limited, made a number of calls to HSBC  and by the 16 October 2018 
itd confirmed the account wouldnt in fact be closed. And I think  by that date the matter  was 
substantially resolved. 
L Limited is a limited  company which cannot  experience distress. And I think the company 
was only marginally inconvenienced  by the threat of the closure of the account, which was 
present for only a couple of weeks until 16 October 2018. The company also hasnt suffered 
any reputational damage or financial loss. Mr W accepts the company isnt out of pocket as 
a result of anything HSBC  did. Hes confirmed he personally made up for any lost 
productivity due to the time spent dealing with HSBC and the business hasnt lost any costs 
billed to clients
All consumers, including a small business like L Limited, and their representatives,  like its 
director Mr W, spend some time and experience some additional inconvenience in dealing 
with a complaint  and putting things right. We wouldnt generally  recommend theyre  
compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart from this approach 
in this case. 
So, taking everything  into account, I dont think theres anything to warrant  an award of any 
compensation to the company.
Mr W says he is the business founder, a main shareholder and the only person authorised to 
deal with HSBC.  And as he was largely  dealing  with HSBC in a personal capacity, not as a 
director of the company,  he should  be compensated for his personal time sorting things out, 
and the distress and inconvenience hes been caused.
Ref: DRN35658813But Im afraid I dont agree. Despite what Mr W says I think he was acting as a director of the 
company when dealing with HSBC  and resolving matters. He says he was the only person 
authorised to deal with HSBC and, as such,  I think it wouldve only dealt with him as a 
director of the company  not as an individual. I therefore think its reasonable to conclude on 
balance, notwithstanding  Mr W being the business founder  and a main shareholder, that he 
wasnt acting in a personal capacity as he suggests.
Furthermore Mr W in his personal capacity doesnt have the necessary relationship  with 
HSBC to allow him to raise a complaint against it.
Consequently I cannot consider his personal complaints or consider awarding  him 
compensation for anything he says the bank mightve done to or caused him personally.
Not withstanding  all this HSBC has offered to pay L Limited £250 compensation for the 
issues that arose on a number of calls. Taking everything into account I dont think I can 
fairly or reasonably require HSBC to do or pay anything more  as Mr W would like. So, I 
simply leave it to L Limited  to decide if it now wishes to accept this offer.
Although I recognise  Mr Ws strength of feeling and frustration,  I dont see any compelling  
reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask L Limited, through 
its director Mr W, to accept or reject my decision before  15 February 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3565881