K820x#14complaint
Mr P and Mrs T say that they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy by Nationwide Building Society  (Nationwide).
background
In 1997 Mr P and Mrs T applied for a mortgage. At the same time they took out a PPI policy 
in Mr Ps sole name to protect their repayments if Mr P lost his job or was unable to work  
due to accident or sickness. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld as she didnt think  there  was 
enough information to conclude the policy wasnt presented as optional and thought it 
provided a suitable benefit. 
Mr P and Mrs T disagree. They say they werent  aware they were sold the policy.
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr P and Mrs Ts complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr P and Mrs Ts complaint.
Neither Nationwide or Mr P and Mrs T know how the policy was sold.  But Nationwide had to 
make it clear  the PPI was optional and that Mr P and Mrs T chose to take it. Mr P and Mrs T 
say this wasnt done but havent given us much  detail about why they think  this. And 
Nationwide havent  been able to give us any of the sales documentation  from the time. But I 
think thats understandable as the PPI was sold over 20 years  ago. So Ive relied more  on 
what we know about the type of PPI products that were sold at the time and what I think  is 
most likely to have happened.
Only Mr P was covered  by the policy  but both Mr P and Mrs T were working and jointly  
responsible for the mortgage. If PPI wasnt optional I wouldve expected both parties  to the 
mortgage would have to be covered. So I think it is likely Mr P and Mrs T understood they 
had a choice in taking the policy  and chose to cover  just Mr P despite  both being  eligible for 
cover.
From what  we know of Nationwide PPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis.  
And I havent seen  anything from this sale to make me think  it was any different here. What  
this means is that Nationwide didnt recommend PPI to Mr P and Mrs T, it just gave them 
information about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so they could make an informed  choice  about buying PPI. 
Given the length of time that has passed  since the sale, I dont know if Nationwide  did give 
all the information  as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference  because I 
think Mr P and Mrs T wouldve still taken the policy if they were given all the proper 
information. I say this because at the time of the sale:
 
Ref: DRN33815302Mr P was eligible  for the policy.
And even though  Mr P has told us he suffered from a pre-existing medical condition  
at the time (which  wouldve been excluded under the policy)  he hasnt provided any 
evidence of this or shown why he mightve thought he would need time off work 
because of this condition. And it doesnt  look like he wouldve been caught by any of 
the other main  exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr P says he was entitled  to some sick pay and had savings they could use to make 
their mortgage repayments if he wasnt able to work.  But the policy  wouldve paid out 
on top of this and covered them for potentially longer for up to 24 months  per claim.    
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr P and Mrs T in their 
circumstances especially considering Mr P and Mrs T were taking on a significant 
and long term financial commitment.  Given the implications  if they were  unable to 
meet their repayments  I think  they wouldve been  interested in protecting  them. 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr P and Mrs T and if they 
no longer wanted the policy they were  able to cancel  it. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr P and Mrs T.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr P and Mrs Ts complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3381530