K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by Miss H in January 2000. The 
policy was added to Miss Hs credit card during a meeting in one of Halifaxs branches. The 
policy and card ended in April 2004.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint for the following reasons:
 I am persuaded  Halifax  made  Miss H aware that the PPI was optional  and she chose 
to take it. I say this because, although I cant be sure what  was said between both 
parties during  the meeting, I can see from the application form provided by Halifax  that 
PPI was presented  as an optional requirement. So after seeing this, on balance, I think  
that Miss H was more  likely  than not given a choice to have  PPI in the meeting and she 
agreed to it by signing the application  form. 
 I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Miss H in the meeting, so because  of this it 
had to check if the policy was suitable  for her. Halifax also had to ensure that the 
information it gave  Miss H was clear,  fair and not misleading  so that she could make  
an informed choice  about the insurance.  
 When looking at Miss Hs circumstances at the time, I think the policy was a suitable  
recommendation. Miss H says she had 12 months full sick pay but this is an unusually  
high amount for someone to have. So our service asked Miss H for further  information  
about this but understandably  due to the amount  of time that has passed she hasnt 
been able to provide anything to support this. So because of this I am persuaded that 
for any extended period of sickness or unemployment,  the benefit provided  by the 
policy would  have been of some use to Miss H. I could find any other reason why the 
policy would  be unsuitable for Miss H either.
 I dont think on this occasion Miss H was affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations within the policy such as those given  for pre-existing  medical conditions.  
 Im not sure if the costs were clearly  disclosed to Miss H. But I think she wouldve taken 
the policy  anyway even if they were  for the reasons  already given. The PPI policy was 
competitively priced  and affordable.   
Ref: DRN30485742So I think it unlikely Miss H would  have made  a different decision if better  information  had 
been provided and I think  the policy recommended  was suitable for her. So I dont uphold 
her complaint.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October  2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3048574