K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains about the lack of support provided  by Premium Choice Ltd when she made 
a claim on her motor insurance policy and that it cancelled her policy. She wants an 
explanation and understanding of her position.  
background
Ms C was involved  in an accident  and she said she called the claims number she saw on her 
broker Premium  Choices website. But this was in fact the number for claims made through  
the legal  protection addition to Ms Cs policy and provided by solicitors. Ms C said she was 
unhappy with the service  the solicitors provided.  She said she didnt know  the service  was 
separate from her insurer. 
And Ms C was also unhappy that when she told Premium Choice of a change in address, it 
cancelled her policy as it said the insurer wouldnt cover that postcode.  She didnt think  
Premium Choice then gave her the correct refund or asked  her to pay the correct  amount.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He explained  that 
Ms C should  raise her concerns about the solicitors  directly  with the firm. He thought  clearer 
information could  have been  provided  about the two claims lines.  But he thought Ms C would 
most likely have still taken the option she did due to the financial benefits. So he didnt think 
this had caused Ms C any loss. 
The investigator thought Premium Choice hadnt  made an error in cancelling  the policy  as 
the insurer wouldnt offer cover for the new post code. He looked at how the premium  due 
and the amount owing  had been calculated.  He thought Ms C had been asked to pay the 
correct amount. So he didnt think Premium Choice had made an error. 
Ms C replied  that she was disappointed  that neither of her complaints was upheld. She 
thought Premium Choice  should have provided clearer  information about its claims lines. 
She said the whole  process caused her stress  because of the threat of having to repay  the 
car hire costs and find money to pay for new cover elsewhere. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Ms C feels frustrated and disappointed by the level of service she 
received. Shes described the stress she experienced after her non-fault  claim, the stress of 
making calls, sending information, and being threatened with court proceedings. And I can 
see that shes had to spend  a lot of time on this. 
I can also see that many of Ms Cs concerns were  about the level of service provided  by the 
solicitors. She said she was stressed because the other drivers insurer  disputed the costs of 
a hire car provided  by the solicitors and court proceedings were issued. She thought the 
claim was delayed. But, as the investigator  has explained, I cant  look at these concerns 
here. Ms C will need to complain directly  to the solicitors  and, if she remains unhappy, she 
should raise her concerns with the Legal  Ombudsman.  
Ref: DRN33544772But I can look at Ms Cs complaint that Premium Choice  pushed her down this route  rather 
than claiming through her insurer. She said it did this by not providing clear  information on its 
website. 
When Ms C first took out her policy through Premium Choice she was sent two emails. The 
first email  provided the policy documents, stated the name  of the insurer  and provided 
details of its claim line. So I think if Ms C wanted to make  a claim on her insurance, then this 
would be the number she should have  called.
The second  email sent to Ms C contained details of the additional products shed bought,  
including her Legal Protection  Claims Service. This is for recovering non-insured losses  in a 
non-fault claim and the details say its provided  by a solicitors firm. 
So I think Ms C was provided with clear  information  when she took out her policy  about how 
to make a claim. But when Ms C wanted to make a claim, she said she looked at Premium 
Choices website and called a number for claims. But Ms C called  the non-fault claims 
service and not Premium Choice or her insurer when she made her claim.  So Premium 
Choice didnt provide Ms C with advice about her options at this time and so I cant  
reasonably hold it responsible for the choice she made. 
But I agree  with the investigator that the information  on Premium Choices website doesnt 
make it clear  that calling  the legal protection claims number would take Ms C though  to a 
different company. 
In that case, I need to consider what would have happened if Ms C had been provided with 
better information at the time. I also agree  with the investigator that if Ms C had been 
provided with better information and her options had been explained, then shed most likely 
have chosen the route  she did. 
This is because Ms C told us she was struggling  financially  at the time. If shed claimed  
through her insurer, then shed have been liable for the £750 policy excess  to have her car 
repaired. She also said she needed  a hire car, which was provided by the solicitors.  The 
claim through the insurer would also have affected Ms Cs future premiums. 
I know that Ms C was unhappy with the service  she was later provided. But she wouldnt 
have known that at the time.  So I think the financial advantages of going with the non-fault 
claims service  would have persuaded her along  this route if shed been provided with better 
information. So I cant say that Premium Choice was responsible  for the problems Ms C later 
encountered. 
Ms C said she was also unhappy that her policy was cancelled  due to her change  in 
address. Ive seen  evidence  that the underwriter wasnt willing  to accept  the risk of the new 
address. So I cant  hold Premium Choice responsible for the cancellation.  
Ms C said she was confused by the different calculations she received for amounts owing 
when her policy was cancelled. Like the investigator, Ive looked at Premium Choices terms 
of business and cancellation  charges. And I think the calculation  of mid-term cancellations is 
clearly set out. The first calculation Ms C received didnt include a refund of the insurers 
premium due to the claim still being  open. I dont  think this is unusual. 
Ref: DRN33544773But the second calculation provided for a pro-rata  refund of this allowing for Ms Cs time on 
cover. I think the amount  still owing for the cancelled policy was then correctly calculated  
according to the terms of business. I can see that Premium Choice agreed for Ms C to repay 
this in a payment plan. I think this was fair and reasonable. 
I can understand that Ms C found  the experience of making her first claim stressful  and 
confusing. But, as Ive set out above,  I cant  reasonably  hold Premium Choice responsible 
for this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3354477