K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained that HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt correctly update his name and 
title details after he transitioned, which he says caused him upset, embarrassment and 
inconvenience.
background
Mr M has told us that in August 2017  he moved  to a new address, in part so he could live in 
a community that was unaware of his transition. He feels that HSBCs actions have led to 
this personal information  becoming known to others in his local community.
Mr M says he provided HSBC with his new address  details in August 2017 and also 
enclosed his deed poll, confirming his name change and title change  from Miss  to Mr. In 
September 2017, Mr M says he found  he was unable  to access  his account online, and that 
his ATM  usage had been restricted.  He says he called HSBC,  and the service  was 
reinstated. Mr M has also told us he re-sent HSBC  his deed poll at this time. 
HSBC has told us it doesnt have any records of receiving details of Mr Ms change of name  
or title at any point  prior to December  2017. The business has located  a call record,  dated 3 
October 2017, in which Mr M provided  his new address  details, but says there is no record  of 
any further changes  to personal  details.
Mr M has told us that his account was frozen  again  in October 2017. Mr M says he made a 
number of calls to HSBC  in November 2017,  during  which  HSBC  said his account had been 
frozen due to security  concerns. Hes also said that he was required to explain his transition 
history to various HSBC  representatives during these  calls, which  caused  him distress. 
However, HSBC has told us that it has no record  of these calls and that, prior to December 
2017, no blocks or ATM withdrawal limits were applied.
I understand HSBC  sent a letter to Mr M at his new address on 17 October 2017. This letter 
was addressed to Mr Ms former name, and requested him to provide proof  of identification 
and address by 13 December  2017. The reason given  for this request was that it was part of 
HSBCs ongoing security  measures, which it called safeguarding procedures. 
Mr M received a similar letter  the following month,  dated 17 November 2017.  Shortly 
afterwards, he received a further letter, dated  28 November 2017. This letter said that, if the 
requested information  wasnt  provided,  a temporary  restriction might  be placed on the 
account. The letter gave  an example of a £50 ATM withdrawal limit as the type of restriction 
that might  be put in place.
HSBC says that a call took place on 15 December 2017 and, due to security concerns, Mr M 
was asked to visit a branch with identification documents.  A block on telephone banking was 
applied to the account at this time. 
I understand Mr M visited his branch on 23 December 2017  to provide his identification 
documents. HSBC  has told us that a change  of name request, from Mr Ms former name to 
his current name, was logged during this visit. 
Mr M says during this branch visit he was told that the block on his account would be 
removed within five days, but that this didnt happen. He also says he was unable  to access 
his funds. Mr M says he was advised to visit the branch  again  to resolve the problems. 
Ref: DRN32173472However, he says he was unable to do so due to having recently  started a new job, and 
being unwilling  to take time off. He also pointed out that hed already provided all the 
necessary documentation.
Mr M complained to HSBC in March 2018, and explained the various problems hed 
experienced with his account since September 2017, as detailed above. He also referred to 
his previous requests to update his name and title, and explained he thought this was linked 
to the problems on the account. Mr M also raised concerns about  text messages he had 
received from HSBC saying he was overdrawn,  and said he was unable to address this 
because he couldnt  access  the account  or query the balance  through telephone banking.
HSBC responded  to the complaint on 23 April 2018 and apologised for the service it had 
provided. It said its safeguarding procedures started once it became aware of Mr Ms change  
of name  and this is why the £50 withdrawal  limit was applied.  HSBC also said that Mr Ms 
title and name change had been  updated,  but that one of Mr Ms accounts  had been omitted 
from this process, so subsequent statements may have been incorrectly addressed as a 
result. Lastly, HSBC  said that Mr Ms telephone banking details had not been  unlocked as 
they shouldve  been following his branch visit in December, which is why Mr M had 
continued to experience problems with his account.  HSBC offered Mr M £100 compensation 
to resolve the complaint.
 
Mr M didnt  accept HSBCs proposed resolution and referred his complaint to our service. 
HSBC then explained that some  of the information  it had provided  in its initial response  to Mr 
Ms complaint was incorrect. Specifically, HSBC clarified that the safeguarding  information 
request and associated correspondence pre-dated receipt of any notification from Mr M of 
his name  and title change. As such, HSBC explained it wasnt  possible for the name  and title 
change request to have  triggered the safeguarding  processes. It also said that a £50 
withdrawal limit had never been  applied.
Our investigator reviewed  the case and said there wasnt enough evidence to confirm HSBC 
was aware of Mr Ms transition, name change,  or title change,  prior to his branch visit on 23 
December 2017.  However, our investigator  said that, following this visit, HSBC shouldve  
done more to ensure all his accounts were  updated and that this change was processed in a 
timely manner. As such, our investigator  thought the initial  offer of £100  was insufficient, and 
recommended that HSBC  to pay a total of £250  to reflect the upset and inconvenience 
caused in this case.
Mr M disagreed with our investigators view. He said he was considering moving  home 
again, as he believed his private  information had become known to some members  of his 
local community due to HSBCs actions. Specifically,  Mr M said that the postal service 
worker who delivered the letters  addressed  to his former name  had commented  on the 
discrepancy, and had remarked  to his mother that he thought it was just her and her son 
living at that address. Mr M felt that, due to the small community  in which he had settled, this 
information could  become  more widely known.
As such,  Mr M felt HSBC should  cover  all costs  that may result from a potential relocation, 
as well as providing  compensation for the upheaval and impact on his health, relationships 
and time associated with any such relocation. Mr M requested an ombudsmans  decision, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN32173473my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mr Ms complaint for broadly the same reasons as our investigator,  and I agree with the 
£250 compensation shes recommended  in this case. Ill explain why.
Mr M has said that from September  2017 he experienced various difficulties accessing his 
accounts. HSBC  has told us no ATM withdrawal  limits were applied  to his account and I 
cant see that any other blocks were applied  that would have limited withdrawals to £50. I 
can see from Mr Ms statements that he made ATM withdrawals each month from August 
2017 to March 2018, as well as other  card transactions in shops and online. So I dont  think  
that Mr Ms ATM access was blocked or that he couldnt use his card during this period.
HSBC has also told us that no blocks were applied prior to December 2017, and that it has 
no record of any calls from Mr M relating to concerns about his account access before this 
date. HSBC has been able to identify  a call on 3 October 2017,  but this appears to relate 
solely to Mr Ms new address. Our investigator  asked Mr M to provide evidence  of any of the 
calls to HSBC he said hed made, but he explained  that his phone provider wasnt able to 
provide this information.
In addition, HSBC  has told us that it has no records of Mr M requesting  changes  to his name 
or title prior to December 2017, by telephone  or any other channel.  And Mr M has been 
unable to provide  any proof that these  documents were sent, as he has told us they were  
sent by unregistered post. 
Overall, having reviewed the information  we have,  Im not able to say that Mr Ms account 
access was limited prior to December 2017, or that HSBC was aware  of Mr Ms name and 
title change before this date. So, even though I acknowledge the distress and concern 
caused to Mr M, I cant hold HSBC responsible for any incorrectly  addressed  
correspondence sent prior to December 2017.
HSBC has confirmed a telephone banking  block  was placed on Mr Ms account after a call 
on 15 December 2017, due to security concerns. Mr M was asked to visit his branch with 
identification documents. As security  concerns  were  raised in this call, I think  HSBC  acted 
appropriately in applying a telephone banking block until these  issue  were resolved. 
HSBC has accepted it is responsible for various errors following Mr Ms visit to the branch on 
23 December to provide  his identification document. Firstly, HSBC has explained that Mr Ms 
name and title were  not correctly updated on one of his accounts,  which  I understand 
resulted in further incorrect  correspondence being  sent. Secondly, the overall process 
shouldve taken place  more quickly, especially given the sensitive nature of Mr Ms request. 
And HSBC  has explained  that the blocks that had been applied  to telephone banking  due to 
security concerns shouldve been removed, and that this didnt happen correctly. 
I think Mr M is entitled to compensation for these mistakes, which understandably  caused 
him distress. And I agree with our investigator  that £250 is an appropriate amount for HSBC 
to pay in these  circumstances.
Mr M feels strongly that more compensation  is due, because of the impact these events 
have had on him. He has explained his concerns that members  of his local community  have 
Ref: DRN32173474been made aware of private information relation to his transition due to correspondence sent 
by HSBC. It is clear that this matter has been  deeply  upsetting  for Mr M.
However, whilst  I have  great sympathy for Mr M and his concerns, much of the situation  that 
that he has described cannot be linked  to HSBCs errors in this case. I say this because the 
letters that Mr M received  in October and November  2017, addressed to his former name, 
were sent before I can fairly say HSBC was made aware of his updated details. Mr M has 
told us he raised his concerns about the postal workers comments  during his branch visit in 
December 2017,  so it appears this issue stemmed from the earlier  letters HSBC sent.
I understand subsequent letters were also sent addressed to Mr Ms former name during the 
period in which HSBC was processing his title and name change. But, although I 
acknowledge the distress and frustration this mustve caused  Mr M  I cant  say this led to 
any private information being shared. However,  I do think  HSBC shouldve processed  these  
changes more quickly, and the compensation Ive awarded takes  this into account
Overall, given the sensitive nature of Mr Ms situation, I wouldve expected HSBC to have 
treated this situation  with more care and urgency. I also note that HSBCs investigation of Mr 
Ms complaint has not been of a high standard, and he was originally given a response  
based on incorrect information. 
In summary,  Im upholding  this complaint  and instructing HSBC to pay Mr M compensation 
of £250. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  HSBC  to pay Mr M £250 in compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused in this case. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Ellie Clare
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3217347