K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about Aviva Insurance Limiteds settlement of their travel insurance 
claim and about its service.
background
Mr and Mrs L have travel insurance through Mr Ls bank account.  The insurer  is Aviva.
While Mr and Mrs L were on holiday with their family their villa was robbed  and they claimed 
for the stolen items. Aviva accepted the claim and offered a partial settlement.
Mr and Mrs L complain that Avivas settlement offer isnt fair because:
it pays only £57.35  for his iPad smart keyboard (the amount he paid for it on eBay)  
rather than the replacement value of £169. Mr L says if he hadnt produced the 
receipt Aviva would have paid the replacement value
it doesnt include payment for their daughters reading glasses, which  Mr L says he 
paid for a few years  ago
it pays only £400 for Mr Ls iPad instead  of £919 it would cost to replace.
Mr and Mrs L are also unhappy about  Avivas  service. Mr L says he tried to speak to Aviva 
but it didnt contact him and he spent a lot of time chasing  it.
Aviva says its settled the claim  fairly under the policy terms and gave reasonable service.
Our investigator thought Aviva should  pay the full value of the iPad smart keyboard so Mr L 
could replace it. Otherwise  Avivas settlement and service was fair. Mr and Mrs L agreed  to 
our investigators recommendation. Aviva didnt agree and wanted an ombudsman decision. 
It said the policy was very clear  it wouldnt pay more than the original purchase price  for an 
item.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to not uphold  this complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether Avivas offer of settlement for the claim and its service were fair 
and reasonable,  and I think  they were. Im intending to not uphold this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
claim
The policy says:
At our option, we will settle  any claim by payment or replacement. We will pay claims 
for baggage  and valuables based on their value  at the time of loss. We will not pay 
the cost of replacing them with new items,  and we will not pay more that the original 
purchase price of any lost or damaged items.
The policy isnt a new for old policy; it doesnt pay for a policyholder to replace a stolen item 
with a new replacement.  The policy  is also clear  that Aviva  wont pay more than the original 
purchase price for an item.
Ref: DRN30077122Mr L bought the iPad smart keyboard  for a very competitive price on eBay and I accept  he 
may not be able to get a replacement for a similar  price. But that doesnt mean Aviva should  
pay for the cost of replacement, or more than the original  price he paid for the item, when the 
policy is so clear about what Aviva will cover.
The policy does say Aviva  can choose  to replace items rather  than pay for items. Theres no 
evidence about  what it would cost Aviva to replace the item. But Aviva chose to make  a 
payment (as is usual  for travel insurance claims) rather  than provide replacements.  So that 
part of the policy wording isnt a basis to say Aviva should pay £169 for Mr L to replace the 
item.
Mr L says if he hadnt  sent the receipt  Aviva  would have paid the replacement value, as it did 
for the claimed  for power adaptor and cable. But Mr and Mrs Ls claim form said the 
purchase price of the stolen power  adaptor  and cable was £48, not the replacement  cost.
Aviva acted fairly in offering £57.35 for the iPad smart keyboard.
The policy is also clear that theres  an individual item limit of £400. So although Mr L paid 
more for his iPad,  and says it will cost £919  to replace, Aviva can fairly offer him £400  for the 
item. Mr L says he wasnt told about  the limit. But the limit is clear in the table of benefits in 
the policy summary. Most,  if not all, travel insurance  policies have individual/single item 
limits.
Aviva doesnt have to pay for Mr and Mrs Ls daughters stolen glasses.  The policy does 
cover dependants of the policy holder(s) if at the start of the trip the dependant  is under 
23 years  old, in full time education and living at home outside of term time. But their 
daughter doesnt  meet  the criteria  so her items arent covered by the policy.
Mr L says he paid for the glasses several  years  ago so in effect the glasses are his asset. 
However, its clear from the receipt  that the glasses are his daughters  and Aviva doesnt  
need to pay for the glasses.
I know Mr and Mrs L feel strongly that theyve been penalised for being honest  in their claim.  
They say Avivas approach of using the policy small print encourages policyholders  to play 
the system. But Aviva is reasonably able to expect a policyholder to make an honest claim 
(and take steps when that doesnt happen). It has fairly relied on the policy wording to 
assess the settlement.
Aviva has made a fair and reasonable settlement offer for the claim.  Originally  Mr and Mrs L 
declined the offer. If the offer still hasnt been paid and Mr and Mrs L now want  to accept 
they should contact Aviva direct.
Ref: DRN30077123service
Mr and Mrs L say he had to chase Aviva to get a response. They  submitted the claim form 
on 21 August and Mr L chased for a response on 31 August. That period isnt an 
unreasonable delay by Aviva and it had told Mr L (on 20 August) that it would take seven to 
ten working days to assess the claim.  Aviva  contacted Mr L on 31 August to discuss  the 
claim and, after Mr Ls formal complaint, it sent its final response letter on 5 September.
Aviva gave reasonable service in assessing the claim and responding to the complaint in the 
above timescale.
Mr L wanted to speak to Aviva about  the claim after the final response letter and he didnt 
always get a call back. However, by then Aviva had already told Mr L its position  and if he 
was still dissatisfied  he could complain to us. Aviva didnt have to continue  discussions about 
the claim at that point.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither party responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision so Ive no reason  to change my 
mind. For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings I dont uphold 
this complaint. Aviva made a fair and reasonable settlement offer for the claim.  Aviva gave 
reasonable service  in assessing the claim and responding to Mr Ls complaint to it.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 September 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3007712