K820x#14complaint
Mr G, represented by a claims management company (CMC),  complains that he was mis-
sold an Adaptable Life Plan whole of life policy by Zurich Assurance Ltd.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Gs complaint  in which I explained  why I didnt think it 
should be upheld.  A copy  is attached and forms part of this final decision. 
In short,  I said that although a whole  of life policy wouldnt  generally be seen as a suitable 
means by which  to protect a mortgage,  in Mr Gs specific circumstances I didnt think it was 
an unreasonable recommendation. This was because there was a clear  requirement for 
some additional  cover and, further, the policy was effectively  set up on a standard  basis,  
reducing the risk of the level of cover  needing to be significantly reduced in the future.     
Zurich accepted my decision and confirmed  it had nothing further to add. 
Mr Gs CMC responded to say, in brief:
Mr G had a repayment mortgage  that would indicate a low risk attitude. He wanted  
certainty the mortgage would  be repaid at the end of the term. A whole of life policy 
contained an investment element  that was unnecessary and potentially above  Mr Gs 
agreed attitude to risk.
My alternative suggestion of a decreasing term policy and a family protection  policy  
wouldve been correct  to protect  Mr Gs needs.  It wouldve enabled  him to tailor the 
family protection policy  in line with his children's dependency.  
The point  raised in regards to Mr G's second property was irrelevant and should be 
treated as a completely separately issue as this complaint  is about  the family  
protection Mr G wanted and protecting his mortgage.
Its normal practice to provide protection for a mortgage on a separate basis and to 
cover any other  protection needs  with a separate policy  to provide flexibility  to ensure 
it meets the customers needs.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the further 
submissions, to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I find Im still of the view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
As I noted  in my provisional decision, I accept there was an issue with risk and the suitability 
of using a whole of life policy to protect a significant  fixed liability  like a mortgage. But I 
thought in this particular  case this was balanced  against the fact that the policy was set up in 
such a way as to ensure, as far as possible, that future reviews of its performance  would  
have minimal impact. And in any event the sum assured would be guaranteed  not to reduce 
from a level far in excess of the initial mortgage balance for at least 10 years.  
I also acknowledged that, as is often the case,  there wouldve been alternative  ways  of 
providing the required cover. But, again,  in the specific circumstances of Mr Gs situation I 
didnt think that the recommended  whole of life policy was necessarily rendered unsuitable 
simply because more  commonly  used  alternatives  wouldve  been  available. 
Ref: DRN38816012Lastly in respect of the second property, I mentioned this solely  with the intention  of 
illustrating the possibility that Mr Gs circumstances may not have been entirely typical.  But 
in any event, this doesnt impact  on my overall conclusion that Zurichs recommendation to 
Mr G was broadly suitable.   
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38816013COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr G, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that he was mis-sold an 
Adaptable Life Plan whole of life policy by Zurich  Assurance Ltd. 
background
Mr G was recommended the policy in 1996. At the time he was in his 30s, self-employed and married 
with two dependent children. He held a repayment mortgage  in joint names  with his wife that had an 
outstanding balance of £104,000 and 19 years of its term remaining. It was documented that Mr G 
had no life cover in place and his priority  was to provide financial protection for his family. 
The Adaptable  Life Plan was recommended to meet this need, with a sum assured  of £150,000  for a 
monthly premium  of just under £69. The policy commenced in September 1996 but then lapsed  
shortly after in 1999.
In 2018 Mr Gs CMC  complained to Zurich that the policy  had been mis-sold, primarily  because  of the 
risk of using a whole of life policy to protect a mortgage when more  suitable, no-risk term products  
wouldve been  available. 
Zurich didnt  uphold the complaint. In brief, it was satisfied that the policy met Mr Gs need for a 
combination of mortgage and family cover.  In respect of risk, it emphasised that the main purpose of 
the policy  was protection and not investment.  
The complaint was then referred  to this service. Our investigator  felt it should be upheld on the basis 
that a level term assurance policy, with a sum assured and term matching the mortgage,  wouldve 
been a more suitable recommendation. The level cover wouldve  provided an increasing amount of 
extra family protection as the mortgage  balance  decreased.  
Zurich remained of the view that the policy  had been suitable for Mr G, so the matters  been referred  
to me to review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive come to a different conclusion  to that reached 
by the investigator. I think the policy was broadly suitable for Mr Gs circumstances and Ill explain 
why. 
Generally speaking, a whole of life policy wouldnt be seen as a suitable  means by which  to protect a 
mortgage. As an investment-linked insurance product  a whole of life policy involves  a degree of risk 
that could lead to the premiums increasing  and becoming unaffordable  during the term of the 
mortgage, potentially  leaving  the customer without cover. Conversely, a term assurance policy, such  
as the investigator suggested, would  have premiums  that are set at the outset, meaning  that as long 
as theyre maintained the cover is guaranteed.
But in Mr Gs case  it doesnt  appear that the situation is quite as straightforward as simply  needing to 
cover a mortgage. He and his wife certainly had a mortgage and didnt have any existing protection 
for it. So they clearly had a need for some  type of life insurance.  But, importantly, it was recorded that 
they wanted more than just mortgage protection; they wanted to ensure  they also had some general 
family protection. 
There were  a number of ways in which  this couldve been achieved. Mr G couldve  done as the 
investigator suggested and taken out a level term policy. That wouldve provided  an increasing 
amount of extra cover  as the mortgage balance  decreased. But this wouldve ended with the 
Ref: DRN38816014mortgage after 19 years and Im not sure Mr G would  necessarily have  wanted the family cover to 
end at that point. It would also have meant that there wouldve been very little additional cover for the 
first few years.  
Alternatively, Mr G couldve taken out a decreasing term policy specifically  for the mortgage  and 
separate cover to meet the family  protection need. The separate cover  couldve been set up with a 
longer term than the mortgage, but Mr G would nevertheless have needed to select  a specific term at 
the outset, limiting its flexibility.
So, neither of these wouldve been ideal.  And that being so, I dont  think  it was unreasonable to 
recommend the Adaptable Life Plan. I think its important to highlight that the plan was set up as the 
Lifetime Protection  version, which was designed to provide a sum assured  that remained the same 
throughout the policyholders lifetime. 
With the sum assured at around £50,000 more than the mortgage borrowing, and it being indexed,  it 
was therefore likely to be the case that the plan would provide both the mortgage cover and the extra 
family cover. And in the unlikely event that the sum assured  did need  to be reduced, it would not be 
until 10 years  had passed,  more than midway through the remaining mortgage  term, when the 
balance would  be around half what it had been at the outset. So, in short, the risk of the mortgage not 
being covered at any point wouldnt be significant. 
Further to this was the fact that it was recorded that Mr and Mrs G owned  another property. And while 
little is known  about this, I think it shows that their circumstances werent as straightforward as simply 
owning their own home and therefore needing life cover  to protect the mortgage associated with it. 
They clearly had other options available  to them and some flexibility  in their circumstances, which 
suggest that their protection needs were not typical.
As such, I think that given Mr Gs specific needs and circumstances the recommendation of the 
Adaptable Life Plan was generally suitable.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, I dont currently think  the 
complaint should be upheld. 
Ref: DRN3881601