K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that his Standard Life Assurance Limited endowment  policy has performed 
poorly when compared to the returns he has received on another endowment  policy held 
with a different  insurance firm. He wants a maturity payment  of at least  £46,604,  this being 
the projected value  he was given when he took out the policy.
background
An investigator at this service did not believe his complaint should be upheld  as the figure 
quoted was merely  a projection based on certain investment returns/bonus rates and was 
not guaranteed. As Standard Life had explained, bonus rates had declined significantly in 
the intervening  years.
He also said that investments  vary considerably, and therefore it wasnt  surprising that some  
products had done better than others.  This, however, was not a basis for upholding a 
complaint about  a lower returning  fund.
He also didnt accept  Mr Zs complaint that the wording  of the final bonus was misleading or 
unreasonable.
He pointed out that Mr Z had taken out this policy via a third party, against whom he had 
also complained,  and Standard Life could not be held responsible for the other  issues Mr Z 
had raised.
Mr Z did not agree, saying:
Standard Life should not be allowed to rely on a series of get-out clauses when 
providing misleading information or of using  these clauses as an excuse for poor 
returns compared to their competitors
For example, a 33% return  set against  103% return on a similar policy  via another 
company
Given these products are designed  to iron out market volatility,  he would expect 
major companies returns to be similar  over 40 years
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. From what  Ive read,  
Standard Life did not recommend this policy to Mr Z and was therefore  not responsible for 
explaining that the illustrated returns/bonus rates were not guaranteed. Instead, it merely 
had to ensure  this was clearly spelt out in the literature. I am satisfied it did this and I dont 
agree that the wording was misleading.
The fact that other  policies sold by different providers may have done better than this 
particular investment does not indicate that Standard Life has done  something wrong   for 
the reasons explained by the investigator. I therefore dont believe there are any valid 
grounds to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN32325022my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3232502