K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains that she received poor customer service  from Marks & Spencer Financial 
Services Plc when requesting a CHAPS payment. She says that this caused her distress 
and inconvenience  and she would like compensation for this.
background 
In April 2018, Mrs Ks solicitors transferred a large sum of money  (around  £424,000) via 
CHAPS into her M&S  bank account.  She contacted  the bank  to tell them that the money 
would only be in her account for a short time until she bought a house. 
On 22 May 2018, when  Mrs K had found a house to buy, she rang the bank in the evening to 
ask them  to make a CHAPS transfer the next day for £41,500 to her solicitor. She told the 
bank it was the deposit for a house purchase. She was told there would be a £20 charge  for 
this which  she agreed to. Whilst on the phone,  she told the bank that she would be 
requesting a further CHAPS transfer to her solicitor again for around £345,000.  She was told 
to ring at the time and confirm the amount to be transferred. 
In the evening on 6 June  2018, Mrs K phoned the bank to ask them to transfer £340,589.30 
via CHAPS to her solicitor.  Mrs K was told that because  of the large  transaction  amount, it 
could take up to 2 working days for the request to be processed. Mrs K emphasised the 
need for the funds to be in her solicitors account the next day as she was due to complete 
her house  purchase  on 8 June 2018. 
Mrs K says that she then checked the terms and conditions  of her account  and found  that a 
transfer could  be made  on the same day if requested before 3.30pm. She called the bank 
again to discuss  this. She was told that she had been given the right information  in the 
previous phone call. She was told that she might be looking  at the wrong  terms and 
conditions as these  are regularly updated.  It appears that, when  she checked, she had the 
most up to date terms and conditions.  The phone  call was cut short. 
Mrs K phoned the bank  again and spoke to someone who told her that checks had to be 
done before  a transfer could be made. Mrs K asked  for a call the following morning at 9am to 
see whether the money could be transferred.
The bank called  the following morning (7 June 2018). They told Mrs K again that security 
checks were being  done.  
Mrs K says that she contacted the bank  a number of times by phone and twitter that morning 
and after lunch. She says she explained  numerous times that the money  was going back  to 
the same  solicitors account  that it had come  from. She also questioned why no one had 
raised that security  checks  would  be needed  before. 
The payment eventually went through that afternoon.  
Mrs K raised a compliant with the bank. 
The bank responded saying:
Ref: DRN37793422I am sorry you were unhappy  with the timescales to transfer £340,589.30. The advisor  
gave you correct information that it can take two working days for payments over 
£100,000 to be processed. 
However, we have spoken with the project  managers and  have updated  this  process, 
if a large  payment request is made before  3.30pm it will be processed the same  day, 
unless we reasonably  suspect fraud. They are looking to review the terms  and 
conditions on the current account to reflect  this. Unfortunately, we are unable  to give 
you a timescale when this will happen.
They refunded the £20 fee that Mrs K had incurred and gave her £50 for the inconvenience 
caused. 
Mrs K wasnt  happy with this decision so she came  to us.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ks complaint. She asked the bank to pay a further  £150  in 
compensation to Mrs K. 
Mrs K didnt think that this was enough  so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mrs K wont be happy with my decision. I think that the further £150 offered is 
enough to cover the distress and inconvenience Mrs K suffered. I will explain why. 
I think that the bank  did offer poor service. Their terms and conditions  clearly stated that 
Mrs Ks transfer could be processed on 7 June 2018 as she had requested it before 3.30pm 
that day (she had requested it on 6 June 2018). So, it seems  that they did something else 
entirely by relying  on a policy  that Mrs K wasnt  even  aware of. 
I note that they might  be updating these terms and conditions to reflect Mrs Ks case. But, at 
the time,  this hadnt been done. 
It is clear to me that this caused Mrs K a lot of distress.  She stood to lose £41,500 of her 
deposit if the purchase didnt go through. On top of this, she and her three  children might  
have had nowhere to live. This cant have been  easy to deal with. 
But, the fact is that the transfer did go through in time for Mrs K to complete her house 
purchase. So, the banks  actions didnt cause a financial  loss to her. 
I can see how £150 doesnt seem like a lot of money  for the distress  that Mrs K went  
through. But, Im afraid, it does seem  fair to me. 
my final decision
I think that because  of the poor service received, Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc 
should pay Mrs K a further  £150. 
Ref: DRN37793423Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3779342