K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  through  a total mortgage protection policy  
(TMPP).
background
In 2005, at a meeting with the bank, Mr and Mrs J took out a mortgage  and PPI policy  to 
protect their mortgage repayments in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment. Only 
Mr J was covered under  the policy for PPI. TMPP was a package of different  types of 
insurance, including mortgage repayment cover, which is a form of PPI. Mr and Mrs J also 
took out critical illness and life cover.  Im just dealing with the PPI part of their policy here.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Mr and Mrs J didnt agree and asked 
for an ombudsman to review their complaint. Mr and Mrs Js complaint comes  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Js case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant know exactly what was discussed  when Mr and Mrs J took out the insurance. They 
said they couldnt remember much from the time.  They said they mightve opted to take the 
insurance, but didnt  feel they had been  given  enough information about it to make an 
informed choice about whether it was right for them and they wanted to buy it. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  them to recall exactly what was discussed at the time, given the time 
that has passed. This means that what Mr and Mrs J say isnt enough on its own for me to 
be able to uphold  their complaint. I must  look at the available information and take into 
account the wider  circumstances to decide what most likely happened,  based  on whats  
available. 
In order to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint, Id have to find that its more likely that they 
werent given a fair choice about  PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account  without  
their consent. But I cant fairly  say that based on the information Ive got, and what we know  
about Bank of Scotlands sales processes around  that time. 
Ive seen their mortgage offer. That made it clear that PPI was an Optional Insurance. The 
cost of PPI was listed, along with the cost of buildings and contents,  life and critical illness  
cover. The mortgage offer said that Mr and Mrs J had chosen to take this cover out through  
the bank. Ive also seen their PPI quotes.  I think it was made clear that the cost was 
separate to their mortgage and they didnt have to take it. So, I think they probably wouldve 
understood that it wasnt necessary to take PPI to get the mortgage, but opted to do so. I 
think it likely  that there  was a conversation about  PPI and the other  insurances  and they 
opted take out the insurances  that best met their needs.
Ref: DRN39862022So, I dont have enough to safely conclude that Mr and Mrs J werent given enough 
information about the optional nature  of PPI to make  an informed choice  that they wanted it. 
On balance, I think its just as likely that Mr and Mrs J were persuaded of the need  to protect 
their home by taking  out the PPI offered and decided to buy the policy. 
The policy was recommended to Mr and Mrs J. So, Bank of Scotland had to make sure the 
policy was suitable  for them, as well as giving  them  information  that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so that they could make an informed  choice  about whether the policy  was right 
for them and they wanted to buy it. 
Only Mr J was covered under the policy. But, Ive taken  into account Mrs Js circumstances 
too when deciding if the policy was right for them.  It doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable for 
Mr and Mrs J based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  when the policy  was sold.  I say 
this because:
Mr J appeared eligible  to take out the cover.
Mr J said he wouldve  got statutory sick pay if out of work and couldve relied on his 
partners income. They also said they had £500 in savings.  But I still think TMPP 
couldve provided them with useful protection. It wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months per successful claim. Mr J couldve  made  repeated  claims under the policy.  
So TMPP gave them long term protection for their mortgage, protecting  their home. It 
wouldve allowed them  to use their other means  to meet their other  household 
expenses and paid their mortgage; which it might have  been difficult  for them to do if 
Mr J wasnt working. I cant  see that their other resources  made  this policy  unsuitable 
for them.
there were some things  the policy didnt cover. I cant see that Mr J was affected by 
these. So, I dont  think having more information  about things the policy  didnt cover 
wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy.
Mr and Mrs J paid a monthly premium for TMPP. They  didnt have to pay interest on 
the premium and couldve stopped the policy at any time without losing out 
financially. I cant see that it was unaffordable.  
They were told the cost of the policy in the mortgage  offer. Its possible they couldve 
been given clear information about the costs  and benefits. But, I dont think  having 
clearer information wouldve changed  their decision as the TMPP seemed affordable, 
they knew how much it was going to cost and agreed to take it out, and it was 
suitable for their needs. 
Overall, I think the TMPP policy couldve provided  them with useful protection  to safeguard 
their home.
Its possible there may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was sold.  But, I 
think Mr and Mrs J still wouldve  decided to buy the policy even if they had been better 
advised and informed as the policy gave them useful protection  in their circumstances. I 
cant see that theyve  lost out because of anything that Bank  of Scotland may have done 
wrong.
Ref: DRN39862023my final decision 
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3986202