K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  Great  Lakes  Insurance SE wont pay their claim under their 
home insurance policy.
background
In January 2019 Mrs Hs foot went through her bathroom floor.  She called her insurers  
agent to report  the incident and make a claim.  Great Lakes subsequently  said it wouldnt pay 
the claim.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy  both with how the call handler dealt with Mrs H during her initial 
call and with their claim being turned down. So they complained. 
Great Lakes agreed  its call handler hadnt  handled the call well. It offered to pay                  
Mr and Mrs H £150 in compensation for the distress this caused  them.  Mr and Mrs H were  
happy to accept the offer. But Great Lakes stood  by its decision to turn down Mr and Mrs Hs 
claim. It said the damage Mr and Mrs H were  claiming for was down to a gradually operating 
cause and this wasnt covered by their policy.
So Mr and Mrs H complained to us. The investigator who looked  at Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint didnt think Great Lakes had treated them fairly. He thought it should reimburse  
Mr and Mrs H for the cost of the repairs they ended  up getting done themselves (plus  
interest) and pay them an additional £150 in compensation for the time, stress  and 
inconvenience its claims handling had caused them.
Great Lakes disagrees  and so Mr and Mrs Hs complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
When Mrs H first reported the incident, she explained  she put her foot through the bathroom 
floor. Her husband had then lifted some  floor tiles and found soaking wet rotten timber 
underneath. Great Lakes  treated the claim as being for accidental  damage. This is 
something thats covered under Mr and Mrs Hs home insurance. But the policy excludes 
damage caused by faulty workmanship and gradually operating  causes.
Great Lakes appointed a contractor to look at the damage. Among other things, his report  
said:  
The shower door has leaked over a period of time which  has soaked into the fabric  of the 
shower area,  there  are no signs of failed  mastic  or mould/rot to the surfaces areas.
I would say the probable cause is poor workmanship, although I would not expect someone 
to pick this up if they didnt have experience in construction.
Great Lakes says a claims specialist reviewed this report and the claim was turned down 
because the damage was gradually operating as opposed to being due to a one-off event. 
Ref: DRN32575152More recently, Great Lakes has said it doesnt understand why it should cover  the costs  of 
damage caused by poor workmanship, when this is specifically excluded from the policy.  
The exclusions for poor workmanship and gradually  operating cause where accidental 
damage is being claimed for arent unusual in home insurance policies. And it means that, 
on the face of it, the damage  Mr and Mrs H are claiming  for isnt covered. We usually take 
the view, however, that its unfair for an insurer not to pay a claim because of either  of these 
exclusions unless a consumer either  knew or should reasonably have been  aware  the 
damage was occurring and so shouldve  taken steps to prevent it. 
From the contractors report, its clear he didnt think Mr and Mrs H wouldve been aware the 
damage was occurring. And I havent  seen any other expert  evidence  suggesting  they did 
know about it. Mrs H says she thinks the shower was fitted  in 2017, before she and her 
husband bought the property. So they wouldnt have known what  work was done. Great 
Lakes says repairs were carried out by the insureds own trades   but I havent  seen  any 
evidence to support  this statement.  Like our investigator, I think they key document Great  
Lakes shouldve relied on when deciding whether or not to accept the claim was its 
contractors report.  But it didnt do this and I dont  think that was fair. And because  of what  
the report said, I dont  think it was fair of Great Lakes to rely on these  exclusions to turn 
down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
I should also say that, although Great Lakes has treated Mr and Mrs Hs claim as being for 
accidental damage,  it could  (and possibly should) have treated it as an escape  of water 
claim. This is what its contractor says in his report caused the damage.  And looking at       
Mr and Mrs Hs policy document, I cant see any exclusion  for poor workmanship or a 
gradually operating  cause  where  theres been  an escape of water.
Because I dont think Great Lakes has treated Mr and Mrs H fairly, I now need to consider 
what it should do to put things right. When Mr and Mrs H complained to us they wanted to be 
paid for:
Costs theyd incurred  getting what they say turned out to be a rogue trader to do the 
repair works after Great Lakes  turned  down  their claim;
Costs theyd incurred  getting Great Lakes contractor to do the repairs  privately after 
their contractor  let them down;
Gym fees for showering because they had no bathroom; 
Loss of Mr Hs annual leave because  they couldnt go away;
Fees for re-mortgaging their home sooner  than theyd intended because they couldnt 
get an affordable  loan to get the repairs done;  and
The stress caused to their family.
They also wanted  Great  Lakes policy terms and conditions  made  clearer  something our 
investigator has explained is a matter for the regulator rather than us.
Our investigators view was that Great Lakes should  reimburse Mr and Mrs H the costs for 
Great Lakes contractor  doing the repairs (plus  interest) and should also pay they them  an 
another £150 in compensation (in addition  to the £150 it has already offered) for the 
additional distress  and inconvenience  its caused  them.
I agree  with our investigator on this and I understand  Mr and Mrs H have accepted  his view 
on compensation. But, for the avoidance  of doubt,  I dont think  it would be fair to ask Great 
Lakes to pay for the first failed set of repairs. Thats because  I dont  think  it couldve foreseen 
Ref: DRN32575153these works  would turn out badly  for Mr and Mrs H. In relation to gym fees and the loss of 
annual leave, I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve had to deal with considerable inconvenience as 
a result of the damage to their bathroom caused by the leak  but I think these specific  
costs/losses arose primarily because of the leak and not because  of how their claim was 
being handled. So I dont think it would be reasonable  to ask Great Lakes to pay these costs  
and losses. I also dont  think  Great Lakes  couldve  foreseen the mortgage costs                   
Mr and Mrs H say they incurred, so I dont think it would be fair to ask it to pay these.
my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint and direct Great Lakes Insurance  SE to pay                   
Mr and Mrs H:
£3,972.97  to reimburse them  for the costs of getting the repairs done (minus any 
applicable policy excess). Great Lakes should  pay simple interest at the rate of 8% 
per annum on this amount  from the date Mr and Mrs H paid it (which I understand 
was on 11 April 2019)  until the date of payment.
£150 for the distress and inconvenience  it has caused them. This is in addition to the 
£150 that Great Lakes has already agreed  to pay Mr and Mrs H. Great Lakes should 
pay this compensation  within 28 days of the date we tell it Mr and Mrs H have 
accepted my final decision. If it doesnt,  it should  pay simple  interest  at the rate of 8% 
per annum on £300 from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 July 2020.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3257515