K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the impact TSB Bank plcs IT issues  had on them.
background 
Mr and Mrs G have two accounts  with TSB. Because  of the issues TSB had with the 
migration of their IT systems in April 2018,  Mr and Mrs G faced various difficulties. 
They were  unable to access their accounts online for the first week or so and then had 
intermittent access for a further  couple of weeks approximately.  One of the payments they 
made to a credit card didnt go through as it should  have which then meant Mr and Mrs G 
were charged fees. However, the issue  which was of most concern was that Mr and Mrs Gs 
statements (dated  30 April 2018 relating to both accounts)  were  sent out in paper format to 
people Mr and Mrs G knew from their village. The statements of one of the accounts wasnt 
meant to be sent out in paper format at all as it was set up for online access  only.
The people who received the statements were  able to identify from the statements that the 
information related  to Mr and Mrs G. They made Mr and Mrs G aware of this and also made 
a comment to them about who they would  be contacting for a loan. Mr and Mrs G were 
understandably very distressed and embarrassed that their financial information had been 
shared in this way.
Our investigator initially recommended that TSB pay Mr and Mrs G £500 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused to them. The issue relating to the charges and credit file had already 
been resolved  by the time Mr G brought the complaint to us with the charges being  refunded  
and TSB informing Mr and Mrs G that this wouldnt impact  the credit  file. Mr and Mrs G didnt 
think £500 was sufficient. Since the above  compensation was recommended our investigator 
found that a further data breach had occurred as Mr and Mrs Gs statement (May  June 
2018) was sent incorrectly again to the same people as before. Because  of this the 
investigator suggested the award  be increased to £750. TSB agreed to pay Mr and Mrs G 
this amount.
Understandably Mr and Mrs G wanted  confirmation from TSB that were no further  breaches 
and they were reluctant to accept the recommendation of £750  until they received such a 
letter. However, the letter TSB sent to them didnt provide  this confirmation and incorrectly  
said Mr and Mrs G werent victims  of data breach. Mr and Mrs G now feel that the 
compensation of £750 doesnt fully reflect  the impact the data breaches  had on them and the 
time and effort  it has taken to try and resolve this complaint. So the complaint  has come to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about what went  wrong. TSB dont 
dispute this either. What  I have to consider is what level of compensation is fair and 
reasonable in these  particular circumstances and whether or not there is anything else TSB 
need to do to put things  right.
Ref: DRN31964862Mr and Mrs G have been understanding about the issue TSB faced which meant they 
couldnt access online banking  for some time and I note that the issues about the missed 
payment, fees charged and the subsequent  effect  this could have had on their credit  file 
have been resolved. Having said that, I appreciate that this must have been inconvenient  for 
Mr and Mrs G.
However, what was particularly distressing for Mr and Mrs G was the data breach they faced 
given that their personal financial information  - set out in some detail in the statements (one 
of the account  statements covered a period of around 4 months) - was sent out to a third 
party. Even worse in some respects in the particular circumstances of this case  is that Mr 
and Mrs G knew the people who it was sent to and they also made a comment about Mr and 
Mrs Gs finances. Mr and Mrs G have explained  how they are private people and this data 
breach was very upsetting  for them. Understandably this also left them concerned that other 
people may have received their financial information too. And to make matters  worse, a 
further statement  was sent out incorrectly again  causing a further data breach. 
So I think Mr and Mrs G are entitled to a relatively high level of compensation altogether for 
the impact these data breaches had on them as well as the other  issues they faced  including 
the delay in dealing with this matter. While of course it is difficult to place an amount on 
someones feelings, I think the compensation already recommended  of £750 is a fair and 
reasonable amount in this case.  I understand that Mr and Mrs G dont feel this is sufficient 
given the breaches  that occurred but I have to consider the actual impact the breaches and 
although it was very distressing for Mr and Mrs G that their information was shared  in this 
way, fortunately  for Mr and Mrs G the data breaches didnt result in further  issues such as 
fraud.
I also appreciate that the letter issued to Mr and Mrs G was not what it should have been.  So 
in order to put this right,  I think TSB should send  Mr and Mrs G a letter of apology  
acknowledging their error  and confirm to Mr and Mrs G whether or not there  have been any 
further breaches. However, TSB have told us that the issue that caused the data breach  on 
TSBs system has been  rectified. I hope this will provide Mr and Mrs G with some 
reassurance. Of course  if there  have  been further  breaches and these have impacted Mr 
and Mrs G then it is up to Mr and Mrs G if they wish to bring  another  complaint. 
Mr and Mrs G havent  been  able to provide us with an amount for the expenses  they 
occurred so I havent asked TSB to pay out a separate amount for expenses.
putting things right
If they havent already, TSB should:
-Pay Mr and Mrs G £750 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused 
to them.
-Issue Mr and Mrs G with a letter of apology acknowledging the data breaches.
-Inform Mr and Mrs G whether or not there have been any further data breaches  on 
the account that they are aware  of other than those which  form part of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31964863my final decision
I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint against TSB Bank plc and require them  to put things  right 
as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 March 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3196486