K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about a motorhome he acquired on a hire purchase agreement  with Black 
Horse limited. He has said he was pressured into signing the agreement,  the agreement had 
a different rate of interest to what he was promised  and when  his financial circumstances 
changed, Black Horse didnt do enough  to help him. 
background
Mr H acquired  a motorhome through a dealer (who I shall refer to as Y) in September  2018. 
The cost of the motorhome was £36,000 and Mr H was to put down a deposit  of £6,000, 
leaving £30,000 to be funded by the hire purchase agreement. The agreement  was 
repayable over 10 years. Mr H paid £500 towards  the deposit having  agreed with Y he would 
pay the rest when he returned from a holiday.
Mr H has said he was put under pressure by a representative of Y to sign the hire purchase 
agreement before he went on holiday and he wanted to sign it when he got back.  Hes 
provided text messages  which  he says supports this. He also says he was sent a text 
message by Y confirming a flat rate of interest of 5.5% whereas the hire purchase 
agreement has an APR of 8.2%.  
Mr H has said that while he was on holiday something happened that meant  he was going to 
be financially responsible  for another member  of his family. Mr H contacted  Black  Horse right 
away to explain that due to a change  in his circumstances he could no longer afford the 
repayments on the agreement. He asked if the agreement  could  be cancelled as he hadnt  
picked up the motorhome  from the dealer and had only paid £500  of the £6,000  deposit. 
After some communication between Black Horse  and Y, no agreement could be reached for 
the cancellation of the agreement. 
Mr H stopped making repayments for a short while but resumed them within a couple a 
months. 
Mr H has said that he never took delivery of the motorhome and left it with Y until November  
2020 - when he said Y sold it. Y repaid the finance on the agreement  from the proceeds  of 
the sale at the time of the sale in November 2020.  
Mr H complained to Black  Horse but his complaint was not upheld. Black Horse  said having 
spoken to the dealer, it didnt agree that Mr H had been put under pressure with the sale.  It 
said that although the hire purchase  agreement  could  have been cancelled within 14 days  of 
taking it out, Mr H would have had to repay the finance in order  to do this. It said there  was 
no right for him to cancel the agreement and hand the motorhome  back once hed signed it. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021  where  I explained why I thought Mr Hs complaint 
should be upheld  in part. I said:
Pressured sale
Mr H said he felt pressured  into signing the finance agreement by Y before he went 
on holiday. I can look at complaints about  things said or done by Y in a complaint 
against Black Horse because of section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  which 
sets out in a case  like this that a creditor is responsible for the antecedent 
negotiations carried  out by a credit broker. Y was a credit broker here because  it 
introduced Mr H to Black  Horse.
Ref: DRN33860502From the text messages Mr H has sent us, I can see hed been considering getting 
the motorhome  for a few months before he signed  the agreement  since around  July 
2018. So it looks like he had been given time to make up his mind about whether he 
wanted it. He had also asked for some blinds to be fitted to it so I think  its fair to say 
hed largely made his mind up that he wanted the motorhome. 
Some of the messages Mr H sent to Y do make me think he wanted to wait until after 
he returned from holiday to sign the hire purchase agreement, one message in 
particular talks about doing the deal when he gets back on 14 October 2018 and he 
agreed that he would pay the majority  of the deposit then too. Mr H also said to Y 
however that he had nowhere to store the motorhome at present. So, I dont think it 
was necessarily doubts about the commitment that were the reason for Mr Hs 
reluctance but rather the practicalities of entering  into the agreement at that point in 
time. 
The text messages do show an increased urgency from Y when it said to Mr H he 
needed to call and sign asap on 22 September 2018. Black  Horses records 
however show Mr H signed a Regulatory Requirements document on 27 September  
2018 confirming  hed had various  things about the hire purchase agreement  
explained to him. And while a representative  of Y did attend Mr Hs house to obtain  
his signature on the hire purchase agreement this wasnt until three days  later on 30 
September 2018. So, it looks like Mr H had time to think  about  the financial  
commitment he was making after the agreement had been explained to him and 
before he signed  it. The other text messages during this period dont
lead me to conclude  Mr H was being put under undue pressure from Y to sign.  For 
example one message says Hi Nigel let me know when you popping in to sign ok 
which I wouldnt consider  to be unduly pressurising. 
Overall, based on the information supplied by both Mr H and Black  Horse  Im 
satisfied Mr H wanted to go through with the purchase of the motorhome and wasnt  
put under  undue pressure  to enter into the hire purchase agreement.
Interest rate
Mr H has complained that the interest rate he was quoted by Y was lower than what 
is on his hire purchase agreement. I can see that Y told Mr H in a text message 
around July 2018  that it had secured a better rate at 5.5%  flat for the agreement 
whereas the actual agreement had a monthly interest rate of 7.9%  with an APR of 
8.2%. Black Horse  has said that a flat interest  rate of around  5.5%  was offered on an 
earlier proposal but this was not the agreement that Mr H signed.  The APR appears 
to be the same on both proposals - 8.2%. Importantly however, the monthly  
payments on Mr Hs agreement are £362.51  which  is lower  than the £389 quoted on 
the text sent to Mr H. Ive not seen anything  that makes me think  the agreement Mr H 
entered into was more  expensive than what he was led to believe it would be in the 
text message. 
Financial difficulty 
Shortly after signing the paperwork and whilst on holiday Mr H told Black Horse that 
he would  no longer be able to afford the motorhome.  Mr H has said this was because 
Ref: DRN33860503of a change in circumstances for a close family member who he was going  to have to 
support financially from then onwards. 
As Mr H had signed the hire purchase  with Black Horse at this point he did not have 
a right to cancel the agreement and hand  the motorhome back. I recognise Mr H 
signed the hire purchase agreement away from Ys premises however the legislation 
that may have allowed  him to cancel a sales agreement  within  14 days (The 
Consumer Contracts (Information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 
2013 does not apply  to financial services contracts such  as a hire purchase 
agreement. So, Mr H doesnt benefit  from the cancellation provisions in these 
regulations. Mr H was able to withdraw  from the finance agreement but this would 
have required him to repay the finance in full. 
Ive nevertheless thought about how Black  Horse treated Mr H once he made it 
aware of his situation. 
Black Horse  has said it tried to arrange  for the return of the money it sent to Y in 
exchange for cancelling the deal and handing  back the motorhome. But it said Y did 
not agree  to this. There are no notes of this discussion on the system records it sent 
us. Going on Mr Hs recollections  of his experience dealing with Y however, it does 
seem likely this is the way any conversation between Y and Black Horse would have 
panned out. 
Beyond trying to arrange for the cancellation of the deal however Black  Horse was 
required under  the Financial Conduct Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) rules to treat Mr H with due consideration and forbearance  if he was in 
arrears or default. Although Mr H hadnt  missed a payment at this point he had 
explained this was likely given his change of circumstances.  So, I still think  Black 
horse needed to treat him as such.  And in any event  Mr H had made  his desire  to 
exit the agreement clear  by this point. 
In this case, I think due consideration and forbearance  would  have included  
discussing things like Mr Hs options for terminating  the agreement  early given Y had 
not agreed to unwind  the deal. Black Horse  has said it never  did this because  it was 
trying to arrange the cancellation with Y. And it says it told Mr H to get in touch with 
its collections department  to discuss his options in respect of any financial difficulties 
he may have been facing  when it responded to his complaint  and he never did this.
From what  I have  seen, Mr H stopped  making repayments shortly  after the 
agreement commenced  but resumed these  within three months. He has said he did 
this because he did not want his credit file to be affected and he had to borrow from a 
relative to make them. Mr H continued  to make repayments for another year before 
there was a further gap of seven months without payment shortly after which  the 
agreement was repaid in full. 
I understand why Black  Horse would have first wanted to try and secure the 
cancellation of the deal with Y when  Mr H made it aware of his situation. This would 
have been the cleanest break from the agreement for all involved.  It was under no 
obligation however to do this and Black Horse  couldnt compel Y to do it in any event  
as it had already  paid Y for the motorhome and the deal was not cancellable. Once 
this became clear  I think Black Horse should have been more  proactive in helping  Mr 
H given he made it clear across numerous telephone conversations that he was 
Ref: DRN33860504going to struggle to make  his repayments and that he wanted to exit the agreement. 
Black Horse  knew  more about early  termination  solutions than Mr H would have so I 
dont think it was unreasonable  to expect it to have put these options  to Mr H. 
So, rather  than asking  him to contact its collections  department, Black Horse  could  
have got in touch with Mr H to find out more about his situation.  Mr H has said he 
was not in a position  to sustainably make  repayments  so it seems most likely  those  
discussions would have  centred around termination  options. This might have resulted 
in Black Horse selling the motorhome and deducting  the sale proceeds from the 
amount required  to repay the agreement in full  which is more commonly known as 
voluntary surrender. Mr H had told this service when he first contacted us that he 
wanted Black Horse to sell the car and for Y to keep the deposit. And realistically  this 
seemed like Mr Hs only viable option  if he wanted  to exit the agreement.  So, its 
likely Mr H would have taken up this option  had it been offered to him.  
I need to account  for the fact that things have moved on considerably  since  then 
however. Mr H has told us he arranged for a friend  to purchase the motorhome from 
Y who in turn paid off Mr Hs outstanding finance with Black  Horse. Mr H says he 
thinks his friend paid Y around £32,000  and Black Horse has confirmed the amount Y 
paid Black Horse to clear  the finance  was £27,798.51. Ive asked  Y to confirm the 
amount it received for the motorhome but it has not provided this information. I know 
the price was at least £27,798.51 and Ive not seen  anything to make  me think it was 
more than the £36,000 that was paid for the motorhome. I think £32,000 sounds like 
a reasonable estimate to work from in the absence of other evidence.  
I note the motorhome was not Ys to sell at this point, it was Black  Horses. It would 
appear however  that Mr H was happy  for his friend to pay Y for it. And, he has 
benefited from the arrangement in the sense his finance agreement with Black Horse 
was paid off. Also,  Mr H owed Y £5,500 for the deposit so its possible the amount 
paid to Y over and above what was required to repay the agreement may have gone 
towards that debt. 
With all of this considered, Ive thought about  what Mr Hs position would most likely 
have been had more proactive discussions taken place about  exit options  likely 
resulting in the motorhome being  voluntary surrendered sometime  after November 
2018 (I think February  2019 is a fair point in time to allow  for a sale at auction). And 
Ive compared  that with the position Mr H is in now. 
To do this I tried to get an objective  valuation of the motorhome for February 2018 so 
I could compare this with the price  Mr H says his friend paid Y in November 2020. 
Car valuation guides  however require the specification of the motorhome as it was a 
conversion from a van. Mr H has said he does not have any of this information  so I 
cant get realistic valuations from the guides. 
Even without  this information. I think it is fair to say that motorhomes hold their value 
better than standard cars after a few years and a quick  browse  online to numerous 
websites will confirm this. It is my understanding that the greatest depreciation tends 
to occur in the first three years. And I know that Mr Hs friend likely paid Y around  
£32,000 for the motorhome in November 2020.  On the other hand its likely  the 
motorhome would have been sold at auction  so the sale price would have been 
subject the kind of variation one might expect  from this kind of sale. 
Ref: DRN33860505I think a fair sum to reflect  both of these factors would be a loss of £2,000 on the 
price of the motorhome when Mr H entered into the agreement with Black Horse. So, 
I think Black  Horse could have achieved a sale value of around £34,000 had it sold 
the motorhome  in February 2019. 
Weighing everything up, Moneybarn should  have been more proactive in assisting Mr 
H once it became clear  he needed  to exit the agreement early.  Had the agreement 
been voluntary  surrendered around November 2020  its likely  the motorhome would 
have sold for more than it did in 2020 and Mr H would only have made a few months 
of repayments  rather  than nearly  two years for a vehicle he never took possession of. 
Black Horse  has been paid £35,411.22 and since  February 2019 Mr H has paid it 
£5,800.16 in monthly payments. 
Taking all of this into account  Black  Horse should  work  out what  Mr Hs liability  to it 
would have been had the motorhome been sold in February 2019 for £34,000 and 
those proceeds had been put towards  the repayment of the agreement.  If this liability 
is less than £5,800.16 then Black  Horse should pay the difference to Mr H plus 8% 
simple interest per year from the point Mr Hs monthly repayments would have 
exceeded this liability until the date of settlement.  If the sum is greater than 
£5,800.16 then Mr H has suffered  no financial  loss and Black Horse  need not do any 
more. 
Black Horse  did not agree with my provisional  decision. It said,  in summary:
Mr H financed another vehicle with Black  Horse in October  2019  at a cost of £407.74 
per month which suggests the repayments on the motorhome were affordable.
It tried to ascertain more information  about  Mr Hs financial difficulties but he was not 
willing to divulge this. 
It gave Mr H a number  of opportunities to get in touch with it to discuss his options so 
it disagreed it not been proactive in supporting him. 
Mr H enquired what support was available in October 2020 and when voluntary 
termination, private sale or part exchange were discussed he said none of these 
were suitable. 
Mr H got in touch to let us know hed found  out his friend did not in fact purchase the 
motorhome from Y after all and he was gazumped.  He still does not know  what  price  Y sold 
the motorhome  for as it wont tell him. 
The complaint has returned to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse  has said Mr H took out another  finance  agreement for a different  vehicle  in 
October 2019 and this suggests the repayments  on the motorhome were affordable. Im 
looking at Mr Hs situation in October  2018  when he first explained he couldnt afford the 
repayments on the mototorhome, not his position  a year later. But in any event, as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  it was clear  Mr H wanted to exit the finance agreement,  
financial difficulties or not. So, I still think the option of voluntary surrender should  reasonably  
have been discussed with him at this point. Ive listened to a number of phone  calls where 
Ref: DRN33860506Mr H explains  his situation  and at no point is that option put forward  to him.  Black Horse 
knew more about  these options  than Mr H which is why I think it needed to be more 
proactive in this respect and explain his different options and what his liability  under  each  
option might  have been. 
I recognise, as Black  Horse  has pointed  out, that it gave  Mr H opportunities to contact it to 
discuss his situation.  I think  it was clear enough from the telephone calls I have listened to 
however that Mr H wanted  to exit the finance  agreement in October 2018. Had voluntary 
surrender been  explained  to him as an option at that point alongside his other options such 
as voluntary surrender and the likely  resulting liabilities from each option, I think its most 
likely he would have handed  the motorhome back for Black Horse to sell. So, I still think the 
fair thing  to do is compare  Mr Hs liability should  the car have been sold in February 2019 for 
£34,000 with the monthly  repayments he made from that date onwards.  
In thinking about whats fair in this complaint, I take into account also the fact Mr H never 
took possession  of the motorhome, yet has made  nearly £6,000  in repayments since  he 
asked to exit the finance agreement.  I also take into account that Black Horse  has received 
around £35,000 against an initial outlay  of £30,000  having received repayments for much 
longer than it reasonably should have  if exit options  had been  properly  discussed.  So, all 
things considered, it doesnt feel fair that Mr H should lose out as significantly as he has 
here.
Black Horse  has said it discussed voluntary termination, private sale and part exchange with 
Mr H in October 2020 but he said none of these  options were  suitable. I note that voluntary 
surrender is not mentioned here so I dont think this necessarily means that Mr H would have 
found such option to be unsuitable,  especially  in October 2018 when realistically it was the 
only viable  way for him to exit the agreement without suffering significant losses. 
Mr H has said that his friend did not in fact buy the motorhome from Y. Its not disputed 
however that Mr Hs finance  agreement with Black Horse was cleared in full in late 2020,  
and it wasnt Mr H that did this. So, Y must in all likelihood have sold the motorhome still at 
that point in time, just not to the buyer Mr H originally  thought  it had. Its still not clear how 
much the motorhome was sold for and it doesnt  look like this information  is going to be 
made available.  I dont think this matters  too much because the calculation  I asked Black 
Horse to undertake  involved  a comparison  between  the likely sale value  in February 2019 
and the repayments Mr H made up until November 2020. The sale price  in 2020 does not 
affect matters here because Mr Hs agreement  was cleared in full and Im satisfied he did not 
receive the benefit of any sale value achieved by Y in excess  of this. 
So, all in all Ive not seen  anything that makes  me think the conclusion  I reached in my 
provisional decision was unfair or unreasonable. I find therefore that Black Horse should 
rework Mr Hs agreement  as if the motorhome had been voluntary surrendered  and sold for 
£34,000 in February  2019. And if this results in smaller liability than what  Mr H has paid 
Black Horse  since  February 2019 it should  pay him the difference  plus interest. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr Hs complaint in 
part. To put things  right Black Horse Limited must:
Ref: DRN33860507Rework Mr Hs agreement as if the motorhome had been  sold on 1 February 2019 
and £34,000 had been repaid to it on this date. 
If this results in Mr H having a liability to Black Horse of less than £5,800.16,  pay the 
difference to Mr H.
Pay Mr H interest of 8% simple per year on this sum from the point his monthly  
repayments exceeded the liability (from  the date each monthly  payment in excess  of 
it was made until the date of settlement).
Remove any adverse  information about the loan from Mr Hs credit file
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2021.
Michael Ball
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3386050