K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2003, Miss B took out a mortgage  with Nationwide  and was sold a PPI policy to protect 
the repayments on her loan. Nationwide says that for an initial  period  of twelve  months 
Miss B was provided with free cover, with a monthly  benefit of £300 if she was off work 
because of an accident, sickness or unemployment. At the end of this free period it appears 
that Miss B asked for the monthly benefit  to be reduced to £200 and the policy  provided  for 
unemployment cover  only from then on.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Miss B disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Miss B says that she wasnt told by Nationwide that the PPI was optional and thought it 
came as a standard part of her mortgage.
Nationwide has provided a copy of the mortgage  application which Miss B signed. Boxes 
have been ticked  to confirm that PPI cover was required. There  are equally prominent  boxes 
that could have been ticked  it this cover wasnt wanted. 
Ive also seen a fax which appears  to have been sent by Miss B to Nationwide in 
November 2002  on which Miss B has handwritten   I would like Mortgage protection  but 
for Unemployment  only plus Additional  Cover  And I can see that the £10.17  premium  for 
this type of cover has been ringed in a table showing  the cost of different cover options 
included on this fax. The mortgage offer from Nationwide which Mrs B subsequently 
received in December 2002 refers to her PPI policy being enclosed. And the offer confirms  
that a monthly  premium  of £10.17 would have been charged for this policy  had the initial 
twelve month period  of cover not been offered free by Nationwide.
So from the information Ive seen, I think it would  have been clear  to Miss B that the PPI was 
optional and that she actively decided to take it. But this sale took place a long time ago, so I 
can understand why she may not recall  this now.
Miss B says the PPI was recommended  to her. Nationwide says that the mortgage and PPI 
policy were applied for using its Takeaway  Remortgage  Pack  and that this would have 
been a non-advised sale.  And from what Ive seen, and what we know  more generally about  
this type of sale by Nationwide,  I think its most likely that this PPI policy was sold on a non-
advised basis. This means  that Nationwide didnt  need to ensure that the policy  was suitable 
Ref: DRN36796132for Miss B. But it did need to ensure that it gave her enough information for her to decide if it 
was right for her.
I think its possible that the information  Nationwide  gave  Miss B about the PPI policy  could 
have been better than it was. But from what I know of her circumstances at the time, I cant  
see any reason why better information  would have  changed her mind  about taking it. I say 
this because:
Miss B appears to have been  eligible  for the policy and not affected by any of its main  
exclusions and limitations. 
Miss B has said that shed  suffered from an injury some years before she took out the 
policy. She says this permanently restricted the work she could do thereafter. But 
although it appears that this injury caused  her to be off work for a considerable period 
when it occurred, it doesnt seem to have resulted in her taking time off work - or taking 
prescription medicines - in the years  leading up to this sale.
In any case, she seems to have  specifically chosen to pay for unemployment only cover  
when she took out the policy. This means that I dont  think she would have  lost out, even  
if she hadnt been able to claim  for a recurrence of this condition in the first twelve  
months of the policy. I say this because she never paid for the additional accident  and 
sickness cover which  Nationwide says it provided  free to her in these first twelve months. 
So from what Ive seen,  I dont think that her pre-existing  medical condition would have 
put her off taking out the policy.
Miss B says that she didnt need the PPI cover  because  she had other means  of paying 
her monthly mortgage if she couldnt work.  But this policy would have  paid out in addition  
to these other means and, potentially, for longer than they would have lasted.  And a 
mortgage is a big financial commitment,  where  ones home is at risk if the monthly 
payments cant be met. So I still think she would  have  valued the extra  security  which  the 
policy gave her if things  went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Miss B. And as the premiums were 
paid monthly, she could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met her needs.
So I dont  think that Miss B has lost out by anything that Nationwide  may have done  wrong  
when it sold her this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 October  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3679613