K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about the valuation Advantage Insurance Company Limited placed on his 
stolen car under his motor insurance policy. He wants  it to increase the valuation and pay his 
claim for the cars contents.  
 
background 
When Mr Ts car was stolen, Advantage offered him £4,429, less his policy excess,  in 
settlement of his claim as it said this was the cars  current market value. But Mr T thought his 
car was worth  more  and its condition and additional  features hadnt  been taken into account. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought 
Advantages valuation of the car was fair and reasonable as it was made according to our 
approach and the valuation offered was within the range  provided  by the motor trade guides 
we use. But she thought  there had been  a lack of communication and delay by Advantage in 
dealing with the personal effects claim. She thought Advantages offer of £100 compensation 
for this was fair and reasonable. 
Advantage later settled  Mr Ts claim for personal effects in the car after evidence was 
provided for these. Mr T said he was content  with this but thought  Advantage should  pay him 
more than £100 compensation for how this was handled and also increase his cars 
valuation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has explained this services approach  to car valuations in that we dont 
provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the insurers  offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
I can see that Mr T doesnt agree with our approach  to valuations.  But we think this is a fair 
approach for the parties concerned.
The investigator thought Advantages offer for the market value of Mr Ts car was fair and 
reasonable. Ive reviewed  how she came to this conclusion. I can see that she obtained 
valuations from three  of the four trade guides  we use (the fourth wasnt  available due to the 
passage of time). I can see that the valuations were obtained for the date of loss, and 
considered the cars make, model, age, condition and extras.  
Mr T thought work hed had done  to the car should increase its value. But we dont consider 
that maintenance would  increase a valuation. Mr T also thought the extras  on the car should 
increase its value. But I can see that these were taken into account in the motor  trade  guide  
valuations and they didnt increase the valuations.
Ref: DRN37844722Advantages offer fell within the range of the three valuations the investigator found.  So I 
agree that the settlement offer is fair and reasonable as it was made correctly according to 
our approach. I dont  require Advantage to increase this.
I can see that Mr Ts claim for personal  effects  has now been  settled.  Advantage explained 
that a child seat wouldnt  be covered as a purchase receipt hadnt been provided. It 
explained that this is a policy requirement, so I cant say that this is unfair or unreasonable.
Advantage caused delays  in settling Mr Ts personal effects claim. I can see that there  was 
miscommunication between the parties about  its requirements. Advantage has offered Mr T 
£100 compensation for this. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id require in similar  
circumstances. I dont  require Advantage to increase this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Mr T £100  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  
caused by its delay in settling his claim,  as its already agreed to do. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3784472