K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that APFIN LTD (trading as CashASAP) failed to honour a repayment plan 
hed agreed with it.
background
Mr N took out a £160 loan from CashASAP on 20 December 2018. It was to be repaid in 
three instalments, the largest of which was £99.09, with the final instalment due on 
25 Mar 2019. Mr N says the loan was to pay for his fathers funeral. He says he lost his job 
shortly afterwards due to his mental  health but agreed a repayment plan of £10 per month. 
Mr N says he made the first payment  but CashASAP said it didnt receive it and pursued him 
for the money. Mr N adds  that even  after he used  the reference  number provided, 
CashASAP said it couldnt trace the payments. He says the stress has caused his mental 
health to worsen.
CashASAP says it froze  Mr Ns balance  and agreed  a repayment plan of £10 per month for 
three months when  he first reported his change in circumstances in late January 2019. After  
three months it says it reviewed the repayment  plan but Mr N refused to provide supporting 
documents to show what he could afford. Nevertheless, it says,  it agreed to accept a further  
two £10 payments.  CashASAP says it is only looking  to receive payments that Mr N can 
demonstrate he can afford, but hasnt  yet received evidence of his financial circumstances.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She did not find that 
CashASAP had acted unfairly  by requesting supporting evidence  before it agreed a further 
repayment plan of £10 per month.
Mr N responded to say, in summary, that CashASAP was one of five short-term loan 
companies he used  to fund his fathers funeral and that hed provided all with evidence  of his 
financial status when  he lost his job. He says CashASAP is the only lender that says it didnt 
receive the evidence  and is now trying  to force him to make higher repayments.  Mr N adds 
that as he provided  evidence  in the first instance,  he is not willing  to resubmit it when 
CashASAP has already  accepted his repayment proposal. He says the stress of the situation 
is worsening his mental health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
If a customer is in financial  difficulties,  as is the case here,  the business has an obligation  to 
respond positively  and sympathetically.
When Mr N first told CashASAP  hed lost his job, it froze  the balance  on his loan account  
and agreed to set up a repayment plan. I acknowledge that Mr N says he sent CashASAP 
details of his financial circumstances  at this stage.  CashASAP then agreed  to accept 
repayments of £10 per month for three  months before reviewing Mr Ns financial 
circumstances again. I acknowledge Mr N says CashASAP couldnt  trace  his payments, but I 
have seen the loan statement and Im satisfied the £10 payments have been allocated to his 
account. Mr N now accepts that to be the case.
Ref: DRN30151852Although Mr N did not provide further  evidence  after three months, CashASAP accepted a 
further three £10 repayments, before it contacted  Mr N with a repayment proposal. It 
suggested that Mr N should make  repayments of £32.47 per month, for six months from 
August 2019 in order to clear the balance.
I accept that Mr N says this level of repayment is unaffordable to him but CashASAP asked 
him to provide  supporting  documentation in such a scenario. It said If the offered repayment 
plan is unaffordable,  please provide evidence to justify your monthly income  and expenditure 
and we can review  your repayment  plan.
Given the lack of further supporting evidence,  I cant conclude  CashASAP has done  
anything wrong. I find it acted positively and sympathetically by freezing the balance on 
Mr Ns account and accepting token payments of £10 per month  for six months.  It was 
entitled to propose  a repayment plan that would have led to the outstanding balance being 
repaid within  a reasonable period of time.
I have no reason to doubt Mr N when he says he cant  afford  to repay  more  than £10 per 
month, but CashASAP  is not obliged to accept such a repayment plan without proof of 
Mr Ns circumstances. I acknowledge Mr N says he sent evidence initially, but I find it 
reasonable that CashASAP has requested up-to-date information several months  after the 
original agreement.
CashASAP maintains  that it will accept  repayments of £10 per month,  or even lower,  if it has 
evidence that is all Mr N can afford and subject to a further review  in the future. So I cant  
conclude CashASAP  has done anything wrong  and Im satisfied it responded to Mr Ns 
financial difficulties in line with its obligations. I would encourage Mr N to submit supporting 
evidence so that a suitable repayment  plan can be agreed going forward.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3015185