K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC trading as Tesco Credit Card incorrectly  
sent a letter  to her neighbour  instead  of her.
background
Miss A moved address  and gave Tesco details of that new address but Tesco recorded the 
new address number as 27 and not 28 as it should have. Tesco then sent a credit card 
statement to Miss As neighbour. Miss A says she feels embarrassed about whats 
happened and thinks her neighbour may think that she made a decision to use the 
neighbours address.
Tesco accepts it made a mistake and has apologised to Miss A. It says it incorrectly 
recorded the wrong number and has offered Miss A £200 compensation. It also says it 
amended its records as soon as Miss A told it about  the mistake.
Miss A says the compensation offer isnt enough and brought  her complaint  to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought  Tesco had dealt with it fairly. The 
investigator thought  the compensation offer was reasonable  and took into account Miss A 
had not suffered any financial  loss.
Miss A doesnt accept  that view and says shes been caused stress  by what took place and 
in May 2019  was prescribed  medication  for the anxiety caused.  She says she doesnt feel 
comfortable seeing her neighbour.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.  I realise Miss A will be 
disappointed by my decision.
There is no question here that Tesco made a mistake and Im sure Miss A was caused 
inconvenience and spent some time contacting Tesco and explaining  what had happened. I 
also accept that the mistake could have had more  significant  consequences but I can see 
that Miss As neighbour told her about the letter and doesnt appear to have seen the 
contents.
I appreciate that Miss A says this incident  caused  her anxiety and embarrassment. But I 
dont think that Miss A has explained  why that was the case  or why she should  think  her 
neighbour would think she was responsible for what took place. I think  that if Miss A has 
those concerns she could show her neighbour the response Tesco sent her in which it 
accepts it made the mistake. I have  also seen  the text message Miss As neighbour sent her 
and I can see that the neighbour  accepts  it was a mistake and there is no suggestion any 
confidential information was seen by the neighbour.
Overall Im satisfied that compensation  offer by Tesco is fair and reasonable and fairly 
reflects the level of its mistake and what I think is the relatively limited impact  it would  have 
had on Miss A. I dont  think Miss A suffered any financial  loss as a result  of what  took place 
or that her personal information was compromised. And in the circumstances I cant see any 
reason why Miss A would  be embarrassed in seeing her neighbour. I appreciate Miss A says 
Ref: DRN36470582she was prescribed medication for her anxiety but I can see that the mistake was discovered  
on 11 April 2019 and Miss A saw her doctor on 23 May 2019. In those  circumstances I cant 
fairly conclude that the incidents  are related  or could be linked.
I appreciate that Miss A says Tescos compensation offer doesnt go far enough and so I will 
leave it to her to decide if she wishes to accept it.
my final decision
My final decision is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco  Credit  Card has 
made a fair and reasonable offer of compensation. Miss As acceptance of that offer would 
be in full and final settlement  of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 March 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3647058