K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside his credit  card in 2001.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr C says that he had no idea that he had PPI on his account and so it must  have  
been added  without his knowledge.  Ive been  provided with a copy of the credit card 
application form completed at the time Mr C applied for his credit card and the PPI. 
On it I can see a section about the PPI, headed  protecting your payment. The box to 
enrol for the PPI has been ticked and marked with Mr Cs initials.  And Mr C has 
signed and dated  the form. I also think its likely  the PPI would have appeared on 
Mr Cs credit card statements.  So if he didnt know he had it or wanted  to question 
the entries he could  have  done so at any time.  I havent seen evidence that he did 
so. Overall, taking everything into account,  I think Halifax  made  it clear  that Mr C 
didnt have to buy the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can understand  
why he cant remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to check that the cover was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for it.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said - including  what he has said about  his secure 
job and that he wouldnt have been made redundant. He has also told us he would have 
received sick pay from his employer of three  months  full pay and three months half pay- so 
he didnt need  the PPI. I have also thought  about what  hes said about his equity of £5000  
which could have been used to make  any repayments if necessary. But these  points dont 
change my decision. I say this because the PPI would  have paid out in addition to and for 
longer than his sick pay from his employer would have lasted. And whilst  I appreciate  his job 
was secure and he had no expectation  about being made redundant these things arent  
guaranteed as circumstances  can change.  And the PPI would  have meant he didnt  need  to 
use any equity he had which isnt always  so easily accessible. So I still think  the PPI could 
have been useful for him if he fell into difficulty.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr C paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr C back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Ref: DRN32875062I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr C.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3287506