K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt set up a new direct debit when he took out 
a new motor insurance policy, so payments werent taken. Hes also unhappy  AXA has now 
cancelled his policy as a result of the missed payments.
background
Mr F had an existing policy with AXA, which was due for renewal at the end of March  2018. 
Earlier that month,  he rang AXA to say hed found  cheaper cover elsewhere, which AXA said 
it couldnt match. So it agreed his policy wouldnt automatically renew.  Mr F then cancelled 
the direct  debit in AXAs  favour with his bank.
On 31 March 2018, Mr F rang AXA again.  He explained hed found a cheaper policy, but it 
was from an insurer within AXAs group of companies. AXA said it would match the quote  
hed got from the other insurer, and Mr F agreed to renew his policy  which happened the 
following day.
Mr Fs first payment  under  his new policy was due to be paid on 30 April 2018. On 24 April,  
AXA sent him an email  to say the direct  debit it used to take payments from his bank 
account had been cancelled. The email  invited Mr F to call AXA to resolve the issue.
Mr F says he didnt  receive this email,  and so didnt contact AXA and no payment was taken 
in April or May. Mr F called AXA on 4 June, and agreed to contact it again on 15 June to 
make a payment  and authorise a new direct  debit including  a double payment to account for 
the ones that had been missed.
AXA didnt hear back from Mr F and wrote to him on 18 June to say it would cancel his policy  
as the payments towards his premium  hadnt been made. After a couple more phone  calls 
Mr F and AXA agreed a payment plan with double  payments to be taken in July and August 
to bring his account up to date. The July payments were taken, but Mr F didnt have enough  
in his account to make  the payment in August.
AXA began the process of cancelling  Mr Fs policy again, and he complained.
One of our investigators  looked into things, and concluded AXA had treated Mr F fairly. He 
didnt think AXA ought to have known the direct debit had been cancelled  or looked to set up 
a new authority. He said AXA had tried to let Mr F know it wouldnt be able to take a 
payment, and had acted  reasonably in arranging payment plans to bring Mr Fs account 
back into line. He thought it was fair for AXA to have said it would  cancel Mr Fs policy  as, 
ultimately, he hadnt paid what he needed to for AXA to insure  him.
Since Mr F brought his complaint to our service, AXA has indeed  cancelled his insurance  
policy.
AXA didnt reply  to the investigators view. Mr F said he didnt agree, and asked for an 
ombudsman to make a decision. He said it was AXAs fault he was now in arrears because  it 
hadnt set a new direct debit up properly. He said we shouldnt  look at his new policy  as a 
renewal because hed said he was going to cancel it previously.
Ref: DRN31313842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two separate strands to this complaint  what happened around  the time Mr F 
incepted this particular  policy, and then what happened afterwards. Ill deal with each of 
these in turn.
taking out the policy
Mr Fs point  is that AXA should have treated this as a new policy, and that it knew he wanted 
to take out cover elsewhere at the end of his previous policys  term. So in setting up this new 
policy it should have  set up a new direct debit.
In considering what the parties understood to be happening, Ive given particular weight to 
the two calls Mr F had with AXA in March  2018.
In the earlier  call, he told AXA he didnt want to carry on using it as his insurer when  his 
policy expired. AXA said it therefore wouldnt automatically renew his policy.  But his old 
policy with AXA continued to run until the end of 31 March 2018.  It was during the day on 
31 March that Mr F spoke to AXA and agreed to continue with it as his insurer  as it offered a 
better price than it had before. So while the renewal wasnt automatic, I think  it was clear Mr 
F was rolling his existing  policy  into a new one (albeit under slightly different terms). In 
particular I think this was made clear  at the end of the call when AXAs adviser explained  to 
Mr F that the policy would  renew  at a certain time,  and that his right to cancel lasted a 
certain period  from the renewal date.
When setting up the new policy  AXAs adviser asked Mr F to confirm his bank details were  
the same  for the purpose of taking payments. He said they were, but didnt mention at that 
point hed cancelled  the direct debit.  
Taking all that into account  I dont  think AXA acted  unfairly or unreasonably in the way it set 
up Mr Fs new policy. It explained to Mr F he was renewing his existing policy,  and would 
use the same bank details  to take payments. The direct debit Mr F had previously  authorised 
gave AXA permission to take payments from his bank account towards his car insurance.  I 
dont think there was any reason at that point for AXA to have been aware it no longer  had 
authority to take payments  from Mr Fs account.
after the renewal
Even if I thought AXA should have done  something  differently when  Mr F renewed (which for 
the reasons Ive given above,  I dont) Im not persuaded AXA should fairly  be held 
responsible for the arrears that built on Mr Fs account or the cancellation of his policy.
A week before the first payment was due to be taken, AXA emailed Mr F to say the direct 
debit wasnt active and asking him to get in touch.  Mr F says he didnt  get this email. While 
its unfortunate that Mr F didnt see this at the time, AXA has shown us a screenshot  from its 
system showing  the email  was sent on 24 April, to the email address Mr F has used to 
correspond with both AXA and our service. So on balance, I think  its more likely than not 
AXA sent that email  and I dont think it would be fair to hold it responsible for Mr F not 
receiving or acting on it.
Ref: DRN31313843Like our investigator,  I also think that  once Mr F discovered hed not been paying towards 
his insurance for a number of months  AXA did the sort of things Id expect to try to help. It 
agreed to a few different payment arrangement options, but Mr F didnt call back  to put the 
first one in place and the second one failed when a payment couldnt be taken due to lack of 
funds. 
Its important to note that whatever happened with Mr Fs direct debit, hed agreed to pay a 
certain amount  for AXA to insure  him. So the money AXAs  asked him to pay is only the 
agreed sums  he had to pay in line with the insurance policy  and related loan agreement. 
AXA hasnt added any interest or charges  to any of the amounts. I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for AXA to ask Mr F to pay those arrears back, and Im satisfied it was 
sympathetic and flexible  in the way it discussed  possible  payment arrangements  for him to 
do so.
Eventually AXA took the decision  to cancel the policy due to the level of arrears and non-
payment. The terms of the loan agreement Mr F took out to pay for his insurance  clearly 
state that if Mr F missed  a payment AXA may cancel his policy. By the time AXA cancelled 
the policy Mr F was a number of payments  behind  and had said he wasnt  going to pay 
anything further.  So I dont think it was unfair for AXA to have taken the steps  the agreement  
provided for and cancel  Mr Fs policy.
I appreciate Mr Fs frustration at the situation  he found himself in. But for the reasons Ive 
given I dont think that the direct debit not being set up was AXAs fault, and I think its acted 
fairly and reasonably to Mr F in the way it has set up and administered  his policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3131384