K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that he was supplied with a car, financed by Santander Consumer (UK) Plc, 
which was not of satisfactory  quality. 
background
In April 2018 Mr H entered into a conditional  sale agreement with Santander to acquire a 
car. The car was approximately  two and a half years  old and had covered  around 12,000  
miles. 
Mr H says that within a couple of months of taking  ownership, the car developed  an issue 
with its gearbox whereby  it would crunch  into gear. In June 2018 he took the car to a 
franchised dealer  who inspected it but couldnt find fault.  This happened again in September  
and October 2018,  at which  point it was referred  to another franchised  dealer to inspect 
further. 
In November 2018, the franchised dealer said that the cars output shaft on the gearbox 
needed replacing. It offered to cover 75% of the cost, which  left Mr H responsible for the 
remainder of £1,092.78.  Mr H says that less than two months  later the fault reoccurred and 
he was told by the franchised  dealer  that he would need a new gearbox. The franchised 
dealer offered to pay 45% of the cost,  leaving Mr H to pay £6,500  plus VAT. 
Mr H raised a complaint  with Santander in March  2019. He suggested that the fault with the 
car was a known problem,  specific to that model, and that Santander  should  cover the cost 
of repairs. 
Santander didnt  uphold the complaint. It said that neither it nor the supplying  dealer had 
been made aware of the faults until Mr Hs complaint, and it believed that the relevant 
legislation said that it was Mr Hs responsibility to demonstrate that the fault had been 
present at the point of supply as the issue had been raised after six months of ownership.  
Additionally, Santander commissioned an independent inspection of the car which it didnt 
believe supported  the position  that the car was faulty when sold.
Unhappy with Santanders response Mr H referred a complaint  to our service  in May 2019. 
He asked that Santander pay the cost of previous  repairs  as well as the repairs which  were 
necessary to put things right, provided it did so in a reasonable timeframe. Mr H 
subsequently told us that the franchised  dealers  offer to cover a portion  of the repairs was 
limited to 90 days from March 2019.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Hs complaint. He was satisfied that there was a fault with the 
cars gearbox, and he interpreted that the independent report Santander had commissioned 
supported that the fault was likely  developing at the point of supply. He concluded that the 
car was likely not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply and said that Santander are 
therefore responsible for putting  things  right.  He said that relevant legislation said that Mr H 
should be allowed  to reject the car as an attempt  to fix the problem had not been successful.
He recommended that Santander should allow Mr H to reject  the car and end his finance 
agreement with no further liability, collect the car at no cost to Mr H, refund his deposit plus 
8% simple  interest,  pay Mr H £1,092.78 for the cost of attempted repairs plus 8% simple 
interest and pay £150 compensation  for inconvenience caused. 
Ref: DRN30672992Mr H asked whether hed receive any of his loan repayments back,  but our investigator  didnt 
think this would be fair because Mr H appeared to have reasonable use of the car and had 
been given a courtesy car when hed been  without it. Mr H also told us that the franchised 
dealer had recently offered to cover 50% of the costs  to repair  the gearbox.  He said that 
offer was valid until October  2019.
Santander responded after that offer had expired and didnt agree with our investigators 
recommendations. It accepted that the car had been  assessed  by the franchised dealer for a 
gearbox related  fault within the first six months, but said no fault had been found.  It also 
disagreed with our investigators interpretation  of the independent report, commenting that it 
did not conclude  a fault was definitely  present at the point of sale.  It accepted that legislation 
allowed for the car to be rejected after an unsuccessful  attempt  to repair, but only within  the 
first six months, and that wasnt the case here. As a gesture of goodwill, Santander  offered 
to pay for the costs  of repairs to fix the gearbox.
Mr H said that by this stage he had lost faith in the car and wanted to reject it, so he didnt 
accept Santanders  offer. 
Santander maintained that neither it, nor the supplying  dealer had been given the 
opportunity to repair the car which legislation allowed. 
I issued a provisional decision based on the evidence Id been provided at the time.  In 
summary, I said 
quality of goods at the point of supply
Mr Hs contract  with Santander is a regulated consumer credit  agreement,  and one which 
our service  is able to consider a complaint about.  Under this type of agreement  conditional  
sale  Santander,  as the supplier of the goods, is responsible for the quality  of those goods. 
Both Santander and Mr H have spoken about  relevant  legislation.  In this case  the relevant 
legislation is the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). It features an implied term that goods 
supplied need  to be of satisfactory  quality, which is defined as where they meet the standard  
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory, taking into account  the description  of 
the goods, the price paid and other relevant circumstances.
In this case, Mr H purchased a car which  was around two years old and had covered about  
12,000 miles. The cash price  of the car was £29,250. Whilst the car was not new,  it was not 
particularly old and had relatively low mileage, so I think it would be reasonable to expect the 
car to be durable.
Mr H has provided an invoice from the franchised  dealer that says that it investigated  the 
gearbox clunking  on 19 June 2018,  so around two months after taking the car on 
18 April 2018. Hes also shown that the franchised dealer considered the same issue 
subsequently on a number of occasions,  attempted a repair, and ultimately  told him that the 
gearbox would need to be replaced.  From this, I think its fair to conclude that theres a 
significant problem  with the car, but I need  to establish whether this was likely present at the 
point of supply.  This in turn will help me decide  whether  or not this car was of satisfactory  
quality. 
Santander has argued that there  isnt sufficient  evidence  to determine that the fault was 
definitely present  at the point of sale. It relied on an independent report  that it commissioned. 
Ref: DRN30672993However, that report concludes that there  is a significant fault which was not fixed  by the 
franchised dealer,  and it considered it to have likely been developing at the point of sale.
Taking into account the age and mileage of the car, as well as the severity of the fault  the 
malfunctioning of a major  component of the car  and that the fault was identified and 
reported by Mr H within two months of ownership,  I dont think  that meets  a standard  that a 
reasonable person could expect. I dont  think a reasonable  person would expect  it necessary  
to replace a gearbox having  travelled under 20,000 at the point it was identified  as needing 
to be replaced  at the very least it suggests  that component of the car was not sufficiently 
durable. So, it follows that Im satisfied  that this car was not of satisfactory quality at the point 
it was supplied to Mr H. 
whats fair and reasonable to resolve  things
Given that Im satisfied that the car Mr H was supplied with was not of satisfactory quality,  
the next step is to determine what Santander needs  to do to put things right. This is where 
my provisional conclusions will differ slightly to those our investigator reached. 
Santander has offered  to cover the cost of repairs, but Mr H now wants to reject the car. 
Santander has argued that under  the CRA  it should  be allowed an attempt to repair  the car 
because the first it (and the supplying dealer)  knew of the issues  with it were  when  Mr H 
raised a complaint in March 2019. 
Our investigator said that Mr H had taken the car to the supplying dealer  within  six months of 
receiving the car to investigate the issue with the gearbox.  But from what  Ive seen, thats  not 
the case. It appears that the supplying dealer was independent from the franchised  dealers 
which Mr H took the car to. As such, I accept that neither Santander nor the supplying dealer 
have been given a chance  to repair Mr Hs car. 
In circumstances  like this, where  Mr H has noticed that the goods  he was supplied  with were  
not of satisfactory  quality  after two months,  the CRA allows Mr H to request Santander repair  
the faults or replace the goods.  If, after one attempt to repair, the contract  is not conforming 
 i.e., Mr Hs car was not of satisfactory  quality - he has the right to reject the goods.
Im required  to take relevant law, such as the CRA, into account. But ultimately  my role is to 
decide how a complaint  should be resolved based  on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable. Ive fully considered the points Santander has made about whether it has been 
afforded the opportunities  it should  have to put things right. Having done so, like our 
investigator, I still think that Mr H should  be allowed to reject the car, and Ill explain why. 
Whilst I accept  that Santander  was not given the opportunity to repair Mr Hs car, Ive 
considered what  likely would have happened  had it been given  that opportunity, and I think  
we would have  arrived at the same  position  were  in now. I say this because  Mr H took the 
car to the franchised dealer to investigate the issue and attempt  to repair  it on a number of 
occasions. I dont  know whether  Santander  would have appointed an agent to do the same 
thing, or even referred it to the franchised dealer as Mr H did, but if it had done this Im 
confident the outcome would have  been  much the same. 
Mr Hs car has been subject to multiple  assessments, and one significant  unsuccessful 
repair attempt by the franchised dealer. I find it improbable that Santander wouldve been  
successful in fixing a fault which the franchised  dealer   arguably best placed to carry this 
Ref: DRN30672994out  was unsuccessful.  Taking that into account,  I dont think itd be fair and reasonable to 
now allow  Santander the opportunity to repair Mr Hs car. 
Additionally, Ive also taken into account the seriousness of this fault. I think  its fair to say 
that the gearbox is a major component  of the car, so its understandable that Mr H has lost 
confidence in the car, and he should be allowed to reject it. I also think  he should also be 
refunded any costs that he incurred in respect  of repairs  carried  out to the car, because  if 
Santander had been given the opportunity to repair the car, it wouldve been responsible for 
that cost, so Mr H should not be out of pocket. 
putting things  right for Mr H
In summary,  I agree on the whole with the recommendations our investigator made to put 
things right. However, I think  Mr H made a reasonable point when he asked whether any of 
his loan instalments  would  be refunded. 
From what  Mr H has said and the evidence Ive seen, he appears to have had use of the car. 
As far as Im aware the issue with the car didnt  stop him using it and he was provided  with 
an alternative car when  he was without it. However,  I think its fair to say that his use has 
been impeded. Ultimately,  he was making  payments for a car which didnt perform as it 
should have, and in that sense I dont think Mr H should be expected  to have paid the full 
amount required  for a car that hes had impaired use of. As a result, I think  Santander should 
refund 10% of the monthly payments Mr H made towards his agreement. 
Our investigator asked  Santander to pay Mr H £150 compensation for the inconvenience of 
having to repeatedly take the car to the franchised dealer for assessments  and repairs in 
relation to the issue with the gearbox. But I think weve underestimated the level of 
inconvenience this wouldve caused Mr H. Taking  into account the number of trips Mr H 
made back and forth trying to get the car fixed,  I think hes been caused a lot of unnecessary 
trouble and upset.  
Ive also seen recent correspondence from M H explaining how stressful  the situation has 
been for him, which  is understandable given everything thats happened. In light of this, I 
think a more reasonable amount of compensation for the overall  trouble and upset Mr H has 
been caused should be £250. So thats the amount I propose Santander should pay Mr H.
Mr H responded and broadly agreed with my provisional decision.  Santander  did not. It 
provided evidence  which it thought  showed that Mr H had modified the car to produce more 
power than intended shortly  after acquiring  it. It suggested that this modification  was the 
reason the car suffered issues with its gearbox. It also said that by modifying the car Mr H 
had breached his agreement  with it and it would be within  its rights  to take steps to end the 
agreement and repossess the car.
Santander withdrew its offer to fix or contribute towards the fix for the gearbox.  It also 
provided evidence  it thought showed  that Mr H had accepted  that the cars manufacturer had 
only offered to pay for a portion of the gearbox  fix because of the modifications. 
Mr H accepted that the car had been modified to produce more power than it would usually 
have. But he said that particular modification  was removed  after the fault occurred, and 
because it subsequently went wrong again after it had been  repaired and returned to its 
standard specifications,  it suggested that the cars  gearbox had an inherent fault with it. He 
Ref: DRN30672995provided a video taken whilst the car was being inspected  by the manufacturer,  in which 
employees discuss that one repair had already been completed whilst  testing  for the fault.
 
In light of the new evidence Santander  had provided, I issued a second provisional  decision. 
I said;
The issue  for me to decide in this case  as I explained in my provisional decision  is 
whether or not the car Mr H was supplied with was of satisfactory quality. Even if I find that 
the car has a fault, to require Santander  to take further action I need  to be satisfied the fault 
was present or developing  at the point of supply. Im aware  Santanders said it thinks it has 
the right to end the agreement because Mr H has broken its terms by modifying  the car. It 
hasnt suggested  whether  it intended  to do this or not, but I make  no finding  on this as I think 
that in the particular circumstances  of this complaint the events subsequent to the referral  of 
this case ought  to be considered separately, if at all.
I think that Santander has made a reasonable argument that the modifications  Mr H made to 
the car likely  caused the fault with the cars gearbox. I think  its generally accepted that car 
components are designed to withstand  certain stress and strain produced by general  use, 
and that where  components are subjected to more stress and strain  than theyre  designed to 
withstand the result is often a premature failure  of that part.
Santander has provided what I consider to be clear evidence that Mr H altered the car he 
was provided from the manufacturers specification to produce  more power than it has in its 
standard specification.  Ive seen social media  posts which suggest Mr H did this by having 
the car remapped  as well as making modifications to the exhaust.  Mr H accepted that he 
performed the modifications shortly after acquiring the car and described it as highly  
modified.
I accept that just because a cars  been modified,  it doesnt necessarily  follow that the 
modification wouldve  affected all of the cars components. In this case  Mr H performed  a 
modification which increased the engines power. Given  that the gearbox is the component  
through which the energy  the engine produces is transferred to the wheels, I think  its fair to 
say that it wouldve been put under more stress  than it otherwise wouldve been in its 
standard specification.  So, Ive little doubt  that the modification more likely  than not affected 
the gearboxs operation.
Ive given careful consideration to Mr Hs point that the gearbox  issue has happened again 
despite the remap being removed, as well as his assertion that the fault is common amongst 
the model of car he was supplied with. However,  the points Mr H has made have not 
persuaded me that the cars  gearbox has an inherent fault  whether by design or particular 
to this gearbox  nor that its not been  sufficiently durable.  Ill explain  why.
Theres been no indication that there was a fault with the cars gearbox until after Mr H 
performed modifications.  Rather, it seems Mr H reported the issue  within a few weeks of the 
modifications. So, on balance, I think its reasonable to conclude that those modifications 
caused to the failure of the gearbox. It follows that Im not satisfied the fault was present or 
developing at the point the car was supplied.
Im aware that Mr H is concerned the gearbox  issue reoccurred after the remap  was 
removed and the gearbox was repaired.  But just because the problem occurred a second 
time after it was repaired,  doesnt mean  that the car was not of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply  or sufficiently durable.  Even if it was the same  component  which went  wrong, 
Ref: DRN30672996I find it plausible and likely that whatever  caused it to fail manifested as a result of the 
modifications Mr H performed. Moreover,  I havent seen sufficient evidence to persuade me 
that the problems experience with the gearbox  after a repair had been made, was caused by 
an inherent fault. I also think its possible and likely that the stress and strain exerted  by the 
modifications could  have had a longer lasting impact  on various components  of the car, and 
couldve caused the gearbox  to fail a second  time.
Lastly, I accept that there may be some anecdotal evidence that other people with the same  
model of car have  experienced issues with the gearbox similar to Mr H. However,  I need  to 
be satisfied that the particular  car Mr H was supplied with was not of satisfactory quality. Its 
not clear whether the manufacturer was aware  of the modifications at the point the car was 
inspected, but in any case Ive not received any evidence which  suggests  that the 
manufacturer accepts  that the gearbox has failed due to a design or durability fault. So, on 
balance, Im not persuaded that this particular gearbox wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Overall, and in light of the new evidence Ive been presented,  Im not persuaded that the car 
Mr H was supplied with had a gearbox  fault present or developing at the point of supply.  Im 
also not persuaded that the gearbox was not sufficiently durable.
We didnt hear back from Santander by the deadline set, but Mr H responded. He asked to 
see the evidence  Santander had provided,  which we gave him. He also said;
-The manufacturer had not told Mr H it was aware his car had been  modified, rather,  
its offer to contribute  towards costs were made  as it is a well known defect
-The car was fitted with a brand new output  shaft so its impossible  that the same fault 
occurred due to a modification hed removed after new components  had been fitted
-He believed that the supplying dealer  was known to remap cars before selling them
-The engineers  report concluded a fault was most likely present at the point of supply
-The issue with the car is intermittent and occurs only when the car is cold. If the 
remap had caused the issue then it would  be present when driving too
-The forum post which Santander had provided relating to a highly modified car and 
the limit of the manufacturers offer to repair was not in reference to his, but someone 
elses car, although he had contributed to that conversation
-He had spoken to several  gearbox engineers who said it was not possible to 
establish whether  the tuning  of the car had caused the issue in the first instance 
-The manufacturers internal repair guide says that if a fix for this particular problem is 
not successful  then the gearbox  should  be replaced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As my provisional decisions  explained, I can require Santander to take further action if Im 
satisfied that the car Mr H was given was not of satisfactory quality  at the point  of supply, or 
if it was subsequently not sufficiently durable.  
Mr H has made a number of points following my last decision. Ive considered all of them 
carefully and in detail.  I dont intend to respond  to each one individually though, because I 
dont think thats  necessary  for me to explain what a fair outcome on this case will be. My 
decision will focus on what I consider to be material to the complaint about  whether the 
particular car Mr H was supplied with was of satisfactory quality.
Ref: DRN30672997I accept that one of the entries  which Santander  supplied as evidence  of Mr H having 
modified his car, in particular the one which describes a car as highly modified and makes 
reference to a limit to an offer a manufacturer made,  was not made by Mr H. I also accept, 
as Mr H has asserted, that whilst he may have contributed to that conversation,  it wasnt with 
reference to his car. 
Nonetheless, Mr H accepts his car was modified  by way of a stage one remap as well as an 
exhaust modification. So, whether Mr H had described his car as highly modified or not, Im 
satisfied that it was modified in a way which most  people would accept could cause 
premature wear to the cars components,  particularly the gearbox,  in line with the 
explanation I gave in my last decision.
Mr H has made the point that an independent  engineer concluded that the issue was present 
or developing at the point of supply. However, that report actually concludes  that there is no 
specific engineering  evidence that the fault was present at the point of supply. It goes on to 
say that as there appears to have been attempted repairs, and it seems to be a fault known 
to the manufacturer, that it could  be considered  that the faults  were  developing at the point 
of supply.
I think its fair to say that conclusion is not definite  on whether the fault it found was present 
or developing at the point of supply. But that report also makes no reference to the 
modifications to the car, as Id expect it to have if the engineer had been aware. And taking 
into account that Mr H didnt tell Santander about  those modifications  when  he raised a 
complaint, nor our service when referring  the matter to us, it appears  that the engineer was 
not aware of this. So, overall the engineers  report doesnt persuade  me that the car was not 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mr H has said that the fault with his car is a common one to that model  and known to the 
manufacturer as a defect. If that was the case,  I expect Mr H wouldve been able to provide 
evidence from the manufacturer,  or another  expert, specific to his car about  why the fault 
occurred, especially as it seems that the manufacturer inspected and worked on the car a 
number of times. But its not something Ive been  provided, so Im not persuaded that the 
fault Mr H experienced  was due to a manufacturing defect which affected the gearboxs  
durability. 
Mr H has also said several engineers stated that it would be impossible  to say that the 
modifications he carried out caused  the issue or not. But taking into account  that the problem 
Mr H complains of occurred  shortly after he performed modifications to the car, and those  
modifications wouldve  put more strain  on the gearboxs components than the manufacturer 
had intended,  I think it would be fair to say it points to those modifications being the possible 
cause. And significantly,  because  the problem only arose after Mr H made those 
modifications, I cant be reasonably satisfied  that the issue  was present or developing before 
then.
Overall, Mr H hasnt  given  me any evidence particular to his car which  persuades me that it 
had a fault which was present or developing at the point of supply. Nor has he supplied 
sufficient evidence from the manufacturer or other  experts which persuades  me that the fault 
with his car is due to a manufacturing  defect  it so wasnt sufficiently durable. 
Given all of the above, on balance, Im not satisfied that the car supplied to Mr H was of 
unsatisfactory quality.  As such, I cannot  fairly ask Santander to do anymore. 
Ref: DRN30672998my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3067299