K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Mr and Mrs L payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Judging from the PPI application  form, I do think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs L aware that the 
PPI was optional,  but that they still chose  to take it.
I think Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs L, and this means it had a higher 
standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs Ls particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  And it looks  to me as though a recommendation 
would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ls situation at the 
time. I say this because:
Its likely  Mr and Mrs L were eligible for the policy   the evidence does support the 
adjudicators view that Mrs L was probably working for more than 16 hours  a week. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs L received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
they would  need  to fall back  on any savings or other means they may have  had for 
paying the mortgage and other  living costs. This all would have put Mr and Mrs L in a 
more secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. It would then be up to Mr and Mrs L to decide whether they wanted  to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
Ref: DRN32928592Mr and Mrs L have said they were not made  aware of what PPI was. However  this did all 
happen over 20 years  ago and I have to bear in mind that I wouldnt expect someone to 
recall in detail everything that happened that long ago. 
Its hard now to know what Lloyds did say about  the PPI  there was mention of it in 
documents, with Mr and Mrs L signing an application form and apparently  choosing  what 
percentage of benefits they would  each be entitled to. But I dont have clear enough 
evidence to say that better information by Lloyds would have affected whether or not 
Mr and Mrs L took the PPI. I say this because the PPI would  have paid out for longer than 
Mr and Mrs Ls sick pay would have lasted   and would have been in addition  to that sick 
pay or any redundancy payment. And as a mortgage on your home  is an important thing to 
make secure, I cant be sure that Mr and Mrs L wouldnt still have agreed to take PPI. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs L would have  been  affected  by any of these. And theyd  be paying for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3292859