K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about having to pay for the recovery assistance  he received from his 
roadside assistance policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
background
Ive already set out what this service has the power  to consider and what we cant  look at. 
In summary,  the Financial  Ombudsman  Service has no power to consider the following 
complaint points: 
the charge  for the recovery  of the vehicle;  
the recovery of the vehicle  to Mr Gs home  address;
damage to the vehicle  during  the recovery; and
any customer service  concerns in relation to the above points
However, we can consider the following complaint points:
UKIs refusal to recover his car under the roadside assistance  policy.
UKIs sale of the roadside assistance  policy
UKIs offer to cover  the cost under the motor  insurance policy;  and
any customer service  concerns in relation to the above points
This decision will focus on the merits of the complaint points that I do have the power to look 
at.
In November 2017, Mr G was involved in an accident. He called UKI to ask it to recover his 
car under his UKI roadside assistance  policy. In April 2019,  Mr G received a final demand 
letter of £108  for the cost of the recovery. 
Mr G would like UKI to waive  the recovery charge. He says:
UKI refused to recover his car under  the roadside assistance policy.
the roadside assistance policy  was mis-sold  
he doesnt want to claim  under his motor insurance policy
hes unhappy with the service he received as its been stressful  for him and he says 
UKI acted with prejudice 
UKI said Mr G purchased a fully comprehensive  motor insurance policy online in June 2017. 
It said the policy included  a free roadside  assistance  breakdown  cover  for the first year but 
did not provide  for recovery after an accident.  
UKI said Mr G was informed that the car couldnt  be recovered under the roadside 
assistance policy. And that the cost could  be covered if he claimed for the accident under his 
UKI motor insurance policy.  But as he hadnt done  that he needed to pay for the recovery.  
Mr G was unhappy with UKIs response, so he brought his complaint  to us. Our investigator  
didnt uphold  the complaint. She thought UKI did make it clear  to Mr G that if his car had a 
breakdown, he couldve  recovered it through his roadside assistance  policy  free of charge. 
But as his vehicle  was involved in an accident, he needed to either claim through  his motor 
insurance policy to cover  the costs of recovery or to pay for the costs  himself. 
Ref: DRN31428452Mr G disagreed so the complaint has come to me look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. I understand this will come as a disappointment to him, but Ill 
explain my reasons why.
Firstly, its important to set out that UKI provides both Mr Gs motor  insurance policy and his 
roadside assistance policy. 
Mr G is unhappy that UKI refused to recover  his car under his roadside  assistance  policy. 
UKI has told us that Mr Gs car was involved in a single vehicle accident and based on the 
recovery job sheet, damage to the car included a broken mirror and a smoking engine. 
Given that Mr Gs car was involved in an accident  Im satisfied it wasnt  a mechanical 
breakdown, so I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably when it made the decision not to 
recover Mr Gs car under  his roadside assistance  policy.
 
UKI offered to cover  the costs of the recovery under his motor insurance  policy  by 
processing an accident claim. However, Mr G did not agree to a claim on his motor  
insurance policy, so was charged  directly for the recovery.  I consider  UKIs offer to cover the 
costs under his motor  insurance policy to be fair as its not possible to claim  under  his 
roadside assistance policy. 
Mr G says the roadside assistance policy was mis-sold to him. UKI has told us Mr G 
purchased a fully comprehensive motor insurance policy online in June 2017. It said the 
policy included a free roadside assistance  breakdown cover for the first year. 
UKI had a responsibility  to provide information  thats clear, fair and not mis-leading. UKI says 
the terms and conditions set out if your vehicle's in an accident  that would be covered by a 
motor insurance policy  we may be able to repair or recover it. You'll need to pay the cost,  but 
you might  be able to claim it back from your insurance provider.  I cant be sure what  Mr Gs 
terms and conditions said or how this information was presented  to Mr G at the time of sale 
as UKI havent provided this information.  
But having  looked at a similar UKI roadside assistance policy, I can see that this term was 
included. So, I think its likely the above  term or something very similar was in Mr Gs policy.
Ive considered whether Mr G wouldve acted differently had he known of this term at the 
time of sale,  and Im not persuaded that he would have. I say this because  Mr Gs roadside 
assistance policy was included free as part of his purchase of his motor insurance, and from 
my experience basic roadside assistance  policies usually dont cover picking up cars, 
without a charge,  after a road traffic accident.  These policies help at the roadside following a 
breakdown on the roadside due to damage, mechanical or electrical failure. Perhaps Mr G 
couldve paid for a roadside  assistance policy that wouldve recovered  him after an accident, 
but I havent seen anything  that makes me think it was so important to him at the time of sale 
that he wouldve  done that. 
Ref: DRN31428453Mr G is unhappy with the service he received from UKI - in particular, he says UKI acted with 
prejudice with his claim as it refused to recover his car under his roadside  assistance policy.  
As Ive already  said above, I think UKI acted fairly and reasonably in not accepting his claim 
under his roadside assistance policy. UKI offered Mr G £30 compensation for not calling 
back him back until the next evening when he called it to express dissatisfaction. I think the 
offer fairly compensates him for this. 
Overall, taking everything into consideration, I think UKI has acted fairly and reasonably so 
I wont be asking it to do any more.  I wont be interfering in its request that Mr G pays for the 
recovery.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  Mr Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Asia Khanam
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3142845