K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs W opened the credit card account  in 2005  and didnt take out PPI at that time. It was 
when she rang Capital One to activate a replacement card in 2007  that she was sold the 
policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint and Ill explain why.
Mrs W says that no information was disclosed about the PPI and it was attached to the credit 
card account  without her knowledge or consent. Mrs W feels very strongly that she would 
not have agreed  to the PPI if she had known about it. Shes explained  that she took out 
other borrowing around the same time and did not take out PPI with those  products.  Shes  
also said that she knew about PPI because of her job and never took it out.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mrs W has said. But the sale was a long time ago and 
so I have considered  how this may have affected Mrs Ws recollection  of events. Looking at 
the call script, on balance I am satisfied that the adviser would have talked about the policy  
and made  it clear that it was optional. I have no reason to think  that the adviser would have 
deviated from the call script on this occasion.  Based on the available  evidence,  I think  that 
Mrs W probably decided to buy it, knowing  that she didnt have to, even if she no longer 
remembers doing so.
Capital One didnt recommend the policy to Mrs W, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her 
needs. But it did need to provide Mrs W with enough  information  for her to make an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for her.
Mrs Ws employer  would  have given her six months full pay, followed by six months half 
pay, if shed been off work sick.. But the policy would have paid out in addition to this and 
potentially for longer  than Mrs W would  have received full pay for. Mrs W had some savings, 
but having the policy would have meant  that she could retain these  or use them to cover 
other outgoings at what would  have  been  a difficult time.   So I think  that Mrs W had a need 
for the policy and could  have benefitted from it.
Its possible that Capital  One didnt provide as much  information about  the policy as it should  
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mrs W wasnt  affected by any of 
those things. As I think that she had an interest in the policy  and decided  to buy it, I dont  
think that further information  would have caused  her to change her mind. 
Ref: DRN37258202This means  that Capital One doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because: 
When the policy was sold,  Capital One expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about 
that. Because Capital One didnt  tell Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 March  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3725820