K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies 
taken out in 2005 and 2008. Mr K says Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS)  mis-sold  him 
the PPI.
background
I issued my provisional decision in October 2019,  a copy of which  is attached and forms part 
of this final decision. In my provisional decision I explained why I was not intending to uphold  
Mr Ks complaint. I asked  everyone to send  me any further comments  and information before 
I reached a final decision.
YBS didnt have  further for me to consider. Mr K provided some further comments which Ive 
now considered.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable.  
Whilst Mr K has provided further  comments, no new evidence or information has been  
submitted. I can assure Mr K Ive taken everything  hes said in to consideration. 
There arent any notes of the meetings  available,  so I cant be sure what was discussed. And 
whilst I dont doubt Mr K has provided his best recollection of what happened  at that time, I 
must have  regard for any documentary evidence that is available  to me as well.
And having taken  all the documentary evidence in to consideration for both sales,  Im 
satisfied YBS made  it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out.
So Ive reached  the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  for the same  
reasons.
As I also said in my provisional  decision, Ive also thought  about  whether YBS needs to give 
Mr K some of the commission he paid back. 
The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain types  of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Ks mortgage was a 
regulated mortgage  they dont apply. So YBS doesnt need  to refund any of the commission  
Mr K paid for the PPI he had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Ref: DRN30580182Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  two mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policies taken  out in 
2005 and 2008. Mr K says Yorkshire  Building Society (YBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr K took out a mortgage in 2005 with a joint account  holder and took out a PPI policy  at the same 
time to cover the repayments. They paid a monthly amount for the policy. The PPI policy  covered    
Ref: DRN30580183Mr K and the joint account holder for accident and sickness only.  If theyd made  a successful claim  
the policy  would have covered their monthly repayments for up to 12 months.
As the joint account  holder has not joined the complaint, I will only look at Mr Ks 
circumstances and will only be referring  to Mr K in my decision.
In 2008, transfer equity took place to Mr K and a new PPI policy was sold to him in his sole name. 
He paid a monthly amount  for the policy. The PPI policy covered Mr K for accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. If he made a successful claim the policy  would have covered  his monthly 
repayments for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  Mr K disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Ive provisionally decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
2005 sale
Mr K has said he was told he had to take the PPI to get the mortgage. YBS had to make Mr K aware  
that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding it to his mortgage. I cant  be certain what  
was said when the policy was sold, but YBS has provided a copy  of the mortgage  application form and 
PPI application  that was completed  at the time.
The mortgage  application form gave Mr K an option to either  find out more  information  about PPI or 
make his own arrangements. Neither  option has been selected but I am satisfied that the application  
doesnt show  that the PPI had to be taken in order to obtain  the mortgage. The separate  PPI 
application form signed by Mr K has been provided. I can see cover for accident and sickness only 
has been selected which indicates that a discussion  took place about it. So I think  he reasonably  
would have been aware that PPI was optional, separate to and not a condition of his mortgage.
Mr K was agreeing to an important financial  commitment,  so I would  have expected him to have 
looked over the form before  signing in agreement with the information on it. If he didnt  want PPI he 
didnt need to sign for it.
So taking everything in to consideration, I think YBS made it clear  that Mr K didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember this now 
many years later.
2008 sale
YBS has provided the transfer of equity application as well as the separate  PPI application completed 
at the time. The PPI application shows that Mr K chose this time to take accident,  sickness and 
unemployment cover   so I think this indicates a discussion took place. So I think  he reasonably  
would have been aware that PPI was optional, separate to and not a condition of his mortgage. And 
taking everything in to consideration, I think YBS made it clear that Mr K didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose to take it out.
both sales
Ref: DRN30580184YBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr K so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for him. But it did have 
to make sure Mr K got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him.
Its possible the information  YBS gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But 
he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen 
of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected  by any of the exclusions  to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think better information about  the PPI would  have put him off 
taking out the cover.
The PPI policy couldve  covered Mr Ks repayments for up to 12 months per claim if he became  too ill 
to work (2005 and 2008 policy) or if he became unemployed (2008  policy). It wouldve paid out in 
addition to any sick pay he had. And from 2008 it wouldve paid out on top of any redundancy 
payment he may have got if he lost his job. And as there couldve been serious consequences of not 
keeping up repayments  on a debt secured  against his home,  if Mr K couldnt  work (2005  and 2008 
policy) or lost his job (2008 policy) then the PPI meant his monthly mortgage payments wouldve 
been met. I think the PPI policy couldve  been helpful  to him.
Ive also thought  about  whether YBS needs to give Mr K some of the commission he paid back. The 
Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont apply to certain types of mortgage 
agreement  including a regulated mortgage. As Mr Ks mortgage was a regulated  mortgage they 
dont apply. So YBS doesnt need to refund  any of the commission Mr K paid for the PPI he had with 
that mortgage.
Ref: DRN3058018