K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about issues hes experienced with a car supplied  by Lex Autolease  Limited.
background
In June 2018 Mr T was supplied with a car and entered into a personal contract hire 
agreement with Lex Autolease. The agreement was for a term of 48 months  with an annual  
mileage allowance  of 5000 miles.
Mr T experienced issues with the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF).  He says the filter has been 
changed twice  and that the amber light which gives the driver warning that the car needs to 
be driven on a journey  to clear the filter changes  to a red light too quickly.  Mr T feels  that he 
was mis-sold the car because it isnt suitable  for his needs. He also says theres  a fault with 
the DPF and that the car isnt of satisfactory  quality.
In its final response,  Lex Autolease said there was no evidence that the car had been  mis-
sold. It said the issue with the DPF was caused by Mr Ts driving style and wasnt  due to a 
manufacturing defect.
Mr T wasnt happy with the response. He was concerned that future DPF issues  wouldnt be 
covered by the warranty and he wanted  to end the finance agreement.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and felt that the issues with the DPF were 
caused by the type of journeys being carried out, rather than due to an inherent fault. The 
investigator said there was no evidence that the car had been  mis-sold.
Mr T didnt  agree. He wasnt  happy  with the explanation provided by Lex Autolease as to 
why the amber  light wasnt  functioning  properly. He also said the manufacturer  had recently 
replaced the DPF for a third time under warranty on the basis  that the amber  warning wasnt 
sufficient.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mis-sale
Mr T has said that the car isnt suitable for his needs  because he only uses  it for short  
journeys. He has said there was no discussion with the dealer regarding  his proposed use of 
the car, nor was there any conversation about  DPF management.
Lex Autolease has said it spoke to the dealer who advised that there  was nothing said by Mr 
T at the point of supply about  his intended  use of the car or that it might not be suitable for 
him. It also said that the manufacturers website provides information on the different fuel 
types available and advice on which fuel and model would be suitable based on intended  
usage.
In order to find that there has been a mis-sale, I would need  to be satisfied that the business 
made an incorrect statement of fact which induced Mr T to enter the agreement.  I havent  
seen anything to suggest that Mr T was provided  with incorrect  information here. Ive thought 
Ref: DRN39337712about whether  the dealership shouldve discussed  different  fuel types with Mr T. However, 
the evidence suggests that Mr T had already made his choice to purchase a diesel model 
before he approached the dealership. In these circumstances,  I dont think its reasonable to 
expect the dealership to have had discussions with Mr T about the fuel type,  the DPF or the 
intended use of the car.
Taking everything into account,  Ive not seen  anything to persuade me that the car was mis-
sold to Mr T.
Satisfactory quality
Mr Ts main point  is that hes had to have the DPF replaced three times and that the amber 
warning light doesnt operate as it should.  
Lex Autolease has said theres no fault with the car and that the DPF issues are being 
caused by the way in which the car is driven.
Ive looked at the available data from the car. Mr T has said that the car is used for short 
journeys. The data provided shows  that the average drive cycle  in the car is 25 minutes with 
an average speed of 37 mph. This is consistent with short journeys. Importantly, the data 
shows that the car isnt being driven  at a sufficient  speed to enable the DPF regeneration to 
complete. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think the way the car is being driven is impacting on the ability of 
the DPF to regenerate.  Theres  no evidence to suggest that theres  an underlying  
mechanical cause  of the DPF becoming  blocked.  The DPF has required replacement at 
intervals of between 3 and 5 months, which suggests to me that the issue is caused by 
driving style rather than an inherent fault.
Ive noted Mr Ts concerns about  the amber light not always  giving him sufficient  time to 
drive the car in such a way that would allow a regeneration of the DPF to complete. Lex 
Autolease has offered  an explanation for this which I have no reason to doubt. I appreciate 
that Mr T doesnt accept  the explanation but in the overall context of the complaint, the 
functionality of the amber warning light doesnt  alter my primary view that the issues with the 
DPF are due to driving style and not caused  by a fault or inherent defect.
For the reasons  Ive explained Im unable  to conclude that the car isnt of satisfactory quality. 
I wont be asking Lex Autolease to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3933771