K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Lloyds Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Miss H took out in 1994.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Lloyds didnt respond to our adjudicators  opinion,  so 
the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case. 
Ive decided this PPI policy was most likely  to have been mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
Miss H was self-employed,  and said she kept a years worth of her salary in savings to cover 
her in case something went wrong.  She explained how she managed to save this up and 
how she held the funds. While I havent been given evidence  which  shows Miss Hs savings, 
I think thats understandable given all the time thats passed, in much  the same way that its 
understandable that Lloyds hasnt been  able to provide evidence from the sale either.  And 
Miss Hs testimony has been  detailed  and plausible. So it looks like Miss H could have 
managed without the PPI for long enough  to not really need it.
Its not clear whether  Lloyds recommended the policy to Miss H, or not. If it did recommend  
it, then it doesnt  look like the policy was suitable  for her.
And if Lloyds  didnt recommend it, it still had to give Miss H clear information  about the 
policy. But from what Ive seen of its sales process  from the time, it doesnt  look like she 
wouldve been given  clear enough  information  about the policys cost and benefits.  And 
I think this wouldve mattered to Miss H, since it looks like she could have  met her credit card 
repayments sufficiently  without PPI.
If Lloyds had made it clear the PPI wasnt right for Miss H, or if Lloyds had given her clear 
enough information about it, then I think its most  likely that Miss H would  not have bought 
the policy. So I think Miss H has probably lost out because of the flaws  in Lloyds sale.
putting things right
Lloyds should  put Miss H in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Lloyds should find out how much Miss H would have owed when she closed her credit 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN38606992Lloyds should  then refund  the difference between  what Miss H owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss H made a successful  claim  under  the PPI policy, Lloyds can take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Lloyds should add simple interest  on the difference between  what Miss H would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% simple a year.
C.If  when  Lloyds  works out what Miss H would have owed each month  without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, Lloyds should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Miss H paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Miss H 
wouldve owed Lloyds something  on her credit  card.  The interest rate should again be 
8% simple  a year.
D.Lloyds should tell Miss H what its done  to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Lloyds Bank  Plc should put things  right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3860699