K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  that Santander  UK Plc delayed applying  a default to her credit file. Had it 
been applied  sooner,  six years would now have passed and the default  wouldve been 
removed from her credit file. She would like the default removed from her credit file. 
Miss S also complains that her credit file doesnt  correctly show that she paid off her debt. 
She would like this corrected. 
 
background
Miss S held an account with Santander with an agreed overdraft of £2,000. She fell into 
financial difficulties and, some time in 2012, she contacted a debt charity  to help her with her 
finances. 
Santanders records show that the debt charity contacted them on 31 January 2013 to offer 
a payment plan for Miss S to pay off her overdraft. At this point, Santander froze all fees and 
charges on Miss Ss account. 
Miss S started paying off her debt as set up by the debt charity.  
On 27 June 2013, Santander wrote  to Miss S giving her 28 days  to pay off the overdraft. 
They said that, if she didnt, they would record a default on her credit file. 
Miss S didnt pay off the overdraft fully but continued  to make the payments set up by the 
debt charity.  So, in August 2013,  Santander  closed her account and recorded a default  on 
her credit file.
Miss S fully paid off her debt in September 2014. 
She was unhappy  that a default was still showing on her credit  file and she thought  that it 
didnt show that she had paid off the debt. Santander responded by saying  that they had 
applied the default correctly and that the credit file did show  that she had paid off the debt. 
Miss S wasnt happy with this outcome so she came to us. 
Our investigator found that Santander shouldve written to Miss S telling her that she had six 
months to pay off the debt. She also thought  that they shouldnt have applied  the default  as 
they had entered into a payment arrangement through the debt charity.  She felt that there 
shouldve been  more communication from Santander before they decided to apply the 
default. Her opinion  was that Santander should backdate the default  to the point when the 
debt charity had first contacted them. 
This outcome wasnt accepted so the complaint has now come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I have considered our investigators opinion and I agree  that the default should be backdated 
to when the debt charity  contacted Santander.  I will explain  why. 
Ref: DRN37955722Santander explain that they didnt  accept the debt charitys repayment plan formally.  If they 
had done this, they wouldnt  have  applied a default to Miss Ss credit account if she kept to 
the agreement. As Miss S appears to have kept to the agreement until she paid off the debt, 
I can see that Santander didnt formally accept the payment plan. 
So, as Santander  didnt formally accept the payment plan, I can see no reason why they 
delayed sending the default letter and applying  the default to Miss Ss credit file. They  had 
decided not to formally  accept the plan so any delay in applying  the default  was 
unnecessary. 
From Santanders records, it appears  that the debt charity contacted them  with a payment 
plan offer on 31 January 2013. Had the default  letter been sent then, that wouldve  given  
Miss S 28 days to pay. If we allow one day for the letter to be posted, the 28 days  wouldve 
been up on 1 March 2013.  I see no reason why the default couldnt have been registered 
then. Giving Santander  a week to register the default takes us to 8 March 2013. I think  that 
this is when the default shouldve been registered. 
I believe that it is fair and reasonable for Santander to back  date the default  to 8 March  
2013. 
With regards to Miss Ss credit file accurately reflecting that she has paid off the debt, I think 
that it does. I have seen  a copy of the credit  file and it does show that she cleared the debt. 
This was recorded in October 2014. 
my final decision
I think that Santander UK Plc unnecessarily delayed registering a default on Miss Ss credit 
file. I require them to back date the default  to 8 March 2013. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3795572