K820x#14complaint
Mr Us complaint is about an increased  premium Tesco Underwriting Limited  charged  him on 
his car insurance policy. 
background
In 2013 and 2016 Mr Us car suffered damage. In both cases  he informed his insurer,  as he 
should have done, but told it he didnt want to make a claim. These occurrences were 
recorded by the insurer as notifications  and it detailed that Mr U hadnt  been at fault.
In early 2017 Mr Us insurance policy was due to renewal. He used an aggregator website to 
find himself a new policy. The website  asked him if he had had any motor accidents or 
claims in the last five years. If Mr U had been uncertain what  this mean, there was a help 
area beside the question  which explained:
Give us details  of any incidents, accidents or claims involving a vehicle that youve had in 
the last 5 years. Please include all incidents,  including where you werent deemed to be at 
fault, where you were  driving a different vehicle, and incidents  that havent yet been settled.
Mr U answered  no to the question  that he hadnt had any accidents or claims in the last 
five years.  He received a quote from Tesco and accepted it. Following this Tesco asked 
Mr U to forward to it evidence  from his previous insurer about  his no-claims discount.
The letter provided  by Mr Us previous insurer included details of the two accidents hed had 
in 2013 and 2016. They were detailed as no-fault and with no cost to the insurer  linked to 
them. Mr U also obtained confirmation from the insurer that they were  notifications only. He 
forwarded this information to Tesco.
Tesco noted  Mr Us accidents  and added that information to his application. This resulted in 
it concluding that had it been  told about  the accidents at application stage,  it would have 
charged a higher premium for the policy. It informed Mr U that this was the case and 
collected the additional premium.
Mr U was not happy about  having  to pay the additional premium and complained. Tesco  
didnt uphold  his complaint and so it was referred to this service. The policy  was kept until 
the end of the year and no claims were made under it.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and upheld  it. He concluded that Mr U not 
telling Tesco about the accidents  had been inadvertent.  In such  situations,  the relevant 
legislation only gave  Tesco two remedies  to the situation, neither of which was imposing an 
additional premium.  Whilst it could have asked Mr U to pay the additional premium to 
maintain full benefits under the policy, it couldnt  force him to pay it. As no claims had been  
paid under the policy, the adjudicator recommended that Tesco  refund  the additional 
premium with interest.
Tesco didnt  accept  this view and asked that the complaint be referred  to an ombudsman  for 
review, as it is entitled to do.
I considered the evidence  in this case and issued a provisional decision on 28 January  2019. 
In that document I detailed my conclusions and my reasons for reaching them. Below is an 
excerpt from that document.
Ref: DRN33209822Where there has been a misrepresentation of information to an insurer  I must first consider 
what happened and why, to determine  whether  a mistake happened  or whether that 
misrepresentation was made deliberately. This decision will determine what  actions the 
insurer could legally  and fairly make in the situation.
Whilst our adjudicator considered that Mr U had made  a mistake when not declaring the 
accidents on the aggregator  website,  I am not persuaded that is the case.  I say this as Mr U 
clearly understood  his obligations under his previous insurance policy. That being  that his 
insurer wanted to be told about any losses, even if he wasnt  planning to make a claim. He 
fulfilled that obligation in both 2013 and 2016.
Given this, I find it difficult  to conclude that he wouldnt have been aware that any new 
insurer would also want to know about  these accidents. Indeed,  he was then asked a clear  
question  had he had any accidents in the last five years? The explanation that went  with 
that question was again clear. I am satisfied  that the two accidents meant that Mr U should  
have answered  yes to the question he was asked and that details of them should have 
been provided. 
I have thought about when the accidents  occurred. I could see that it might be possible  that 
Mr U could have made  a mistake about the earlier claim  as it happened almost four years 
earlier. However, the second accident  had happened less than a year earlier.  I find it highly 
unlikely that Mr U would have forgotten about that accident and inadvertently  not told the 
aggregator site. 
I also note that when information  about  the two accidents was going  to be provided  to Tesco, 
Mr U obtained confirmation  that the accidents  had been notifications only,  and not claims, 
before he forwarded  his no-claims evidence  to Tesco. This would again indicate  that Mr U 
had a good understanding of the requirements  of insurers.
I have considered the facts of this case carefully  and I have concluded that Mr U would have 
known that the accidents  should have been declared given the question he was asked. In 
the circumstances, I also think  that he made a decision not to do so, rather  than the 
misrepresentation being inadvertent or a mistake.
In the situation  where a consumer deliberately misrepresents the facts to an insurer,  the 
insurer is still not entitled to force a consumer  to pay an additional premium. However, the 
remedy open to the insurer under the relevant  law can have long term consequences that 
most consumers would prefer to avoid.  The remedy allowed is for the insurer  to void the 
insurance policy from inception (treat it as if it had never  existed) and to retain the premium. 
It is likely  at that point that the insurer would also record the voidance and the reason for it 
on industry databases. Having to declare  that hed had a policy voided would have caused 
Mr U significant problems  obtaining insurance and possibly  other  financial services  and 
products, going  forward. It would  also have resulted in more expensive insurance  premiums 
too. 
So overall, whilst Tesco should not have taken the additional premium  from Mr U without his 
consent, I consider  that Mr U is in a better financial position than he would have been, had 
Tesco taken  the actions it reasonably could have. As such,  I dont consider that he has 
suffered a loss and I dont propose to make an award.
Ref: DRN33209823Mr U confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision. He said in response that he never  
considered a parking scratch incident as an insurance claim, but he reported  it to his insurer 
as good practice.  He didnt claim to his insurer for the damage.  He later determined that the 
damage was not actually  a scratch, but rather white paint from the other  vehicle. If Tesco 
considered this to be a claim and wanted  to charge  extra  for it, it isnt fair. 
Tesco provided a recording of the telephone call in which it gave  Mr U the choice of having 
his policy  cancelled or paying an additional premium. Mr U chose the second option and 
gave permission for the additional payment to be taken. 
Following receipt of the additional information from Tesco, I wrote  to both parties and 
confirmed that this altered the outcome of the complaint. I remained satisfied that Mr U knew 
that he should have declared  the losses he had notified his previous insurer about. As such, 
Tesco had been entitled to void Mr Us policy and not refund the additional premium.  When it 
gave him the option of having  his policy cancelled or paying  the additional premium, it had 
done nothing wrong in doing so and accepting  the additional premium  when  Mr U selected 
that option. I remained satisfied that Mr U was still in a far better  financial position  than he 
would have been in had the policy been voided.
No further comment  was received from either  party.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  those recently  
provided by the parties, to decide  whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I have considered what Mr U has said about reporting the damage to his car as good  
practice when with his old insurer, but he didnt consider it a claim. I would agree with him, 
the two notifications of accidents wouldnt be classed  as claims. However, the questions that 
were asked went beyond  just declaring claims; Mr U had to declare accidents and losses,  as 
he had to his previous  insurer. I remain  satisfied  that Mr U not declaring those losses  when 
asked a direct question about  them  was a choice on his part, rather  than an omission or a 
careless act. 
Tesco could  have  voided the policy and kept the premium  paid in the circumstances.  As 
such, Tesco giving him the option  to pay an additional premium to keep the policy  placed  
him in a much better position than, reasonably, he should have been  in. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr U to accept  or reject my decision before 
11 May 2019. 
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3320982