K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold him two payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policies  alongside two loans.
background
Mr C took out the first PPI policy in 2004 at the same  time as taking out a loan over the 
phone. The loan included an amount to pay for the PPI. The loan and policy  was in Mr Cs 
name only. It covered  him for accident, sickness and unemployment. It also included life 
cover.
Several months later,  in July 2004, Mr C refinanced his loan as he required some additional 
borrowing. This happened in branch. Mr Cs original loan was repaid and a new loan was 
taken out. PPI was also sold alongside this loan. The loan and policy  was in Mr Cs name  
only. Like the first loan, the PPI covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment.  And 
it also included life cover.
The PPI policies were  paid upfront by Mr C borrowing more.  And the PPI would have cost 
more with interest over the full term of the loan. This type of policy is called a single 
premium PPI policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide has provided some copies of the original documentation  from the sales.  But for 
the first loan taken over the phone in January 2004  it says that it doesnt have a recording of 
the sales call, and has referred  me to a script  that it says its staff had to follow. I havent 
placed too much weight  on this - as its from around  one year before the PPI was sold to 
Mr C. Overall, I dont  think its clear  exactly what was said at the time of the sale. So Ive had 
to rely on the information that I do have   to decide what  I think  is most likely  to have 
happened.
For both sales, Nationwide has provided  copies of Mr Cs original loan agreements. These 
show Mr C would be insured for disability,  unemployment  and life. It described the policy  as 
optional and it gave  the costs of the PPI. 
I think Mr C would have seen this information  when signing  the agreement. And if he hadnt 
previously agreed to take out PPI, I think  he wouldve  probably  contacted  Nationwide  to ask 
about it. And I havent seen any evidence that this happened. 
Ref: DRN32833772So when I weigh everything up, I think its likely Mr C agreed to the PPI knowing it was 
optional and that it came at an extra  cost.  So I cant uphold  his complaint on this particular 
point.      
From what  I know about Nationwides sales processes at the time, I dont think  Nationwide  
recommended the policies  to Mr C. By this, I mean Ive seen nothing to suggest  Nationwide 
assessed Mr Cs individual needs,  such as his employee benefits and made a formal  
recommendation for him to take out PPI, so I think its unlikely that it did. This meant  it didnt 
have to check if the PPI was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr C got the 
information he needed so he could decide  for himself if PPI was right for him.
Mr C was eligible for the policies and it doesnt look as if he was affected by any of the main 
things the policies didnt cover. So, I dont think having more  information about the policy  
exclusions and limitations would have made any difference to Mr Cs decision to take out 
PPI. 
Mr C told us he received good  sick pay if he was off work due to an accident or sickness. 
Mr C also said that he had some  savings and some  shares that he could have used to meet 
his repayments.  
In the event of a successful claim,  the PPI policy would have paid the monthly cost of the 
loan for a maximum of 12 months per unemployment claim. And it would have paid out for 
the remaining  term of the loan if Mr C wasnt able to work because  of sickness  or accident. It 
would have also paid off the loan if he died. 
And the policy would  have  paid out over any above  any employee benefits Mr C may have 
received, so those  benefits could have been  used for other  essential  outgoings.  I appreciate 
that Mr C had some savings and some  shares,  but having the insurance meant that he 
wouldnt have had to use his savings or shares. Having PPI meant Mr C had the peace of 
mind that if anything unfortunate was to happen, meaning he was unable to work for a 
lengthy period  or if he lost his job, his loan repayments were covered.
So, all things considered  I think the policy could have been of use to him.
The costs  of the policies were shown  on the loan agreements  including  the amount of the 
premium, the interest payable on the premium and the total cost. The monthly cost was also 
shown. So I think Mr C would have understood how much the PPI policies would cost if he 
kept the policies for their full term, as well as how much it would cost him each month.
Mr C would have received a proportional  refund  of the PPI premium  if he cancelled the PPI 
early. And I can see when Mr C refinanced the first loan;  he received a proportionate refund 
of the remainder of the PPI premiums. So I dont  see any unfairness here and I dont think 
better information about this issue would have stopped him buying it.
Given how long the policies could have paid out for, if Mr C made  a successful claim, Mr C 
could have got back quite a bit more than he paid for it.
Ref: DRN32833773I accept that its possible  the information  Nationwide gave Mr C about the PPI policies wasnt  
as clear as it should have  been. But as I said, I think its likely  Mr C was aware  that the PPI 
policies were an optional  product and he chose to take them  out - so it looks like he wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems the policies  would have been  useful for him if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI policies were  affordable. So I dont think  better 
information about the PPI policies would have put him off taking  them out. 
I note Mr C wanted information about  the loans, so Ive enclosed the copies of the two loan 
agreements for his reference.
All things  considered, and based on the available information I have regarding the sale, the 
PPI policies and Mr Cs circumstances,  I dont think the PPI policies were mis-sold.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
what else have I considered
Ive also thought about whether Nationwide needs  to give Mr C some of the commission he 
paid back. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
what this means for Mr Cs first loan taken in January  2004
Mr Cs loan was taken  out in January 2004 and ended  in July 2004  when  he took out a 
second loan  repaying the first. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair 
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here.
what about Mr Cs second loan taken in July 2004
But Mr Cs second loan was affected. So Nationwide has said it will pay back some of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C for the PPI on the second  loan (taken in July 2004).
Thats because Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% 
of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr C, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN32833774To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs to do for loan 2 (taken  in July 2004)
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr C any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back  to Mr C any extra interest  
he paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr C the extra he paid each month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide should also pay 
Mr C 8%* simple interest on each payment. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr C can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think Mr Cs first PPI policy taken in January 2004 was 
mis-sold. Nationwide Building Society  doesnt need to do anything further in relation  to this 
loan.
For Mr Cs second loan taken in July 2004,  the policy wasnt mis-sold.  So 
Nationwide Building  Society does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium for Mr Cs second loan taken in 
July 2004. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3283377