K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) to 
Mr R. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  Lloyds sold Mr R the 
policy when he applied  for the card in a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr R has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain 
why:
Mr R says he was unaware he had PPI and didnt knowingly agree to take it. 
However the card application form, which Mr R signed, has a tick against the 
statement I wish to apply for Payment Protection Plan. And I wouldnt expect 
someone to recall in detail everything  that happened 20 years ago. I accept that I 
dont know who put the tick there. But it wouldnt be fair for be to conclude  the PPI 
had been sold without Mr Rs real consent, unless I had stronger  supporting 
evidence. On the evidence I have, I think its more likely  than not Lloyds did present 
the PPI as a choice  and Mr R agreed  to it. 
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr R, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. The PPI could have helped  
pay the credit card bill for a period longer  than Mr Rs employer sick pay and other  
useable resources lasted (Mr R has said he had substantial savings, but these were 
earmarked for a house deposit). So the PPI was potentially useful. It also looks like 
the PPI was affordable. And I cant see any other reason why the recommendation 
was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Lloyds explained the PPI. There is some 
information on the application  form, but not as much as there should have been. So 
its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But I dont think,  in his circumstances,  full information about costs 
and benefits would have affected whether  he took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like 
hed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr R. But Lloyds 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because: 
Ref: DRN32394582Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr R about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr R, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr R any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3239458