K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two payment protection insurance (PPI)  policies taken out with 
mortgages in 1991 and 2002. The 1991 policy was sold by National & Provincial Building 
Society, now known as Santander  UK Plc (Santander). The 2002  policy  was sold by Abbey  
National, also now known  as Santander.  Mr and Mrs C say they were mis-sold both these 
policies. 
For simplicity, Ill refer only to Santander in the rest of this decision.
background
In 1991, Mr and Mrs C took out a mortgage with Santander. At the same time they were sold 
a PPI policy to protect the repayments  on this mortgage. The policy gave  them joint cover  for 
up to twenty four months  if one of them wasnt able to work  because of an accident or 
sickness. Mr and Mrs C say that the mortgage advisor who sold them the policy  told them  
they had to take out the policy  to get their mortgage.
In 2002, Mr and Mrs C re-mortgaged with Santander. And they were sold a new PPI policy  
with this mortgage. The policy covered Mr C if he wasnt able to work because  of an 
accident, sickness or unemployment. Again,  Mr and Mrs C say that the mortgage advisor 
who sold them the policy told them they had to take out the policy to get their new mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
1991 sale
This PPI sale took place  a very long time ago. So its not that surprising that not all the 
paperwork from this time is still available. And theres no written record of what was said to 
Mr and Mrs C by the mortgage advisor they spoke to. 
But Ive seen a copy of the separate  PPI application  form which Mr and Mrs C completed 
and signed. This shows that joint cover was selected, but only with protection  against 
accident or sickness, not redundancy.  
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs C have said about being  told they had to take 
the policy. But I have  to bear in mind that memories tend to fade over such  long periods of 
time. And I dont think that it would be fair for me to conclude that the advisor misled 
Mr and Mrs C in this way, based only on what they now think  happened then. On balance,  I 
think its more likely  that the advisor did strongly  recommended that they take out the policy, 
but didnt wrongly  tell them that they had to have it to get their mortgage.  I think  they actively  
decided to take the policy knowing they had a choice.
Ref: DRN39583132As this was an advised sale, Santander needed to ensure that the policy  was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs C. I dont know how it did this. But from what I know  about  Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason  why it wouldnt have been suitable.  I say 
this because:
Mr and Mrs C appear  to have been eligible for the policy  and dont seem to have been 
affected by any of its main exclusions and limitations.
Mr and Mrs C say that they were entitled  to sick pay from their employers and also had 
some savings  they could have used to pay their mortgage if one of them wasnt able to 
work. But this policy  would have paid out in addition to these other means  and for longer 
than they would have been  likely  to last. And a mortgage is a big financial commitment  
one where your home is potentially  at risk if the monthly repayments cant  be made. So I 
think that Mr and Mrs C would still have  valued  the extra security that this policy gave 
them.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs C. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  it could  have been  cancelled by them if it no longer met 
their needs.
Santander also needed to give Mr and Mrs C enough clear information about  the policy for 
them to decide  if they wanted it. I think its possible that the information it gave them could 
have been better than it was. But for much  the same  reasons that I dont think  the policy was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs C, I dont think that better  information would have changed their 
minds about buying  it. I think  theyd  still have thought that the policy provided useful cover at 
an affordable price.
2002 sale
Santander doesnt have much documentation  for this PPI sale. But Ive seen a copy of a 
welcome letter that Mr C was sent after the policy had been set up. And Santander has 
provided a copy of the PPIs account history  which it has obtained from the insurer. This 
shows that a separate PPI application form and bank mandate  were  completed by Mr C at 
the time.  And, once again, I havent seen anything that persuades me that Mr and Mrs C 
didnt decide to take this policy  out, knowing that this was optional.
The policy was recommended to Mr and Mrs C. And Mr C, who was the only person 
covered, appears  to have been eligible for it and not affected by its main  exclusions and 
limitations. And his circumstances  at the time make me think  it wasnt unsuitable for him. 
The monthly premiums also seem to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs C. And whilst I 
think the information Santander  gave  them about the policy  could have been better, I dont 
think better information would have changed their minds about taking it. Once again, I think  
they would  have thought  the policy gave them useful cover at an affordable price.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs C have  lost out by anything  that Santander may have done 
wrong when it sold them  these policies.
Ref: DRN39583133my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3958313