K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Covea Insurance plc has refused to pay for a damaged wall, under his 
buildings insurance  policy.
background
The outside  wall at Mr Js property was damaged.  He thinks the cause was an impact  from a 
car or a van. He was ordered by the Council earlier this year to take some of the wall down 
as it was potentially  dangerous. He says he complied with their instructions the same day 
and got the wall lowered.
He made  a claim on his buildings  insurance policy. Covea sent a contractor to inspect the 
wall. Following the inspection, the contractor thought the damage to the wall had been 
gradual and caused by a natural breakdown  of materials. The report also confirmed there 
was some root ingress and the damage wasnt due to any insured peril (including impact 
from a car).
Mr Js claim was refused because Covea was of the opinion the damage had been caused  
by a breakdown  in the materials of the wall, as evidenced by the root ingress. It also said 
there was no evidence to show the damage was caused by anything else. It explained that 
such gradual damage was not covered under Mr Js policy.  
Mr J says the contractor didnt know what they were  doing and felt they were only there  to 
refute the claim. He said a more qualified  assessor  should have been sent to review the 
damage.
Mr J contacted a stonemason for an estimate  to repair  the wall and for their opinion of how 
the damage may have happened. The stonemason said that, in his experience,  the damage 
to the wall was caused by an impact  from a lorry.
Mr J was unhappy that Covea refused his claim and made a complaint.
Covea responded and said that his claim had been  reviewed by a manager and the 
customer relations advisor  who both agreed with the original decision to refuse his claim.  It 
concluded that there was no evidence of any impact  damage to the wall. And said Mr J 
wasnt covered under  his policy for damage caused  gradually or by wear and tear.
Mr J didnt agree with Coveas decision and brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Covea had correctly  refused Mr Js claim and didnt need to do 
anything more.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators recommendation and so his case  has come to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32615142First, I would like to address Mr Js comments to our investigator regarding  the role of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service.  To clarify, as a dispute resolution service,  its not the role of 
the ombudsman  service to act as a regulator and punish or monitor  businesses  to ensure 
they follow the rules. Its the role of the Financial Conduct Authority  to act as a regulator for 
financial businesses. 
In order to decide this complaint, its my role to consider whether Covea acted  fairly  in 
refusing Mr Js claim. 
Mr J has provided  photos of the damaged  wall but no actual evidence of the incident has 
been provided  such  as photos, details of the vehicle or its registration number or witness  
statements.
Ive looked at Coveas contractors report which says this about the damaged  wall  a 
section that has come away and is loose is too high for vehicle  impact. There  are cracks 
which have been  there for a period of time. There is no evidence of scratching or paint 
marks to suggest there has been an impact to the wall. There is some event of root ingress. 
The wall has collapsed,  the damage  is due to a natural breakdown of materials  and not a 
result of any insured  peril.
Having looked  at Mr Js policy,  I can see theres  a general exclusion for damage that 
happens gradually over time and also wear and tear. Covea has relied on this as well as its 
contractors report to decline the claim.
So Ive thought about whether Covea acted  reasonably by relying  on these clauses.
In order for the claim to be paid, Mr S needs  to show that the main reason for the damage 
caused to the wall was a vehicle hitting it. And it wasnt gradual.
Mr J has argued  the damage  was caused by a low speed glancing collision, caused  by the 
bumper/tailgate of a small/medium  sized commercial vehicle. Ive looked at the photos 
Mr J provided  of the possible impact site on the wall. Ive also thought about the likelihood  of 
this happening and if so, the level of damage it would cause.
In the report written by the Councils  building control surveyor  he says there  appears to 
be a historic problem  with the walls  along  the lane and several have been taken down and 
re-built in the past. This shows me its likely the damage to Mr Js wall is not unique to his 
property and other houses  along the same row have  experienced similar problems. This has 
resulted in their walls having to be taken down, not unlike  Mr Js, and rebuilt. So I think this 
report also adds weight  that the damage  was caused over time.   
From the photos provided of the garden  side of the wall, its clear vegetation is growing in the 
wall. The insurers contractor also confirmed there was root ingress. Mr J says that no 
vegetation has grown through the wall but its clear from the photos he provided and the 
contractors report,  that vegetation is growing in the wall. 
Regarding the report Mr J provided,  whilst  I acknowledge the stonemasons opinion  that the 
wall had been hit by a lorry, no additional  evidence has been provided to support this. I find 
the contractors  report  more persuasive because it provides more  detailed information as to 
why the wall was damaged.  I also think  the Councils report  supports that the wall wasnt 
damaged by impact  from a vehicle.  
Ref: DRN32615143Im satisfied that Covea  has acted  reasonably  in refusing Mr Js claim based  on the evidence 
provided to it.
I have noted Mr Js concerns regarding Coveas  contractors qualifications. I have no reason 
to question the findings of the report.  Even  if I did disregard this report, I still havent seen 
enough persuasive evidence to uphold  Mr Js complaint. 
This shows me that Covea has acted fairly and reasonably in declining  Mr Js claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3261514