K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2000. Miss H says Santander UK Plc trading as Alliance & Leicester (Santander) mis-sold  
her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Miss H was aware she was taking  the cover. And its clear from the sales paperwork that the 
PPI was a separate and, ordinarily, optional product. For example a box on Miss Hs 
application was ticked to say she wanted the cover. A note above says we strongly urge 
you to consider taking the cover, but it doesnt say the cover had to be taken. And it looks 
like applying  for the cover involved completing a separate PPI application form.
Theres nothing in Miss Hs circumstances that suggests she couldnt have claimed  on the 
cover if the circumstances arose. The cover would pay out on top of Miss Hs work sickness  
or redundancy benefits. And it could pay out for a year  which is longer than Miss Hs work 
benefits wouldve  lasted.  Her job wasnt one in which redundancy was a significant risk. But I 
still think at the time of the sale it was possible for Miss H in future to suffer a loss of income 
due to unemployment, accident  or sickness.
So with all Ive said above in mind, I think the cover was suitable for Miss H. And theres 
nothing that suggests to me that better  information  about what the PPI covered  - or its costs 
and benefits - wouldve made a difference to Miss Hs decision to take it.
But Miss Hs point  is that she never buys optional payment insurances and invariably prefers 
to save on the premiums rather than benefit from the insurance cover. She says she bought 
the PPI here because  it was implied  that she had to take it to get her mortgage. Shes told us 
she was made to feel that the acceptance  of the mortgage was dependent  on the PPI  or at 
least that taking  the PPI would help her cause  in getting the mortgage.
Miss H acknowledges  that it's difficult now to find or provide evidence for this. But she points 
out she has taken  out a lot of financial arrangements, including loans,  where she didnt take 
PPI. And she has provided  evidence  to support this.
I think Miss Hs evidence  does show that almost  all her other  financial arrangements were 
made without PPI. Ive thought carefully  about the fact she didnt choose  PPI on those  other 
occasions, including for other mortgages. And I think it is fair to say that in taking the PPI 
Miss H did take a course she didnt normally take. But I dont think  this means she didnt 
choose to take the PPI on this occasion.  
While I cant be sure that Santander didnt misleadingly imply that Miss H risked not getting 
the mortgage if she didnt take the PPI, in this case the PPI was actively selected  and 
presented by the sales paperwork  as separate from the mortgage. It was also presented as 
Ref: DRN31688602something to consider  - not as something that had to be taken. So, overall,  the fact Miss H 
didnt take PPI on other occasions isnt enough  to make me think Santander most likely 
misled her here.
Taking everything into account,  what I have isnt enough to make me think  Santander  misled  
or pressured Miss H into taking the PPI. But I acknowledge  this isnt what  Miss H recalls  or 
believes about the sale.
Ive taken into account all Miss Hs points  and Im grateful for the information shes given. 
But, for the reasons Ive explained,  what I have doesnt make  me think the PPI was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3168860