K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Direct Auto Finance Insurance Services Ltd (Direct Auto)  mis-sold him 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 2005. The policy  was taken 
out when Mr C applied  for a loan to buy a car. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Mr C didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. I explain why below.
I have seen the credit agreement for the sale. To get the cover  Mr C had to tick a box for the 
PPI option and that box is ticked  on Mr Cs form. Mr C also had to sign that same part of the 
form, and he did, and this section of the form was separate to his signature for the credit.  
And I note that the PPI is in a section called Additional Optional Insurances.  So I think  its 
more likely that PPI was presented as optional and Mr C chose to take it and thats  how it 
came to be applied  to his loan account.  But I understand why he might not remember  this, 
given these events  happened over 11 years  ago.
Direct Auto says the policy was sold with a formal recommendation.  So, Direct Auto needed 
to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr C. And it seems  to have been right for him based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I say this because Mr C was eligible for 
the policy and he wouldnt have been affected by any of the main things the policy didnt  
cover. And I think Mr C would  have  found  the policy useful.  I say this because  Mr C told us 
he would  have got paid if he didnt work but it wouldnt  have lasted beyond six months and 
that he had only modest  other means to rely on in that circumstance, or if he lost his job. But 
the PPI policy  would have covered the loan repayment for the remaining term of the loan if 
Mr C was off work sick and for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr C lost his job. So, I think Mr C 
would have found the policy useful.   
I havent seen  anything to make  me think the policy was unaffordable to Mr C or that he had 
a need to keep costs  down. Whilst I could understand if Mr C thought  the policy  expensive  
now, given how long the policy could have paid out for, if Mr C made a successful claim, he 
could have got back quite a bit more than he paid for it. 
Mr C may have  got back only a limited  refund  of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy  
early. I dont  know if Direct Auto thought about  this when it recommended  the policy, or if it 
explained the situation clearly to Mr C. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mr C thought 
hed repay  the loan early. So I dont think this meant the policy wasnt right for him. 
Ref: DRN31716092Its possible that the information Direct Auto gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But for the same  reasons  that I think  the policy was suitable, I dont think  
better information wouldve stopped him from buying it.
I realise Mr C will be disappointed by the outcome. But on balance,  for the reasons  Ive 
explained, I dont  think Mr C has lost out because of anything  Direct Auto may have done 
wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint  about  Direct Auto Finance 
Insurance Services Ltd and I make no award against them.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2018.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3171609