K821x#15complaint
Mr R, on behalf of himself and the late Mrs R, complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS)  
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs R bought  the MPPI policy in 1987. This was during a meeting in connection with 
a mortgage.
The policy was a regular  monthly premium policy. The MPPI covered Mr and Mrs R for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. BoS have assumed that the policys monthly benefit 
was split equally between  Mr and Mrs R, so if one them was off work, theyd received 50% of 
the monthly benefit under the policy. If they were both off at the same  time, theyd receive 
100% of the benefit between them. 
Our adjudicator thought that the complaint should be upheld as he did not think  Mrs R was 
eligible for the policy at the time of the sale because she was not working.
BoS has not responded to the adjudicators view and so the complaint has been  passed to 
me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding this case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I will now explain why.
Ive looked at the policy document  closest to the time of the sale and this states that in order  
to be eligible for the policy  the consumers need  to be in full time employment or be self- 
employed, working at least 16 hours per week.
Mr R has told us that Mrs R was not working in 1987. Ive looked at the business records 
and screenshots  and there is nothing in these which would suggest that Mrs R was working 
at the time of this sale. While the records refer to Mr Rs employment,  there  is no mention of 
Mrs Rs employment.
So, on balance, I think its more likely Mrs R wasnt working at the time of the sale which 
means she was not eligible for the policy. This in turn means she would not have been able 
to benefit from the policy. Therefore, Mr and Mrs R lost out financially as a result of this 
policy being mis-sold.
Ive set out below what  BoS need to do to put things  right.  
putting things right
BoS should put Mr R in the position hed be in now if him and Mrs R hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and BoS should:
Ref: DRN36706032Pay Mr R the amount paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and/or Mrs R made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, BoS can take off what  
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes Mr R.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires BoS to take off tax from this interest. BoS must  give Mr R 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Rs complaint  against  Bank of Scotland plc and require it to pay Mr R the 
compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2021.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3670603