K820x#14complaint
Mr C took out a number  of packaged  bank accounts  (PBAs) with National Westminster  Bank  
Plc (NatWest) from 1995 for which he was charged  monthly fees. He says they were  mis-
sold.
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
Mr C took out the following accounts with NatWest:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current plus March 1995 No
Gold plus April 1995 Yes
Advantage Premier April 1997 Yes
Mrs C added to account March 2002
Black January 2012 Yes
Select Private February 2012 No
Mr C says that he was told he had to take out the Gold  Plus and Advantage Premier PBAs  
in order to get the £10,000 overdraft limit he needed,  and he has not otherwise used the 
benefits from them. Both account  changes happened through meetings with NatWest  staff, 
and the fee initially was £85 to £95 per year for the Gold plus account and approximately  
£150 per year for the Advantage Premier account. He complains  that if a fee free account 
was available  at any time then or thereafter with a £10,000 overdraft limit, NatWest  should 
have told him and he has lost out.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that NatWest mis-sold the accounts. Mr C disagrees so the case 
has come  to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Cs complaint.
Id like to begin  by re-assuring Mr C that Ive listened  to a recording of the phone  
conversation he had with one of our adjudicators where he explained his complaint in detail.
And I will clarify what Im focussing  on in this case. Although Mr C opened a Black account in 
January 2012,  it was closed again immediately as Mr C chose to return  to a fee free 
account, so I will not consider  that sale. I will be looking  at the sale of the Gold  Plus account  
in 1995 and the Advantage Premier  account  in 1997.
Mr C has also made  clear  that his complaint is that NatWest should have told him if a fee 
free account  with a £10000  overdraft  was available to him at any time between the initial  
Gold plus account sale in April 1995  and the closure of the Advantage Premier account in 
January 2012.
Ref: DRN33879652To respond  to his complaint  I need  firstly to consider two things; whether he knew he had a 
choice between taking  out a fee free account or the PBAs  he bought;  and whether Nat West 
advised him to buy the PBAs or not. 
In my view Mr C did know he had a choice.  I say this because  I think Mr C was financially 
aware as he was used  to handling large  sums  of money and he had extensive  discussions 
with Nat West. He says that he knew he wanted an overdraft rather  than a loan to give him 
some flexibility he needed. So I think its more likely than not that he had investigated what  
was available, and he knew  that loans, fee free accounts with overdrafts, PBAs and other  
types of lending were  available  from Nat West and other banks and building societies. And I 
think, very reasonably, he was looking for the best deal he could  get in obtaining  £10,000 of 
credit on a flexible basis.
Did Nat West advise him to take out the Gold account and subsequently the Advantage 
Premier account? 
NatWest says that these  were non-advised sales, by which  it means that it didnt recommend 
the PBAs to Mr C personally or advise him to take the PBAs  out. Mr C says that NatWest did 
advise him to take out the PBAs. 
I dont know what was said during the sales, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr Cs needs and circumstances or suitability checks  to show  me clearly 
that NatWest did make  personal recommendations to him. I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mr C and explaining  the benefits of the PBAs,  NatWest may have 
said or implied that it was good idea to take out the PBAs. But this isnt the same as giving  
personal recommendations. And based on this services knowledge of NatWests sales 
practices throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that NatWest  sold the PBAs to 
Mr C on an information only basis. 
This means  NatWest did not have to ensure that the PBAs were suitable for Mr C at the time 
of the sale or later, but it did have to provide Mr C with good enough information about  the 
PBAs so he could make  an informed decision about  whether to have them  or not.
And I think it did. I say this because Mr C did have substantial discussions with Nat West who 
were trying to sell him the products and Mr C says he understood what  they were offering.
So overall, I think Mr C was aware  he had a choice about whether to take out the PBAs,  and 
the only requirement on Nat West was to provide him with enough information for him to make 
an informed choice and it did.
But to reply to Mr Cs questions in his evidence fully, Ill consider whether he lost out in taking 
out the PBAs. I dont think he did and Ill explain why.
I think its helpful to explain that the provision of an overdraft facility  and overdraft  limits in a 
product are entirely at the discretion of the business  providing them.  And an upper limit on an 
overdraft may or may not be given depending on the credit rating of the applicant.
Ref: DRN33879653With the Gold Plus account in 1995,  Nat West has provided evidence that the interest and 
charges on it for overdrafts were significantly less than the fee free account  charges for the 
same overdrafts. So as Mr C says he wanted to use a £10,000 overdraft facility, in my view it 
would have been reasonable and most likely  self funding for him to take out the PBA. I dont 
think that position changed  over the two year period he had it, as NatWest didnt offer a fee 
free account  with the same interest rate and charges  on the overdraft over that time.
Likewise, the same principle applied to the Advantage  Premier account.  And NatWest  has 
provided a calculation which Mr C has seen which shows that over a period for which they 
have records, the savings Mr C made  on the reduced overdraft interest  and charges on the 
Advantage Premier account  versus  having a fee free account, more than covered the annual 
charges he paid out for it. In other  words he was better off having the fee paying  account than 
having the fee free accounts which RBS offered at that particular time.
I also think that Mr C was fully eligible for the other  benefits of the PBAs and could  have used 
them if he had wished.
So I think its more likely  than not that Mr C would still have taken out and kept the PBAs even 
if he had known fully about all NatWest account  offerings during this period.
Although I know that Mr C will be disappointed, after careful  consideration, based  on the 
evidence Ive seen  and heard, I cant uphold his complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr C responded to my provisional decision and highlighted three points.  In essence he says 
that Nat West should have done  more to make him aware  of alternatives to his PBA 
accounts; that he didnt have all the information  he needed to make his choice; and that the 
PBAs may not have  been  beneficial to him at all times as his overdraft use varied over the 
years.
Nat West responded  to say it had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After carefully considering  Mr Cs additional points in response  to my provisional decision, 
Ive come to the same  view for the same reasons as in my provisional decision shown 
above.
For information, I will respond  to Mr Cs points. 
My conclusions in the provisional decision were, for the reasons given, that Mr C knew he 
had a choice and chose to take out the PBAs; that this wasnt  an advised sale, so the 
responsibility for deciding  whether to look for anything on a wider  basis lay with him and not 
with NatWest; that Nat West gave  him enough  information to make  an informed decision; 
and that he didnt lose out through  having the PBAs. So in my view Mr Cs points, while  
offering clarification, dont alter his case,  so my conclusions remain  the same.
Ref: DRN33879654Also Mr Cs point  about a possible variation by year of the benefit  he received from the 
overdraft wouldnt affect my conclusion that Mr C was overall  better off with the PBAs.
So, although, as I said previously, I know this will be disappointing  for Mr C, Im not able to 
uphold his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3387965