K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly refused to pay
the majority of a claim she made  under her home  insurance when part of her house  and
some contents were damaged. Shes also complained about  the service  she received.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December. A copy is attached and forms 
part of this decision. In summary, I said I thought RSA should pay for some of the repairs to 
Miss Hs home, and reimburse her finance  costs if appropriate. I also thought RSA should  
pay an additional £100 compensation for the way it handled her claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RSA says it will comply  with the provisional decision. RSA also says it will liaise  with Miss H 
to get the necessary supporting paperwork and then make  the relevant payments.  
Miss H hasnt sent any response to the provisional  decision  despite being sent a reminder, 
so it appears shes content  with my findings.
In those circumstances I see no reason why I should change my provisional decision.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc to
Pay the cost of repairing/replacing the window  that Miss H has incurred.
Pay Miss H any interest/borrowing fees shes paid in relation to a loan she took out to
pay for the window.
Pay an additional  £100 compensation for the unnecessary delays Miss H has had.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
copy of provisional  decision December 2019
Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Miss H complains  that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly refused to pay
the majority  of a claim she made under  her home insurance when part of her house and
some contents  were damaged. Shes also complained about the service  she received.
background
Miss H went  away overnight just before Christmas  2018. She returned home on Christmas
Ref: DRN30608082Eve and found that a tiled canopy had collapsed  and damaged her house.  The canopy ran
the width  of her house and covered both a bay window and her front door (and the gap in
between). The bay window  was damaged, as was a light that had been  on the wall by her
door. Some of her possessions, which  had been near the window inside the house, were
also damaged.
Miss H contacted RSA and it agreed to send some emergency assistance to make sure her
home was watertight and secure, and said it would  look at the claim. The contractor arrived
the same day  by which time Miss H had got her own contractor to fix the bay window into
its original position. RSAs  contractor did some additional work to protect  Miss Hs home.
RSA then looked at what had happened  and said it thought the collapse of the canopy  was
because it had been  fastened to the house with screws or nails that had rusted,  allowing  the
canopy to come away from the wall. The weight of the canopy meant the window and other
items were damaged  as it fell.
RSA thought the damage to the canopy and window was excluded from cover because the
collapse of the canopy  was wear and tear  and that wasnt covered  by Miss Hs policy.  It did
say it would  pay for the light that was damaged as the canopy came down and for some
contents  as it thought they were accidentally damaged as a result of the collapse.
Miss H complained  saying shed been left with a ruined Christmas because  her home  wasnt
secure or watertight, and shes  had to borrow to have the repairs done. She says she
received poor service throughout the claim and one of the contractors  was rude. She wants
RSA to pay her claim  in full.
Our investigator thought RSA had handled  the claim  itself fairly  and had recognised its
service wasnt  as good as it could have been and given Miss H some compensation for this.
He thought RSA had responded quickly to the initial problem and done all it could to make
the house  secure. And he thought RSA had applied  the terms and conditions fairly when  it
said it wouldnt pay for the canopy and window.
Miss H remains unhappy about this and Ive been  asked  to decide this complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I currently think there are two main parts to this complaint  the way RSA has dealt with the
claim (which  includes how the contractor behaved) and its decision not to meet  all of Miss
Hs costs. Im going to look at these separately.
service
RSA sent a contractor  out on the same day Miss H reported the damage. I think  thats a
reasonable response,  especially given  that this was on Christmas Eve, which is a time of
year when its often difficult to find contractors willing to provide emergency cover.
I do understand why Miss H arranged for someone else to do some temporary repairs   but I
cant say RSA didnt act reasonably.
Because Miss H had had some work done,  RSAs contractor probably couldnt  do more  than
he did  which I understand was to carry out some additional temporary  protective work.
I do appreciate  that Miss H thought she couldnt leave her home  over the next few days
because she didnt think it was secure, but I dont currently think RSA could have done much
more than it did until it had assessed whether it was going  to be able to meet Miss Hs claim.
RSA has acknowledged that there were some unnecessary delays in sending out a surveyor
to assess  the claim,  and that its service generally  could  have been better. It offered Miss H
Ref: DRN30608083£200 compensation for this, and also a small  amount unspent on her emergency  cover
(about £27).
Miss H complained  about one particular  contractor. She said he was rude and
unprofessional. This was a conversation, so although I dont doubt Miss Hs recollection,
RSA cant  verify what  happened. However,  RSA has asked the company  that employs the
contractor to take this up with up with him directly. I think thats  an appropriate response,
given RSA doesnt directly  employ the contractor.
Ive also taken  into account that dealing with an incident like this and the necessity of making
a claim is stressful. That in itself isnt something RSA can control.  But it is responsible for
any unnecessary distress  or inconvenience its caused. Taking everything into account I
think RSA has responded reasonably to this part of Miss Hs complaint.
the claim
Once the claim had been assessed, RSA said it would  pay for a light that was damaged
when the canopy  collapsed and knocked it off the external wall of Miss Hs house.  And it
said it would pay for some  contents that were damaged by rain that got in once  the house
was no longer  watertight.
The basis for both of these offers was that Miss H has cover for accidental damage   so
shes able to claim  for damage caused by a sudden and unexpected force. In this case thats
the falling canopy.
For the main part of Miss Hs claim (the canopy  itself and the window) the damage would
need to fall within one of the insured events listed in her policy. RSA doesnt think that any
of the other insured events are relevant. The most likely  event would be storm damage, but I
havent seen any suggestions that there was a storm immediately before Miss H discovered
the damage. I think RSA acted reasonably when it assessed the claim under the accidental
damage part of the policy.
I think  RSAs approach is fair as far as it goes. I havent seen anything  that persuades me
this claim could be considered under anything other than accidental damage.  However,  I
dont think RSA has gone  far enough, and Ill explain why I think  this.
There are exclusions in Miss Hs insurance policy which says RSA need not pay for items
that were damaged gradually through wear and tear, or if theyve failed because  of poor
workmanship. RSA says these exclusions apply here. It says the canopy was attached  to the
mortar of the house with nails or screws  and hadnt been properly fitted. It says as a result
the fastenings rusted and eventually gave way. Thats the opinion from the contractor it sent
to look at the damage,  and I think its fair for RSA to rely on an experts  opinion in these
circumstances.
Miss H has provided a report from a contractor too  but it doesnt contradict whats said in
RSAs report.  I havent  seen any evidence  that persuades  me I should ask RSA to pay for
the canopy.
However, I do currently think RSA should  pay to repair (or replace) the window,  depending
on how badly damaged it was. I say that because I dont think  the canopy and window  are
one and the same unit. Canopies   especially ones that run across the front of an entire
house  are usually independently supported. In this particular complaint the surveyor refers
to gibbet brackets holding some  of the weight  as well as the top fixing along  the length  of the
canopy (the part that initially gave way). I currently think the window was most likely
damaged when the independently  supported canopy came away from the house. I think that
indicates it was damaged in the same way as the light RSA agreed to pay for, that is
accidentally.
Ref: DRN30608084I currently think RSA should have met this part of Miss Hs claim under her accidental
damage cover. The policy Miss H holds says RSA would normally  be able to decide if it
should either  repair/replace  the window  or, if Miss H didnt want  it to do that, pay her what  it
would have cost RSA to have the work  done. I understand Miss H has, understandably,  had
the work done. So I dont  think RSA can limit a cash settlement to its own cost to do the
work. Instead I think Miss H should give RSA an invoice which shows how much  the window
cost. RSA should then reimburse Miss H for that amount.
Miss H says she had to take out a loan for the work. Thats  an expense she shouldnt have
had. So if Miss H also sends RSA a copy of her loan agreement RSA should reimburse  her
for any interest shes paid on the amount  she borrowed  to repair or replace the window, up
to the date of the refund.
If the loan is repaid in part and theres a fee associated with that RSA should  pay that too.
But those details will be on the loan agreement, and Miss H will need to show RSA shes
used the settlement  money to repay the relevant  part of the loan if a fee applies.
I also think  Miss H has had to wait unnecessarily  for her claim to be settled, and Im
intending to ask RSA to pay an additional £100 for the worry and inconvenience this has
caused.
other points
Miss H says that if her canopy was incorrectly fitted then others  on nearby houses were  too,
so she doesnt think RSA should have sold her the policy she has. She says RSAs
comments on her claim suggest no-one in a house that isnt new could ever claim on their
insurance. I dont think thats the situation here. Newly built homes do often have a warranty
for defects   but I understand Miss Hs home is nearly 40 years  old, so its well outside the
normal ten year warranty provided. Home insurance  doesnt normally cover things that
should be maintained as part of the ongoing  care of a property, or that have been poorly
installed. I appreciate that Miss H didnt know  the canopy was incorrectly fitted, but the
evidence does suggest  this is the likely  cause.  Miss H says when she bought the house
about 12 years ago the state of the canopy wasnt mentioned. I cant comment  on that, as
Miss H would have to take that up with her surveyor if she thinks the report  was incorrect.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold this complaint in part and ask Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc to
Pay the cost of repairing/replacing the window  that Miss H has incurred.
Pay Miss H any interest/borrowing fees shes paid in relation to a loan she took out to
pay for the window.
Pay an additional £100 compensation for the unnecessary delays Miss H has had.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3060808