K820x#14complaint
Mr C doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which  he was discharged 
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 30 August 2019.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision. 
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explained why I 
provisionally did not think RBS had acted  unfairly. 
Broadly summarised, I explained  that I must  take into account the relevant law when 
deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case  but Im not 
bound to follow it. And if I decide to depart from it, I must say so and explain why.
In this case, I was aware of, and took into account,  the relevant law. But I also considered  
that I must apply an over-arching test of whats  fair and reasonable in the particular 
circumstances of Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, I thought  it was fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the 
monies Mr C borrowed  and didnt  fully repay.
At the time Mr C granted a trust deed the outstanding amount Mr C owed  RBS was around 
£30,000. While Mr C was discharged from his protected  trust deed there  was still an amount 
that Mr C wont now ever have to repay. I explained  RBS werent seeking to recover  that 
amount  it was simply reducing the amount  owed.
So the fact that Mr C entered into a protected trust deed and was discharged from his debt 
when his trust deed came to an end didnt,  in my opinion, make  a difference to what is fair.
I thought it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay back the PPI compensation to Mr C, when 
Mr C doesnt now have  to pay back the many thousands  of pounds he borrowed. 
Because of that I thought  it was fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the 
outstanding amount that Mr C wont ever have to repay.
Both parties  confirmed they received my provisional decision. 
Mr C responded saying that he still considered  the compensation should be paid directly to 
him. He says the PPI compensation wasnt in relation to his loan (which  formed part of the 
trust deed) but was PPI compensation  from other  products  with RBS. 
Mr C also added that he continually gets requests from RBS for settlement of his debt.
RBS responded  saying  it had nothing further  to add.
Ref: DRN30209732my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to what Mr C has said, and I know he feels strongly  that he should receive the 
PPI compensation  directly, but Ive not seen anything that changes my opinion.
Mr C says the PPI compensation is in relation to loan ending 0006 which was taken out in 
2004 and closed in 2006. Mr C says this was before he granted  a trust deed in 2010. As the 
loan was closed  prior to his trust deed,  and didnt form part of his trust deed Mr C says he 
should receive the compensation.
When Mr C granted a trust deed,  the outstanding  amount  Mr C owed RBS was around 
£30,000. It is important  to note that when a consumer grants  a trust deed, the creditor  simply  
pools together  any debts  the consumer owes it  so it effectively  becomes  one amount  that 
is owed. And a business will look to see if it owes the consumer anything,  and then adjusts 
the amount that is owed. This would then be the final amount that it puts forward  as what is 
owed to it as a creditor in the trust deed.
Had Mr C  or his trustee  realised hed been mis-sold the PPI while the trust deed was 
active, then RBS would clearly  have been  entitled  to use the compensation to reduce what 
he owed it, or, alternatively, it could  have been paid to the trustee for the benefit  of all his 
creditors. Importantly he wouldnt have got this money directly. 
I recognise that Mr C didnt complain about  the mis-sold  PPI until after he had been  
discharged from his trust deed. But I dont think this makes a difference  to what  is fair. 
I say this because  thanks to trust deed there was an amount that Mr C wont now ever have 
to repay  to Mr C. 
Because of this, I consider  that it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay back  the PPI 
compensation to Mr C, when Mr C doesnt  now have  to pay back the many  thousands  of 
pounds he borrowed.  
So it follows  that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the 
outstanding amount that Mr C wont ever have to repay.
I note that Mr C said he is getting  chased for settlement of the debt with RBS.  RBS has 
confirmed that its records  show  the account  was closed following the discharge of the trust 
deed. It says the debt no longer remains on the account as an active debt and isnt being  
pursued. If Mr C can provide any information  or recent correspondence  that contradicts this, 
RBS has said it would  be happy to look into it  as it considers Mr C isnt being  pursued. If 
Mr C remains  unhappy he should  contact RBS in the first instance  as this would need to 
be looked at separately.
Ref: DRN30209733my final decision
I think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Cs PPI compensation to reduce 
the monies owed  and left unpaid when Mr Cs trust deed came to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30209734Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr C doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use his payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which he was discharged  when his protected 
trust deed came to an end.
background
Mr C complained to RBS in 2015 that he had been mis-sold PPI on two loans.
RBS investigated Mr Cs complaint. One of the loans had PPI and the other didnt. The loan that had 
PPI was loan number ending 0006. 
RBS upheld Mr Cs complaint about loan ending 0006. In August 2015, RBS wrote to Mr C offering 
him compensation of £3,423.62.
Mr C accepted RBS  offer on 29 October 2015. 
However, in August 2010, Mr C had granted a trust deed  which became a protected  trust deed   
for his creditors. 
A protected trust deed  is an alternative to bankruptcy (which is called  sequestration in Scotland).  It is 
a legally  binding  agreement between  a consumer  and his creditors, which  is administered by a 
trustee. 
Mr C was subsequently discharged from his trust deed.
As Mr C had granted a protected trust deed, RBS wrote  to the trustee  of the protected trust deed. Mr 
Cs trustee responded in March 2016 explaining that it did not hold an interest in the PPI 
compensation. 
Because of this RBS then used the compensation to reduce outstanding  monies  that it says Mr C still 
owed and hadnt fully repaid - despite being discharged  from his protected trust deed.  The amount of 
compensation had been updated to £3,510.88 to reflect the time that had passed.
Mr C, unhappy he hadnt received the compensation brought his complaint to our service.
RBS didnt  think  we could look at the complaint as Mr C had referred it to our service  too late. It said 
Mr C hadnt brought  the complaint within  the six month time limit of its final response to Mr C.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. When considering  what is, in my opinion,  fair and reasonable  in all 
the circumstances of the case, Im required by DISP 3.6.4  R of the Financial  Conduct Authority  
(FCA) Handbook  to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN30209735Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
can I consider this complaint?
As RBS objected  to our service looking  at the complaint  I looked  into whether  this was a complaint 
that I could consider. 
I wrote  out to both parties letting them know that I thought this was a complaint that I could  consider. I 
thought there  were compelling reasons as to why the complaint was referred late. 
Both Mr C and RBS responded, and both agreed with my findings. So it follows that I can now go on 
to consider the merits of this complaint.
Mr Cs complaint
Mr C says that he was discharged from his protected trust deed and RBS were  given a settlement 
(often referred to as a final dividend or final distribution)  which Mr C says should have ended  any 
recovery action in the future.  So Mr C says the compensation should be paid directly to him. 
RBS say it has the right to offset the compensation against monies  Mr C hasnt  fully repaid.
is it fair for RBS to use the PPI commission compensation to reduce an outstanding  amount  owed  
despite Mr C being discharged from his protected trust deed?
There have been some court  cases about  to whom  PPI compensation  should be paid when a 
consumer has been discharged  from a protected trust deed. 
In July 2018,  the Supreme  Court issued a judgment looking at what  should  happen  to PPI 
compensation after a protected trust deed  completed.  The court case was Dooneen Ltd (t/a 
McGinness Associates) v Mond [2018]  UKSC  54.
In that case,  the Supreme  Court said the PPI compensation should not be paid to the trustee  for the 
benefit of the creditors and should be paid to the consumer.
There is another case that is also relevant; this was Donnelly v Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  
SAC (Civ) 1.
In Donnelly, the court said RBS couldnt use the consumers PPI compensation to reduce  a debt 
from which they were discharged when the trust deed came to an end. However, this has been 
appealed by RBS  so the outcome may change.
Above, Ive explained I must take into account the relevant law when deciding what I think is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.  Im not bound to follow it. But if I decide  to depart 
from it, I must  say so and explain why.
In this case, I am aware of, and have  taken into account,  the relevant law. But I must apply  an over-
arching test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Cs complaint.
Having done so, I think its fair for RBS to use the compensation to reduce  the monies Mr C borrowed 
and didnt fully repay.
Ref: DRN30209736At the time Mr C granted a trust deed  RBS says the outstanding  amount Mr C owed was around 
£30,000. While Mr C was discharged from his protected trust deed  and in doing  so reduced that 
amount through  any final distribution RBS received, there was still an outstanding  amount that Mr C 
wont now ever have  to repay. RBS arent seeking to recover that amount  it is simply reducing  the 
amount owed.
So the fact that Mr C entered into a protected trust deed  and was discharged from his debt when his 
trust deed came to an end doesnt, in my opinion,  make a difference  to what  is fair.
I think  it would be unfair to tell RBS to pay back the PPI compensation to Mr C, when Mr C doesnt 
now have to pay back  the many thousands of pounds he borrowed. 
So it follows that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the outstanding 
amount that Mr C wont ever have to repay.
I appreciate that it has been a frustrating process for Mr C, to sign an acceptance from  thinking  he 
would be receiving  compensation  for RBS to then write out to Mr Cs trustee asking if they had an 
interest, and when they didnt, for it to then be used  to reduce an amount, from which Mr C 
considered he had been  discharged from. 
I do think RBS could have been clearer in its communication about  what  was happening and why, but 
Im not minded to award and additional  compensation as I am not upholding Mr Cs complaint and 
overall RBS has acted  fairly.
my provisional  decision
I think  its fair for The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to use Mr Cs PPI compensation  to reduce the 
monies owed and left unpaid when Mr Cs trust deed came to an end.
I invite both parties to respond by the deadline set out at the start of this provisional decision.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3020973