K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) didnt tell her 
she could amend her contractual  mileage  under a contract hire agreement.
background
In February 2016  Miss P was supplied with a car and entered  into a contract hire agreement  
with VWFS. The contractual mileage allowance  was 10,000 per year but at the end of the 
agreement Miss P had only covered a total of 12,000 miles.
Towards the end of the agreement Miss P contacted  VWFS and asked if she could reduce 
the contractual mileage.  VWFS told Miss P that she couldnt do this because it wasnt 
possible to amend mileage during the last six months of the agreement.
Miss P complained. In response, VWFS  said it had written previously to Miss P about her 
mileage but had received no response. It acknowledged that it could  have dealt with her 
complaint better and offered  her a goodwill gesture of £50.
Miss P remained unhappy and complained  to this service. She wants a refund of the mileage 
difference.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said VWFS had acted fairly  in managing  
Miss Ps agreement.
Miss P didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Miss Ps agreement and I can see that the contractual mileage allowance is 
10,000 per year. VWFS has explained  that contractual mileage can be amended  at any time 
during the term of the agreement but not during the last six months.
Miss P says she didnt  know  she could  amend  the mileage during the contract. She says the 
car went to the VW dealership on two occasions  during  the hire agreement for an MOT  and 
the mileage was noted. She feels she should have been advised  to amend the contractual 
mileage on those occasions.
I can see that VWFS wrote to Miss P on 17 November 2017 and 7 May 2018 asking her to 
send a reading of her current  mileage.  Miss P didnt  reply to either of those letters and says 
she didnt receive  them.  VWFS has provided system  notes to show that the letters  were sent 
to Miss P on the dates shown and at her registered address. I cant  say why Miss P didnt  
receive the letters but I cant fairly  hold VWFS  responsible for failings of the postal service.
I think Miss P wouldve been aware  that her contractual mileage was 10,000 per year. I also 
think she would have  been aware of the mileage she had covered from time to time. I dont 
think its unreasonable to expect Miss P to have contacted VWFS (or spoken to the 
dealership) about  reducing her contractual mileage.
Ref: DRN36781942I think VWFS did as much as could be expected to try to contact Miss P and obtain details of 
her mileage.  Im satisfied it has acted fairly in the circumstances. I think VWFS would have 
adjusted the contractual mileage if Miss P had contacted them sooner. But her request  was 
made in the last six months of the agreement which was too late.
For the reasons  Ive explained I wont be asking VWFS to refund the mileage difference.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 April 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3678194