K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card. Mr M says Lloyds  Bank Plc mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr M says that he thought he would have a better chance of getting the credit card if he 
took PPI. Due to the time thats  passed, theres  not much information available about  the 
sale, and Mr M hasnt  said much about why he felt that this was the case. But this isnt 
usual for a sale that took place so long ago - businesses arent  required to keep records 
indefinitely, and I wouldnt expect  Mr M to remember in detail what  happened  during the 
sale.
Lloyds has been  able to confirm that the sale took place between the credit card account 
being opened in 1997  and the first available statement for the account (January 2000) 
which shows PPI. Because of the lack of information, I dont have enough  to say that 
Mr M wasnt given  a choice in taking the PPI. And I cant  uphold his complaint  for this 
reason
Its likely  Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M  so it had to check that the PPI was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But it seems like it could have been useful  for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Lloyds  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
When the policy was sold, Lloyds  expected to get a high level of commission  and profit 
share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr M about that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Mr M, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said  but the points hes raised dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN37762182my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3776218