K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr G have complained about Premier Insurance  Company  Limited  (PICL). They 
feel it incorrectly cancelled their car insurance policy.
background
Mrs and Mr G took out a car insurance  policy with PICL on 16 May 2016. The policy  
renewed in May 2017 and PICL cancelled the policy in December  2017.  It said that Mrs and 
Mr G hadnt told them about a previous conviction and if they had it wouldnt have insured 
them. PICL was referring to a 12 month conditional discharge for a non-motoring  offence  
Mr G was given on 20 July 2016.
Mrs and Mr G complained  to PICL and then this service that this was unfair.  They said that 
they had only been asked  about  convictions and a conditional discharge wasnt  a conviction 
 something they said other insurers had agreed with them  about. 
Our adjudicator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He said from what he could see 
the question Mrs and Mr G were  asked by PICL only talked about convictions, and they had 
answered the question correctly. So PICL should put them  back  into the position they 
wouldve been but for the error and it should  pay £150 compensation. 
Although PICL accepted  that technically the conditional discharge wasnt  a conviction it felt 
that it hadnt done anything wrong.  It said that although the conditional discharge isnt a 
conviction, it is a sentence  in relation to a conviction  and should have been disclosed. So it 
maintained it hadnt done  anything wrong  by cancelling the policy.  
As PICL didnt  agree,  the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld  and Id like to explain why.
PICL accepts that a conditional  discharge  isnt a conviction. It has said it is a sentence that 
stems from a conviction. But my understanding is a conditional discharge doesnt constitute  
a conviction unless it is breached and the defendant resentenced. In any event though,  PICL 
does acknowledge  that a conditional  discharge technically is not a conviction. So the only 
thing to decide is whether it acted reasonably in cancelling the policy.  
PICL says that it hasnt acted unreasonably  as Mrs and Mr G shouldve told it about the 
conditional discharge. Ive reviewed the wording of the form that PICL  says was used and it 
has a question which asks Has any driver ever been convicted of any criminal offence 
(unspent under the rehabilitation  of offenders act 1974) or is any possible prosecution 
pending? So while I take its point, PICL didnt ask about conditional discharges.  It only 
asked about convictions. And as Mrs and Mr G answered this correctly  I cant  say that they 
did anything wrong.  Indeed this service has a long standing approach to interpreting  any 
ambiguity in questions in favour of the consumer. 
I can understand why PICL has taken the position it did, as it says that Mr G didnt tell them  
about the conditional discharge. But under Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Ref: DRN37803762Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) provisions it has to show  that Mr G made  a qualifying 
misrepresentation to it. It must show it asked him a clear question and that he didnt take 
reasonable care when  he gave the wrong answer to it. And going on the evidence  before me 
I dont think it has.
I know PICL  says that it shouldve been told about  the conditional discharge. But I havent 
been provided with any evidence to show it wouldnt have insured him had it have known 
about this. While I accept  that it wouldnt have insured  him with an unspent criminal 
conviction, it hasnt  provided any evidence to show it wouldnt have insured him because  he 
had a conditional discharge  which is different and, as PICL has acknowledged,  isnt a 
conviction.
It is also of note that other insurers accepted  this position and ensured Mrs and Mr Gs other 
insurance policies  werent  cancelled.
So, the fair and reasonable  thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case is to put 
Mrs and Mr G back  into the position they ought to have been  but for the error. And to pay 
them £150  compensation  for the clear stress, worry and inconvenience this has caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mrs and Mr Gs complaint.
Premier Insurance Company Limited  are required  to;
Remove any reference of the policy having  been  cancelled from the relevant industry 
databases. And provide Mrs and Mr G with a letter confirming that the cancellation 
was done in error rather than as a result  of anything  Mrs and Mr G did wrong
If, after Mrs and Mr G have provided this letter to their new insurers,  theyve still had 
to pay more that they would otherwise have needed to for their new insurance policy, 
to replace the one PICL  cancelled, PICL should compensate  them for this. Mrs and 
Mr G will need  to provide evidence of this to PICL
Pay Mrs and Mr G £150 for the trouble and upset caused by cancelling  the policy 
incorrectly
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 May 2019.
Ben Stoker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3780376