K821x#15Complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the suitability of advice  given  by Quilter Financial Services Ltd
(trading as Birch  Financial Solutions) to transfer his pension  benefits.
Background
In October  2009 Quilter  gave Mr M advice about his personal pension which was held as
part of his organisations group personal  pension scheme. At the time Mr Ms pension  pot
was invested in a Standard Life Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP). The adviser
recommended that he should transfer his pension benefits from a Standard Life SIPP to a
Zurich SIPP  to take advantage of the more  dynamic  Cirilium fund offered by Zurich.  The
transfer from Standard  Life to Zurich was completed in December  2009.
In 2016 Mr M appointed  a new financial adviser. He reviewed Mr Ms pension arrangement
and contacted Zurich to ask about the charges theyd  applied during the first five years of the
policy. Mr M says it was at this point that he found out Zurich had applied an establishment
charge, which  was 1.92% of the money transferred to Zurich  for the first five years.  Mr M
went on to transfer  his pension away from Zurich.
In October  2017 Mr M complained to Quilter about  the advice he received  in 2009. He said
he was now aware  that he had paid high charges to transfer and did not think  he had
benefitted from following  the advice. He said the transfer from Standard  Life to Zurich  wasnt
necessary as he could  have  achieved the same  investment objective  within  the Standard
Life policy. He also said the transfer reduced his investment strategy  because  the whole of
his pension fund was invested  in one fund with Zurich while it had been spread over nine
separate funds  with Standard Life.
Quilter told Mr M he had brought his complaint too late, so he brought  it to us. And in May
2018 an ombudsman  decided that Mr Ms complaint was one we could  consider under  our
rules.
Mr Ms complaint was then investigated  by one of our adjudicators.  He thought Mr Ms
complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the charges which  applied  to the Zurich plan
werent properly disclosed  by the adviser.  He thought  it was unlikely Mr M would have gone
ahead with the transfer if hed been  told how much the charges would  be.
Quilter didnt agree with the adjudicators view. It said, in summary, that the advisers report
said that key features  documents and specific quotations for the recommended plan had
been included  with it. It also said that Mr M would have been provided  with plan documents
from Zurich after his plan started. So, it thought  Mr M should have known how much  the
charges were.
Mr Ms complaint was been passed  to me for review and a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 11 February  2020 explaining why I thought Mr Ms 
complaint should  be upheld,  and what Quilter should  do to put things right.  Ive set out my 
provisional findings again below.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
Ref: DRN39740432and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending to uphold Mr Ms complaint,  but for slightly different 
reasons to the adjudicator. Let me explain  why.
Ive looked at the advisers summary  of recommendation letter from October  2009. The 
letter says that on a like for like basis the charges in the Zurich  SIPP  would be slightly 
higher than they were in Mr Ms current Standard Life plan.  The advisers transfer  value 
assessment says that the fund performance in the Zurich  plan must  be 0.29% better to 
compensate for this.
The letter goes on to mention that Standard  Life also offers the Cirilium  fund; but, it would 
be more expensive to invest in the same  fund with Standard Life than it would be to 
invest in the fund through the Zurich plan, due to higher charges applying  to investing in 
this fund within Standard Life. Specifically, this is set out as an initial  administration  
charge of £302, a yearly administration charge of £416 and an annual investment 
manager charge  of £260.
But there are other charges applying to the Zurich  SIPP that do not appear to have 
been properly  explained by the adviser at this point. Zurichs sent us Mr Ms 
schedules which explain the charges  in more detail.
There were two parts to Mr Ms pension plan  the amount transferred from Standard 
Life and his ongoing contributions. And those  parts  carried different charges.
The schedule for Mr Ms new contributions to the Zurich plan shows a yearly fund-
based charge  of 0.7%.
The schedule for the part of the plan that was transferred in from Standard Life shows  an 
establishment charge  which  was 1.92% of the payment each year for the first five years. 
And it looks like the fund-based charge was higher for this portion of the plan at 1.150%  
for the size of the fund Mr M transferred.
Fund value  Yearly fund-based charge
£0 - £19,999.99 1.600%
£20,000.00 - £49,999.99 1.350%
£50,000.00 - £99,999.99 1.150%
£100,000.00 - £249,999.99 1.10 %
£250,000.00 and above 1.050%
This corresponds with the figures  Mr Ms provided from his statements  with Zurich, 
which show the charges  to be much higher for the part of the fund that was transferred 
compared to the new contributions. The adviser said the move to Zurich was to access 
the Cirilium  fund to give an active managed approach, which  was also provided by 
Standard Life but at a higher cost. But looking at the figures  the adviser set out for the 
cost of accessing the Cirilium fund through Standard Life, it looks  like this would have 
been a cheaper  option  than accessing  the same fund through  Zurich.
I note Quilters point about  the establishment charge  being set out in the documents 
given to Mr M; however,  I think  it was the advisers responsibility to take account  of 
these charges to make  sure his recommendation was suitable, and to explain them 
properly to Mr M. And I dont  think he did that.
Ref: DRN39740433The advisers letter says that Mr M indicated hed like to be a little more  adventurous 
with his fund.  And at the time of advice Mr M answered a series of questions to 
establish his attitude to risk. Ive looked  at how Mr Ms answered these questions  and 
they do indicate that he was willing to take a substantial  risk with his funds in order  to 
achieve a greater return. But there was no need  to for Mr M to transfer his SIPP to 
Zurich to do this, because he could have accessed  more adventurous funds through 
Standard Life, and it looks like the particular Cirilium fund they recommended would 
have been cheaper through Standard Life.
However, Ive also looked  at Mr Ms overall  financial circumstances  to see if he was in 
a position to take more risk with his pension funds, because Quilter  needed  to take this 
into account when  giving  advice. At the time of the advice  Mr M was 44 and his 
preferred retirement  date was 65, so there  was plenty of time before hed need to 
access his pension. He had some disposable  income and wanted  to invest a bit more  
per month into his pension fund.  But, Mr Ms told me he had no other  pension  provision 
at the time of the advice.  So, the money  invested  in his SIPP was his only retirement 
fund. Although he had some savings in an ISA, this was a relatively small fund for 
emergencies and he had no other  savings or investments.
Because Mr Ms SIPP was his only provision for retirement, he didnt have any back up 
if the value of his pension  fund fell. He wanted  his fund to grow  but he was already 
taking some risk in his investments with Standard  Life. Overall, I dont think the 
advisers assessment  that Mr M had capacity  to take more risk with his pension fund 
was reasonable.  So I dont think his recommendation  to move Mr Ms pension fund to a 
more adventurous  fund was suitable.
I now need to consider  what  I think Mr M would have done  differently if hed received 
the correct advice. Mr M says the investment strategies he required could be accessed 
through the Standard Life SIPP through the asset allocation scheme he was already 
invested in - so there was no need  to move to an actively  managed  fund. Ive looked at 
the funds Mr M was invested  in with Standard Life before the transfer to Zurich  and I 
dont think they were out of line with his attitude to risk at that time.  Mr Ms also told me 
that hes now invested in line with a moderately adventurous attitude to risk and hes 
happy with that approach. So taking everything  into account, it seems  most likely Mr M 
would have left his pension fund with Standard  Life.
So, I think the fairest way to compensate Mr M is to put him back  in the position he 
would have been in if he had remained in his Standard Life SIPP  with an assumption 
that he would have taken some  risk with his money.  As far as its possible to do so, 
Quilter should put Mr M back  in the position  he would have been in if hed done  this. I 
should explain that its
possible that Mr M hasnt suffered any loss as the calculation  will depend on the 
relative performance of the funds.
The adjudicators recommended Quilter  pay Mr M £250 for the trouble and upset it 
caused to him by recommending the pension transfer and I think this is reasonable.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would 
probably now be in if he had been  given  suitable  advice.
Ref: DRN39740434I think Mr M would have  remained invested in the Standard Life SIPP. Hes indicated that 
its likely  he would have reviewed his investments  within  this. Its not possible to say 
precisely what he would have done in terms of altering his balance of investments, but 
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr M's 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What should Quilter do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Quilter  must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown. If the 
fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable. Quilter should  
add interest as set out below.
If there is a loss, Quilter  should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation  should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If Quilter  is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been  possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable  income. Therefore, the compensation should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax-free  lump sum,  the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay Mr M £250 for the trouble and upset he has been caused  by taking the advice  to 
transfer his SIPP  to a different provider. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax from 
the interest,  it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Quilter  should give 
Mr M a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Zurich 
SIPPtransferredFTSE UK
Private  
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate 
transferred 
to Zurichdate 
transferred  
from Zurich8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement
Ref: DRN39740435Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr M paid into the investment should be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value calculation at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any 
return in the calculation from that point  on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep  calculations simpler,  Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments 
and deducts that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  and was willing to accept some  investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr M's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money since 
the end date
Responses to my provisional decision
I asked both parties to respond by 11 March 2020  if they had anything  further  to add.
Mr M didnt  respond to my provisional decision.
Quilter responded  to say it didnt accept my findings. It said, in summary:
It didnt agree Mr M would have  stayed where he was;
A detailed analysis of charges was carried out and Mr M accepted a slight  increase  to 
meet his clearly stated  objectives;  and
A risk profile was completed  and Mr M agreed the results matched his thoughts on 
investment risk.
Ref: DRN39740436My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Quilter has said anything new in its response that Ive not already addressed 
in my provisional decision.  I accept that a risk profile was completed and Mr M was 
willing to increase his risk. But as Ive explained  in my provisional  decision, I dont think  
he needed to transfer his SIPP to do this. And Ive also explained that I dont think  Mr M 
had the capacity to take any more risk, so I dont think the recommendation to move his 
pension fund to a more adventurous fund was suitable.
Similarly Ive also explained why I dont think the charges were  clearly explained to Mr M and 
why I dont think the adviser took account of these charges to make sure his 
recommendation was suitable. Quilter hasnt added any new reasoning around this point. 
Overall, I cant see any reason to depart from my provisional decision.  So, my conclusions 
havent changed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. Quilter Financial Services Ltd should  pay 
Mr M compensation in line with what Ive set out in my provisional decision and above. 
Quilter Financial Services Ltd should  also provide  Mr M with a clear explanation of its 
calculation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Helen Sutcliffe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3974043