K820x#14complaint
Mr V is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited  declined his claim for storm damage, under 
his buildings insurance policy.
When I mention Ageas  Im also referring  to any of its appointed representatives.
background
Mr V made a claim for internal and external storm damage to his house in September  2017.
Mr V had noticed damage internally to his ceiling  and had been  told by his own contractor  
that the box guttering to the right hand side of his roof had cracked due to heavy rain. 
Damage had also been seen on other  parts of the same ceiling and also in a bedroom. 
Ageas sent an expert to the house.  Mr V told the expert that he was unsure when the 
damage originally occurred but hed been aware  of it for about six or seven  weeks. The 
expert checked the weather reports for the six weeks before the claim had been  reported. It 
was noted that there hadnt  been  any high winds, but there had been a single instance  of 
torrential rain that could  be classed as a storm.  
Mr V told Ageas expert  that his contractor had said it was possible that the timbers  to the 
external apex were  beyond their lifespan  and had been exposed  to the elements over a 
period of time. This had allowed water  to enter into the property. Mr Vs contractor also said 
the damage could  have  occurred because of weathered or badly maintained wooden 
external fascias.  
Ageas declined the claim in its entirety.  It said that the damage had happened  gradually and 
wasnt covered by Mr Vs policy.  It did accept  that it had caused  unnecessary  delays during 
its handling of the claim.  And it offered Mr V £500 to compensate for this. 
Mr V was unhappy with this and complained to our service. Our investigator  agreed with 
Ageas for the same reasons. She also felt the offer of compensation was a fair one in the 
circumstances. 
As Mr V didnt accept  this, its been  passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Our approach in storm cases  is to ask three questions:
was there a storm on or around  the loss?
is the nature of the damage claimed for consistent with storm damage?  And
were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ref: DRN36500542Its only if we can answer  yes to all three questions that we say the insurer  is liable to pay 
the claim.  But in this case the answer isnt yes to all three, so Im not making Ageas pay the 
claim. 
The first question is hard to answer  definitively as Mr V isnt able to say when the damage  
actually occurred. But if I accept that it happened six or seven weeks prior to his notification 
of the claim to Ageas, then its possible that there  was a storm. The weather reports  for that 
time show one day of torrential rain and the rainfall level can be defined as storm conditions.  
The answer to the second  question is no. Mr V has provided his own report from October  
2017. It says that the felt had cracked in a few places close  to each other  and this could  be 
down to extreme weather  conditions  through  time . The report also includes  some photos of 
the damaged  area. The felt along the roof, below the skylight,  is clearly cracked. Im not 
persuaded that a well maintained roof would sustain  the damage shown following one day of 
torrential rain. As stated  in Mr Vs report, Im satisfied this damage has been happening  over 
time and is not consistent with one-off storm damage. The report provided by Ageas expert  
also comments on the condition of Mr Vs property and that it hasnt been  well-maintained.  
This supports the evidence Ive seen  from Mr V himself. 
Mr V has provided evidence from his contractor  stating that the damage hes been  asked  to 
recently repair is as a result of the weather conditions. But this report  has been sent over a 
year after Ageas was notified of the claim initially. And its possible that adverse weather 
conditions during the last 12 months led to further  damage. But Im more  persuaded by the 
reports provided from the time of the claim. I think theyre a more accurate assessment of 
why the damage  occurred  at that time. 
I dont need to consider the third question.  Based on everything Ive seen Im satisfied that 
Ageas has acted fairly in declining the claim for the roof. The reports show  the damage has 
been happening gradually over time,  which is an exclusion on Mr Vs policy. 
Ageas has also declined Mr Vs claim for the internal  damage  caused by the leak. It said    
Mr V didnt do enough to mitigate his losses and had left it too long for it be considered as a 
one-off event. Im satisfied that Ageas reason for declining the internal damage is 
reasonable. 
Mr V is covered for accidental damage  on his policy. But the accidental  damage cover would 
only apply if the damage had occurred  as a result  of a one-off event. As previously 
mentioned Mr V admitted he noticed  the ingress  of water had been  building  up several 
weeks before he notified  Ageas of his intention to claim. Although he placed  buckets  in 
places to capture  some  of the water  Im not satisfied that he did enough to try to prevent 
further damage. And because of that the water damage to his ceiling, carpets and bedroom 
had been happening over time. Mr Vs policy has a list of general exclusions that apply  to all 
sections of it. One of those is:
Wear, Tear  and Gradual Deterioration
This insurance does  not cover loss or damage resulting from wear,  tear or gradually  
operating causes.
Im satisfied Ageas applied the exclusion fairly in Mr Vs case. Ive accepted that a storm 
could have happened in early August but that is when I would expect Mr V to notify Ageas of 
any damage. By allowing  the water ingress to build  up over several weeks,  Mr V had allowed 
Ref: DRN36500543the damage to worsen and gradually damage  some  internal areas. So Ageas reliance on 
the exclusion Ive mentioned is reasonable  in the circumstances. 
Ageas took seven  months to tell Mr V that his claim had been declined.  From  the evidence  
Ive seen its clear that there were avoidable delays during the assessment of the damage 
and the reports.  And Ageas took longer than it needed to let Mr V know of its decision to 
decline the claim in its entirety. But its offered £500  compensation for that, which  I think is 
fair. If Mr V hasnt  been paid this amount its up to him to decide if he wants to accept  it and 
let Ageas know. I wont be asking Ageas to anything  more.
my final decision
For the reasons  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3650054