K820x#14complaint
The estate  of the late Mrs A complains  that Bank of Scotland trading as Halifax  (Halifax) 
has acted unfairly and unreasonably by failing to properly explain charges claimed under her 
mortgage. It wants an explanation and the possession proceedings to be stopped.
background
Mrs A took out a mortgage with Halifax. She later died and her estate said that Halifax  was 
asking for too much  money to settle the mortgage and the arrears. The estate said that only 
£26,000 was originally borrowed and the arrears were about  £9,000,  so it didnt understand  
how Mrs A could owe £42,000 as claimed  by Halifax. Halifax  had also instructed  solicitors  
and issued possession  proceedings. The executor  of the estate felt that there was a conflict  
of interest between Halifax and its solicitors.  Various claims of fraud were mentioned, but not 
set out clearly.
The estate  complained to Halifax. It said that it had received a copy of the grant of probate in 
respect of Mrs As estate,  and was willing to discuss options,  but pointed  out that no 
payment had been made towards  the mortgage  for nine years.  It also explained how to get a 
copy of all the information held in relation to the mortgage and asked the estate set out 
clearly what its concerns were about  the mortgage  or the solicitors.  
The estate  complained to us. The investigators  view was that Halifax wasnt at fault. He said 
that there  was no evidence that the estate promptly told Halifax that the grant of probate had 
been obtained and he felt Halifax  had answered  its questions. The investigator said that until 
probate had been obtained,  Halifax was limited  as to the information it could give the estate.  
He didnt think that the charges had been  unfairly or unreasonably charged or that it was 
unfair or unreasonable to issue  possession  proceedings or in claiming the legal fees.
The estate  of the late Mrs A disagreed. It said that Halifax had persistently refused to clarify 
its calculations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A died over in 2009, but the grant  of probate wasnt obtained until 2016,  and it took time 
for the estate to send it for registration  by Halifax. In addition, I note that no payment has 
been made towards the mortgage  for over nine years. The estate hasnt given any details as 
to why it believes that theres a conflict between Halifax and its current  solicitors  or about the 
alleged fraud. And I think its the responsibility  of the estate to obtain probate and send the 
evidence promptly to Halifax and to settle the full debt owed under the mortgage.
The estate  has though said that it doesnt understand why charges  have been  made  against  
the mortgage. I note that specific explanations  have  been given to the estate as early as 
2014 according to the evidence available to me (yearly statements have been provided  to 
the estate)  and some  fees were  refunded  to the mortgage, together  with associated  interest. 
The estate  has made several complaints previously and been given answers, but hasnt 
addressed the fundamental  issue of the need to pay the mortgage.
Ref: DRN38096062Under the terms and conditions  of the mortgage, Halifax can charge arrears  fees,  legal costs  
and interest. In this case, theres significant and historic arrears  and legal action has been 
taken. This is why more  is owed  than just the original  balance and the arrears. This service 
isnt an account-checking service and the estate is able to instruct  a forensic accountant  at 
its own cost to review the mortgage, though I note its only made  vague  allegations  against  
Halifax. That said, having seen the evidence available  to me, I dont see any evidence of 
unfair or unreasonable charges.
Its clear that the estate  doesnt want the possession proceedings to take place. But once 
Mrs A died, the mortgage ended and the entire  amount due to Halifax  is due. Options are 
limited due to this and no payment has been made  since  Mrs A died. I cant  say that Halifax  
has been unfair or unreasonable in issuing the proceedings, and I note that whether a 
possession order is made is a matter for the court, not this service. Equally, I think Halifax 
has answered the specific questions raised by the estate about the mortgage and the 
charges, and provided yearly statements.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask the estate of the late Mrs A to accept  or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3809606