K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained about AWP P&C SAs (AWP) handling of his car breakdown recovery  
policy.
Reference to AWP includes their agents.
background
On 8 March 2018,  Mr Ks car broke down while he was driving. I understand there was a 
problem with its suspension. Mr K called AWP for assistance. AWP said they couldnt  
arrange for one single recovery agent to recover Mr Ks car to his home  address. So, they 
arranged two. The first recovery  agent collected the car and took it part of the way and left it 
at their base. The following morning the second recovery  agent collected the car and took it 
to Mr Ks home  address.
When Mr K received his car, he said it had been damaged and left in a dirty state. He 
complained to AWP and said:
The inside of his car was stained with mud which  completely ruined his carpet,  
leather seats and steering wheel.
It was possible that his comfort  ventilated seat wouldnt work correctly due to the 
build-up of mud.
There was mud on the outside  of his car, which he believed was as a result  of 
someone wheel spinning it.
The rear tyres were damaged as they started  to tear apart  which he believed  was 
as a result of wheel  spinning.
There was a deep dent on the front bumper.
Mr K was given an estimate  of £1,151.72  from a garage to put right the damage to his car.
AWP said they looked into both recovery agents  involvement. But they couldnt establish  
how the car was made dirty. AWP said, due to the cars suspension problem, neither 
recovery agent would have driven  it. AWP apologised and offered Mr K £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
Mr K wasnt  satisfied with AWPs response. He brought his complaint to our service. One of 
our adjudicators looked into it. He said there  was insufficient evidence to show the damage 
was caused by AWPs recovery agents. But he said it seemed clear  that the mud staining 
was caused by one of the recovery agents. He therefore suggested that AWP should 
reimburse Mr K the £150 he spent on replacing  the cars mats. But as Mr K didnt agree with 
our adjudicator, the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 24 January 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen the vehicle condition report (VCR)  prepared by the second recovery  agent 
together with nine photographs they took when collecting the car from the first 
recovery agents base.  Its clear from the photos that the first recovery agent placed 
Ref: DRN33819792the car on very muddy ground. I think that would explain why there was mud on the 
outside of the car and on the tyres.  It would  also appear from the staining shown in 
the photos that the recovery agent sat in the drivers  seat. The VCR noted  the car 
was dirty and had mud  all round and dirty scuffed wheels interior  mud.
I have seen two photos of the car on a trailer when it had been  collected by the first 
recovery agent. I think those two photos were  taken by Mr K and they show the car 
and recovery vehicle  both at a petrol station. In those photos Mr Ks car looks  very 
clean as though it had recently been washed. So, it seems to me that the mud 
staining on the inside and outside must  have  happened while  the car was with the 
first recovery  agent. 
When the car was delivered to Mr K, he took several photos of it. In addition  to the 
mud staining, Mr Ks photos  show a mark to the front bumper which he said was a 
dent that wasnt  there  when his car was collected by the first recovery  agent.  There  
are also photos of the cars tyres. Mr K said the rear tyres were  damaged.  And Ive 
seen from the estimate he got that the rear right hand side tyre needed  replacement.  
To decide whether or not the damage  to the front bumper and the rear tyres was 
caused by AWPs  recovery agents,  it would have  been helpful  to have seen evidence 
of the condition of those  parts before the first recovery  agent  collected the car. Ive 
seen correspondence  between AWP and the first recovery  agent. The first recovery 
agent said they had taken  photos  of the car and completed a VCR when they 
collected it. But they said they couldnt find either  the photos or the VCR when AWP 
asked for them.  And theres no engineering evidence to assist  me in this complaint.
Mr K believes his car was taken on a joy ride overnight  and that his car was wheel 
spun which  caused  the damage  to his tyres. But given his car suffered a breakdown 
as a result  of a suspension problem, I tend to agree  with AWP that that was unlikely. 
And Im aware that both recovery  agents  transported the car in a way that it was 
carried and not towed. So, the rear tyres  wouldnt have been in use while  it was 
being transported. I therefore dont think theres sufficient evidence  to say the tyres 
were damaged as a result of the recovery agents actions.
With regards the drivers  side comfort  ventilated seat, Ive not been provided with any 
evidence beyond Mr Ks comments to show that it was damaged. I understand that 
Mr K had concerns  that it might be damaged because of the mud on it. But from the 
photos provided to me, it doesnt  appear  that there  was much  staining on the seat. 
Mr Ks other main  concern was the damage  to the front bumper. Mr K described it as 
a deep dent but the garage that gave the estimate to repair it said it was a mark. 
Ive seen the photo of it taken by Mr K. There is a light-coloured mark on the bumper  
and it appears that the paint has come off as a result of an impact. Mr Ks garage 
said to repair  it they would  have to respray it. But without seeing  evidence  of the 
condition of the bumper before the car was recovered, I cant  say when it happened.
I dont know if the first recovery agents  photos and VCR were available  whether they 
would have helped  me in deciding if the damage to the bumper and rear tyres  was 
caused after Mr Ks car was collected.  But thats  exactly the reason why I think  its 
good practice for recovery agents to document  the condition of a vehicle they are 
recovering, to help in cases like this. And while I cant speculate what the photos  and 
Ref: DRN33819793VCR may or may not have evidenced, I think their absence is a failing for which  AWP 
must ultimately take responsibility.
While there  is uncertainty in relation  to how and when the front bumper and rear tyres 
were damaged, I dont  think  there is any dispute that the mud staining to the car was 
caused by one of the recovery agents.  From  the visible  staining  to the steering 
wheel, drivers side floor mat, foot pedals and other internal and external areas,  its 
apparent that insufficient care was taken  when handling Mr Ks car. I agree with our 
adjudicators suggestion  that AWP should  pay £150 for the replacement mats.  That 
was in addition  to the £100 AWP had already offered to pay Mr K after they looked 
into his complaint. But looking at the other  areas of mud staining, particularly to areas 
inside the car, I think the car would have needed to be cleaned professionally. 
I therefore intend to uphold  this complaint in part. In taking into account  the failure to 
produce the first recovery agents photos and VCR;  the mud staining to the car that 
would have required professional cleaning; the £150 cost of the replacement  mats; 
and the fact that this matter has been a source  of distress and inconvenience for 
Mr K, I intend to require  AWP  to increase the compensation  by £250 to a total of 
£500.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. AWP didnt comment. Mr K said,  in 
response to my comment that there  was a lack of evidence showing the condition of the car 
before it was recovered, that as he didnt  anticipate there being  a problem, he didnt take 
photos of his car before it was recovered. He also said,  in response to my comment  that 
there was no evidence to prove the drivers seat was damaged, that AWP could pay to have 
the seat examined.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. 
But I would like to respond to Mr Ks comments. Firstly, I should say that Im not critical of  
Mr K for not having photos of the condition of his car before it was recovered. On the 
contrary, in my provisional decision I said AWP were responsible for the first recovery  agent 
not producing  the photos and the VCR. And I took that into consideration in the 
compensation I said I intended  to award  Mr K. But, ultimately, the lack of evidence of the 
pre-recovery condition  of the car led me to conclude that there was insufficient evidence  for 
me to find that the damage to the cars front bumper and rear tyres happened while the car 
was with AWPs recovery agents.
And in relation to the driver seat, I felt that while  there was some mud staining  there  wasnt 
enough convincing  evidence to satisfy me that the seat was actually damaged. While I can 
understand why Mr K feels  AWP should pay to have  it examined, given Mr K made  the claim 
that it was damaged I think he could have had it examined and provided  a report. And if the 
report said the seat was damaged due to mud staining, I could have reached a decision on 
that basis. But that didnt happen.
Ref: DRN33819794my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require AWP P&C SA to 
pay Mr K a total of £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced. 
This amount includes the £100  AWP have  already  paid and £150 our adjudicator  suggested 
AWP should pay for the replacement car mats. The compensation (or any outstanding  part 
of it) should be paid within  28 days of us telling them that Mr K has accepted  my final 
decision. If AWP pay later than this, they must also pay interest on that amount from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If AWP consider  that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr K how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN3381979