K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by post in 1996 at the same time 
as Mr P applied for the card. It gave him accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr P disagreed so the complaint  was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete  or 
inconclusive (as some  of it is here), I have  based my decision on the balance of probabilities  
 in other words,  on what I consider is most likely given the available evidence  and the wider  
circumstances.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint because:
 Bank of Scotland has provided  Mr Ps application form but it is illegible. However  
based on what we know about  how Bank of Scotland  sold PPI by post at this time and 
samples of forms we have  seen,  its most  likely Mr P would have had to tick a box 
selecting the cover for it to have been added to his account. I can understand he might  
not remember this given how long ago the sale was. On balance, I think its most likely 
Bank of Scotland made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr P chose to take it out.
 Bank of Scotland didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt need to check if it was 
suitable for him. It was up to Mr P to decide  whether the policy was right for him, 
bearing in mind  his ability to make his credit  card repayments if he was unable to work  
or lost his job. 
 I agree its possible the information  Bank of Scotland gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt 
as clear as it shouldve been. But Mr P chose to take out the policy  and so appears  to 
have wanted this type of cover. He wasnt affected  by any of the main  exclusions or 
limitations. And the policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. 
Mr Ps representative says he didnt need  PPI as he was entitled  to six months full pay 
and six months half pay if he was off work sick and he had some  savings. But the PPI 
would have paid out for up to 12 months  in addition to his work benefits  and allowed 
him to use his savings  for other living  expenses whilst not working. So, overall, based 
on his circumstances  and the terms of the policy, I think it unlikely  Mr P wouldve made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  he 
would still have taken  out the policy.
It follows I dont think Mr P has lost out because  of any problems  with the sale.
Ref: DRN38567652my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3856765