K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy about the way UK Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim on his home 
insurance policy.
background
Mr S tells us that in September 2018  a police raid took place at the property next door to his 
house which was being used to cultivate plants used for illegal  purposes.  He contacted UKI 
and informed them of the situation  and advised that the smell from the plant cultivation had 
come into his property through vents  that his neighbour made by removing bricks  in the loft 
wall between  the 2 properties. And this smell made the property uninhabitable.
Mr S tells us that after the police raid there was a burning/choking airborne substance  in the 
air and he felt UKI should have done  more to help him. He says his property needed 
cleaning and the air quality testing to establish  if it was safe to live in. And he needed 
alternative accommodation in the meantime. 
UKI tell us they agreed to repair the damaged wall in the loft as they considered  it to be 
malicious damage and therefore covered by the home insurance policy. They  contacted a 
third-party contactor  who advised them that the smell from the cultivation  should start to 
disappear. They offered  to put Mr S in touch with the contractor who could air scrub his 
home to remove the smell at his own cost. They say Mr S told them his neighbours landlord 
was taking care of the repairs and cleaning his property. They  explained that they couldnt 
arrange alternative accommodation  as the smell permeating from the plants  in the 
neighbours property wasnt covered by the policy. 
Mr S wasnt  happy with this response  and brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigators view was that UKI had acted appropriately when handling Mr Ss claim.
Mr S remained unhappy  and asked that an ombudsman decide his case.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This is an unfortunate case and has arisen  through  no fault of Mr S who has faced a very 
unpleasant experience. Whilst I have great  sympathy for Mr S I have to decide  the case 
based on the policy terms and conditions and what, in all the circumstances of this case, is 
fair and reasonable.
Sections 1 and 2 of the policy states buildings/contents are covered for loss or damage 
caused by:-
Vandalism or malicious acts.
Fire, explosion, lightning, earthquake and smoke
The policy also sets out when it will provide alternative accommodation,  it states:-   
We will pay up to £25,000, in total, for comparable alternative accommodation  for you and 
kennel fees for your pets, and for lost rent, if:
Ref: DRN30728542 your home, or part of your home, is not fit to be
lived in while your home is being repaired, due
to a valid claim you have  made
Im satisfied the damage to the loft wall amounts to vandalism  so its reasonable to expect 
UKI to cover  the cost of repairs. Im also satisfied UKI offered to do this but Mr S said this 
wasnt necessary as his neighbours  landlord  was arranging repairs. So I find UKI acted 
reasonably with regard to the damage caused  by Mr Ss neighbour to the loft wall.
Mr S has described a burning/choking airborne substance, but Ive not seen any evidence  to 
say there  was damage caused by this substance.  Or that this made the property not fit to live 
in. Ive looked at the policy wording and can find no mention of an odour or smell being 
covered. Ive considered whether the substance could be described as contamination.  
However, in the Losses not covered  section of the policy,  which  applies to all sections of 
the policy it states in red print:-
We dont cover any loss, damage or legal  liability  caused by:
Pollution or contamination unless it is caused  by oil leaking from:
 any fixed heating installation in your home
 any domestic appliance  in your home.
 
So even if the substance  was considered  to be contamination  of the property it wouldnt be 
covered. On balance Im satisfied that the policy doesnt cover the odour Mr S could smell. 
And, importantly there was no physical damage  caused by the airborne particles  Mr S 
describes. 
From everything Ive seen, the malicious damage to the loft wall didnt  make  the house 
uninhabitable. And there  was no damage or loss caused by the burning/choking airborne 
substance. Whilst  the smell  may be deeply  unpleasant  its not reasonable to expect  UKI to 
provide alternative  accommodation unless the property  was not fit to live in while  they 
carried out repairs due to a valid claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint and wont be asking UK Insurance  Limited to do anymore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Martyn Tomkins
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3072854