K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the settlement figure  R. Raphael  & Sons Plc (RRS) provided 
when they asked to settle  their loan early.  
Any reference to RRS includes  its agents.
background
In January 2017 Mr and Mrs S took out a loan with RRS through Zebra Finance for a holiday 
home.  The holiday home cost £250,000 and they put down £100,000 deposit. They 
borrowed the remainder, £150,000, from RRS.  The loan had an APR of 11.5% and 
repayments were £1,694.51  over a 180 month (15 year) term.  The  interest of £155,011.80 
was front loaded and the total repayable  over the term was £305,011.80.
In March 2017, Mr and Mrs S made a partial settlement of £20,000.  They made two further 
partial settlements  of £5,000 each  in June and July 2017. They then made an additional 
partial settlement  of £20,000 in November  2017.   Following this they were  in a position  to 
settle the loan and asked  for a settlement  figure and a breakdown  of how that had been 
reached. 
There were initially some difficulties in obtaining a settlement quote, as the £20,000  
November 2017  partial settlement had to be manually  applied to the account. And the two 
£5,000 partial  settlement payments hadnt had a rebate applied  when they were made. This 
was rectified and the rebate backdated  to the date of receipt of the payments alongside the 
November rebate.  Mr and Mrs S were  subsequently told they would need to pay           
£103,215.37 to settle the loan early.  
Mr and Mrs S didnt  think this was right as they had borrowed £150,000 and paid off £50,000 
in lump sum payments and couldnt understand why they were  being told they owed more 
than they should. RRS  explained on a number  of occasions that the partial  settlements  paid 
not only the capital balance outstanding but also interest due on the amount borrowed. 
But Mr and Mrs S still didnt  think the amount was correct and so complained. RRS initially 
replied in December  2017 satisfied its calculation  was correct. But Mr and Mrs S werent 
satisfied with that and appealed. They also wanted  a breakdown  of how the figures had 
been reached. RRS issued a further response in January 2018 in which it had admitted 
errors had been  made on the account  since the first partial settlement payment was made.  
As a result it agreed to honour  an incorrect rebate  amount which  favoured  Mr and Mrs S by 
over £2,000.  It also confirmed the settlement figure  was £103,679 rather than the 
£105,216.16 it should have been. 
But Mr and Mrs S still werent convinced and correspondence continued between the 
parties. Mr and Mrs S believed the amount they owed to settle the loan should have been in 
the region of £92,000 increasing to over £93,000  to take account of the one months interest  
RRS would be due as a result of the settlement. But as theyd incurred  additional interest 
they believed  they should only repay  around  £90,000. RRS  offered to accept £100,000 in 
settlement of this matter  but Mr and Mrs S didnt agree and so they sent payment of the 
amount they thought they owed. As this wasnt enough RRS issued arrears correspondence  
and a default notice and subsequently defaulted the account. The loan was later terminated  
and the debt assigned to Zebra finance. Since  then Zebra has obtained  an enforcement 
Ref: DRN37683172order and is in the process of obtaining  a return  of goods order  (as the loan was secured 
against the holiday home). 
Mr and Mrs S asked  us to look into this matter.   RRS believed the matter had been  referred  
out of time from the responses it issued. One of my ombudsman colleagues issued a 
decision finding the complaint had been  referred in time as the responses issued werent 
valid final responses in accordance with the rules  and so it was a complaint we could 
consider. Mr and Mrs S asked for legal action to be stayed so that we could look into the 
complaint which  the judge  agreed.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He explained the calculations 
required to find out early settlement amounts are complex and not straightforward.  He 
included a link to the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) Regulations  2004  showing this. He 
wasnt persuaded Mr and Mrs Ss calculation  was reflective of that and so he wasnt  
persuaded they had shown RRS settlement figure had been wrong. 
Mr and Mrs S have  asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. In summary, they 
have said:
Their barristers advice is that the interest clause  in the agreement isnt enforceable 
as it hasnt been drafted in accordance with the act. This means there is no 
entitlement to interest for early  settlement. If a correction to the clause was allowed 
early settlement interest would be limited to 1% - £1,500.
Their calculation is an approximation for discussion  and agreement. 
Monthly instalments  included capital but these  didnt  change despite the 
overpayments to the account. 
Using simplistic terms, if the early settlement figure was between 0 and £1,500 then 
any early settlement in the region of £103,000 wouldnt be correct.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S borrowed £150,000 to complete the purchase of their holiday home.  That 
borrowing came  at cost  the interest charged on the borrowing  of £155,011.80.  The 
interest was front loaded on to the loan, which meant the balance  outstanding from the 
outset of the loan was £305,011.80. This was repayable over a term of 180 months, or 15 
years.  
Before agreeing to the loan Mr and Mrs S queried the compensatory  clause within the loan 
agreement.  This said:
We may claim  compensation under section 95A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  for 
the cost incurred by us as a result of your early repayment if your early  repayment 
exceeds £8,000 or, where more  than one early repayment is made  in any 12 month  
period, the total of those  repayments exceeds  £8000.00.  The compensatory amount  
will not exceed the higher of:
Ref: DRN37683173(i) 1% of the early  repayment(s)  where  the remaining term of the 
agreement from the date of your repayment is more than one year, or 
0.5% where that period  is equal  to or less than one year, and
(ii) The total amount  of interest  that would have been paid by your under 
the agreement  in the period  from the date of your early  repayment to 
the end of the terms of the agreement, if you had not repaid early.  
The response from RRS was that:
 the CCA  requires us to include this in the agreement, but we dont use this clause.  
We use the standard CCA calculation (actuarial  method  approximately 1 month 
compensation interest) which is configured in our systems.  We must  use this formula 
and it is certified as compliant with the consumer credit early  settlement regulations.  
Mr and Mrs S have  queried if the above  compensation  clause is enforceable as it isnt 
drafted in accordance with the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as it shouldnt  be the higher of the 
two amounts but the lower. Im not one of the authorities permitted to declare an agreement 
unenforceable  thats a matter for a court. However, I am aware that a court has already 
granted an enforcement order in relation to the amount outstanding. 
I accept that RRS told Mr and Mrs S that it doesnt  rely on the compensation clause in the 
agreement when calculating an early settlement figure. But that doesnt mean interest  isnt 
due at all on the early settlement amount. As indicated in the e-mail Mr and Mrs S were  sent,  
RRS applies a complex actuarial calculation as set out in the Consumer Credit  (Early 
Settlement) Regulations  2004. This calculation  means that if paying off a loan early, a 
customer doesnt need to pay all the interest  they would have paid if it had run its full term  
this saving is known  as a rebate. But this calculation only results in a rebate of some  of the 
interest not all of it  how much depends on when the loan was taken out and how much  has 
already been repaid. 
That calculation is different from and separate to section  95A of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974  the clause that RRS said it wouldnt  rely on.  So Im not persuaded that RRS  not 
relying on section  95A means the £50,000 partial settlement Mr and Mrs S made should 
have been used to only reduce the capital balance.  
Those who resolves disputes  whether a judge  in court or an ombudsman like me  have to 
make decisions  on matters in which they have no personal expertise. For example, judges 
hearing road traffic  cases dont need to be motor engineers or doctors in order to decide 
liability and quantum for damage  to vehicles or personal injuries. They  simply need to be 
experts in matters of law and equity,  e.g. how to weigh competing evidence  and arguments 
fairly or apply logic and critical-thinking skills, etc. If a disputed  issue  can only be resolved 
through independent expert evidence,  its the responsibility of the parties to produce  this to 
support their respective positions. The judge  (or ombudsman) will weigh all the expert 
opinions and decide which is more persuasive   perhaps by reference to the experts 
respective qualifications, experience or professional  reputation. Ultimately, the person 
making the allegations has the burden  of proving them. 
As I explained above, the calculation set out in the 2004 regulations  is a complex actuarial 
calculation. I accept  Mr and Mrs Ss calculation is an approximation  but it is in no way 
representative of the regulations. They have simply reduced their capital balance  by the sum 
paid, rather than applying  the proper formula to work  out the correct rebate for each partial 
settlement payment.   Im not satisfied their calculation is persuasive  evidence that RRS 
Ref: DRN37683174calculation is wrong. I would add that I wouldnt necessarily  expect  Mr and Mrs S to be able 
to carry out the type of calculation needed themselves. But Ive seen no expert  evidence,  
such as a forensic accounting  report  or the like, to show that RRSS calculation  of the sum 
owed is unfair, unreasonable or contrary to the terms and conditions of the contract or the 
2004 regulations.  
I accept that when RRS initially calculated the balance outstanding it was incorrect.  RRS has 
explained this was temporary  error  with the repayment calculator tool that resulted in a 
rebate of all of the interest on the loan rather than what should  have been rebated.   This was 
rectified in January 2018 and the correct information  subsequently given to Mr and Mrs S. 
And RRS stood by the incorrect  figure given meaning Mr and Mrs S were asked to repay 
over £2,000 less than they are actually  required to pay under the regulations. 
I understand Mr and Mrs S are unhappy  with this situation and they feel very strongly  about  
this. Having carefully considered the evidence  and arguments that have been provided, I 
dont uphold their complaint;  I havent seen persuasive evidence  that would lead me to 
conclude RRS calculation  is incorrect. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3768317