K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  trading at the time as C&G mis-sold 
them a regular premium  payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy  alongside a mortgage 
they took out in 1992. 
Mr and Mrs E are also concerned about an increase in the cost of the policy in 1993 
notwithstanding the mortgage  repayments  had decreased.
background
Mr E took out a mortgage. At the same  time he took out a PPI policy.  This policy  covered 
Mr E if he was unable to work through accident,  sickness or if he lost his job. Mrs Es name  
was added to the mortgage at a later date. The policy would have paid out for up to 12 
months at a time on a successful claim.
The policy cost £23.75 per month initially rising to £28.50 and would have provided a 
monthly benefit of £351.66 plus £3.00 for every £1000 of Mr and Mrs Es mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs E disagreed with 
this view and asked  for their matter  to be passed  to an ombudsman  for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Es case.
As so many years have passed  since the time of the sale,  not all the actual paperwork 
Mr and Mrs E would have completed  is available. So where the information is incomplete or 
limited I will make my decision  based  on the balance  of probabilities.  That is the standard  of 
proof I will use and means that I will look at what is more likely taking into account  the 
evidence we do have,  what  the parties have told us as well as what we know  generally about  
these types of sales at the time.
Although I appreciate Mr and Mrs E will be disappointed with my decision I have decided  not 
to uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mr and Mrs E had a fair choice about buying  the 
PPI. Lloyds has provided a letter dated 13 January  1992. In that letter it states  I look forward  
to receiving the payment protection proposal  form. I have seen  a copy of the completed  
form and Mr E has confirmed that he wanted  to take out the cover. He could have declined 
the cover  if he didnt want it. Overall I think he had a choice to take it out and knew he could 
have refused PPI if he didnt want it.
Lloyds has said it recommended the cover  to Mr and Mrs E. This places more  responsibility 
on Lloyds for how it sold the policy and it meant that Lloyds had to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the policy was suitable for their circumstances, as well as giving enough clear 
information so that they could decide  for themselves if they wanted  to take out the policy.
Ref: DRN35456392Thinking about  everything including Mr and Mrs Es circumstances and the policy  terms and 
conditions I think it was suitable.
I say that because Mr E, the person who was covered by the PPI was eligible for the policy.  
And I dont  think he would have been  caught by any of the main limitations or exclusions set 
out in the policy. Mr E was working  and it looks like he was in good health.  So I think  he 
could have made a successful  claim if hed needed  to.
Mr and Mrs E feel strongly that they had enough  cover in place which would have meant  
they didnt need to take out the PPI. I have  thought  about what theyve told me. But this 
policy covered their mortgage and the consequences of being  unable to meet  the 
repayments were serious. Mr E has confirmed he would have received six months full pay 
followed by six months  half pay if he couldnt work but this policy would have paid out on top 
of anything he did get. It would have also paid out for up to 12 months per claim so it would 
have paid out for longer  than his full sick pay would have lasted. If Mr E couldnt  work or if he 
lost his job the monthly household income  would have reduced  and Mr and Mrs E could 
have fallen into difficulty so I cant say the PPI was unsuitable. I think the PPI could have 
been useful if things went wrong.
Mr and Mrs E have  also told me about  savings they had and Mr E has said he would have 
had an enhanced redundancy pay. But they didnt want to use their savings to buy their 
property, so they might have been  put aside for other purposes and if things went wrong I 
cant say their savings would have been easily accessible. The PPI meant their savings 
could have been left intact or they could have used  them for other important household 
expenses which they might have needed  if Mr E was unable to work for a prolonged period. 
The PPI would have  also paid in addition to any redundancy and the PPI and would have  
meant he could have used the redundancy for other living costs. I can see that Mr E started 
his job in 1990 with his employer so I dont think his redundancy pay would have been as 
much as he might have thought in 1992.
Mr and Mrs E have  also told me about  other  life policies.  Life cover is not the same thing as 
PPI and the other insurance policy Mr and Mrs E have  told us about matured in 1994 
sometime after the mortgage was taken out. In filling in the mortgage application forms I can 
see that Mr E couldnt quite remember the exact amounts he would have been entitled to  
this is understandable.  But looking at what they might have paid out I dont think  these would  
have replaced  the PPI if things went wrong.
All in all the PPI was designed to repay their monthly mortgage repayment  so I think  it could 
have been useful if things went wrong and I cant say it was unsuitable.
The cost of this policy was comparable with similar  products at the time and I cant  say it was 
unaffordable for them or that they had a particular need to keep  their costs down at the time 
they took it out.
Its possible that not all the information  was given to Mr and Mrs E about the policy  was as 
clear as it could have been.  In particular, Mr and Mrs E are concerned  that the full cost was 
not explained to them and that it increased  later on. Mr E says that the full £1300  benefit 
would not be achieved. But this was a cap on the total amount the policy  would pay out. It 
didnt necessarily apply  to this PPI. As I have explained above, I think Mr E chose the PPI in 
his name  and for much the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable for his 
circumstances, I cant  say Lloyds  did anything wrong and I dont think Mr and Mrs E would 
have changed  their mind  even if theyd been  given better or clearer  information.
Ref: DRN35456393Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs E have told me including  what  theyve said 
about the premium  increasing. But this was a monthly premium policy so I think  theyd have  
seen the increase in premiums going  out of their account and Mr and Mrs E could  have 
cancelled it at any time. The increase also happened some years  after the sale so I cant say 
that Lloyds did anything wrong  at the time of the sale. So these points  dont change  my 
decision and I dont  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3545639