K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K are unhappy with the customer service theyve received from Prestige Finance 
Limited. In particular theyre  concerned  with issues surrounding their account  statements, 
default notices  and the additional charges that have been applied to their account. 
background
Mr and Mrs K took out a loan with Prestige in March 2007. By July 2007 the account had 
fallen into arrears. Mr and Mrs K have concerns about the interest and charges applied to 
the account which increased the outstanding balance. They feel Prestige hasnt complied 
with the Consumer Credit  Act 1974.
Prestige has already looked at this complaint. Overall they felt theyd acted fairly. Prestige 
has advised our service that during  the loan period they struggled at times to contact Mr and 
Mrs K. And that legal proceedings were eventually started against them.  Unhappy  with the 
outcome from Prestige, the complaint  was referred to our service. 
An investigator has already looked  at this matter.  She felt Prestige had acted  in line with the 
agreement and overall fairly. She also felt that by falling behind on the monthly repayments, 
Mr and Mrs K shouldve  realised that the outstanding repayment figure would increase. 
As Mr and Mrs K remain dissatisfied  with the situation, theyve asked  that the matter be 
passed to an ombudsman now. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  A lot of evidence has been filed with our 
service which  is helpful.  Whilst I have looked  at it all, this decision will focus on what  I think  
are the key issues in dispute.
Overall I too think Prestige has acted fairly and that Mr and Mrs K are liable for the 
outstanding account balance. I appreciate there were some  issues with account statements. 
This includes Prestige  acknowledging  that some statements were sent out undated. But 
based on what Ive seen, I do think it likely that Prestige sent out all the necessary 
statements to Mr and Mrs K.
An argument  has been put forward that the charges applied to Mr and Mrs Ks account  are 
not fair, reasonable or lawful. And that these are considered excessive. Its also proposed 
that with the errors concerning sending out the account statements, Mr and Mrs K couldnt 
have reasonably understood their position or the debts they were incurring. 
But Im afraid I disagree. Mr and Mrs K quickly fell into arrears on their account. And they 
shouldve realised this would mean  theyd  be liable for additional interest  and charges, 
resulting in the overall outstanding balance increasing.  
In respect of the account statements, as Ive already  noted  above, I think  it likely these were  
sent out by Prestige. So Mr and Mrs K shouldve been aware of their account balance. But in 
any event, as I understand,  Prestige struggled to make  contact with Mr and Mrs K at times  
during the loan term. So overall I do think Prestige has acted reasonably in this matter and in 
line with the agreement terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN33193802my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3319380