K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the quality of car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
background
I already set out the background to this complaint in my earlier  provisional  decision. But to 
help with ease  of reading, I set out the background again here.
In July 2018 Mr H entered into a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn for a used car.
Around mid August 2018 Mr H told us, he started  to notice smoke coming from the engine.
Alarmed, Mr H contacted Moneybarn immediately. 
Mr H asked Moneybarn to pay to repair the car. However that did not happen. Instead 
Moneybarn asked an expert to look at the car. Based on the results of the experts report, 
Moneybarn refused to take further  action.  
Mr H suggested this was unfair, he believed it was responsible for sorting out whatever 
might be wrong with the car. But because he needed to use the car and it was unsafe to 
drive, he paid for the repairs himself.
Moneybarns stance  was it wasnt responsible  for what had gone  wrong  with the car. As I
have already mentioned, it relied  on the experts report. This said the smoke  was most likely
caused by a failed turbo  charger. The report also said the turbo charger had probably
stopped working  due to wear and tear. Moneybarn isnt responsible for faults caused by
wear and tear. For these  reasons  it declined to take the matter any further. 
That said,  while the car was out of action, as a gesture of goodwill, Moneybarn  paid for 
Mr Hs courtesy  car, the total cost of which was £980.85. Further, as another  gesture of 
goodwill it offered  to pay for 50% of the bill for the repairs  that Mr H had paid for. However it 
only did this because we had initially said that we thought the car was not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  And we had asked it to pay for the whole bill. 
In any event, Mr H refused Moneybarns offer and asked for the full amount.
As I already mentioned,  I looked at Mr Hs complaint in a provisional decision. In summary, I 
said that we had the power to look at this complaint as the conditional sale agreement is a 
regulated credit agreement. 
I also said Moneybarn is the supplier of the car under  the agreement, so it is responsible for 
the quality of the car. In particular, it is obliged under relevant law to supply a car that is of 
satisfactory quality. 
To be considered satisfactory, the goods would need to meet the standard that a
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description  of the
goods, the price  and all the other  relevant circumstances. So, it seems  likely that in a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
The quality of the goods includes their general  state and condition and other things like their
fitness for purpose,  appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and
Ref: DRN31157802durability can be aspects  of the quality of goods.
Moneybarn supplied Mr H with a car that had a cash price of £5,975,  it was around six years
old and had travelled about  89,000  miles  when it was supplied. Mr H was then able to drive 
several thousands miles on top of this. Further I think it is significant  that the price  of the car 
was lower than it would have been  if it had been supplied new.
When I took all of this into account I thought it was fair to say that a reasonable person 
would expect that parts of the car might  have already experienced a fair degree of wear and 
tear. And I also think a reasonable person would expect that there would be a greater risk 
this car might  need repair and/or maintenance sooner than a car which wasnt as road-worn 
when it was supplied.
The parties agreed that the problem was most  likely caused by the turbo charger. I thought 
that it was reasonable to expect that a working part like this would wear out over time. In the 
circumstances I thought that was what had most likely happened  here.  That is that on 
balance, the problem with the car was most  likely due to wear  and tear. This is not 
something that the law says that Moneybarn is responsible for. 
I realised that the expert had made a mistake about  the exact number of miles that Mr H had 
driven in the car. I thought this was unfortunate but irrelevant. Because  the significant thing 
here was that the car had driven  well over 90,000 when the problem started. It was not 
unreasonable that a car of this age and this mileage had issues relating to wear  and tear.
I also thought  it was fair to mention that Mr H had already  had the benefit of Moneybarn 
paying for his courtesy car. This wasnt something  he was entitled to, this is because  this 
expense did not come about  because Moneybarn supplied  a car that was not of satisfactory 
quality.
I invited the parties  to respond to my provisional  decision  should  they wish to do that.
Mr H responded to say he had nothing further to add. Moneybarn  also responded to let us 
know it had received our decision. However, it did not send us anything  more than that.
my findings
I thank both Mr H and Moneybarn for their responses. Ive re-considered all the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Neither Mr H nor Moneybarn have chosen to send me any new information or to comment 
on the substance of what I said in my provisional  decision. On that basis, I think Ive no 
reason to change  the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
It follows for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision and that I have summarised  
again above, I find, on balance that the car that Moneybarn supplied to Mr H was of 
satisfactory quality. And that the problems he has experienced  with the car are most likely  
due to wear and tear. It follows that I have no proper basis  to ask Moneybarn to take any 
further action.
Ref: DRN31157803my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3115780