K821x#15Complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer,  has taken responsibility for the 
sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  than any other 
business.
Background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mrs P took out in 2003.  It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card in a store.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.  
Like our adjudicator, I also think this policy was most  likely to have been  mis-sold, and for 
much the same reasons  Ill explain below.
FICL had to give Mrs P information about  the policy that was clear, fair, and not misleading. 
But I dont think FICL  gave her clear  enough  information about its exclusions.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs P. Mrs P had a medical condition which wouldnt have 
been covered.  FICL questioned how the condition mightve affected her at the time. From 
what Mrs P told us, it wouldve  had significant  effects on her day-to-day life and standard of 
living. She explained that while she hadnt had time off work  at the time of the sale,  her 
condition had caused her to reduce her hours.  So it seems this wouldve been a concern for 
Mrs P. But she wouldnt  have been able to claim on the policy  if she needed  to because of 
her condition. So she couldnt have claimed  on the PPI for everything  she might  reasonably  
have expected to be able to.
I cant see that FICL gave  Mrs P clear enough  information about the policys  exclusions at 
the time of the sale. If it had done,  then I think its most likely Mrs P would not have bought  
the policy. So I think its most likely that this PPI policy was mis-sold.
Putting things  right
FICL should put Mrs P in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs P would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN37002892FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs P owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs P would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% simple a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs P would  have owed each month without  PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs P paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs P 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should again  be 8% 
simple a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs P what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Mrs P a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3700289