K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that his motor insurance  policy was mis-sold by his broker,  Insurance  
Factory Limited (IFL). He said IFL told him he wouldnt have been able to make a claim as 
his car was not in use from 2013 to 2018  and he wants  IFL to refund his premiums.  
background
Mr K took out a motor policy via IFL in 2013  and renewed it until 2018.  He said his car was 
off the road all of this time as it needed repairs. He said that in 2018 he tried to use the 
breakdown cover on his policy to get his car to a garage, but the recovery  agents wouldnt 
help as his car didnt  have a MOT or road tax. 
Mr K complained to IFL that he wasnt aware  until he renewed  his policy in 2017 that hed 
been covered  for breakdowns. He said IFL hadnt  told him he couldnt use this cover,  or his 
legal expenses cover  without a MOT or road tax for his car. He said hed told IFL at each 
renewal of the policy that he hadnt driven  his car for a number of years. And he said IFL 
should have responded  by asking him if he held a MOT and road tax and it could then have  
told him his policy  wouldnt cover a claim. 
In its response to Mr Ks complaint IFL said he gave his verbal consent to renew  the policy 
each year on the same terms and said hed read the policy  documents. IFL agreed with Mr K 
that during renewal calls hed said he hadnt driven  his car, but it said he hadnt mentioned 
that he didnt have a MOT or road tax. And IFL said it couldnt assume this as Mr K had 
requested a mileage  limit and breakdown cover each year, which  it said is intended for 
roadworthy vehicles.  
IFL said that following renewal calls it sent Mr K his renewal documents.  IFL said these 
linked to its policy booklet, which states:  'The insured vehicle must have a current 
Department of Transport test certificate  (MOT) if applicable'. IFL said its the customers  
responsibility to make  sure the car they are insuring has met the legal  and policy 
requirements. At renewal  in 2017 the insurer of Mr Ks policy sent him a key facts document  
that shows it can offer separate comprehensive  or laid up policies.
IFL thought Mr Ks policy  was clear that the breakdown and legal expenses cover hed 
requested wouldnt  apply to a car without a MOT  and road tax and it said he couldnt have 
benefitted from this cover. IFL also said much  of its business involves classic cars and many 
of its customers  drive  infrequently and so it wouldnt assume Mr Ks car couldnt be driven.  
IFL said that the service it provides customers is non-advised meaning it doesnt  provide 
advice or recommendations, and it said that it told Mr K this when the policy was arranged .
The insurer  for Mr Ks policy from 2017 has said that it wouldnt have offered him a quote in 
his circumstances.  But it also said that as he had an existing policy  it would have provided 
the legal  minimum cover  and would  therefore have considered  a claim had he needed to 
make one. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said it isnt a legal 
requirement for IFL to ensure its customer has a MOT and road tax as this is Mr Ks 
responsibility. He said the policy limit of 1,000 miles per year meant Mr Ks car could have 
been driven. He said he wouldnt expect IFL to ask why the mileage hadnt increased,  only 
check to see if the limit was exceeded. And so, he wouldnt tell IFL to refund Mr Ks 
premiums.
Ref: DRN36694492Mr K disagreed with the adjudicator. He said the policies may not have  been  mis-sold, but he 
thought the premiums had been wasted and so should be refunded.  Mr K requested an 
ombudsman review his complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K wants  a refund of his premiums for the last five years  as he says he couldnt claim on 
his policy  without a MOT  and road tax. When we consider a complaint that a policy has been  
mis-sold we look at what happened when the customer bought the policy  and what should 
have happened  at that time and at renewal.
IFL told us that it doesnt have a recording of the call with Mr K when the policy first started  
in 2013. But it has sent a recording of its call with Mr K when  he renewed the policy  in     
May 2017. During the call Mr K confirmed hed read through the renewal  documents. He told 
IFLs agent the 1,000-mile limit was fine but said he hadnt driven the car for four years. He 
told the agent he didnt know his current mileage  but said she could leave his limit at 1,000  
miles. 
IFL said that it wouldnt ask a customer if their vehicle had a MOT and road tax as this is the 
customers responsibility. Mr Ks policy makes it clear that the onus is on him to ensure he 
has a MOT and road tax and states that this is a legal requirement  if he takes his car on the 
road. And so, I dont  think  IFL was required to check that Mr Ks car had a MOT  and road tax 
before selling him the policy.
IFL said it sent Mr K its terms of business in 2013  when his policy  started. This document 
shows that IFL doesnt recommend policies  to customers  and states that they must make 
their own choice of policy.  However,  businesses that sell insurance are required to set out 
the information customers need about a policy in a clear and not misleading way so they can 
make an informed decision. 
IFL said when the policy started and at each  renewal  it sent Mr K information about  the 
cover. The policy documents are clear that the policy provided comprehensive cover with an 
annual mileage allowance and included details of legal expenses  and breakdown cover. The 
renewal notices state; Please check through the Statement of Information enclosed to 
ensure all details  are correct and the level of cover  meets your current needs. Through the 
renewal documents  and calls I think IFL provided  Mr K with enough information about  the 
policy for him to decide if it met his needs  and this was clear and not misleading. 
Mr K was required  by law to hold motor insurance  so long as his car didnt hold a statutory 
off-road notice. IFL contacted the insurer of Mr Ks policy and said the insurer confirmed that 
the policy would have provided  the legal minimum insurance cover in his circumstances. I 
think this shows that even in his cars condition, had Mr K needed to make  a claim, his 
insurer would have  considered it. And so, I dont think  Mr K was paying for a policy that he 
couldnt have  benefitted from. However,  Mr K is correct that he couldnt have benefitted from 
his legal expenses  and breakdown cover as these required him to hold a MOT  and road tax. 
But I think he opted for this cover  and the onus  was on him to decide whether or not he 
needed the cover that he was being  sold.
Ref: DRN36694493From the policy information  sent to Mr K each year, I think  he ought reasonably to have been 
aware that his car was covered for use on the road and it wasnt a policy  for a car that is laid 
up. IFL said had it known Mr Ks car wasnt used it would have offered a laid up policy  as 
some of its insurers  provide this cover. But as it stood, Mr K applied for a comprehensive 
policy with mileage limit and breakdown cover. I think that would have implied  to IFL that he 
was intending  to do some  mileage in the year, and reasonably  implied that he had the 
documentation to do so, such as a valid MOT and road tax. Although Mr K told IFL that he 
hadnt driven the car for a number of years,  that wouldnt necessarily mean that he wasnt  
planning to do so for the new period of insurance. Therefore, I think it was fair for IFL to sell 
Mr K the policy and I dont  think it needed to do anything more  for Mr K.
IFL said many of its customers own classic cars and some insure their cars regardless of 
use. And so even  though  Mr Ks mileage hadnt  increased  from the previous year, I dont 
think this is something IFL should  automatically have questioned. And so, I dont hold IFL 
responsible for not reacting to the information from Mr K that his mileage hadnt increased. 
As I dont think IFL mis-sold the policy to Mr K I cant reasonably  ask it to repay him his 
premiums.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3669449