K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Belmont Green Finance Limited  (trading as Vida Homeloans) 
charged them twice  for a product fee and sent the wrong amount of money to their solicitor.  
They had to find about £1,000 for to complete  their purchase. They  ask that Vida refunds the 
product fee and interest.
background
Mr and Mrs B intended to buy a house  and applied to Vida for a mortgage. They  agreed  a 
product fee of £995 would  be added to the loan.  They say the amount Vida transferred to 
their solicitor  was less than it should  have been.  Mr and Mrs B had to find about £1,000 at 
short notice to complete their purchase. This caused stress and inconvenience.
Mr and Mrs B say theyve paid the product  fee twice: they paid £1,000 on completion day and 
Vida also added the product fee to their loan. They say theyre  now paying interest on this.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Vida had 
only applied  the product  fee once. He said the problem seemed to be due to a 
misunderstanding. The solicitor expected  to receive £153,995 from Vida. It used this amount 
to calculate the deposit  needed from Mr and Mrs B. When Vida transferred funds net of the 
product fee, there was a shortfall in the completion  funds. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree. They said they cant understand  why they have to repay £995 that 
they didnt receive.  They  said they shouldnt have had to pay £1,000 on the day of completion. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
is the loan amount correct?
Mr and Mrs B applied  for a mortgage  of £153,000. They agreed to pay a £995 product fee to 
Vida. They asked  for this to be added to the loan. So they borrowed £153,995.
Vida applied  a £35 transfer fee when it transferred  the money  to Mr and Mrs Bs solicitors 
the day before completion. The net amount transferred to the solicitor was £152,965.
I think this was correct. Mr and Mrs B borrowed £153,995. Of this, £995  was used to pay the 
product fee, as theyd agreed. £35 was used  to pay the transfer fee. And the balance  
(£152,965) was transferred  to their solicitor for their purchase. 
Mr and Mrs B say they paid the product fee up front. I dont think  this is right.  The £1,000  
they paid to their solicitor  at completion  wasnt transferred to Vida. It was used towards the 
purchase. 
Ref: DRN32485742were Vidas documents misleading?
It seems  Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor used the loan amount of £153,995 is its calculations for 
completion. So when  it only received  £152,965 there was a shortfall. Mr and Mrs B say 
Vidas documents are misleading.
The mortgage offer says the amount of the loan is £153,995. The mortgage offer sets out a 
list of costs payable  by Mr and Mrs B including a product fee of £995 payable to Vida 
Homeloans added to the loan. And, in special conditions, the mortgage offer says the 
product fee of £995 is included in the loan amountand will be deducted from the mortgage 
funds sent to the solicitor on completion. Both the applicant  and solicitor must ensure that 
this will provide sufficient  funds to enable completion to take place.
I think the mortgage offer says that the product fee will be deducted from the loan amount 
before the mortgage money is transferred to the solicitor. I dont think  its misleading.
what should happen now
Im sorry  that Mr and Mrs B had to find £1,000 at short notice. I can understand this was 
upsetting and stressful. But I dont think Vida made  an error when it sent the mortgage  funds 
minus the product fee. In the circumstances, I dont  think its fair and reasonable to require 
Vida to make any adjustments to the loan account  or refund any charges or interest  to 
Mr and Mrs B.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3248574