K821x#15complaint
Mr H on behalf of C, a church organisation, has complained that it was mis-sold a 
commercial insurance policy by C.C. Flint and Company Limited.
background
C had arranged its insurance through Flint for several years. In January 2016 Flint contacted 
Cs existing insurer about renewal of Cs policy. That insurer (insurer 1) wanted a substantial 
increase in premiums.  So Flint agreed with C that it would look at other  insurers.  
Flint recommended a policy  with a different insurer (insurer 2) to C. It said it asked C for a 
meeting with the trustees to discuss  the renewal but this wasnt  possible before the old 
policy expired. C decided to take out the policy Flint had recommended.  That policy says it 
doesnt cover losses due to abuse  or molestation.
The review  meeting took place in April 2016.  Flint says C didnt raise the subject of cover for 
abuse claims. C thinks Flint should  have considered this because  Flint knew  Cs activities 
involved children and vulnerable adults.
In 2017 Flint recommended  that C switched to a different insurer (insurer  3). C later 
cancelled that policy and received a pro rata refund of the premium. Flint charged a £30 
cancellation fee and kept the full commission. It said it was entitled to this under its terms of 
business and this was an accepted market practise. C thought Flint should refund all its 
commission and fees for the policies it feels it was mis-sold by Flint.
After a complaint  was brought  to this service  Flint agreed to refund  the commission  on the 
last policy  for the period from the cancellation  date. Our investigator  upheld Cs complaint. 
She thought  Flint should step into the insurers shoes if there were a claim for the insurance  
year 2016.  Flint disagreed and offered £200  compensation  without  admitting  liability. As C 
didnt accept that offer, the matter  has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurer 1 has said that it includes  silent abuse  cover as standard in its policies for charities. 
This means  there is cover  under the public liability section of the policy even though  abuse 
claims arent  specifically mentioned. Claims are covered if the abuse  happened during the 
policy term. Insurer 2 definitely  doesnt cover abuse  claims. Insurer  3 has confirmed that its 
also silent regarding abuse  claims. Since it doesnt specifically exclude them, I think its likely 
they are covered. That means I need  to consider whether the 2016 policy was mis-sold to C 
since it specifically excludes  cover for abuse  claims.
C told Flint it was a church with five employees. It said its activities  included  the 
management or supervision of children or vulnerable adults. It also said it ran a pre-school 
project. 
I appreciate that it appeared  to Flint that Cs main concern was the premium. But since Flint 
was recommending the policy to C, Id expect it to draw  any unusual or significant terms to 
Ref: DRN38810982the customers attention. I think the exclusion for abuse claims in the 2016 policy  was a 
significant term in the light of Cs activities and Flint should have brought  this to Cs attention.
I dont uphold complaints just because a policy was mis-sold  the mis-sale must also have  
prejudiced the consumer.  In this case I think its likely that the mis-sale has prejudiced C. 
Thats because if it had been told about the exclusion, it could have asked Flint to search the 
market for a policy that did cover abuse  claims.  Based on my understanding of the market,  I 
think this sort of cover is available either  as standard or an optional  extra.  I note that C had 
this cover previously and the policy it has now doesnt exclude this cover.  On balance, I 
consider it likely that if C had been told about the exclusion  in the 2016 policy it would  have 
bought another policy that didnt  have such an exclusion. So in my opinion  its only 
reasonable for Flint to make good  that lack of cover  in 2016.
To date the parties havent been able to find retrospective cover for the policy year 2016. So 
I agree  with our investigator that if a claim arises for an incident  that occurred during the 
2016 policy  year and that would  have been  covered but for the exclusion for abuse  claims, 
and it isn't covered by any other  policy, then the fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint is for Flint to consider that claim.
I think the pro rata refund  of the commission which Flint has offered is fair in the 
circumstances. I also think it was entitled  to make  a cancellation charge in line with its terms 
of business.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require C.C. Flint and Company Limited to indemnify C in the 
event that C has an abuse claim arising  from the period  18 March 2016  to 23 March  2017 
which would have been covered by the policy offered  by insurer  2 if the policy hadnt had an 
exclusion for abuse claims.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H on behalf  of 
C to accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3881098