K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Santander  UK Plc (trading as National and Provincial Building 
Society) mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Santander say that when  Mr and Mrs B took out a further advance for home improvements 
in 1990, PPI was added to their loan. Santander no longer has a copy  of Mr and Mrs Bs 
paperwork from the time of sale. Mr and Mrs B paid a monthly amount for the PPI. They also 
had life and critical  illness  cover too, but Im just dealing with the PPI part of their policy  here. 
Santander and Mr and Mrs B think it likely that both Mr and Mrs B were covered under the 
PPI policy  for accident, sickness and unemployment.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint as the adjudicator didnt think  Mrs B was eligible to 
take out the insurance because she was working  less than 16 hours per week.
Santander didnt  accept our adjudicators view. It said, in summary, even contract workers  
were usually paid for 30 minute breaks per day and given the nature of Mrs Bs work it 
seemed awkward that she was working the shift hours she said she was. It said the 
evidence was uncertain about  whether she was paid for these breaks.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr and Mrs Bs complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Ive considered carefully the information  provided about Mrs Bs employment at the time of 
sale. She said she was working  two long shifts a week; eight hours  per shift. When our 
adjudicator asked her for more information  about the time she worked and whether she had 
any paid breaks, she said she had one 30 minute  break per shift and she thought this was 
unpaid. She told us about the nature of her work,  who she worked for and why the shifts 
were for the duration shed said. Having considered all of this, I think  the information  
provided is very specific and plausible and whilst  I cant say for certain that she wasnt paid 
for these  breaks, I dont  need to be certain.  I have to base my decision on what I think  was 
likely in the circumstances. I think probably, given the nature of Mrs Bs work and the hours  
she worked, that her breaks wouldve been  unpaid.
The terms and conditions  of the policy are no longer available.  So, Ive thought  about  what  
we know about  PPI in general from dealing with other cases.  Usually  to be eligible for PPI, 
the policy holder  needed  to be working  at least 16 hours per week. Theres  nothing  within  
the information Santanders provided that would  suggest this usual policy term didnt apply  
here.
I therefore share our adjudicators view. I think  it unlikely Mrs B was eligible to take out the 
cover because she didnt  work enough hours  per week.
Ref: DRN36458412Santander recommended  this policy to Mr and Mrs B. Given that I think  Mrs B was probably 
ineligible to take out PPI in her name, I cant see that Santanders recommendation was 
suitable in their particular circumstances. I also think Mr and Mrs B have lost out because  
they werent given  enough clear and fair information about the PPI. I say this because 
Santander had to draw  the main features of the policy to Mr and Mrs Bs attention.  
It follows therefore that I think their complaint should  be upheld.
what Santander should  do to put things right
To put things right Santander should put Mr and Mrs B in the position  theyd be in now if 
they hadnt taken out PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled 
already and Santander should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful  claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them. If Santander 
has paid Mr and Mrs B back  any money  because it received more than 50% of 
their PPI premium in commission or profit share,  it may also deduct the amount it 
has repaid from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Santander UK Plc 
and direct it to put things  right as described above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 December 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3645841