K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited terminated her term assurance 
policy. 
background
In 2013, Mrs M took out a term assurance policy with life and critical illness cover.  The policy  
had a 24 year term with a sum insured of £500,000. Around 2016, Mrs M made  a claim on 
her policy because she was diagnosed  with rheumatoid arthritis. Aviva  didnt think Mrs Ms 
condition met the policys terms for a claim to be payable,  and so it declined her claim.
Mrs M referred  a complaint to our service.  Another ombudsman considered this complaint 
and decided Aviva  should arrange an independent  medical examination (IME)  and a 
functional capacity evaluation (FCE) before  reassessing Mrs Ms claim.  Mrs M did not accept 
the ombudsmans decision.
However, Mrs M arranged her own IME with a consultant rheumatologist, Dr R. She felt Dr R 
supported her claim.  In October 2018,  Aviva arranged for Mrs M to undergo an FCE with an 
osteopath and qualified functional capacity evaluator. The FCE report concluded Mrs M did 
not reliably present her true capabilities during the test. 
Aviva also arranged for a private investigator  to carry out filmed surveillance, without 
Mrs Ms knowledge, on the day the FCE was carried out. The footage included Mrs M 
leaving the building in which the FCE took place, and walking to her local shopping centre. 
She was filmed walking  without her cane around  the shopping centre and the high street, 
and eating lunch in a local caf.
 
Aviva asked the evaluator who carried out the FCE report to comment on the footage. His 
opinion was that Mrs M had exaggerated  her symptoms in the FCE. Having considered the 
IME, FCE results  and surveillance footage, Aviva declined Mrs Ms claim and terminated her 
policy. In January 2019, Aviva told Mrs M:
we consider you have  taken no care to ensure we have a full and accurate 
understanding of your circumstances. You have  sought to exaggerate your 
symptoms and limitations with a view to obtaining benefits from this policy  to which  
you are not entitled. 
Mrs M referred  a (second) complaint to the ombudsman service about  Avivas decision to 
decline her claim. Mrs M also raised concerns  that the surveillance footage was edited. 
Mrs M said neither her condition  nor its severity could be judged from the surveillance 
footage. She maintained that she had not exaggerated her symptoms  and Aviva should pay 
her claim. Having considered Mrs Ms comments alongside the other  available  evidence, the 
ombudsman reviewing that complaint decided Aviva had not acted unfairly in declining  
Mrs Ms claim.
Mrs M referred  this (third) complaint to our service about Avivas decision to terminate her 
policy. Mrs M complained shed paid around  £6,500 in premiums for the policy  and was 
unable to obtain cover  elsewhere. She said at some point in the future,  her condition would 
worsen to the point  a claim would be successful, so it was unfair for Aviva to terminate the 
policy and terminate having to pay her claim of £500,000 in the future. Mrs M also said her 
symptoms had worsened recently and provided  new medical reports  to support  this.
Ref: DRN30318382One of our investigators  reviewed the evidence, but concluded that Avivas decision to 
terminate Mrs Ms policy was not unreasonable. The investigator explained that if Mrs M 
made a fraudulent claim,  Aviva may be entitled to treat the policy  as having been terminated 
with effect from the time of the fraudulent act. 
In response, Mrs M reiterated her belief  that the evaluator who carried  out the FCE is 
insufficiently qualified  and is an unreliable source  to say she exaggerated her symptoms.  
Mrs M added her arthritis and symptoms gradually deteriorate over time. Mrs M said she 
only went for the FCE because the ombudsman who reviewed her first complaint thought 
Aviva should  arrange  one. She said she wasnt made aware  Aviva  could decide to terminate 
her policy depending on the outcome of the FCE. Mrs M asked for an ombudsman to review  
her complaint. Mrs M also repeated arguments shed raised in her second complaint about 
the format of the FCE, her response  to the surveillance footage and the policys  terms. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Many of the complaint points raised by Mrs M have already been considered in final 
decisions issued by my colleagues and I cant consider  the same points again.  In particular, 
in the second complaint brought by Mrs M, it was decided that Avivas  decision to decline 
Mrs Ms complaint because she did not meet  the policy criteria was a reasonable one. I 
wont consider that claim decision  again.  
Section 12 of the Insurance Act 2015  sets out the remedies available  to insurers  for 
fraudulent claims:
(1)"If the insured makes a fraudulent claim under a contract of insurance 
(a)the insurer is not liable to pay the claim,
(b)the insurer may recover from the insured  any sums  paid by the insurer to the 
insured in respect of the claim,  and
(c)in addition, the insurer may by notice to the insured treat the contract as 
having been terminated with effect from the time of the fraudulent act.
(2)If the insurer does  treat the contract  as having been terminated
(a)it may refuse all liability to the insured under the contract  in respect of a 
relevant event  occurring after the time of the fraudulent act, and
(b)it need not return any of the premiums  paid under the contract.
The law is clear that Aviva is entitled  to terminate Mrs Ms policy and keep the premiums she 
paid towards it if it can show her claim was made fraudulently, which  includes exaggerating 
a claim for financial gain (according to the law as Aviva interpreted  it following the legal case 
of Versloot Dredging v HDI Gerling Industrie  Versicherung AG). The law is the starting point, 
and the question for me to consider is whether Aviva was reasonable in deciding to 
terminate Mrs Ms policy and retain  her premiums  because  she exaggerated her symptoms 
as part of her claim. Having considered  the evidence, I think  Avivas decision was 
reasonable. Ill explain why.
To show Mrs M exaggerated her claim, Aviva relied on the FCE report, which said a review  
of the FCE results indicate  that she performed with very poor reliability of effort and evidence 
Ref: DRN30318383of significant symptom exaggeration. The report concluded that [Mrs Ms] demonstrated 
functional abilities cannot represent her true capabilities, and I can only therefore conclude  
that her actual abilities  are far greater than she was willing to perform during the FCE. 
Aviva has also relied on its surveillance footage, which shows Mrs M leaving the FCE 
assessment, and walking  around a large shopping centre and down  the high street without 
using her walking  stick over several hours.  She carried her stick and papers until her 
husband arrived. Mrs M was texting and using her phone  regularly.  
Having reviewed the surveillance footage and the FCE report, I think  Avivas  concern that 
the FCE and surveillance footage showed Mrs M was capable of more  than she was 
reasonable. I think the surveillance shows Mrs M performing activities  she said she could  not 
do in the FCE, and the footage is consistent with the FCEs conclusion  that there was 
significant evidence  that Mrs M exaggerated  her symptoms. From the evidence  available, 
Im satisfied Avivas conclusion that Mrs M exaggerated her symptoms  as part of her attempt 
to persuade Aviva to pay her claim was a reasonable one.
I know Mrs M thinks Avivas actions  are unfair, as she feels her condition  is likely to worsen 
in the future. Aviva has terminated her policy and retained the premiums she paid towards  it. 
I dont think Aviva was obliged to allow Mrs Ms policy  to continue in case  she can make a 
successful claim  in the future, given the circumstances of this claim and the reasons it was 
declined. And I think the evidence  available  shows Aviva was reasonable to say Mrs Ms 
claim for her policys sum assured of £500,000  was fraudulent because she exaggerated her 
symptoms, so I dont think its unfair  or unreasonable  that Aviva  terminated Mrs Ms policy 
and retained her premiums.
Because Mrs Ms policy was terminated in January 2019, Aviva does not need to consider 
any further claim arising after the policy  was terminated. I have not, therefore, commented 
on the medical evidence Mrs M provided from this date. 
my final decision
I know my decision will disappoint Mrs M, but Im not upholding her complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Victoria Blackwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3031838