K821x#15Complaint
Mr H complains about advice he says he received from an appointed representative (AR) 
of Joseph Oliver - Mediacao de Seguros  LDA (Joseph Oliver) to transfer his pension  to a 
Qualifying Recognised Overseas Pension Scheme (QROPS) and make  an investment in 
the Trafalgar Multi Asset Fund (TMAF).
Background
The advice
Mr H says he was advised in 2014 by an individual Ill refer to as Mr B. Mr H says he was 
referred to Mr B by another  business called Pinnacle Brokers. There isnt a lot of available 
detail about this introduction, but Mr H says that he filled out a questionnaire provided to him 
by Mr B in September 2014.  
Mr B then sent Mr H a detailed Pension Transfer Report dated 16 December 2014. The 
report recorded Mr B as the adviser   but did not record the firm Mr B was representing. The 
report contained details  of Mr Hs existing defined benefit Royal  Mail pension  scheme  and a 
proposed transfer  to a QROPS with a firm called  STM Fidecs  (STM) based in Gibraltar  for 
an onward investment in TMAF, a fund based  in the Cayman Islands. 
The report  said:
The purpose of this analysis is to provide information, regarding the possible transfer 
of your benefits provided by the Royal Mail Statutory  Pension Scheme to an 
alternative pension  arrangement. 
This analysis  does not, on its own, show whether  or not transferring your benefits is 
advisable, as that also depends on many  other  factors, such  as your "attitude to risk" 
your personal circumstances and your objectives. It does, however, give an 
indication of the likelihood of being  able to match or exceed the benefits provided by 
your existing scheme with a transfer  to an alternative plan.
The report  said that the QROPS and investment in TMAF would need  to achieve a critical  
yield of 9.87% to match  Mr Hs existing benefits.
On 17 December 2014, Mr H was sent a suitability letter on The Pension  Reporter  
letterhead. The footer  of the letter said:
The Pension Reporter is a trading name of Nationwide  Benefit  Consultants  Ltd who 
are appointed representatives  of Joseph Oliver Mediacao de Seguros Lda. 
Authorised and regulated by the Instituto de Seguros de Portugal 410317061 and the 
Financial Conduct  Authority 521370.
Joseph Oliver is a financial advisory  firm based  in Portugal. At the relevant time, it held an 
EEA branch  passport to conduct  insurance  mediation activities in the UK. Nationwide  Benefit 
Consultants Ltd (NBCL) was its AR between May 2014 and April 2016  (as set out on the 
FCA Financial  Services  Register).
The NBCL  suitability letter recommended that Mr H transfer his pension  to a QROPS. It said:
Ref: DRN33337792The Critical Yield Report (attached) states a critical yield of 9.87% is needed to 
match the benefits of your existing Royal Mail scheme at normal retirement date. 
Based on your risk profile it was agreed that the critical  yield is not achievable but 
given your desire to pass funds onto your beneficiaries,  greater  investment choice 
and the probability  of moving abroad, I believe the transfer to a QROPS is right for 
you.
The letter wasnt  signed  with the name of the individual adviser  it was signed generically 
as from The Pension Reporter.
After receipt of these  documents,  Mr H decided to transfer his entire Royal  Mail pension  
scheme (worth around £168,800)  into the QROPS with STM and invested this in TMAF in 
March 2015. 
TMAF was managed by a firm called Victory  Asset  Management. According to a 
shareholders report for TMAF, Mr B was connected  to Victory Asset Management.  Another  
individual, Ill refer to him as Mr X in this decision,  was a director  of both Victory Asset 
Management and NBCL. 
TMAF was mismanaged and is now in the process  of liquidation. It appears to form part of 
an investigation by the Serious Fraud Office  (SFO).  It looks  like Mr H has suffered a 
catastrophic loss from the investment in TMAF. 
Mr Hs complaint to Joseph  Oliver and our investigators findings
Mr H complained to Joseph Oliver in 2017.  He said the advice to make the transfer  and 
invest in TMAF was unsuitable. He said the advice  had been given by Mr B of NBCL, an AR 
of Joseph Oliver. He also said that he had found  out that Mr B was connected to Victory  
Asset Management and that there was therefore  a clear conflict of interest. So, he said 
Joseph Oliver should compensate him for his losses.
Joseph Oliver rejected the complaint and said it wasnt responsible for the advice. It said that 
Mr B had never worked  for NBCL  and had fraudulently used NBCL letterhead to give the 
advice to Mr H.
One of our investigators  looked at all the evidence and explained why he felt that Mr Hs 
complaint should  be upheld.  The investigator said that Mr B was representing NBCL  (trading 
as The Pension  Reporter) when advising Mr H and that, as NBCLs  principal, Joseph Oliver 
was responsible for the advice. He concluded that the advice to make the QROPS 
investment was unsuitable and therefore  Joseph  Oliver should compensate Mr H for his 
losses.
Joseph Oliver didnt  accept the investigators view and the matter was referred  to me for a 
final decision. Joseph Oliver  reiterated  that Mr B had fraudulently used  NBCL  letterhead  and 
this was something that it shouldnt be held responsible for. 
My provisional decisions
This case is complex. The arguments have also evolved and further evidence has been  
submitted and reviewed  by me. That is reflected in the fact that I have issued three 
provisional decisions in this matter and recently sent a further communication  to both parties 
in December 2020. These set out my intended findings but were not final decisions.
Ref: DRN33337793In the first two provisional decisions (dated 8 August 2019 and 11 March 2020), I explained 
why I believed the complaint was one that we could consider against Joseph Oliver.  I said 
that Joseph Oliver was subject to our jurisdiction despite being  directly regulated  by the 
Portuguese authorities. I explained why I believed that Mr B had given advice to Mr H for 
and on behalf  of NBCL  which was an appointed representative of Joseph Oliver.  I also said 
that Joseph Oliver was responsible for the advice given by NBCL  on the basis  of the 
common law principle of apparent authority as it had represented that NBCL  could give the 
pensions advice given  to Mr H. So, I provisionally concluded we did have jurisdiction  to 
consider the complaint.
 
I also explained why the complaint was one that should be upheld  as the advice given to Mr 
H was clearly unsuitable advice. I therefore  provisionally said that Joseph Oliver  should pay 
Mr H compensation. I explained  how I thought Joseph Oliver should calculate  the 
compensation.
 
I then issued a third provisional  decision  on 24 August 2020. In this provisional decision, I 
said that having looked at the evidence, I wasnt convinced that I could safely  conclude  that 
Joseph Oliver made representations that NBCL was authorised  to give the advice that was 
given to Mr H. So my provisional decision at that time was that there wasnt apparent 
authority and therefore Joseph Oliver wasnt responsible for the advice given by NBCL.
The latest communication I sent to the parties in December  2020 explained that I had 
reconsidered matters  once again  and reviewed further evidence. I said that I intended to 
issue a final decision that said:
Joseph Oliver was an authorised business and the complaint was within our territorial  
jurisdiction. 
The complaint  was about  advice  in relation to a transfer from an occupational 
pension scheme  to a QROPS to make investments. So, the complaint was about a 
regulated activity which is another requirement under our jurisdiction  rules.
I was satisfied that the advice was given by Mr B for NBCL.  I found there  to be a 
clear relationship between  Mr B and Mr X, the director of NBCL.
I considered the appointed representative  agreement between Joseph Oliver  and 
NBCL (the AR agreement), section 39 of the Financial Services  and Markets  Act 
2000 (FSMA) and common law agency  principles. Whilst I didnt think section  39 
FSMA was applicable, I was satisfied that NBCL had apparent authority to give 
pensions advice  on behalf of Joseph  Oliver.  That was because I thought that Joseph 
Oliver had made representations that NBCL could give pensions  advice and that Mr 
H had relied on these representations.
So, my conclusion was that Joseph Oliver  was responsible for the acts and 
omissions of NBCL and our service had jurisdiction  to consider Mr Hs complaint 
against Joseph Oliver.
And, as the advice  given by NBCL to Mr H was unsuitable, Joseph  Oliver should pay 
compensation to Mr H.
Ref: DRN33337794Joseph Oliver strongly disagreed with these findings  and submitted further arguments for my 
consideration.
Joseph Olivers arguments
Over the course of the complaint, Joseph Oliver  has made  a number of arguments about  
why it isnt responsible  for what has happened. These submissions have been lengthy and 
many of them overlap  or repeat earlier points. They can be summarised  as follows:
Para 4.2.2 Chapter 1 of the regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (COBS) 
sets out very clearly  that it is the Home State (i.e. the Portuguese authorities) that is 
responsible for complaints against Joseph  Oliver  not the UK authorities. This 
provision says:
"In the FCA's view,  the responsibility for these  minimum requirements rests with the 
Home State for an EEA firm providing  passported activities under  the Directive  in the 
United Kingdom,  the rules  implementing the Directive's minimum requirements do 
not apply, but the additional rules  within  the Directive's scope have their unmodified 
territorial scope unless  the Home  State imposes measures of like effect.
It didnt have access to STMs files and so important evidence has been withheld 
from it and has not been  considered by me. This evidence  would show that neither 
Joseph Oliver nor its AR (NBCL/Mr X) was involved in this transaction.  
STM had provided no evidence that commissions were being  paid to an NBCL  
account  so this wasnt business conducted by NBCL. 
STM had also confirmed that it had not carried out any checks on whether Mr B was 
employed by NBCL when agreeing to accept  introductions from him. STM had also 
entered into an introducer agreement with NBCL. So, in the circumstances,  STM 
should be liable as the principal  authorising  this business.
The introducer agreement between NBCL and STM was so that Mr X could continue 
to service clients he had introduced via a separate company.  The agreement was not 
so that NBCL could  submit new business.
It was likely that Pinnacle Brokers gave  the advice to invest  in TMAF   not NBCL.  
The individual associated with that company was implicated in the fraud of TMAF. 
And it was Mr B (in an unregulated capacity)  who gave the advice  about  the pensions  
in the Pension  Transfer Report.  So, the complaint was not about advice given by 
NBCL at all. It followed that the activity being complained about took place from the 
address that Pinnacle Brokers operated from, not NBCLs office and the complaint 
was really about things that Pinnacle Brokers  had done. 
There was a fraud on the TMAF  conducted  by a network of people  including Mr B 
and Pinnacle Brokers.  Mr B had likely perpetrated this by cloning NBCL letterhead 
and concealing  things from NBCL and Joseph Oliver. So, as per case law on this 
issue, this could  not be the act of Joseph Oliver  under agency laws.  
Mr B wasnt listed as an authorised  representative of NBCL  on the FCAs register   
and Joseph Oliver says this was a regulatory requirement. Joseph  Oliver says the 
Ref: DRN33337795absence of any notification of Mr B as a representative of NBCL on the FCA website 
supported its argument that Mr B had advised  Mr H without any authority.
The suitability letter hadnt  been  signed by the director  of NBCL, Mr X, who was 
authorised by Joseph Oliver. Instead  a generic computer generated signature of The 
Pension Reporter  was used and this was most likely done by Mr B without  the 
knowledge of NBCL. 
The suitability letter used by Mr B was fake and gave the wrong  email  address for 
NBCL and the wrong Portuguese regulator  (Instituto de Seguros rather  than the 
correct regulator  the ASF).
Mr B worked for a business  called  Nationwide Corporate Benefits Limited not 
Nationwide Benefit Consultants Limited.  This is evidenced by Mr Bs Linkedin profile 
and his email address.  Both businesses operated  from the same building and so it 
wouldnt have been difficult  for Mr B to carry out the fraud.
Joseph Oliver believed that Mr B had been  trying to redirect commission  payments 
from transactions involving STM to a personal  account. He was also accessing funds 
invested in TMAF  via his involvement in the management company Victory  Asset  
Management. This was his motive for carrying  out the fraud.
Joseph Olivers business development manager provided a statement which said 
that he had visited  NBCLs office  and told Mr X of NBCL  that he was not able to give 
investment advice and could not employ any advisers. He also said that his visits to 
NBCL confirmed that it had not conducted  any business during the period of this 
complaint.
My earlier provisional findings about the relationship  between  Mr B and Mr X were  
pure conjecture. If Mr X was truly aware of what Mr B was doing,  he would have 
allowed Mr B to use proper letterhead and/or  signed the documents  himself.
Only Mr X was authorised to act as NBCL under the AR agreement  no one else.  
Clause 7.1 of the agreement confirmed this as it said:
Tax Liabilities
7.1 The Appointed Representative warrants  and represents to the Company that he 
is an independent contractor of self-employed status  and/or a director of his own 
company.
And Clause  12.1 said:
Nature of Agreement
12.1 This agreement is personal  to the parties  and neither  party may assign, 
mortgage, charge  or sub-licence any of its rights hereunder, or sub-contract or 
otherwise delegate any of its obligations  hereunder,  except with the written  consent 
of the other party.
And appointing Mr B would have contravened clause 6.2 of the agreement:
6.2 Subject  to any express provision to the contrary in this agreement, the
Ref: DRN33337796Appointed Representative shall have no right or authority  to and shall not do
any act, enter into any contract, make any representation,  give any warranty,
incur any liability, assume  any obligation,  whether express or implied, of any
kind on behalf of the Company or bind the Company in any way.
Neither NBCL nor indeed Joseph Oliver  was authorised to give investment advice in 
the UK under its passported permissions. The AR agreement  between Joseph Oliver  
and NBCL authorised  NBCL to provide advice on life assurance  and pension 
products which  are long term insurance contracts  but this didnt include pension  
transfers and investments. 
Under the AR agreement with Joseph  Oliver,  NBCL could not make any 
representation, enter  any contract or give any warranty without the prior consent of 
Joseph Oliver. No consent had been obtained in this case  and so Joseph Oliver 
couldnt be held responsible for anything done here.
And a term in the AR agreement  also said that the AR must  perform all obligations in 
accordance with best industry practice and compliance with applicable  laws,  
including the regulatory rules. This hadnt happened here and so the advice cant be 
said to have been authorised by Joseph  Oliver.
Joseph Oliver has never had an agreement with STM or with Mr H  that was 
another requirement of the AR agreement for valid introductions made  by NBCL.
The AR agreement  does not mention QROPS.  So this means Joseph Oliver doesnt  
accept responsibility  for advice about  QROPS.
(More recently Joseph Oliver  has said)  NBCL could not provide any advice under the 
AR agreement.  But Mr X was also prohibited from giving  advice  beyond  his level of 
competency. The agreement was that NBCL would introduce clients to Joseph Oliver 
and Joseph Oliver would advise within the scope of the IMD.
Put simply, this wasnt  business conducted  under the terms of business that Joseph 
Oliver had agreed with NBCL  in the AR agreement. 
Mr X had confirmed in an email in 2015  that NBCL  had not conducted any SIPP 
business. So Joseph Oliver  was entitled to believe the AR agreement  and the 
restrictions contained therein was working  as it should do.
There is no evidence that Mr B was an employee or adviser for NBCL. He was 
conducting independent business  of his own or otherwise on a frolic of his own.  
Recent case law showed that a principal cant be held vicariously  responsible in 
these circumstances.
There was no apparent authority in this case.  The circumstances here are similar to 
the recent court case of Anderson v Sense Network  Ltd [2018]  EWHC  2834  (Comm)  
where the Court declined to hold that the status disclosure wording on a letterhead 
gave rise to apparent authority. Any finding of apparent authority in these 
circumstances would  "eviscerate the requirement" under section 39 FSMA for the 
principal to have  authorised the business.  And the AR agreement  in this case  clearly 
prohibited NBCL from giving pension advice.  
Ref: DRN33337797I had relied on historic pages  from the NBCL website www.pensionreporter.com as 
evidence that Joseph Oliver has represented that NBCL  could give pensions  advice. 
But this website and the relevant pages did not exist at the time of the events being 
complained of by Mr H.  So they were not representations  that could give rise to 
apparent authority.
In any event, the NBCL website  referred  to the provision of pension information, not 
pension advice. So the website did not contain representations that NBCL could give 
pension advice.
The statements on Joseph  Olivers website about  QROPS that I said gave weight to 
apparent authority  related to partner businesses offered  by a different company 
Joseph Oliver Marketing  Limited  not UK business for retail customers  by Joseph 
Oliver 
Joseph Oliver did not allow NBCL to trade as The Pension Reporter. NBCLs 
application to become  a AR did not include reference to name  The Pension Reporter.
In any event, if NBCL had been trading  as Pension Transfer Reporter then Joseph 
Oliver could be said to know that Mr X was arranging pension  transfers.  However, 
that was not the case as the word transfer  is missing from The Pension Reporter 
trading name of NBCL. 
"Pension business" is not the same as pension transfer business and Joseph Oliver 
did not represent to the outside world  that NBCL was a pension transfer specialist. 
The FCA register does not show that Joseph Oliver or NBCL had the necessary 
permission to conduct pension transfers  and this information was available  to the 
world. Joseph Oliver is authorised to provide advice on some  pensions i.e. personal  
pensions which are long term insurance  contacts.  Lots of businesses,  including  large 
insurers in the UK had confirmed  that this was the case.
Importantly, Joseph  Oliver did not supply or approve the letterhead  or website of 
"The Pension Reporter ". So unlike in Martin v Britannia [1999] 12 WLUK 726, there 
was no representation from Joseph  Oliver  and so no conferral of apparent  
authority.
It was absurd to conclude that Joseph Oliver  authorised NBCL and Mr X to conduct  
activities over and above its own FCA authorisation. And Mr X was only qualified to 
give advice about protection and savings  and identifying clients  needs.  Mr X was 
not authorised  to give advice on pension transfers and unregulated investments. 
NBCL had only joined Joseph Oliver  as an AR to develop  pension  business in 
Portugal, not the UK.
The agreement between Joseph  Oliver  and a SIPP operator that I had highlighted in 
in an earlier decision wasnt validly signed by two directors.  So, it wasnt evidence  
that Joseph Oliver was making  representations  to other  parties that it could conduct 
pensions activities of the type conducted  here. Joseph  Oliver had never  
recommended a SIPP to anyone.
Mr H was not being truthful  about the checks he made before going  ahead with the 
transaction. Mr H hadnt taken care to meet his adviser and was willing  to take a 
large risk with his entire pension. So it is implausible that he checked  the FCA 
Ref: DRN33337798register at the time of the events in the way he has suggested and he cant have read 
the NBCL website as it didnt exist at the time in 2015.  
Mr H did not sign the client  agreement attached to the suitability letter  and so Mr H 
cant be said to be relying on any representations. Joseph Oliver was convinced  that 
Mr H hadnt even  received a suitability letter from NBCL as he had not mentioned  
receiving one when  he first made his complaint. 
The reality was that Mr H had decided to transfer his pension  after he had been 
contacted by Pinnacle Brokers  that was where  Mr H had placed  reliance.
If Mr H had really  checked the FCA register he would have realised that NBCL  and 
Joseph Oliver did not have authorisation to give pension advice and that Mr B had no 
connection with these entities. So, overall, it wasnt reasonable  for him to conclude  
that Mr B or NBCL was authorised to give him advice about his pension.
Mr H waited two years to complain to Joseph Oliver. He would have  complained 
sooner if he really believed Joseph  Oliver  was responsible.
I needed to take account of the recent  High Court decision in Adams v Options Sipp 
UK LLP [2020]  EWHC 1229 (Ch). This was an important case  as it establishes the 
importance of contractual documents, over and above other factors, such  as 
apparent authority.
On the merits (rather than jurisdiction  arguments)  of the complaint, Joseph  Oliver says
It is not responsible  for the advice given to Mr H for all the reasons above.
It is not in ombudsman services remit to decide  what business falls within  the scope 
of IMD.  Just because one member  state requires a different procedure  i.e. "top-up 
permissions" does not mean  that the business  is outside  of the scope of the IMD. It is 
the responsibility of the Home state to decide the minimum requirements.  The Home  
State is Portugal,  and it is their regulator's (A.S.F) responsibility to determine  whether 
pension advice Mr H complained about was business that came  within  the scope of 
the IMD.
The IMD means that it is the home state regulator (Portugal in this case) has 
responsibility for determining what the minimum requirements are for the advice  
allegedly given  by Joseph Oliver  including whether it was fair and reasonable and 
in line with good industry practice.
Mr H signed a letter of waiver stating he knew the investment was high risk. So, as 
per Adams  v Options , Mr H should  take responsibility for his decision and its 
consequences.
My findings
As set out above, Joseph Oliver has made lengthy  submissions in response to my 
provisional decisions and my recent email to both parties. 
My remit  is also inquisitorial rather adversarial. Im required to set out my view on jurisdiction 
and what I consider to be fair and reasonable and give reasons for this, not to answer  every  
Ref: DRN33337799point or question raised by either  party to a complaint. So, in this decision I concentrate on 
the key arguments and evidence that are material  to my determination of the complaint. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whether  we have 
jurisdiction to consider  the complaint. 
What is the complaint about? 
In order to decide whether we can or cannot consider a complaint its necessary  first to 
decide what the complaint is.
My view is that Mr Hs complaint is about  both the suitability of the transfer of his existing 
pension to the QROPS  and the high risk nature  of the TMAF investment. He says he was 
advised by NBCL.
When we recently asked Mr H for his recollection of events again, he told us that:
I was looking  to access my pension at 55 as the government had changed  the rules, 
not all of it just the lump  sum. I went on the internet and found Pinnacle brokers  and 
spoke to a chap called [an individual at Pinnacle Brokers]. He was very helpful and 
said he had dealt with a number of postman previously.
He said a Financial  advisor would be in touch with me soon to ask some more 
questions and advise  a way forward. Soon after I received a form from [Mr B] of the 
pension reporter  to fill in regarding  my financial situation etc. I do not have a copy  of 
this letter  but you already  know this.
A few weeks  later a suitability report arrived from the same  person of which you have 
a copy, followed  by an investment report recommending transfer to the TMAF, also of 
which you have a copy.
I cannot emphasize this enough, I checked the FCS [sic] register  on line and found 
the pension reporter  a member as well as researching stm fidecs  and the fact the 
scheme was registered with HMRC before I went ahead, thinking my pension was 
safe.
To the best of my knowledge this is what happened. I trusted the fact the pension 
reporter was on FCS [sic] register otherwise I would not have gone through  with the 
transfer. I can't add anymore facts/proof other than what  I've said and sent already.
I accept that Mr H has said that Pinnacle Brokers played a role in the transaction.  They may 
even have provided some advice  to Mr H. But Im not looking at a complaint about Pinnacle  
Brokers. 
Im looking  at a complaint  about Joseph Oliver   who are regulated  in the UK. Mr H received 
the Pension Transfer Report from Mr B and then a suitability letter from Mr B on NBCL/The 
Pension Reporter  headed  paper. The suitability letter undoubtedly constituted advice and Mr 
H said he relied on this. The complaint  is therefore  about the advice  he allegedly  received 
from NBCL, Joseph Olivers AR. 
Im aware that neither  the Pension  Transfer Report  nor the suitability letter  make specific 
recommendations about TMAF, only the transfer to the QROPS.  But, the transfer and 
investment in the fund were closely related. In effect, this was all part of one transaction and 
Ref: DRN333377910I think its clear  that Mr B knew this when giving the pension advice as the STM application 
includes details of the proposed investment in TMAF. 
So, although  Joseph Oliver  had no connection to Pinnacle Brokers,  the is complaint about 
Mr B and whether  Joseph Oliver is responsible  for the advice he gave to Mr H to transfer his 
pension to a QROPS for the investment in TMAF.
Can we consider this complaint?
Section 226 of FSMA sets out which complaints we can look at. It says
A complaint which relates to an act or omission  of a person (the respondent) in 
carrying on an activity to which  the compulsory jurisdiction applies is to be dealt with 
under the ombudsman  scheme set up under the Act (i.e. the Financial Ombudsman 
Service) if the following conditions are satisfied:
othe complainant  is eligible and wishes to have the complaint dealt with under 
the scheme
othe respondent was an authorised person  at the time of the act or omission to 
which the complaint  relates
othe act or omission occurred when the compulsory jurisdiction rules  were in 
force in relation to the activity in question.
Compulsory jurisdiction rules  means  rules made by the FCA specifying the activities 
to which  they apply.
Mr H clearly wants our service to consider his complaint. And Joseph Oliver, the respondent, 
was an authorised person at the relevant  time (it was an incoming  EEA firm). 
But I also need to satisfy myself that the complaint  is covered by the compulsory jurisdiction 
rules. These are set out in the DISP section of the FCA rule book. 
What do the DISP rules  cover?
The DISP  rules set out several jurisdiction tests all of which  must  be satisfied for our service  
to be able to consider a complaint. For the purposes  of this decision,  the relevant tests  at 
issue are:
Is the complaint  about the activities of a firm carried out from an establishment in 
the United Kingdom?
Does the complaint  relate to an activity we cover?
Is the business responsible for the acts and omissions  the complaint is about? 
I will deal with each of them.  
Is the complaint  about the activities of a firm carried out from an establishment in the United 
Kingdom?
DISP 2.6.1R says
Ref: DRN333377911(1)The Compulsory Jurisdiction covers  complaints  about the activities  of a firm 
(including its appointed representatives), of a payment service provider (including 
agents of a payment institution) or of an electronic money  issuer (including  agents of 
an electronic money institution) carried on from an establishment in the United 
Kingdom
And DISP  2.6.2G says
This
(1) includes incoming EEA firms, incoming EEA authorised payment institutions, 
incoming EEA authorised electronic money institutions and incoming Treaty firms; 
but
(2) excludes complaints  about business conducted  in the United Kingdom on a 
services basis  from an establishment outside the United Kingdom 
(other than complaints about  collective portfolio management  services provided by 
an EEA UCITS management company in managing a UCITS scheme, and 
complaints about  AIFM  management functions provided by an incoming EEA AIFM  
managing an authorised  AIF).
I appreciate that Joseph Oliver  is directly  authorised by the regulator in Portugal.  But, as is 
clear from the DISP rules  above, our jurisdiction  applies to incoming  EEA firms. So, even 
though Joseph Oliver  was based  in Portugal  and its home state regulator was the ASF and 
not the FCA, the firm is still within the compulsory jurisdiction of the Ombudsman Service  in 
relation to the activities of the firm, including its ARs, carried on from an establishment  in the 
UK. Indeed, Joseph Olivers website states:
Joseph Oliver Mediacao de Seguros  Lda. Registered in Portugal with offices  in the 
U.K. Authorised and regulated by the Autoridade de Supervisao de Seguros  e 
Fundos de Pensoes, Financial Conduct Authority (members of the UK Financial 
Ombudsman Service Scheme) and the CMVM (emphasis added).
I think this complaint does  relate to an activity carried on by Joseph Oliver  from an 
establishment in the UK.  In  this respect,  I note that Joseph Olivers EEA passport was on a 
branch basis  not a services basis. In other words, it had notified the FCA of its intention to 
establish a branch in the UK. The test for whether the Ombudsman Service has territorial  
jurisdiction is whether the act or omission was carried on from a UK establishment  not 
whether a particular  type of passport was held. But the branch passport clearly  envisages 
Joseph Olivers activities being carried on from a UK establishment.
Establishment isnt defined by the rules, but I think its reasonable to say in this context it 
means a building or physical office.  The suitability letter  given to Mr H has the address  of 
NBCL at an address  in Telford. This appears to be a physical office and is the same  address 
in the AR agreement  between Joseph  Oliver and NBCL. I note too that in his statement 
during the course of this complaint, Joseph  Olivers business development manager says he 
visited NBCLs  office  which I assume to be the Telford  office. I think its likely that this is 
the address (the establishment) from which the advice was prepared  for Mr H.
Ref: DRN333377912So, Im satisfied that this is a complaint  about the activities  of a firm carried out from an 
establishment in the United Kingdom.
Ive noted Joseph Olivers  observations about  Para 4.2.2 of Chapter  1 of COBS.  But Im still 
satisfied that Joseph  Oliver is a business  that is subject to our jurisdiction. The reference  in 
this part of COBS  is to Insurance Mediation  activities and minimum standards that apply to 
certain types of insurance mediation  activities. But Ive seen nothing to suggest  that we do 
not have jurisdiction to consider a complaint against  an EEA firm with passported  
permissions to carry on regulated activities from an establishment in the UK. For these 
reasons, Im also satisfied  that when dealing with the merits of this complaint below, it is the 
ombudsman services rules that apply  in determining whether I should uphold the complaint  
not the rules of the Portuguese  authorities.
Does the complaint  relate to an activity we cover (does it relate  to a regulated activity)?
DISP 2.3.1R says we can: 
consider  a complaint  under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities,  
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection  with them . 
The guidance at DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints  about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which 
the firmis responsible (including business  of any appointed representative  or agent 
for which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)". 
Section 22 FSMA defines "regulated activities" as follows:  
"(1) An activity is a regulated activity  for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a)relates to an investment of a specified  kind;
(4) "Investment" includes any asset,  right or interest.
(5) "Specified"  means  specified in an order made by the Treasury."
The relevant  Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  
Order 2001 (RAO).  Article 4 provides:
"4.  Specified activities: general
(1) The following provisions of this Part specify kinds of activity for the purposes of 
section 22(1) of the Act (and accordingly  any activity of one of those kinds, which is 
carried on by way of business and relates to an investment of a kind specified by any 
provision of Part III and applicable to that activity,  is regulated activity  for the 
purposes of the Act)."
Mr H transferred from an occupational pension scheme  to a QROPS.  It doesnt appear to be 
in dispute that Mr H received advice about this and he clearly received a suitability letter  
recommending the QROPS (the dispute  is about who gave the advice). Chapter 12 of the 
FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance on personal pensions.  The 
Ref: DRN333377913guidance in place at the time (PERG 12.2) confirms that a personal pension scheme, for the 
purpose of the RAO: 
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order  
2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other  than an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
Although the definition  does not expressly say so, it is, in the FCAs view, clear  from 
the context in which the term is applied, that such a scheme will be one the sole or 
principal purpose of which is to provide benefits  to members of the scheme upon 
their reaching a pensionable age. This will typically include  pension schemes that are 
intended to be registered with The Pensions Regulator and to be eligible for tax relief 
relating to pension  schemes. It will also include other types  of pension schemes such  
as qualifying recognised overseas pension schemes  (QROPSs) that are not 
occupational pension schemes. (my emphasis)
And so a QROPS is clearly a personal  pension scheme. Article 82 of the RAO provides that 
rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified investment. So, giving advice about 
a QROPS is a regulated  activity.
In addition, the pension transfer  was part of the overall transaction for investment in TMAF. 
TMAF appears  to be a collective investment scheme  which is a specified investment under 
RAO (Article  81) or an investment in shares  in a body corporate which is also a specified 
investment (Article  76) as investors  became  Class  C shareholders in TMAF.  
Advising and making arrangements  on these  investments are specified activities  under the 
RAO.  Im satisfied  that these acts were  carried out in the course  of the matters  Mr H has 
complained about.
So, Mr Hs complaint about the advice  to transfer  his pension to a QROPS for an investment 
in TMAF is a complaint that relates to an act or omission in the carrying  on of a regulated  
activity.
Did Joseph Oliver accept responsibility  for the acts and omissions the complaint is about?
As mentioned above, the guidance at DISP 2.3.3G  says 
complaints  about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which 
the firmis responsible (including business  of any appointed representative  or agent 
for which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)". 
So, a principal is answerable for complaints about the acts or omissions of its AR in relation 
to the business for which it has accepted responsibility. So, did Joseph Oliver accept 
responsibility for the advice given here to Mr H?
The first issue I need  to address in considering this limb of our jurisdiction  rules  is whether 
Joseph Olivers AR or agent - NBCL - gave  the advice in question.
Ref: DRN333377914Who gave the advice?
I accept that theres  little evidence that Mr X, the only director  of NBCL, was directly  involved 
in giving advice  to Mr H. The Pension Transfer Report was prepared by Mr B and the 
suitability letter doesnt have Mr Xs details. Furthermore, Mr H has said very clearly that his 
dealings were with Mr B. 
Looking at all the evidence, I think it was Mr B who gave the advice to Mr H  not Mr X. 
Mr B wasnt  a direct AR of Joseph Oliver. Joseph  Olivers  only AR at the time was NBCL. 
So, I need to be satisfied that Mr B was acting for and on behalf of NBCL  the AR of Joseph 
Oliver - when advising Mr H. Joseph Oliver strongly  argues that this wasnt  the case.
Was Mr B acting  on behalf of NBCL?
Joseph Oliver says Mr B wasnt a director or employee of NBCL and prepared the advice for 
Mr H on NBCLs letterhead without the knowledge  or permission of NBCL or otherwise  
forged (and/or cloned) the letterhead as part of a fraud. 
I have carefully considered Joseph  Olivers submissions - including the submissions it has 
sent recently following my email  to both parties.  I accept that the position isnt clear cut. The 
evidence I have to draw on is also, at best, piecemeal. But, on balance,  Im satisfied  that Mr 
B was an employee,  or otherwise acting for and behalf of NBCL. Thats because:
Joseph Olivers arguments must follow the premise  that Mr X, as NBCLs  director,  
had no knowledge  that Mr B:
was passing  himself off as an NBCL adviser;
was writing suitability  letters to customers using NBCLs letterhead; and
was holding himself  out to STM as someone  authorised to introduce business 
to STM  on behalf  of NBCL for investments in TMAF.
Whilst I accept  the above is possible, I dont think its likely to have been the case on 
the facts Ive seen.  
Mr B was facilitating an investment in TMAF.  According  to a shareholders report for 
TMAF from 2016,  Mr X was a director of the investment manager for TMAF,  Victory  
Asset Management. Mr B is also described as a principal of that firm. So, there  is a 
clear connection  between Mr B and Mr X and the investment in TMAF. And, I think 
its unlikely that Mr B was cloning one of Mr Xs companies without his knowledge to 
direct investments into a fund they both appear to have managed together. I dont 
think that is typical of a cloning fraud. 
I accept that Mr B may well have been involved in the misuse of funds invested in 
TMAF. That fund is the subject of an ongoing  SFO investigation.  But as Ive said 
above, Mr X was also a principal of Investment Manager for TMAF. The shareholders 
report from TMAF in 2016 appears to indicate  that Mr X was not forthcoming  with 
information and evasive about  the use of funds. More recently, I have seen a press 
report that Court action was taken  by liquidators  for TMAF in London to seize  
property allegedly  purchased using funds  misappropriated from TMAF  by both Mr X 
Ref: DRN333377915and Mr B. This does  not give me confidence that I can safely  conclude that Mr X and 
his company NBCL  have  been the victim of a cloning fraud. 
Similarly, Joseph Oliver hasnt provided  any evidence from Mr X that substantiates its 
claim that Mr X was unaware of what Mr B was doing. I understand that Joseph 
Oliver has not been able to contact Mr X. But I think this indicates an evasiveness on 
the part of Mr X and an unwillingness to be open  and helpful  to Joseph Oliver.  Again, 
this gives me no confidence  that Mr X had no part in what has happened  in respect 
of generating  funds  for TMAF through applications submitted by NBCL.
Even on Joseph Olivers own evidence, Mr X had recommended  the STM QROPS  
and investment in TMAF to clients via a previous business.  So, this arrangement  for 
Mr H was entirely in keeping with recommendations Mr X had made  to others.
I note that Joseph  Oliver says that I should  take account of the fact that, in its view,  
this is different as Mr X was authorised to advise on investments  such as TMAF via 
his previous business and that wasnt the case with Joseph Oliver. Even if that is 
right, I dont think it detracts  from a conclusion that Mr X clearly had a history of 
advising people to take out a QROPS for investment  in TMAF.  I think  that is 
significant.
The STM  application  noted Mr X of NBCL as Mr Hs adviser and STM  says that its 
understanding was that Mr B was submitting this and other applications on behalf of 
NBCL. 
I accept that STM did not carry  out checks to confirm this. Furthermore, the 
communications from STM  on this and similar cases Ive seen all appear with Mr B 
and not Mr X. 
However, STM has provided  us with the introducer agreement it had with NBCL. That 
agreement appears  to be signed by Mr X and sets out the terms upon which  NBCL  
would introduce  new QROPS applications to STM. 
Joseph Oliver says the agreement was probably  entered into so that STM  could 
service introductions that Mr X had previously  made  via his former business  not for 
new business submitted  by NBCL. But Ive seen no basis to draw that conclusion  
the agreement  clearly refers to the introduction of new business  by NBCL. 
My view is that the agreement is evidence that Mr X planned that NBCL  would make 
introductions to STM of the type made  here. 
I dont agree with Joseph Oliver  that the introducer  agreement with STM shows that 
NBCL became an AR of STM from the date of the agreement rather than Joseph 
Oliver. In fact, the agreement specifically says:
This Agreement does  not constitute the appointment of the Introducer 
as an official advisor,  agent, representative , employee, officer  or principle 
of STM  and the Introducer may make no such claim whether orally, on any 
document or any form of communication or do any act which might 
reasonably create the impression that they are so authorised or permit any 
person to hold themselves out as such except as specifically stated in this 
Agreement or otherwise  agreed in writing  by STM (my emphasis)
Ref: DRN333377916Furthermore, the activities in this case were conducted by NBCL using the details of 
Joseph Oliver  not STM - on the suitability letter.
I accept that Mr B appears  to have been involved in a separate  company called 
Nationwide Corporate Benefits Limited   which clearly has a similar  name to NBCL.  
That is peculiar and I can understand the argument that he may have been trying  to 
pass himself off as working  for NBCL as part of a fraud conducted against NBCL  and 
Mr X. But Companies  House records show that Mr X was a director  of Nationwide  
Corporate Benefits  Limited. So, I think its likely that anything Mr B was doing with 
that company  was done with the knowledge  of Mr X. 
In any event, the advice given in this case didnt refer to Nationwide  Corporate 
Benefits Limited   the advice and application  refers to NBCL.  
Joseph Oliver says that Mr B tried to re-direct commission payments to himself,  but 
ultimately, commission appears  to have  still been paid by STM to the existing bank 
account it had for introductions from NBCL.  
Joseph Olivers business development manager says he didnt uncover any evidence  
that business was being conducted  by NBCL.  But I dont find his evidence  
persuasive. It does not reconcile  with the other evidence Ive seen in this and other 
complaints in the form of suitability letters and application documents. His evidence  is 
also not contemporaneous and I think its fair to say that he would not have been in a 
position to determine  definitively who NBCLs employees or associates  were  from his 
visits. 
Moreover, if NBCL truly didnt conduct  any business in respect  of Mr H or indeed  
anyone else using its authorisation with Joseph  Oliver, it would call into question  why 
Mr X, on behalf of NBCL,  would go to the trouble of entering into an AR agreement 
with Joseph Oliver at all. It would be odd to enter  such  an agreement and then do 
nothing with it. Regardless of the terms of the agreement  and whether  Joseph Oliver 
did confer authority  on NBCL to conduct pensions  activities (which Ill discuss later) I 
think its likely that (on his part) Mr X entered  the agreement with Joseph  Oliver in 
order to conduct  the kind of business that was carried on here in respect of Mr H.
I have no reason to believe that the suitability  letter sent to Mr H is fake or forged.  It 
is headed and footed The Pension  Reporter,  a trading style of NBCL  and appointed 
representative of Joseph Oliver. I dont accept Joseph Olivers assertion that the 
letterhead is fake simply because it uses an email  address that was not listed on 
the FCAs website.  
Joseph Oliver also says that the suitability  report is fake because it provides the 
details of the wrong Portuguese regulator  the letter  says Joseph Oliver is regulated 
by the Institute de Seguros rather than the ASF (the correct  Portuguese regulator). 
However, I note that Joseph Olivers own website lists the Institute de Seguros 
under the Regulators section   even if there are other references to ASF. So the 
suitability letter isnt different to Joseph  Olivers own website. So, again,  Im not 
persuaded that the suitability letter sent to Mr H is fake or forged.
The fact that Mr X didnt sign the suitability letter personally and that it was simply 
signed generically as The Pension  Reporter  doesnt persuade me that Mr X was 
unaware that Mr B was making recommendations on behalf  of NBCL. Lots of 
business letters are signed in this way with individuals signing on behalf of 
Ref: DRN333377917companies using  a company name,  even  smaller  businesses that dont transact 
business in large  volumes.
So, my finding  is that Mr B was more likely than not acting  on behalf of NBCL when giving 
the advice to Mr H and arranging the transfer  to the QROPS. My view is that, more likely 
than not, Mr B was doing this as part of a joint arrangement with Mr X.
Did Joseph Oliver only authorise Mr X to act on its behalf under its agreement with NBCL?
As an alternative argument, Joseph  Oliver has said that it only authorised Mr X of NBCL to 
act as an agent on its behalf  and so it isnt responsible for the acts or omissions of Mr B. 
Joseph Oliver has sought to rely on clauses  6.2, 7.1 and 12.1 of the AR agreement for its 
assertion that it only intended for Mr X to be conducting activities  on its behalf. 
But, looking  at the evidence, I dont think Joseph  Oliver restricted its authority  and 
relationship to Mr X. AR agreement between Joseph Oliver and NBCL doesnt  identify any 
particular individuals  as being authorised to act on Joseph Olivers behalf. Rather, the 
agreement was with the company itself. If Joseph  Oliver intended only for Mr X to be its AR it 
could have entered into an AR agreement directly  with him  for example as a sole trader.  
However, Joseph Oliver entered  into an agreement with NBCL.  And, in the AR agreement 
between Joseph  Oliver  and NBCL,  there  is no clause that explicitly  sets out that Joseph  
Oliver only accepts responsibility for the activities carried out by Mr X as director of NBCL. 
I note that Joseph  Oliver says that I should  take account of the intention  and understanding 
of the contract  between  the respective parties   Joseph Oliver  and Mr X  which  it says was 
that only Mr X was authorised under the agreement. But that would require me to ignore 
what I consider to be the clear drafting of the agreement that referred to NBCL not Mr X 
alone. I dont think thats right. It would also be impossible to do here as do not know  what 
Mr Xs understanding of the contract was.
So, again  on balance,  I think the evidence shows that Joseph Oliver had a relationship with 
and authorised NBCL  to act on its behalf   and this wasnt restricted  to Mr X. And I think the 
pension advice to Mr H was given by Mr B for and on behalf  of NBCL which was an AR of 
Joseph Oliver at the relevant time.
But as a further alternative argument,  Joseph Oliver also says that the pension  advice given 
to Mr H in this case wasnt within the scope of what it authorised  NBCL  to do under the 
terms of its AR agreement. It says this means  it didnt accept responsibility  for the acts being 
complained about by Mr H under FSMA or the common  law. Ill explore this next.
Was this business  that was authorised  under the terms of the AR agreement?
Joseph Oliver has recently  said that NBCL could  not give any advice at all and therefore 
whats happened in this case was not authorised  under the agreement.   
The AR agreement  in this case isnt a very clearly  drafted document.  It is labelled  as an 
Introducer Agreement  and I accept that it appears to primarily be drafted as a means  by 
which NBCL would introduce clients to Joseph Oliver to establish an ongoing relationship 
with the client.  
However, I note that the AR agreement does include provisions  about  NBCL not giving 
advice beyond his/her level of competency  suggesting  that advice could be given  by NBCL 
Ref: DRN333377918in some circumstances.  And Joseph  Oliver  itself has told us previously  that that the 
agreement authorised NBCL to provide  advice on life assurance  and pension products (it 
distinguished this from pension transfers  and investments  which it says wasnt  authorised). 
So, on balance, I dont  think NBCL  was intended  to simply be an introducer to Joseph  Oliver. 
Ill explain  this more  below when I look at apparent authority.
Joseph Oliver has of course pointed to a number of other provisions of the AR agreement  
that it says were breached by NBCL.  In earlier provisional decisions, I explored these 
arguments in the context  of section 39 FSMA and common  law agency principles of actual 
authority. As explained to the parties previously, I am of the view that there is no clear  
evidence that allows me to safely conclude that Joseph Oliver authorised the pension advice 
given in this case  under section 39 FSMA or the common law principle of actual authority 
under the terms  of the AR agreement. But I think  that, irrespective of the specific  clauses in 
the agreement, Joseph  Oliver represented  that NBCL had apparent  authority to give 
pensions advice on behalf of Joseph  Oliver.  Apparent authority isnt restricted by the terms 
of the actual agreement made between the parties. 
Did Joseph Oliver represent that NBCL had apparent  authority to give pensions  advice?
The essence  of apparent  authority (sometimes  called ostensible  authority) is not concerned 
with what was actually  agreed between the parties (for example by way of the AR 
agreement), but rather, how the relationship  between those parties appeared to third parties. 
In this complaint,  Im concerned with how the relationship  appeared to Mr H. 
For apparent authority  to operate, there must  be a representation by the principal that the 
agent has its authority  to act. As Diplock  LJ said in in Freeman & Lockyer  v Buckhurst 
Properties (Mangal)  Ltd (1964) 2 QB 480:
The representation which creates "apparent" authority  may take a variety of forms of 
which the commonest  is representation by conduct, that is, by permitting the agent to 
act in some  way in the conduct of the principals business with other persons. By so 
doing the principal represents to anyone who becomes aware  that the agent is so 
acting that the agent has authority to enter  on behalf of the principal into contracts  
with other  persons of the kind which an agent so acting in the conduct  of his 
principals business  has usually "actual" authority to enter into.
In Martin v Britannia Life Ltd [1999]  12 WLUK 726, Parker J quoted the relevant principle as 
stated in Article  74 in Bowstead and Reynolds on Agency  (16th edition): 
Where a person,  by words or conduct, represents or permits  it to be represented  
that another  person has authority to act on his behalf he is bound  by the acts of that 
other person with respect  to anyone dealing with him as an agent  on the faith of any 
such representation, to the same  extent as if such other person had the authority that 
he was represented  to have, even though he had no such  actual authority.
In the more recent case of Anderson v Sense Network Ltd [2018] EWHC 2834 (Comm), 
Jacobs J endorsed Parker  Js approach:
As far as apparent  authority  is concerned,  it is clear  from the decision in Martin  (in 
particular paragraph  5.3.3) that, in order to establish  apparent  authority, it is 
necessary for the claimants  to establish  a representation made by Sense [the alleged 
Ref: DRN333377919principal], which  was intended to be acted on and which  was in fact acted  on by the 
claimants, that MFSS [the alleged agent] was authorised by Sense to give advice in 
connection with the scheme
 I also agree  with Sense that there is nothing in the "status" disclosure  i.e. the 
compulsory wording relating to the status  of MFSS and Sense appearing at the foot 
of the stationery and elsewhere   which can be read as containing any relevant 
representation as to MFSSs authority to do what they were doing  in this case: i.e. 
running the scheme and advising in relation to it. The "status" disclosure did no more  
than identify the regulatory status  of MFSS and Sense and the relationship between 
them. I did not consider that the Claimants had provided any persuasive reason as to 
how the statements  on which they relied relating to "status disclosure" could  lead to 
the conclusion  that MFSS was authorised  to provide  advice on the scheme that was 
being promoted. In my view, a case of ostensible  authority requires much more than 
an assertion that Sense  conferred  a "badge of respectability" on MFSS. As Martin 
shows, it requires a representation that there  was authority to give advice of the type 
that was giventhe relevant question is whether the firm has knowingly or even 
unwittingly led a customer to believe that an appointed representative or other agent 
is authorised to conduct business on its behalf  of a type that he is not in fact 
authorised to conduct
The Anderson case was the subject of an appeal. The Court  of Appeal has now issued its 
decision agreeing  with the earlier decision of Jacobs J. I merely wish to acknowledge the 
fact of the appeal  but it should be noted  that Jacobs Js conclusion  on apparent authority 
was not appealed by the parties involved in that case.
And, in Armagas  Ltd v Mundogas SA (The Ocean  Frost)  [1985] UKHL 11 it was stated that:
In the commonly encountered case,  the ostensible  authority is general in character, 
arising when the principal  has placed the agent in a position which in the outside 
world is generally regarded as carrying authority to enter into transactions  of the kind 
in question. Ostensible general  authority may also arise where the agent has had a 
course of dealing with a particular contractor and the principal has acquiesced in this 
course of dealing and honoured transactions arising  out of it. (emphasis added)
So, apparent  authority  may exist even  where  the relevant activity  was outside the scope of 
an express agreement  between the parties,  because what  is critical is what the relationship  
appeared to be to the third party, based on a representation made by the principal. In other 
words, the principal has placed  the agent  in a position which  in the outside  world is generally 
regarded as carrying authority to enter  into transactions  of the kind in question. This may not 
involve any direct interaction at all between the alleged principal and the third party  and the 
representations can take a variety  of forms.
What representations were made?
Im persuaded that, on the particular  facts of this case, Joseph  Oliver did make  
representations and placed  NBCL  in a position  where it could hold itself out as Joseph 
Olivers agent and had authority to provide advice on pensions of the type given here on 
behalf of Joseph Oliver.  I say this because:
It registered NBCL as its AR on the FCA register  the corporate entity.  
Ref: DRN333377920Joseph Oliver authorised NBCL to use the trading as The Pension Reporter as its 
appointed representative. This was NBCLs trading name on the FCAs register from 
the outset of its relationship with Joseph Oliver.  
The suitability letter carried details of Joseph  Oliver as NBCLs  principal.  It said The 
Pension Reporter  is a trading name  of Nationwide Benefit Consultants  Ltd who are 
appointed representatives of Joseph  Oliver  Mediacao de Seguros Lda. Authorised 
and regulated by the Instituto de Seguros de Portugal 410317061 and the Financial 
Conduct Authority  521370.  This is sometimes referred to as a status disclosure.
Both the suitability letter and the FCA register set out NBCLs website as 
www.pensionreporter.com.  
In my email to both parties in December  2020, I highlighted why I thought that the contents  
of the NBCL website also formed  part of the relevant representations about  NBCL giving 
advice. In response, Joseph Oliver vehemently  denied that the website was live (or 
contained the sections about  pension advice that I had found) at the time of the events being 
complained about.  
I think its likely that the website was in operation at the time of the complaint and did refer to 
NBCL providing advice. But I accept that it is difficult for me to know whether Joseph  Oliver 
authorised (or was aware of) the information contained on the website. However, I dont 
need to make a finding about whether the content of the website was a representation made 
by Joseph Oliver. Im satisfied that the other representations Ive listed above are sufficient 
for me to conclude  that there is apparent authority in this case.
Joseph Oliver has highlighted findings made  by Jacobs J in the High Court in the case  of 
Anderson & Ors v Sense Network Ltd  where the Court declined  to hold that the status 
disclosure wording on a letterhead gave rise to apparent authority. Ive quoted  the relevant 
paragraphs of the decision above. In that case, the use of letterhead  was held not to be 
sufficient to represent that the AR could give advice about a deposit scheme it was operating 
when this wasnt the kind of activity that advisers usually become involved in operating.  
Joseph Oliver has also said that the High Court decision is also authority that a finding of 
apparent authority in these circumstances would  eviscerate the requirement  under section 
39 FSMA for the principal  to have authorised the business. 
I agree  that a status disclosure in isolation is not generally sufficient to make  a finding of 
apparent authority. But, in my view, the representations Ive set out above make  this 
complaint more akin to the facts of Martin  v Britannia Life Ltd (also quoted above). 
In Martin, the representation  by the principal that the agent was a financial adviser acting for 
an insurance company  was regarded as a sufficient  representation that the adviser could  
advise on matters (the mortgage in that case) which were ancillary to insurance products. 
Similarly, my view is that by allowing NBCL to operate  as its appointed representative and 
trade as The Pension Reporter, use letterhead  with that name and use a website with the 
same domain name,  Joseph  Oliver represented  to the outside  world (including Mr H) that 
NBCL was authorised  to conduct regulated pensions activities. 
Ref: DRN333377921Joseph Oliver says that the name The Pension Reporter denotes  that NBCL would be 
involved in pensions, but not necessarily  pension advice. Having considered the matter 
further since my earlier provisional decisions, I dont find that argument  persuasive.  NBCL 
was registered  as an appointed representative  trading with the name  The Pension Reporter 
to conduct regulated activities.  I think on any reasonable, common  sense interpretation  of 
these facts taken together, it is a representation that NBCL was authorised  to conduct  
regulated activities  in connection  with pensions - such as advice and arrangements. NBCL 
would not need to be an appointed representative at all if it were doing nothing  but providing  
information. So, in my view, the context and combination  of the trading name  and 
registration with the FCA is important. 
Joseph Oliver also says it did not authorise the use of the name The Pension  Reporter or the 
NBCL letterhead and website. As I understand it, Joseph Olivers latest submissions are that 
it didnt know that NBCL was trading as The Pension Reporter at all and that the FCAs 
register has only recently used these details. It says this means  this case  is distinguishable  
from the Martin case where  the principal supplied the agent with the business  card that was 
said to be a representation.
I dont accept this argument.  Joseph  Oliver  has never previously said it was unaware that 
NBCL was using this trading name.  And I dont think its likely that the trading  name  The 
Pension Reporter  or the website address of the www.pensionreporter.com have only 
recently been added to the FCAs register. After all, NBCL stopped being a AR of Joseph 
Oliver (or anyone else) in April 2016.  I think its likely  that these details have been on the 
register from the outset  and that Joseph Oliver must  have been  aware  of this and been 
involved in the registration of these  details. So I think this is evidence that Joseph Oliver  
authorised both the trading name and use of the website address (as Ive said above, I make 
no finding about whether  Joseph  Oliver authorised the contents of the website). 
Furthermore, the NBCL  letterhead reflected these approved details and so I think was in an 
approved format. 
As explained above, apparent authority can be general in nature and can arise from conduct  
or by allowing  the agent to represent itself as being authorised by the principal to conduct 
certain acts. I think Joseph Oliver allowed NBCL to represent itself as being authorised to 
provide pensions advice by registering it as its AR and allowing it to trade  as The Pension  
Reporter. That conduct is, in my view,  enough to make a finding that there were relevant 
representations in this case.
I am strengthened in my view by the fact that Joseph Oliver has told us very specifically in 
response to my earlier provisional decisions that Joseph Oliver itself is authorised  to provide 
advice on pensions i.e. personal pensions which are long term insurance contracts  and 
The AR agreement authorises the AR to provide advice on Life assurance  and pension 
products. So, Joseph Oliver, by its own admission, did understand that NBCL would give 
advice about some pension products on its behalf  - albeit its not altogether clear to me what  
kind of products it understood this to cover.  
Joseph Olivers latest position is that NBCL couldnt  give advice at all and that it could only 
introduce clients to Joseph  Oliver. This clearly contradicts what  it told us earlier  about the AR 
agreement (see the previous paragraph  above). Its also not consistent with other arguments 
it makes about Mr X not being  able to give advice beyond his level of competency.  This 
contradiction and inconsistency does not make the argument persuasive. 
Ref: DRN333377922Joseph Oliver has also provided  lengthy arguments  refuting any finding that it knew NBCL  
was giving pension  advice. In particular Joseph Oliver points to an email sent in June  2015  
(some months after the events being  complained of here) in which Mr X says to Joseph  
Oliver:
I'll be in the office soon  and will call you then but we have  not written  any sipp's with 
JO (or indeed Global)  so this is definitely not concerning  us.
In addition, Joseph Oliver says its own authority was limited to pension  products that were  
long term insurance  contracts, that it didnt  conduct any SIPP pension business  in the UK 
(despite earlier  entering into an agreement with a UK SIPP operator) and that the reference 
on its website to QROPS was for the benefit  of partner services offered to European  
businesses by Joseph Oliver Marketing Limited not advice services  by Joseph Oliver  
Mediacao or its ARs.  This,  it says,  is all evidence  that it would not and did not represent that 
NBCL could give the pension advice given  here.  
Ive considered all these issues very carefully.  I think the June 2015 email is of limited 
evidential value as we have not been provided with any information about  the context in 
which the email was sent or what happened  before  or after. So I dont think  I can give any 
significant weight  to the email in my determination.  But, more importantly, in respect  of all 
these arguments,  my findings on apparent  authority do not hinge on Joseph  Oliver knowing 
that NBCL was giving  pensions  advice.  As set out in the Anderson case  above: 
the relevant  question is whether the firm has knowingly or even unwittingly led a 
customer to believe that an appointed  representative or other agent is authorised to 
conduct business on its behalf  of a type that he is not in fact authorised to conduct
So, even if Joseph  Oliver did not knowingly lead customers  to believe that NBCL was 
authorised to give pensions advice, I think by allowing NBCL to be registered as its AR and 
trade as The Pension Reporter it unwittingly  represented that NBCL  could give advice of the 
type given in this case.
For completeness, I would add that the representations involved in this case  make  no 
distinction about the kind of pension products NBCL could advise on. For example,  I dont  
think an ordinary member  of the public would  be able to draw the technical distinction  that 
Joseph Oliver says should be drawn  about  long term insurance  contracts  and pension  
transfers. I dont think it would be reasonable to expect people to understand  NBCLs  
authority might be limited  to a very narrow range  of pension  products or to personal pension  
switches but not pension transfers  unless it was made  very plain and obvious  to them, for 
example by way of a disclaimer on approved letterhead. Joseph Oliver took no such  
precautions in what it allowed NBCL to present  to the outside  world.
So, my conclusion is that Joseph Oliver made representations that NBCL was authorised to 
conduct the pensions activities that Mr H has complained  about.
Did Mr H rely on the representations?
In order to establish whether there  was apparent  authority,  I also need to determine  whether 
Mr H relied on the representations made by Joseph Oliver. In the Anderson  case, Jacobs  J 
in the High Court summarised  the approach to be taken as to whether or not there  is 
sufficient evidence of reliance on the representation as follows:
Ref: DRN333377923a relevant ingredient of a case based  on apparent authority is reliance  on the faith of 
the representation alleged: see Bowstead and Reynolds on Agency 21st edition, 
paragraph [8-010]  and [8-024]; Martin  paragraph 5.3.3. In Martin , Jonathan  Parker  J. 
held that the relevant representation  in that case (namely  that the adviser was 
authorised to give financial advice concerning a remortgage of the property)  was 
acted on by the plaintiffs in that each  of them proceeded throughout on the footing  
that in giving advice [the adviser] was acting in every respect as the agent of [the 
alleged principal] with authority  from [the alleged principal] so to act.
It is of course impossible for me to know with any certainty what Mr H did or didnt  rely on at 
the time.  And I accept that the fact that Mr H directed his complaint to Joseph Oliver has 
limited evidential value  about his reliance  at the time of the events.  
However, as set out above, we asked  Mr H again  recently for his recollection of events. He 
told us that:
I cannot  emphasize this enough, I checked  the FCS [sic] register on line and found 
the pension reporter  a member as well as researching stm fidecs  and the fact the 
scheme was registered with HMRC before I went ahead, thinking my pension was 
safe.
Ive seen no evidence  that Mr H has been  untruthful to us at any point. And what hes said is 
similar to what  Mr H said to us before I issued my provisional decisions i.e. before the issue 
of reliance became  a significant consideration in this complaint. At that point Mr H said:
1: A company called  Pinnacle Brokers put me in touch with Tom Bigger and he 
wrote to me. There was never a face to face meeting everything was done  by post.
2: Correspondence  I received from Joseph Bigger was on headed notepaper saying  
it came  from the Pension Reporter which I have already forwarded to you. Also I 
received a couple of newsletters from the Pension Reporter in the months after the 
transfer. I have also forwarded  an email from fidecs  proving commission was paid to 
NBCL.
3: I researched NBCL and the Pension Reporter and they were  appointed 
representatives of Joseph Oliver who I found  on the Financial Services Register so I 
thought my money  was safe.
I find Mr Hs account credible and consistent.  Mr H placed reliance on the general  position 
with respect to Joseph Olivers  authorisation of NBCL  trading as The Pension Reporter. 
Hes told us he took the step of checking  the register because he was worried that he might 
be scammed. He took comfort from the fact that NBCL  and Joseph  Oliver were both 
regulated. So, the fact that NBCL and Joseph  Oliver were connected registered was 
important and they were  facts that Joseph Oliver  had brought about.  It was part of the 
conduct that makes  up the overall  representation  of authority.  
Im also not persuaded by Joseph  Olivers argument that, having looked at the FCA register, 
Mr H should reasonably have concluded that NBCL could not give him pensions advice. 
Joseph Olivers own argument is that it was allowed to conduct some personal pension  
activities under its permissions.  So I dont see why Mr H should  be criticised  for not spotting  
Ref: DRN333377924whether Joseph  Oliver and NBCLs permissions  did or didnt allow it to give the advice given 
to him here about a pension.
Joseph Oliver has said that Mr H didnt  receive  the suitability letter from NBCL. It says the 
lack of signature on the acknowledgement  slip at the end of the letter is evidence  of this. Ive 
considered this but I cant see any basis  for that assertion. Mr H has told us clearly that he 
did receive the suitability letter. And other  complainants  certainly did receive  suitability letters 
from NBCL. I have  no reason to think that Mr H wouldnt have received one too. 
So, overall, I think it highly unlikely that Mr H would have chosen to follow Mr Bs advice if he 
thought that NBCL was an unregulated entity  that could not give pensions  advice. Mr H 
invested a very large sum of money - his entire pension fund - I dont think he would have  
done this if he believed that NBCL  was not an AR of Joseph Oliver and authorised to give 
him the advice he received which he checked  on the FCAs register. 
In hindsight, Mr H may have been  too trusting in his dealings with Mr B which  took place 
entirely at a distance. That may or may not be because he has certain health conditions  
(both Joseph Oliver and Mr H have asked me to take this into account). But regardless, I 
have no reason to doubt what hes otherwise told us. 
So, I think Mr H did rely on the representations made  by Joseph Oliver that NBCL was 
authorised to give pensions advice on its behalf  and so there was apparent  authority  in this 
case. 
In the case law relating  to apparent authority, the courts have also taken  into account 
whether it is fair and just to require a principal to bear a loss caused by the wrongdoing of its 
agent. I appreciate  that TMAF forms part of an investigation by the SFO. But, I still think its 
fair and just to hold Joseph Oliver responsible  for the detriment Mr H has suffered. Thats  
because I dont think NBCL would have been in a position to persuade  Mr H to transfer to 
the QROPS and make this investment  but for the platform given to it by Joseph Oliver. 
As such,  I think it is fair and just for Joseph  Oliver to be held responsible for any losses  
caused by NBCL to Mr H whilst carrying on the business it had apparent authority to conduct 
on Joseph Olivers behalf. 
Other matters
Joseph Oliver says that it took all reasonable precautions regarding NBCL.  It says it tried to 
constrain NBCL through  the AR agreement, IT systems and procedure  and through 
supervision. It cites the Adams v Options  decision  to argue that this should  mean  that it was 
entitled to rely on the contractual arrangements it had in place with NBCL which took 
precedence over regulatory obligations.
Ive read the Adams decision  carefully as well as Joseph Olivers latest submissions. I 
remain of the view that the decision  concerned a very different  set of circumstances 
concerning the obligations  of a SIPP operator.  It did not deal with apparent authority. So, I 
dont agree that it is of relevance  to my determination about  jurisdiction.  Furthermore, the 
contractual arrangements in Adams concerned the relationship between the business and 
the consumer,  and the consumer was privy to them. Whereas the contract here concerns  the 
relationship between Joseph  Oliver and NBCL,  which Mr H was not privy too. 
Ref: DRN333377925I also acknowledge that Joseph Oliver has highlighted recent case law to argue why it 
should not be held liable  under the common law principle of vicariously liability. But that is a 
distinct legal  concept  to apparent authority. I dont need to address the points made about 
vicarious liability as that is not the basis upon  which Ive based my findings about jurisdiction.
What does this all mean?
Going back to the starting point for this section of my decision, DISP 2.3.3G says 
complaints  about  acts or omissions include those in respect  of activities  for which 
the firmis responsible (including business  of any appointed representative  or agent 
for which the firmhas  accepted responsibility)". 
My decision  is that Joseph Oliver represented that NBCL had authority (apparent authority) 
to give pensions advice  and that Mr H reasonably relied on this representation. As such  
Joseph Oliver is responsible for the advice given here to Mr H as per the guidance at DISP 
2.3.3. 
My conclusion on jurisdiction
For the reasons  set out above, my conclusion is that we do have jurisdiction to consider this 
complaint against  Joseph Oliver.
My findings   merits
As we have  jurisdiction  to consider the complaint against Joseph Oliver, Ive gone on to 
consider all the evidence and arguments  we have obtained in order to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Hs case. When  considering what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  Im required to take into account  relevant 
considerations which include: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance and 
standards; and codes  of practice.  Im also required to take into account,  where  appropriate, 
what I consider to have  been good  industry practice at the time.
Again, I have carefully considered all of Joseph Olivers submissions, but I still think  it is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances to uphold Mr Hs complaint. And this is why.
It isnt in dispute that Joseph Oliver (and consequently NBCL) didnt have the required 
regulatory top-up permissions to give the advice that was given  here to Mr H. So, as a 
starting point, NBCL should not have given  the advice it gave to Mr H at all.  I also think its 
fair to say that Joseph Oliver should  have taken  steps to ensure it did not make 
representations that allowed NBCL to appear as if it was authorised  to conduct pensions 
business in the UK.
However, putting aside  the issue of top-up permissions and any representations made, I 
dont think the advice provided  by NBCL can be said to have been suitable for Mr H.
In my provisional decisions,  I made  reference  to various COBS provisions dealing with the 
need for firms to act in their customers best interests, know  its client  and give suitable 
advice (COBS 2 and 9). Joseph Oliver has submitted that COBS  doesnt apply to it as an 
EEA firm. However, I do not consider this submission to have any weight. 
Ref: DRN333377926Firstly, I note that at the relevant time, COBS 1.1.1 R set out the General Application  Rule 
which provided that:
This sourcebook applies  to a firm with respect to the following activities  carried  on 
from an establishment maintained by it, or its appointed representative, in the United 
Kingdom:
(2) designated  investment  business ;
(3) long-term insurance business in relation to life policies;
and activities connected with them.
COBS 1.1.2 R set out that the General  Application Rule is modified in COBS  1 Annex 
1 according to the activities of a firm (Part  1) and its location (Part 2). And, COBS 1.1.4 G 
provided that guidance on the application provisions  can be found in COBS 1 Annex  1 (Part  
3).
At the relevant time, COBS 1 Annex 1, Part 2 paragraph 1(1) R provided that: The territorial 
scope of this sourcebook  is modified  to the extent necessary  to be compatible with European 
law (the EEA Territorial  Scope Rule). However, at the relevant time,  COBS 1 Annex 1, Part 
3 paragraph 2.2 G provided the following:
When considering the impact of a directive  on the territorial application of a rule, 
a firm will first need to consider whether the relevant situation involves a non-
UK element. The EEA territorial scope rule is unlikely to apply if a UK firm is doing  
business in a UK establishment  for a client located in the United Kingdom in relation 
to a United Kingdom product. However,  if there  is a non-UK  element, the firm should 
consider whether:
(1)it is subject to the directive  (in general, directives only apply to UK 
firms and EEA firms , but the implementing provisions may not treat non-EEA 
firms more favourably than EEA firms );
(2)the business it is performing is subject to the directive; and
(3)the particular  rule is within the scope of the directive.
If the answer  to all three questions is yes, the EEA territorial scope rule may change  
the effect of the general application rule.
As set out above, Joseph Oliver has agreed  that it required regulatory  top-up  permissions 
directly from FCA in order to carry out the business  Mr H has complained about. And, it 
therefore follows that the pensions advice provided to Mr H was not business that came 
within the scope  of the IMD. I am therefore  satisfied that the EEA Territorial  Scope Rule 
would not apply in the circumstances  and that the relevant COBS rules  are applicable.     
In its recent submissions,  Joseph Oliver refutes  that I can make any assessment of what  
does or doesnt  come  within  the scope of the IMD and therefore whether the specific COBS  
provisions are relevant  considerations.  But in any event,  I think  the COBS are indicative  of 
what constituted  good industry practice at the relevant time  which  is a relevant  
consideration I must take account of in reaching my decision. And NBCL, acting fairly and 
reasonably, should still have given  suitable advice to Mr H. 
Mr H was 53 years old at the time of the advice, resident in the UK and had no other pension 
provision other than his final salary  scheme.  The Pension Transfer  Report  set out that his 
Ref: DRN333377927attitude to risk was medium. Theres no evidence that he was a sophisticated investor or 
had any experience of making high risk investments.
So, NBCL  should  have questioned why Mr H, who lived in the UK, was at all suited to a 
transfer to a QROPS  arrangement in Gibraltar. Theres no evidence  that he was seriously 
considering moving  abroad or that he was genuinely interested  in having greater investment 
choice. 
Furthermore, NBCL produced a suitability letter recommending the QROPs, but didnt 
comment on the underlying investment in TMAF despite knowing that this is what  the 
QROPS would be used  for. 
I note that in January 2013,  (before  the investment had been made) the regulator  issued an 
alert that reminded firms  of the rules  that were  in force at the time. The alert stated:
It has been  brought to the FSAs  attention that some financial advisers are giving 
advice to customers on pension transfers  or pension switches  without  assessing  the 
advantages and disadvantages  of investment  proposed  to be held within the new 
pension. In particular,  we have seen advisers  moving customers  retirement  savings 
to self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs)  that invest wholly  or primarily in high risk, 
often illiquid  unregulated investments (some  which may be in Unregulated Collective 
Investment Schemes)
The cases  we have  seen  tend to operate under a similar advice model. An introducer  
will pass customer details  to an unregulated firm, which markets an unregulated 
investment (e.g. an overseas  property development). When the customer expresses 
an interest in the unregulated investment, the customer is introduced  to a regulated 
financial adviser to provide advice on a SIPP capable of holding  the unregulated  
investment. The financial  adviser does not give advice on the unregulated 
investment, and says it is only providing advice on a SIPP  capable  of holding  the 
unregulated investment. Sometimes the regulated financial adviser also assists the 
customer to unlock monies held in other investments  so that the customer is able 
to invest in the unregulated investment
 where a financial  adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer will 
transfer out of a current pension arrangement to release funds to invest in an 
overseas property investment under a SIPP, then the suitability of the overseas 
property investment must form part of the advice  about whether the customer  should  
transfer into the SIPP. If, taking into account the individual circumstances of the 
customer, the original  pension  product, including its underlying holdings, is more  
suitable for the customer then the SIPP is not suitable.
This is because if you give regulated advice and the recommendation will enable  
investment in unregulated items  you cannot  separate out the unregulated  elements 
from the regulated  elements... 
Although the alert mentions  SIPPs,  I think  that it equally applied to transfers that were to be 
invested into a QROPS arrangement and were then to be invested in high risk funds (as 
happened here). And again, this is indicative of what was good  industry  practice in giving 
advice about these matters.
Ref: DRN333377928So, my view is that NBCL should have  taken into account and advised  on the suitability of 
the TMAF investment as well as the overall QROPS  arrangement.  It failed to do this.
TMAF was an unregulated speculative investment. It was high risk and investors faced the 
real possibility of losing all their money.  It also appears to lack the protection afforded by the 
Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
Mr H also had a valuable  final salary  pension scheme and so the starting  point in any 
consideration of advice  to Mr H should  have been  that a transfer  of his pension  would not be 
suitable for him.
To support this point, I refer to COBS 19.1.6G which states:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer or opt-out, a firm should 
start by assuming  that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only 
then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence,  that the transfer or opt-out is in the clients best interest
So, Mr H should have  been advised:
 
of the risks associated with TMAF and that he could lose his entire pension;
that TMAF didnt  match his medium attitude to risk;
that he would lose significant benefits from his final salary scheme.
As Ive quoted  above, the suitability letter said:
The Critical Yield Report (attached) states a critical yield of 9.87% is needed to 
match the benefits of your existing Royal Mail scheme at normal retirement date. 
Based on your risk profile it was agreed that the critical  yield is not achievable but 
given your desire to pass funds onto your beneficiaries,  greater  investment choice 
and the probability  of moving abroad, I believe the transfer to a QROPS is right for 
you.
This clearly highlighted that NBCL was fully aware that the QROPS  could not achieve  the 
critical yield (i.e. would  not perform  to the level required) to match Mr Hs existing benefits. 
Despite this, it didnt  advise against  the transfer  but said that the transfer to the QROPS 
was right  for Mr H. Given  what Ive said above,  I cant see that there was any basis for this 
conclusion. In short, Mr H should have been  advised  against the transfer  to the QROPS  and 
the investment  in TMAF.
Joseph Oliver says that Mr H would have signed a waiver letter acknowledging that he had 
been told that that the TMAF investment might not be suitable  for him and certifying  that he 
was a sophisticated investor. It says I should take this into account.
I accept that he may have  signed  such documents as Ive seen some other consumers that 
have done so in cases involving NBCL. I also accept  that the suitability letter  should possibly 
have raised some questions for Mr H as it mentioned that the critical yield to meet Mr Hs 
existing benefits  was unlikely to be met by the transfer to the QROPS  and that he would 
possibly move abroad. Mr H should  possibly have queried the latter if that was not his 
intention at all. 
Ref: DRN333377929But the suitability  letter was otherwise wholly biased towards persuading Mr H that the 
transfer to the QROPS  was in his best interests.  And if he did sign other related documents,  
Im not persuaded that he did so with a full understanding of the implications of doing so. So 
had Mr H been given  suitable advice by NBCL or an appropriately authorised adviser,  I think  
he would  have listened to that advice and remained invested in his existing  pension  scheme.
Ive taken account of Joseph Olivers submissions about the Adams  v Options case. I dont 
agree that it affects the outcome in this case. There are very big factual and legal 
differences.  That case dealt with a SIPP operator that had not given advice to the 
complainant. My finding is that NBCL did give advice to Mr H. And unlike in in the Adams  
case, my view is that if Mr H had received suitable  advice, he would not have proceeded 
with the pension transfer to the QROPS  and investment in TMAF - even if was looking at his 
options and how he might access funds earlier than his existing scheme  allowed. I dont 
think he would have  wanted to put his whole pension at risk.
I acknowledge that other  parties were involved in this transaction   in particular Joseph  
Oliver says that STM should  be held to account.  But Im not considering a complaint  against 
STM and, in any event, STM  is not subject to our jurisdiction.  
FSMA requires me to award fair compensation and Im not therefore  limited to the position 
a court  might take. And I think that if Joseph Oliver  had treated Mr H fairly, the transfer to the 
QROPS and the associated investment in TMAF would not have gone ahead. As a result, 
Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to hold Joseph Oliver responsible for the whole of 
the loss suffered by Mr H. 
If Joseph Oliver believes other parties to be wholly or partly  responsible  for the loss, it should 
be free to pursue those other parties. And if Mr H is compensated in full now, Joseph  Oliver 
(rather than Mr H) should benefit from any future  payments  from other parties. So, 
compensation payable to Mr H should  be contingent on the assignment by him to Joseph  
Oliver of any rights  of action he may have  against  other parties in relation to his transfer to 
the QROPS and the investment. 
I know that Joseph Oliver thinks that the TMAF  investment  still has value and will provide  a 
return to Mr H. To address this (and provided he is compensated in full), I think  
compensation should also be contingent on Mr H undertaking to give to Joseph  Oliver any 
future payment he might receive  in relation  to the investment, if he is to receive any.  
Ill set out details of these  matters below.
What should Joseph Oliver do?
My aim is to return Mr H to the position he would now be in but for what  I consider to be 
Joseph Olivers failure to treat him fairly.  If Joseph  Oliver had done everything it should 
have, I think he would  have left his pension as it was. 
So, Joseph  Oliver should calculate fair compensation by comparing the position he would be 
in, if he had not transferred. In summary, Joseph  Oliver should:
1.Calculate the loss Mr H has suffered as a result of making the transfer. 
2.Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Hs share  in any investments that cannot currently  
be redeemed.
Ref: DRN3333779303.Pay an amount into Mr Hs QROPS  so that the transfer value is increased to equal 
the loss calculated in (1).
4.Pay Mr H the equivalent  of five years worth  of QROPS fees.
5.Pay Mr H £500 for trouble and upset. 
Lastly, in order  to be fair to Joseph  Oliver, as mentioned,  it should  have the option  of 
payment of this redress being contingent  upon  Mr H assigning any claim he may have 
against others in respect of this loss to Joseph Oliver  but only in so far as Mr H is fully 
compensated here. The terms of the assignment  should require Joseph Oliver to account to 
Mr H for any amount it subsequently  recovers against the other parties  that exceeds the loss 
paid to Mr H. Joseph  Oliver should  bear the cost of drafting the assignment.   
I have explained  how Joseph Oliver should carry out the calculation:
1.Calculate the loss Mr H has suffered as a result of making the transfer
Joseph Oliver must undertake  a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance  as updated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  in October  2017.  
For the avoidance of doubt, the calculation should  include any free standing additional 
voluntary contributions that Mr H may have paid into to his occupational pension  scheme as 
I think that Mr H has treated these as part of the same pension pot as the defined benefit  
element of his fund.  In other  words, he would have left these invested as they were had 
Joseph Oliver treated him fairly.  If its not possible to use the regulators guidance for the 
free standing voluntary contributions, then the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income  Total 
Return Index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income Total  Return 
Index) should be used to obtain the notional transfer value. Im satisfied  thats a reasonable 
proxy for the type of return that couldve been achieved for the free standing voluntary 
contributions if Mr Hs pension had remained invested as it was.
The calculation should be carried  out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published at the date of that decision. In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Hs acceptance of the decision. 
Joseph Oliver may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Hs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Hs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
The calculation should take account of the value  of any cash  held in the QROPS. Any 
existing value of the investment should be covered  by the next step.  
2.Pay a commercial value to buy any investments which cannot currently be 
redeemed.
As Ive said above,  my aim is to return Mr H to the position he would have  been  in but for the 
actions of Joseph Oliver. This is complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it 
cannot be readily sold on the open  market), as its value cant  be determined. That appears 
to be the case  here.
Ref: DRN333377931As I understand it, the QROPS is still open.  So, Joseph Oliver should  calculate an amount it 
is willing to pay as a commercial value for the TMAF investment and pay this sum into the 
QROPS and take ownership of the relevant the investment. Any sum paid by Joseph Oliver  
can be deducted from the loss calculation set out at step 1 above.
If Joseph Oliver is unwilling or unable to purchase  the investment  the value of it should  be 
assumed to be nil for the purposes of the loss calculation at 1 above.
I know that Joseph Oliver continues to think that the TMAF investment still has value and will 
provide a return to Mr H. If Mr H is fully compensated, Joseph Oliver may ask Mr H to 
provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment he may receive 
from the investment.  That undertaking  should  allow for the effect of any tax and charges on 
the amount Mr H may receive  from the investment and any eventual sums he would be able 
to access from the QROPS. Joseph Oliver  will need  to meet  any costs in drawing  up the 
undertaking.
In the event that Mr H isnt fully compensated, then the undertaking should provide that any 
payment from the investment should still be paid Mr H until the amount  received (excluding 
any interest payment) has reached the full compensatable loss due to him.  Then any further 
distributions/value in excess of this sum can be taken by Joseph Oliver.  
3.Pay an amount into Mr Hs QROPS  so that the transfer value is increased to equal 
the loss calculated in (1).
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid.  25% of the loss would be tax-free and 
75% would have been taxed according to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement   presumed 
to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction  of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects  
this. 
4.QROPS fees
As Ive said above,  I understand  that the QROPS is still open. If it is, Mr H may wish to close 
the QROPS and move his funds to a more  conventional vehicle such as a SIPP. But, it may 
not be possible to move the TMAF  investment into a UK based  SIPP  or pension.  Some  SIPP 
providers may not accept  them. Also,  it may not be possible to easily  sell or transfer the 
investment. So there is the possibility Mr H may be trapped in the QROPS. So, if Mr H 
cannot close the QROPS  and he is being  charged annual fees, I think  it would be fair if 
Joseph Oliver paid him five years worth of the QROPS annual charges  to reflect  these 
considerations. This should allow sufficient time for Mr H to make  changes and stop further  
fees being incurred.
5.Trouble and upset
I also think Mr H has been caused  upset as a result  of Joseph Olivers actions. The sudden 
loss of nearly all his pension fund came  as a shock to him and has clearly had a significant  
Ref: DRN333377932impact. I think it would be fair and reasonable for Joseph Oliver to pay Mr H £500 
compensation for this. 
Lastly, as set out in my provisional  decision, if Joseph Oliver believes other parties to be 
wholly or partly responsible for the loss, it should be free to pursue those other  parties. And if 
Mr H is compensated in full now, Joseph Oliver  (rather than Mr H) should benefit from any 
future payments from other parties. So, compensation  payable to Mr H should be contingent 
on the assignment by him to Joseph  Oliver  of any rights of action he may have against other 
parties in relation to his transfer  to the QROPS and the investment. 
My final decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. 
If I consider  that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that the business 
pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated  as I have set out above. And, I require Joseph  Oliver - Mediacao de 
Seguros LDA to pay Mr H compensation up to a maximum  of £150,000. 
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must, where possible, be paid to Mr H 
within 90 days of the date Joseph Oliver - Mediacao de Seguros LDA receives notification of 
his acceptance  of my final decision. Further interest  must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Joseph Oliver - Mediacao de 
Seguros LDA to pay Mr H this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I also recommend  that Joseph  Oliver  - Mediacao de Seguros  LDA pays Mr H the 
balance. I further  recommend  interest to be added  to this balance at the rate of 8% per year 
simple for any time, in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Joseph Oliver  - Mediacao  de Seguros 
LDA to pay Mr H from the date it receives notification  of his acceptance of the decision, as 
set out above.
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Joseph  Oliver - Mediacao de Seguros  LDA 
accepts the recommendation to pay the full loss as calculated above, Joseph Oliver - 
Mediacao de Seguros LDA should  have the option  of taking an assignment of Mr Hs rights  
in relation to any claim he may have against other  parties. 
If the loss exceeds  £150,000 and Joseph  Oliver  - Mediacao de Seguros  LDA does not 
accept the recommendation to pay the full amount, any assignment of Mr Hs rights  should 
allow him to retain all rights to the difference between £150,000 and the full loss as 
calculated above.  
If Mr H accepts my determination, the money  award is binding  on Joseph Oliver  - Mediacao  
de Seguros LDA. My recommendation is not binding on Joseph Oliver - Mediacao de 
Ref: DRN333377933Seguros LDA. Further, its unlikely that Mr H can accept my determination and go to court to 
ask for the balance  of the compensation owing  to him after the money  award has been  paid. 
Mr H may want to consider getting independent  legal  advice before deciding whether to 
accept this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2021.
Abdul Hafez
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3333779