K822xcomplaint
Mr P complains about how long it took Barclays Bank Plc to cash  a cheque in a foreign 
currency, and about the amount he eventually received.
background 
Mr P asked Barclays to cash a very large  cheque for him. That cheque was drawn in 
Trinidad and Tobago Dollars (TTD) and he wanted  to pay it into an account  in pounds 
sterling. He said hed given the cheque to Barclays in early December, but when he 
contacted us in mid-April, he still hadnt  received the money. 
Mr P said that the cheque  was for $3,700,000  TTD. He said that there had been changes  in 
the exchange rate since he paid in the cheque,  which meant that he was going to lose 
around £67,000. And he said that he had paid deposits on investments and purchases. He 
needed the money from this cheque to complete those investments and purchases, so he 
was at risk of losing  that money  too. He also said that this money couldve produced an 
income of £1,700 per month if it had been exchanged promptly,  and then invested.  He 
showed us some information on the investments hed proposed making with the money.
Mr P then got back in touch at the end of April, and told us that Barclays  had finally  cashed  
the cheque. He said that the exchange  rate was even worse  than he expected. He 
complained about the time this had all taken, and the exchange  rate used. 
Barclays accepted  Mr Ps cheque in early December. It wrote to him very shortly after that, 
to say that it would  cash this cheque on a collections basis.  That means  that the cheque has 
to be sent back  to the issuing bank to be cashed there, and the money transferred. Barclays  
said at the time that this would usually  take around  six weeks.  
It seems  as if Barclays received the money  from Mr Ps cheque by the end of January. It had 
been paid in TTD,  the currency of the sending bank. Barclays said that it couldnt convert 
this currency into pounds. Internal emails between Barclays  teams show that parts of the 
bank had been aware of a problem exchanging this currency for some time before this.  
Barclays eventually returned the money  to the sending bank, and it tried to arrange for the 
conversion to be done  there. Mr P said that he really hadnt wanted that to happen,  because  
conversion rates in the country  of issue were very poor. But he didnt think he had any 
choice. Unfortunately, this didnt  seem to solve the problem  either.  
Finally, Barclays  arranged  for a payment to be made to it in euros. That money was then 
converted by Barclays into pounds, so it could  be paid into Mr Ps account.  Mr P received 
£360,127.12 on 30 April 2018.
Barclays said that it didnt  think that it had caused the delay in paying this money  to Mr P. It 
said that the problems had been caused  by the liquidity issues  of the cheques currency. But 
Barclays wanted to make a gesture of goodwill to Mr P. It said it would like to pay him £150. 
And it said that it was no longer accepting cheques  in TTD, because of the problems it had 
faced with this cheque.  Barclays has now suggested  that Mr P should perhaps  have 
arranged for the money to be transferred by international payment instead  of paying the 
cheque in to Barclays.
Ref: DRN39420462Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that the delay was primarily due to 
liquidity issues with this currency.  She said she thought that other  banks wouldve faced 
similar problems.  And she said that the changes in the exchange rate which  happened  
during this delay  were  outside of Barclays control.  
Mr P didnt agree with that. He said if Barclays had concerns about  changing  this type of 
currency, then it shouldve  told him that when he paid in the cheque,  and he wouldve found 
another way to exchange the money.  Mr P also pointed out that Barclays  had accepted a 
smaller cheque in the same currency, and exchanged it promptly  for US dollars at a rate of 
6.8595 TTD to 1 USD. He got that money  on 11 January 2018. 
Mr P wanted  his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-Mr P emailed  Barclays when he was overseas, and arranged for it to take this cheque. 
Barclays didnt suggest that there would be any problem with that at all. It just said that 
he had to present  the cheque in person. So Mr P arranged to do that.
-The internal  emails that Barclays has sent to our service  seem to show  that by the start 
of February, when Mr Ps money  had arrived in Barclays in the original currency,  parts of 
Barclays had already repeatedly advised  other areas of the bank that there was no way 
for it to exchange this currency. That led me to believe that Barclays  shouldve  realised  
rather earlier that it would  have  considerable difficulty in converting  that amount from 
TTD into pounds sterling. For that reason, I didnt think that Barclays shouldve accepted, 
and continued  to simply process,  Mr Ps cheque for this amount  in this currency  during 
that time.  
-There were  quite  a lot of changes  in the exchange rate for TTD between  the time that 
Mr P gave  this cheque to Barclays, in December 2017, and when he received the 
payment, at the end of April 2018. Mr P was also deprived  of the use of his money during 
this time. 
-I thought that at the very least Barclays shouldve alerted Mr P to the likely problems in 
exchanging his money and discussed  possible solutions with him well before  it did. It 
probably shouldnt  have accepted this cheque. And because of that, I thought it was fair 
to consider the extent to which Barclays should  be considered to be responsible  for any 
losses Mr P has incurred.  
-Our service has asked Mr P about the other  options he had for exchanging his cheque.  
In response, hes set out a number  of other  options that he couldve pursued  if Barclays  
had told him it couldnt accept  his cheque.  He said that he couldve used a Canadian 
bank which has a presence in Trinidad and Tobago. He also said that he couldve used a 
specialist exchange broker. That broker  has confirmed that it couldve accepted the 
currency and amount that Mr P wanted  to exchange. 
Ref: DRN39420463-Mr P says that these  different exchange  options couldve produced a larger  eventual  
payment. He estimates his loss at between around £8,500 and around  £57,000,  
depending partly  on which option he pursued, but mainly  on the speed  of the transaction.
-It was difficult  to assess  what  Mr P wouldve done if Barclays had refused his cheque. 
But he had given  a number of options,  which  was enough to satisfy me that he wouldve 
been able to find an alternative route to change  his money - although its not clear which 
of those options he might  have chosen.  
-I said that the upper end of Mr Ps estimate of loss relies on an exceptionally rapid  
transaction. I didnt  think that was consistent with the choices Mr P made at the time 
about how to move and exchange his money. So I didnt think it was reasonable to ask 
Barclays to pay an amount in that region. 
-I thought that the fairest approach was to base compensation on the choice that Mr P did 
make, and what I thought ought to have happened  if it had, in fact, been possible for 
Barclays to exchange his money in a reasonable timeframe. 
-Mr P chose  to pay in an overseas cheque to a UK bank. I thought  that when he did that, 
he accepted a risk that the cheque  would be sent for collection, rather than negotiated. 
Thats what happened  here.  Barclays wrote to Mr P on 14 December to say that his 
cheque was being sent for collection, and payment was likely to be made  within 6 weeks. 
So I thought that Mr P could  reasonably have expected to get his money around the end 
of January. 
-The exchange rate had changed,  and not in Mr Ps favour, during this time. I thought  that 
when Mr P chose an exchange option for his cheque that was susceptible  to this sort of 
delay, he also accepted that there was a risk of an unfavourable exchange  rate change 
during this time. 
-Barclays has sent us a calculation of what Mr P wouldve received if it had been able to 
change his money on 31 January. I thought that was a reasonable date to use for our 
purposes. So I thought that Barclays should pay Mr P compensation based  on the rate 
which it held for 31 January. Barclays has told us that if Mr P had received  his money on 
that date, he wouldve  got £376,583.63.
-I thought that Barclays should now pay Mr P the difference between  the amount of 
£360,127.12, which it paid to him on 30 April 2018,  and the amount it wouldve paid on 
31 January, which was £376,583.63. That works out at £16,456.51. I thought  that would 
bring his payment up to the amount that Mr P could reasonably  have expected  to receive  
by converting his money in the way he had chosen.
-I also thought  it was reasonable  for Mr P to expect that his money would be available  to 
him by around 31 January. Hes shown us that some of the alternative exchange options 
he couldve chosen wouldve been faster. So I thought that Barclays  should pay Mr P 
some interest to make up for the fact that he didnt  have access  to any of his money  
between 31 January  2018 to 30 April. And I thought it should pay a little more  to make up 
for the fact that what he eventually got, on 30 April,  was a bit less than he could 
reasonably have  expected  to receive.
-I thought Barclays  should also pay interest at 8% simple between  31 January and 30 
April, on the amount  of £376,583.63, which Mr P wouldve received if his exchange had 
Ref: DRN39420464been completed on that date. Barclays should  then pay interest  at the same rate of 8% 
simple on the £16,456.51 I proposed to award in this case,  between  30 April and the 
date that it makes that payment  to Mr P.
-Barclays has also offered to pay Mr P £150  in compensation to make  up for the poor 
service it provided  to him. I didnt think Barclays needed to pay this in addition  to the 
above. I said it could  count that amount towards the total compensation  Ive awarded, if it 
has already paid it. Thats because I thought that the award  I suggested provided a fair 
resolution in this case.  
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr P accepted my suggested outcome. Barclays replied to say that it didnt have any final 
points or further  information for me to consider.
my findings
Although neither side has offered any further evidence or arguments in this case,  Ive still 
reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I havent changed my mind.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  Plc must pay Mr P the following -
An amount  of £16,456.51; 
Interest*, calculated  at 8% simple on the amount of £376,583.63 for the period 
between 31 January 2018 to 30 April 2018,  being 89 days; and
Interest*, calculated  at 8% simple on the amount of £16,456.51,  for the period  
between 30 April 2018 and the date that it pays that amount of £16,456.51 to Mr P.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
* HM Revenue and Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays must give 
Mr P a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN3942046