K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1995 alongside a credit card with Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
background
This complaint has been going  on a long time.  So Ive broadly summarised the background 
to the PPI policy and whats  happened  since, and throughout this complaint.
In 1995, Mr P completed a credit card postal application and PPI was added to the account  
at this point.
In 2013, Mr P complained to Lloyds and said that he thought the PPI had been mis-sold. 
Lloyds responded to Mr Ps complaint. It thought it hadnt done anything  wrong  and hadnt  
mis-sold him PPI.
Mr P didnt refer the complaint to our service at that time.
In 2015, Mr P complained to Lloyds about  the level of commission it received from the 
premiums he paid for his PPI policy. Mr P wrote several letters to Lloyds and didnt receive  
any response. Unhappy Mr P brought his complaint to our service.
Initially there was a concern as to whether our service  could  look at Mr Ps complaint about 
the sale of PPI  as this had been looked  into by Lloyds in 2013 and Mr P hadnt referred the 
complaint to us in time. But Lloyds, in their correspondence with us when  it provided  its file, 
waived its objection. It said that it recognised it hadnt handled Mr Ps complaint well when 
Mr P got back in touch  in 2015 about commission and hadnt responded to him. 
So it explained it was willing to offer Mr P £150 for the trouble and upset this caused.  It also 
explained that its position about the sale of the PPI remained the same  in that it didnt think 
it had mis-sold Mr P PPI. Lloyds then provided its file about the sale of PPI to Mr P in 1995.
Lloyds offer of £150 was put to Mr P and he accepted this. 
One of our adjudicators then looked at the sale of PPI and didnt uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
She also explained that the financial regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  
was issuing new rules  and guidance following a Supreme Court  judgment concerning  
undisclosed commission. And Mr Ps complaint was one that was affected  by this. 
Although he accepted the £150,  Mr P remained unhappy and thought Lloyds hadnt 
responded to him about his concern that it had breached  its own code of conduct in not 
replying to his correspondence. Mr P also wanted  a refund of any unfair commission he paid 
to Lloyds.  
In August  2017,  the FCA issued its new rules  and guidance about how businesses should 
handle complaints about PPI in light of the Supreme Court  judgment.
Ref: DRN36355462Because of this, Lloyds has recently  said, in Mr Ps case, the level of commission  and profit  
share it received  did create an unfair relationship.  
So to put things right it has now offered to refund the extra Mr P paid each month because 
the commission and profit share  it received was more than 50% of the cost of PPI for the 
time there was an unfair relationship. It has also offered 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr P for any time he was out of pocket.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
I will look into this complaint in three  parts. 
first,  whether  the PPI policy was mis-sold, 
second, if the policy wasnt mis-sold, is Lloyds offer to refund to Mr P the unfair level 
of commission and profit  share  it received, fair and
third, was Lloyds  offer of £150 as compensation for not responding to Mr P in 2015 
fair
the sale of PPI in 1995
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of Mr Ps credit card application form from 1995. Mr P had to 
actively tick to select  PPI. So I think Lloyds  made  it clear that Mr P didnt have to take out the 
PPI and that he chose to take it out.
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Mr P so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. I 
say this because  Mr P applied for the credit  card and PPI through a postal application and 
there is no evidence  that shows he spoke to anyone from Lloyds. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But Im satisfied that Mr P chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Because Mr P was self-employed I have looked at the terms required for a self-employed 
person to claim. Having done so, they are no different to what is required for an employed  
person to claim. So I cant say that the policy wasnt right for Mr P because of his 
occupation.
As Mr P didnt receive any sick pay if he was unable to work because  of an accident or 
sickness, I think he would have struggled  to meet his credit card repayments  if he was off 
work for a lengthy period. 
Ref: DRN36355463In the event of a successful claim the PPI would have covered  10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months  per claim if Mr P was off work  because of an accident or 
sickness or if he became  unemployed.  The policy also included life cover.  So I think it 
provided a useful benefit and I dont think better information about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover.
All things  considered, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
So Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr P.
Lloyds offer
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr P because in 2017,  following a 
Supreme Court judgment,  the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA), issued some new rules 
about how businesses  should deal with complaints  about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Lloyds has said that the level of commission and profit share it received did create  an unfair  
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr P paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It will also include 8% per year simple  interest  to 
compensate Mr P for any time he was out of pocket.
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mr Ps particular  complaint  and 
circumstances that means Lloyds  should  do something different to put right the unfairness  
caused by not telling him about  the amount of commission and profit share it got. But I dont 
think there is. 
I think the offer thats been made is a fair way to resolve  this complaint. So I wont  be telling 
Lloyds to do anything  more.  
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mr P any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Lloyds should  re-work the credit  card account and pay back  to Mr P the difference between 
what Mr P owes and what he would have owed if the commission  and profit  share it got 
hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mr P 8%* simple 
interest if he paid off his credit card at some  point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr P can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN36355464Lloyds offer of £150 as compensation for its poor handling of Mr Ps complaint
Lloyds has admitted that it should  have done  more and that it should have responded to 
Mr P back  in 2015 when  he raised his concerns about the level of commission Lloyds 
received in relation to his PPI policy.
I appreciate the FCA was reviewing what the judgment meant and was in the process of 
working on its new rules and guidance for businesses on how to handle complaints about  
PPI. And because of this Mr P wouldnt have received much of answer   because nothing  
had yet been decided about what to do following the judgment.  
But that didnt  mean that Lloyds didnt have to acknowledge  Mr Ps letters.  Put simply,  it 
should have done. Lloyds  has recognised its error and it offered  £150 which  I note Mr P 
accepted. But Mr P still felt that despite  the £150,  Lloyds had breached its code of conduct.
I think Lloyds, in offering  the £150, recognised it hadnt provided the best service  to Mr P, 
and its offer was to reflect that it breached its code of conduct.  And it offered an amount to 
compensate Mr P for that, and Mr P accepted the amount.  I think  it is a fair amount  
considering the circumstances  and Lloyds doesnt  have to pay anything more  on this 
particular complaint point.
This complaint has been going  on a long time and I can see that because of this the 
relationship between Mr P and Lloyds has broken down. So I hope that this final decision 
helps to bring matters  to a close and both parties can move on.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr P.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr P any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Lloyds Bank  PLC offer of £150 as additional  compensation for failing to acknowledge Mr Ps 
letters of complaint is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3635546