K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that the change Lloyds Bank Plc made to the way they charge for his 
overdraft is unfair. He says he wasnt notified  by Lloyds about the change and he hasnt 
agreed to the changes. 
background
Mr S had an overdraft with Lloyds, having  a £5,000 limit and making significant use of the 
facility most months. 
Lloyds changed  the way they charge for overdrafts  in November 2017. Rather than charging 
usage fees and interest  they switched  to a daily charge of 1p per £7 of balance used. Mr S 
was given a reduced  daily charge of 1p per £20 for the first 6 months  of the new charging 
structure. During the reduction in daily fees Mr Ss fees were similar to before the changes  
around £70 a month. 
Mr S complained to Lloyds saying he didnt receive  notification of the changes  and he 
doesnt agree to pay the new charges. Lloyds said they wrote to all customers  in August and 
September 2017 to let them know about the change. Unhappy  with the response Mr S 
referred his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ss concerns. She concluded that:
-the notification  letter was sent to Mr S
-it was fair for Lloyds  to put Mr S on the new charging structure
Lloyds accepted the assessment. Mr S didnt agree with our investigators opinion and said:
-he doesnt think Lloyds have treated him fairly, and he doesnt want to pay the new 
charges
Since Mr S brought his complaint to our service, his overdraft has defaulted as its been  over 
the arranged overdraft limit for a number of months.  Before this Lloyds  sent a formal demand 
letter in January 2018 requesting full payment  of the balance  or a suitable  alternative 
arrangement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so I broadly  agree with our 
investigator. 
Mr S says that the change Lloyds have made to the terms  of her current account is unfair. 
Its not for me to make a general finding  on whether the term Lloyds relied on is or isnt fair. 
A finding like this would impact on people who dont have a complaint with us, some of 
whom may be happy with whats happened. What I need to decide is whether Lloyds treated 
Mr S fairly and reasonably. And this does mean considering the fairness of the term in so far 
as it affects him personally, taking into account the law. 
The law that applies here is the Consumer Rights Act 2015  which says an unfair term 
isnt binding on the consumer. The Act says that a term allowing a business to change  a 
Ref: DRN36230662contract unilaterally without giving  a valid reason in the contract is likely to be unfair.  But that 
doesnt include a term allowing  a change in charges for financial services,  providing the 
consumer must be told about  it at the earliest opportunity, and can dissolve the contract. 
did the bank have to tell Mr S about the change?
Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account at the time Lloyds made  the 
change  November  2017. The term that applies  is below. 
13. How and when  will we tell you about changes and what  are your rights?
13.3  all changes to interest rates or the fees charged on overdrafts, unless they favour the 
customer, require  notice of at least  two months before the change.  
Mr S was initially  paying similar overdraft  charges, but once his 6 month reduced rate ended 
was more likely than not to pay higher overdraft charges  so I dont think the change favoured  
him here  as per the terms  and conditions of his account Lloyds needed to give him 2 
months notice. 
Ive considered whether Lloyds followed their terms and conditions.  And in doing so I think  
Mr S was given enough notice  about the change before it happened. Ive seen evidence 
from Lloyds case management systems  which show  Mr S was sent a letter  in August 2017 
informing him of what was going  to happen. This was more  than two months before the 
change took effect.  I understand that Mr S says he didnt receive this notification   but from 
the evidence Ive seen Im satisfied it was sent. I think  its more likely that not he received it 
as well. But even if he didnt receive it, or overlooked it, he found  out about  the changes  
soon after they were introduced. 
can Mr S afford the new charges and therefore  avoid his account defaulting?
I understand that soon after the change in overdraft charges Mr S made contact with Lloyds 
and said he was unhappy with the change.  But throughout his complaint with Lloyds, Mr S 
said he isnt in financial difficulty  and instead  of being unable  to afford the new charges, 
refuses to pay them. Mr S was also given  a reduced  rate for the first 6 months of the new 
charges  which meant, because his account  has since been closed, hes never moved on 
to the higher charges.  And his charges were of a similar level to before the changes. So Im 
satisfied Mr S was able to afford the new overdraft  charges. In doing so he would have been 
able to avoid receiving the formal  demand  notice  and his account defaulting. 
could Mr S dissolve his contract  with the bank?
Dissolving the contract  here means  closing the current account. Mr S was able to do that at 
any time  in the sense that the account terms didnt  prevent him from doing so or require 
him, for example, to pay a fee to do so. But I need  to consider whether this was practical  for 
Mr S given that hed need to make arrangements to repay his overdraft. Whilst Mr S has said 
hes unhappy with the new charges, hes not indicated he cant afford  them  Instead  he 
refuses to do so and hasnt made  contact with Lloyds  to discuss any alternative options to 
repay the debt.  So it seems he was free to dissolve his contract with Lloyds, both legally and 
Ref: DRN36230663in practical terms. As Mr Ss overdraft isnt a permanent feature of his account and he can be 
asked to pay back what he owes at any time,  I dont  think its unfair for him to explore other  
options to avoid paying higher charges. Also, it wouldnt be fair to compensate  Mr S for the 
effects of the change  when he could have avoided them.  
In conclusion I dont  think the charges were unfair because Mr S could have taken steps to 
avoid their impact and in doing so stop his account defaulting. And the changes havent  
created financial  hardship because Mr S says he could afford to pay the amount required to 
cover the fees.  So I wont be asking Lloyds  to do anymore here. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3623066