K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Ageas Retail Limited (trading as RIAS)  renewed their home 
insurance without  their permission, which caused them financial problems whilst abroad. 
They want  RIAS to pay them about £1,200 compensation.
background 
Mr M told RIAS  in April 2016 not to auto renew his home insurance policy when it fell due in 
May 2017. RIAS  said it wouldnt, but in the months leading  up to renewal changed its policy 
on auto-renewal. It wrote to Mr and Mrs M about three weeks  before the renewal date  in 
early May  saying it would take payment later in the month and auto renew the policy  
unless Mr and Mrs M said otherwise.
Mr and Mrs M only discovered  the policy had been renewed and the premium taken from 
their credit card at the beginning of June, when  the card was declined in a supermarket in 
France.
Mr M made some enquiries  and found the funds he thought were available  on the card had 
been used up by a payment of £404.95  to RIAS a few days earlier. He told his card issuer he 
hadnt authorised  the payment. He then contacted RIAS and after discussing what had 
happened, RIAS agreed  to refund the money straight away  but said it might take a few 
days to show on his card account.
This did happen, but Mr and Mrs M say that left them without any money  for several days, 
which was very difficult for them. They say their holiday  was ruined, and that they had 
problems retaining  advantageous interest  rates on their credit arrangements  going forwards.
Some months later Mr and Mrs M discovered  that RIAS was asking them to repay £404.95  
because theyd had the refund twice. That had happened because  the card issuer had used 
the chargeback process to refund the money  to Mr and Mrs Ms account  and RIAS  had 
sent a refund too. Mr and Mrs M said they didnt have money readily  available,  so RIAS said 
it would  refer the matter  to its debt collection arm, which might be able to make  an 
arrangement for them to repay the money in instalments.
Mr and Mrs M eventually  agreed to repay the debt at a discounted rate, although they say 
this meant  they had to short pay some other bills for a while.
Mr and Mrs M complained that they had been treated unfairly and RIAS responded to say 
that  although it agreed Mr and Mrs M might not have seen the letter  about auto-renewal, it 
had followed  the correct procedures. It also said it had given Mr and Mrs M a refund as soon 
as it knew about  the problem.  It said it had been  writing to Mr and Mrs M about the double 
refund and got no response  so referring this to its debt collectors was reasonable.
Mr and Mrs M said theyd  ignored the letters because of the RIAS  logo  and no longer 
thought they had anything  to do with them. It was only when opening old letters  before 
shredding them theyd discovered  the problem of the double refund.  They thought theyd 
been poorly treated and this caused  additional  stress. Mr and Mrs M asked for about £1,200  
compensation.
RIAS didnt change  its position so Mr and Mrs M brought their complaint to us.
Ref: DRN32843402Our investigator thought RIAS hadnt  treated Mr and Mrs M very well, and recommended it 
pay £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs M. He thought that fairly reflected the inconvenience 
theyd suffered.
RIAS initially accepted this, but on realising Mr and Mrs M had paid a discounted amount to 
clear the double refund says it no longer wants to pay the compensation.
Mr and Mrs M have  reiterated how much trouble theyve had and sent us some dates to 
confirm they were in France  at the time. They cant send  details  of the cost of phone  calls as 
phone records are no longer available. 
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the information is disputed, 
unavailable of unclear  as some of it is here  Ive reached  my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  thats what I think most  likely happened based  on the evidence I do have and 
the wider circumstances.
Ive listened to a phone call Mr M made to RIAS in April 2016.  Hes trying to avoid problems 
renewing his home insurance for the period May 2016 - May 2017. He says this is because  
he and Mrs M go away for several weeks around  this time each year,  and dealing  with a 
renewal from a foreign  country is difficult.  
He and RIAS  agree  a price for the following year and Mr M pays  by card.  He clearly tells 
RIAS not to auto renew his policy in the following May (May 2017) and RIAS  agrees it wont.
RIAS says it changed its policy on auto-renewals  in about February 2017. Prior to that date it 
only auto-renewed policies after sending the appropriate reminders and documents  if the 
policy was paid for on a direct debit. It decided that, going forwards, it would also auto-renew  
policies paid for on a credit card.  It wrote to customers explaining this.
That might not have caused a problem for Mr and Mrs M, but they say they didnt see a letter 
about this as theyd gone on holiday. RIAS acknowledges that, as it only sent this letter  just 
before Mr and Mrs M went away, they might  not have seen it. But it says it did what it was 
expected to by sending  the letter, and it couldnt make  allowances  for people  being on 
holiday for extended periods. As it didnt hear from Mr and Mrs M it went  ahead  and renewed 
the policy, collecting £404.95 in the last week of May.
Im not entirely persuaded RIAS gave Mr and Mrs M enough notice about renewing  the 
policy  it was about three weeks. But even  if RIAS did make a mistake (and Im not saying it 
did), it gave Mr and Mrs M a full refund as soon  as it was aware of the problem. Thats  what  
Id expect it to do.
Id also expect RIAS  to consider the impact  of the mistake (if there was one) and consider 
compensating Mr and Mrs M for any inconvenience it had caused. After our investigator sent 
his thoughts on the complaint RIAS  agreed there was some inconvenience  and to pay £100  
compensation for this.
Ref: DRN32843403Mr and Mrs M had to make a call to RIAS from France  the calls Ive listened to totalled 
about 35 minutes. That will have  been at some  cost to Mr and Mrs M, although, given the 
time thats  passed,  they cant say how much  this was. They say they also called  their card 
issuer to say they hadnt authorised the payment. 
Mr and Mrs M also say they were without funds  until the refund arrived in their credit  card 
account. They dont  seem to have been  able to obtain money or credit elsewhere,  so I can 
see why this was upsetting for them. I think the phone  calls were a cost Mr and Mrs M 
shouldnt have had. And I accept  the wait for the refund will have caused some problems, 
even though it would have  been  for only a few days.  Mr and Mrs M say the rest of their 
holiday was spoilt, but havent sent any more detail about why this was so. 
Some months later Mr and Mrs M found  they had been refunded  the payment twice. RIAS  
had been writing to them,  but they hadnt opened the letters. They say thats because they 
thought they no longer had any business  with RIAS. I understand why they did that  but I 
cant say RIAS was doing  anything wrong by writing  to them about the double refund. Mr and 
Mrs M say they told RIAS they couldnt  afford to repay the full amount when they did 
eventually speak. So I think  its reasonable for RIAS to pass the debt to a collection agency 
who could arrange  a payment plan.
I dont think RIAS did much wrong  here.
Taking everything into account  I think £100  is fair compensation  for the inconvenience Mr 
and Mrs M had.
RIAS now says that as Mr and Mrs M negotiated a discount when repaying the second 
£404.95 it doesnt want to pay the £100  compensation.  Im not persuaded this is a reason 
not to pay the compensation.  Any discount was part of Mr and Mrs Ms negotiation  with the 
collection agency to settle the debt. I dont think thats anything  to do with the complaint as 
such. So I think RIAS  should still pay the £100.
Im not going  to ask it to pay the £1,200  Mr and Mrs M now say they want. Ive seen no 
evidence of additional costs they suffered  although I accept there  some  phone calls 
required to get the refund and re-negotiate  interest  on their card account.  We did ask Mr and 
Mrs M to send  evidence of additional  costs  but they havent been  able to do that. I dont think 
its appropriate to ask RIAS to pay costs  we cant pinpoint.
Mr and Mrs M have  very recently  said theyd have to enter into a debt management plan and 
RIASs actions were the catalyst for this. They did tell us previously that, at the time all this 
happened, they had substantial debts that they were  having  to manage very carefully. 
Theyve also mentioned  a recent  change in circumstances. I havent looked more closely  at 
this because I cant see that RIAS has had a chance to respond to a complaint about  this 
latest point. 
my final decision
My decision  is that Im upholding this complaint,  and I order  Ageas Retail Limited  to pay Mr 
and Mrs M £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 November 2019.
Ref: DRN32843404Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3284340