K822xcomplaint
Mr M has said hes had trouble using his bank account held with TSB Bank plc, and some of 
the accounts benefits.
background 
From April 2018, TSB experienced problems with its Information Technology system.
Mr M has told us that TSBs system  issues meant:
He couldnt  use digital  banking to pay a balance that was due to his wedding 
photographer. So the photographer pulled out of his wedding,  and he had to find 
another at short notice. Hes said he had to pay the replacement photographer  £400 
more than hed agreed to pay the original photographer for a similar package.
He couldnt  pay a supplier that was due to decorate the wedding venue,  and he was 
unable to find an alternative supplier.
He incurred around £100 in fuel costs in trying  to find suitable replacement suppliers, 
and he had to take some time off work.
He lost full online  access  to his account  for a period, including  some of the benefits of 
the account he pays a monthly fee for. In particular, he says the online access to his 
credit file, which he relies on frequently to check for unusual  activity, disappeared. 
TSBs solution was to send paper copies of his credit file to him in the post on a 
quarterly basis. But the feature is there to prevent and detect fraud,  and he wanted 
instant online access to his credit report. Hes unhappy that TSB continued to charge 
him the full monthly fee for his account  when this benefit  which he considers  to be 
a key part of the benefits package   wasnt accessible to him.
Mr M has also raised some concerns about the way in which TSB dealt with his complaint.
To resolve  things, Mr M would like TSB to reimburse  the costs  he says hes incurred, refund 
the monthly account fees hes paid when he didnt  have instant online access  to his credit  
report and pay him some  compensation for the stress and worry this matter has caused him. 
One of our investigators  thought that TSB should  pay Mr M £150  for the trouble and upset  it 
caused him, and refund  some  monthly  account  charges. But TSB didnt agree. It said Mr M 
still had the benefit of most of the features of his account during the system  issues. So 
another of our investigators looked  at Mr Ms complaint, and they said TSB should only pay 
Mr M £150 by way of compensation. Mr M wasnt happy with this outcome, so his complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN30575362my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on 22 August 2019.  Ive set out my findings below.
I said its not disputed  that TSBs system issues  would have caused Mr M problems in using 
his account, and some of its benefits.  So I needed to decide what  TSB should do to put 
things right for him. 
Mr M has said he made arrangements  with most  of his wedding suppliers over the 
telephone, and there were no written contracts. Id asked him to give me some  more 
information about the financial  losses hes claimed. And he gave me an extract  from a text 
message conversation it appears he had with the original photographer,  discussing costs 
and his preferred  package. But he didnt provide anything to support what  hes said about  
the original photographer or the supplier  that was due to decorate the wedding  venue pulling 
out of his wedding, or to demonstrate the reasons why they might have done so. Nor did he 
provide any documentary evidence of the financial losses hes claimed.  Without more 
information, I said I cant be sure how much money  Mr M has lost because of TSBs system 
issues. So I didnt think I could reasonably ask TSB to reimburse him.
I appreciated that Mr M hasnt been  able to access his credit  file in the way he prefers. But 
I noted that TSB has given him some access to his credit file, and hes still had the benefit of 
most of the account features he pays a monthly  fee for. So I didnt think  it would  be fair to 
ask TSB to reimburse any fees. Instead, I thought TSB should pay Mr M some 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes experienced  because  of not being able to 
regularly access his credit  report online.
Taking everything into account,  including the way in which TSB handled Mr Ms complaint, 
I provisionally decided  that £150  would be a fair and reasonable  amount  for TSB to pay 
Mr M for his trouble and upset in this matter.
I invited Mr M and TSB to send me any further comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.
responses to my provisional  decision
TSB didnt  respond  to my provisional  decision.
Mr M replied to let me know  he didnt agree with my provisional findings. In summary, he 
said:
My provisional decision doesnt  appear  to address his inability to access  some  of the 
benefits of the account he pays a monthly  fee for.
He cant provide any other evidence of the financial  losses hes claimed.
TSB didnt handle his complaint correctly, and this caused him stress and anxiety.
Ref: DRN30575363my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr M doesnt  agree with my provisional findings. But in responding, 
I dont think hes given  me any new information  that would change my mind. And as TSB 
hasnt given me any new information  either, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  
I set out in my provisional decision.
Mr M has said he couldnt find reference to his inability to access some of the benefits of the 
account he pays a monthly fee for in my provisional  decision. On that point, I provisionally 
found that he had still had the benefit  of most  of the account features he pays a monthly  fee 
for, and TSB did give him some access to his credit file  albeit not in the way he prefers  
so it wouldnt be fair to ask TSB to reimburse any fees. Instead,  I thought  that TSB should 
pay Mr M £150 for all the trouble and upset hes been caused in this matter. I took 
everything into account in considering the appropriate  level of award  including Mr Ms 
inability to regularly  access  his credit report online and the customer  service issues  he 
experienced.
I remain satisfied that this is a fair and reasonable outcome in all of the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided that TSB Bank  plc should pay Mr M £150 for his 
trouble and upset  in this matter  it can deduct any compensation  it has already paid Mr M 
from this amount.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3057536