K821x#15complaint
Mr L says Casheuronet  UK LLC (Casheuronet)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about two payday loans and two instalment  loans Casheuronet (under its 
trading names  of Quick Quid and Pounds to Pocket)  provided  to Mr L from January 2012 
onwards. Mr Ls last loan was provided in March  2013. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ls complaint and thought that loans three and four 
shouldnt have been given. 
Casheuronet disagreed with our adjudicators view. As the parties havent been able to 
agree on a resolution the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Casheuronet needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Casheuronet should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Casheuronet was required to 
establish whether  Mr L could repay  his loans  in a sustainable manner. And I think that this is 
wider than simply assessing whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds 
Ref: DRN38173272and pence calculation. Of course  the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Casheuronets  lending  history with Mr L, I think that 
Casheuronet should reasonably have seen that Mr L was unlikely to have been able to make  
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner by the time it provided loan three. I say this 
because:
by this stage, Mr L was into his thirteenth month of owing Casheuronet money. And 
he was given a second payday  loan while he had an instalment loan, which hed 
been late in making payments on outstanding. In my view, Mr Ls loan history up until 
this point was in itself a clear  demonstration of his inability to settle his loans over the 
life of the credit agreement.   
Mr L was then provided with a second  instalment loan (loan four) not too long after 
he paid loan three. So Casheuronet ought to have realised it was more  likely than not 
Mr L was having to borrow further  to cover the hole the repayment  of his previous 
loans left in his finances and that Mr Ls indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Mr L owed Casheuronet money  for a period of almost two years. So Mr L struggled  to 
make any real inroads  into what he owed  Casheuronet and his indebtedness was 
being prolonged for an extended  period  of time.  This led to Mr L paying  large  
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Casheuronet over an extended 
period.
I think that Mr L lost out because Casheuronet continued to provide borrowing from loan 
three onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the extended period of time Mr L owed Casheuronet money was likely to have had 
negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept him in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint and Casheuronet should put things right.
putting things right  what Casheuronet needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans three and four (the second payday 
loan and the second instalment loan);
Ref: DRN38173273pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Mr L owed Casheuronet  money means that any information still 
recorded about loans three and four is adverse. So all entries about these loans 
(where they remain) should be removed from Mr Ls credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Casheuronet to take off tax from this interest. 
Casheuronet must give Mr L a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ls complaint.  Casheuronet  UK LLC 
(trading as Casheuronet) should  pay Mr L compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3817327