K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Tandem Bank Limited  (Tandem) didnt allow  him to make a balance 
transfer to pay off the credit card he holds with it. He says the definition of balance  transfers 
on Tandems website  is misleading. He wants Tandem to waive  interest charges on his card 
for at least six months and he wants compensation for the trouble and upset  he says hes 
suffered.
background
Mr M holds  a credit card with Tandem. He wanted  to pay off his outstanding balance using a 
balance transfer  facility from his other cards, but the transaction was rejected  so Mr M 
complained. Tandem didnt uphold the complaint. It said it was clear   in its terms and 
conditions, that Mr Ms credit card didnt allow balance transfers. And the website particularly 
made this clear in the key features information about  the card account. So it didnt think  it 
had misled Mr M.
Mr M said Tandem  didnt  make it clear that this applied to transfers to and from the card, and 
the credit  card statement itself referred  to balance transfer interest rates. Unhappy with the 
outcome he brought his complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He said Mr Ms complaint shouldnt be 
upheld because Tandem  had made  it clear   before Mr M applied for the card,  that it didnt 
allow balance transfers. And he thought these were  general enough  statements to make it 
clear it referred to transfers both to and from the card. He also thought the credit card 
statement Mr M received had been  set out using  a general format  for such  statements and 
didnt mean  Tandem accepted balance transfers.  In addition, he explained  that Tandem 
offered four different ways for payments  to be made   Mr M has said there  were  only two  
which he didnt think was unreasonable.
But Mr M didnt agree.  He said the website wasnt entirely clear about matters  and he 
thought the reference  to not accepting balance transfers within the terms and conditions  
related to payments going out and not incoming balance transfers. 
He wanted Tandem to include warnings about not accepting balance  transfers  within its 
credit card agreements and the application  process, and he also wanted interest on his 
credit card to be waived for a period of time as well as compensation  to be paid for the 
inconvenience hed been caused.  As he didnt accept the investigators assessment he 
asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman, and so its been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M feels strongly about  this matter and believes he should be able to pay 
his credit card balance using funds  from other  cards  he holds. And I can understand Mr Ms 
frustration at the situation and have some sympathy for his position. 
Ref: DRN30188792But I dont think Tandem  has done  anything wrong  here  which  I know will disappoint  Mr M, 
so Ill explain why.
Ive looked at Tandems website and seen the lowdown section on its credit  cards.  This 
section is a simple explanation  of some of the main features of the card  and is available  for 
consumers to read before making an application, which is itself an online  process.  And the 
section states balance  transfers  this card doesnt offer balance  transfers. So I think  
Tandem made it clear in the information  Mr W would have been  able to see before he 
agreed to take out the card, that it wouldnt allow balance transfers  and I dont think its 
been misleading there.
Ive also seen how the same website referred to four other documents  that should be read 
before applying for a card. One of the documents  pre-credit information, also confirmed 
that we dont currently offer balance transfers.  But I havent  seen any statements on any of 
Tandems literature  or its website   which suggested that Mr M was allowed  to transfer 
from his other credit  cards and pay off his Tandem  card. 
In particular, the terms and conditions (credit  card agreement) that Mr M was required to 
sign and return to Tandem didnt make any reference to balance transfers. Mr M says this 
was misleading  and he wants Tandem to include warnings that it doesnt  allow  balance  
transfers to be inserted  into this agreement. But Im satisfied theres no reference to balance  
transfers in the agreement  because  Tandem doesnt currently  allow them,  and I think thats a 
reasonable position to take.  Mr M says its unusual not to allow  balance  transfers  onto an 
existing card, so further explanation is needed  within the card agreement. But although Mr M 
might not be happy  with this position  and I know hed like it changed.  Im not going to ask 
Tandem to do anything  around the explanation  it gave Mr M.  
Mr M also says Tandems  position  is misleading  in that it doesnt distinguish  between 
balance transfers  to the card and from the card.  He assumed its position was only that it 
wouldnt allow transfers from its card to another. But I dont think Tandems statement is 
misleading. It clearly states  that this card doesnt offer balance  transfers . I dont think  any 
explanation of whether the transfer is to or from the card is necessary. I think the statement 
is unequivocal and encompasses  all balance transfers in the way its written.  
Mr M has said his monthly credit card statement  referred to balance  transfer  interest rates. 
And Ive seen how the summary box on the website also makes  reference to the same 
balance transfer  rates. Tandem has said this is just for information purposes and not an 
invitation for consumers  to transfer  balances. But I think  overall  the statement Tandem 
made on its website, that it doesnt currently accept balance transfers, is a stronger 
representation of its position.
Mr M has said that Tandem only offers two ways to make  payments to the card which he 
says further proves  the card is restrictive. But Ive seen how Tandem offers up to four 
different ways for payment to be made  which doesnt seem unreasonable  in the 
circumstances 
Its clear Mr M isnt happy  with some  of Tandems business decisions and practices.  But that 
doesnt mean Tandem  has done  anything wrong, as I think its acted  in line with its own 
terms and conditions relating to balance transfers. Theres no obligation on Tandem to offer 
balance transfers   even if Mr M would  like it to, as long as its made that clear   which I 
Ref: DRN30188793think it has. So I dont  think Tandem has acted unfairly here and Im not going  to ask it to do 
anything in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 June  2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3018879