K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  about  Allianz Insurance Plc. He isnt happy  that it didnt refund his car 
insurance premium.
background
Mr L insured his car with Allianz  in January 2018.  Unfortunately he wasnt able to use his car 
for some of the time his car was on cover as the Driver  and Vehicle Licensing Agency 
(DVLA) told him that he couldnt drive for a few months. And eventually  the DVLA  told him 
that he wasnt authorised  to drive at all so he sold his car and cancelled  his policy.
Mr L asked his insurer if it would  refund  his premium for the time he was unable  to use his 
car. But Allianz wouldnt refund it. It explained  that Mr L was still insured  throughout  this 
period and it explained that the named  drivers on his policy were still covered to drive the car 
throughout this period. As Allianz  wouldnt refund his premiums Mr L complained to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr L but didnt uphold his complaint. Although  she 
understood Mr Ls position she was satisfied that Allianz hadnt  acted unreasonably. This 
was because Mr Ls car was still insured throughout this time and wasnt declared  off road 
with the (DVLA).
Mr L didnt agree. He thought that Allianz  should  refund his premiums for the time he wasnt  
driving the car. So the matter has been passed  to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not intending to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain  why.
I know Mr L feels that he should be refunded some of his motor insurance premium  for the 
time he wasnt able to use his car. But his car was insured throughout this period  of time 
even if he didnt drive  it. And if something  happened to his car during this time (for example if 
it was stolen) then Allianz would have had to pay the claim as the car was still insured. Plus,  
Mr L had named drivers on the policy who were free to use the car as it was insured. Indeed 
Allianz would be responsible if one of the named  drivers was involved in an accident  during 
the time Mr Ls car was insured. So Mr Ls car was insured until he sold it.
Furthermore, Mr Ls car has to be insured unless it was declared SORN (statutory off-road 
notification) with the DVLA and it wasnt. Mr L also feels that Allianz should look to refund 
part of the premium that covered the use of his car by him on the road.  But motor insurance  
doesnt work like this and as I outlined above the car was still insured to be driven on the 
road by the named drivers in any event.
So although  I can understand Mr Ls frustration,  as he wasnt able to use his car, it was still 
insured throughout and Allianz  would be responsible for any claim while his car was insured. 
Although Allianz  risk was reduced  for a period of time (as Mr L wasnt  driving) it was still on 
risk for fire, theft and third party damage and wouldve had to pay any potential  claim. And 
he wouldve had to have  insured his car in any event unless his car was declared SORN.
Ref: DRN30618932As such I cant  conclude Allianz  has acted  unreasonably. I say this as it cancelled Mr Ls 
insurance when  he sold his car and told it he wanted to cancel his policy. And as it wasnt  
declared SORN before that time.  
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3061893