K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a Yorkshire  Bank-branded  commercial mortgage Mr M holds with 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc. He says that delays  on Yorkshires part in consenting to him letting out 
his premises to a new tenant caused  him financial losses of over £60,000, which  should  be 
reimbursed to him. 
background 
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex,  and there are over a 
thousand pages of evidence. Ive read everything, and its apparent that theres  a lot of 
duplication and repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I have, by necessity, summarised 
events in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using my own words and rounding  
some of the figures  involved. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
Mr M owns an investment property, subject to a mortgage with Yorkshire;  it became vacant 
in 2016, and he spent much  of that year and the following  one trying  to secure a new tenant. 
After a number of possible tenants  fell away, Mr M agreed in the summer of 2017  to let the 
property to a business  Ill call G. As part of the agreement,  it was anticipated that Mr M 
would buy Gs existing  premises from it. 
Anxious not to lose another tenant   and also not wanting to jeopardise  the linked purchase 
- Mr M had allowed G access  to the property  to begin the process of fitting it out, and in late 
2017, allowed  G to occupy it altogether. However, on his solicitors advice, Mr G didnt  take 
any rent from G pending the execution of the lease.
The terms of the mortgage meant Yorkshire  needed to give its consent to the lease. 
Unfortunately, despite repeated chase-ups  (by phone and email) from Mr M and his solicitor, 
this process dragged on into the summer  of 2018. In late September 2018, Mr M managed 
to speak to a Mr P at Yorkshire, who listened  to everything he said and agreed to try and 
expedite matters as soon as possible.
True to his word, Mr P succeeded in getting  the banks consent  issued  within three days,  
allowing Mr M and G finally to enter into a formal  lease agreement  in early October 2018 so 
that Mr M would receive rent. Unfortunately, by then,  the connected sale of Gs existing  
property to Mr M had fallen through.
Mr M complained, putting his losses at over £60,000. Approximately £49,000 of this was 
attributed to the loss of income that would have been generated from the other property; the 
rest was lost rent on Mr Ms own premises due to the delay in formalising the lease with G.
Yorkshire largely rejected the complaint;  it waived  its consent fee (£420 including VAT) and 
offered £80 compensation. But it didnt agree it was liable for any lost rent, saying it was 
Mr Ms choice  not to charge it.
When the case came to us, our investigator  thought it should be upheld; at least in part. She 
didnt think the loss arising from the abortive connected purchase should be borne by 
Ref: DRN39155882Yorkshire; it had no knowledge of this until later, and could  not reasonably have foreseen  it 
as a possible consequence of the delay. But she found that Yorkshire had clearly delayed 
consenting to the lease,  and that it was liable  to reimburse Mr M his lost rent; or at least  
some of it.
Having analysed the timeline of events, the investigator took the view that Yorkshire could 
only reasonably  be held to account for delays  after Mr Ms solicitors  had submitted  the draft 
lease for approval  in early March 2018.  Had Yorkshire acted with reasonable timeliness from 
that point, she estimated  that it should have been  possible  for consent to be provided by 
24 April 2018. This,  in turn would have allowed for the lease to be executed   and for rent to 
become payable  by 6 May,  as opposed to 9 October,  2018.
The investigator recommended  Yorkshire reimburse Mr M the lost rent for that 155-day 
period, and pay compensation of £250 rather than its original offer of £80. Yorkshire 
accepted the investigators recommendations and quantified the amount payable for the lost 
rent at £2,802.74. Mr M didnt accept the investigators findings  and asked for his complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. Were  impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions  
on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  our investigations and reach  our 
conclusions without interference from anyone else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Its also our judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.
This complaint is simpler than its been  made  to look. Its not one where  I have to decide 
fault; Yorkshire had already admitted taking too long to consent  to the lease. And now, by 
virtue of it having accepted the investigators  recommendation, it appears,  albeit belatedly, to 
have accepted that it is liable to reimburse Mr M for lost rent caused by the delays. All I need 
to decide is what  redress he is fairly  due. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive some disappointing 
new for Mr M. Ive reached  the same overall  conclusion as the investigator, and for much the 
same overall reasons.
Yorkshire was clearly unaware  until after the lease had been  formalised  that there had been 
a contingent transaction involving the sale of land from G to Mr M. Mr M had made a point of 
telling us that he kept this information from Yorkshire. That was entirely  his right;  but it was 
also his choice, and he must bear the consequences of that choice. The key consequence 
here is that I can make no award  of redress for a loss that Yorkshire could not reasonably 
have foreseen  as potentially flowing from the delay  in consenting to the lease.
Ref: DRN39155883I recognise that the securing of Gs tenancy,  and Yorkshires consent to it, has been a long 
drawn out matter  for Mr M, and clearly  it did begin  earlier than 7 March  2018 when Mr Ms 
solicitor sent the bank  a draft lease. But the formal  process of approving the lease  and 
consenting to it couldnt realistically have begun until that had happened. 
I accept its possible that submission of the draft lease was held up by some  of the 
frustrations Mr M experienced  in his phone calls and email  exchanges with Yorkshire. But it 
is only a possibility, and one that, to turn into a probability, would require me to speculate 
beyond what I consider is safe for me to do. 
Overall, I agree  with the investigator  that, when assessing the impact  of Yorkshires failings, 
7 March 2018 is the appropriate starting point. I also agree that, by extrapolating from that 
starting point, its reasonable to arrive at a notional  alternative date of 6 May 2018  for the 
formalisation of the lease. The offer of redress that Yorkshire has now made, and which our 
investigator has put to Mr M to consider, fairly  reflects  the rent he would have earned 
between 6 May and 9 October 2018.
The offer from Yorkshire didnt include  any payment of interest  on the money  that Mr M has 
been deprived of. Equally, however, there was no mention of it deducting basic rate tax from 
what is, in essence,  a payment in respect  of lost earnings. Taking  both of these  factors  into 
account, it favours Mr M to leave the award as it is, so that is what  I do.
Regarding compensation for Mr Ms time,  trouble and upset, £80 was never going to be 
enough, and to be honest Im surprised Yorkshire thought it would be. That said, theres  no 
proper basis for me to consider  awarding  Mr M compensation at his professional  charge-out  
rate (hes  told us this is around £200  +VAT). This was Mr Ms own transaction, so any time 
Mr M spent  on it is deemed to be his personal  time. Taking a step back  and looking at 
everything in the round, I find that £250  is fair compensation in all the circumstances for the 
distress caused to Mr M by Yorkshires  handling  of this transaction.
Mr M doesnt have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt,  then neither he nor Yorkshire 
will be bound by my final decision.  Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions  a court 
might impose, Mr Ms right to take legal action  against Yorkshire over the subject matter of 
this complaint wont have  been prejudiced  by our consideration of it.
Ref: DRN39155884my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in 
part by ordering Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay Mr M:
£2,802.74  in reimbursement of lost rent; and
£250 compensation.
I dont make any other order or award. My final decision concludes  this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of 
the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3915588