K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
1998, by post.  Mr G says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
taken this into account in deciding Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make Mr G aware  that the PPI was optional  and get his consent before 
adding the policy to his card. Capital  One has sent us a copy  of the application form Mr G 
filled in when he applied  for his card and PPI. I cant see that he had any help from Capital 
One to complete the application.  The form gave Mr G the option  to accept or decline PPI. 
Both options were  equally clear  on the form. Mr G selected the box to take PPI and the 
form has been signed. So I think Capital  One made it clear that Mr G didnt have to take out 
the PPI and that he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he may not 
remember this now given  how much  time has passed.
Capital One didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt  have to check if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr G got the information he needed  to decide if it 
was right for his needs and he wanted  to buy it.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But he chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means  he had of 
making his repayments,  which included a generous  amount  of sick pay. The PPI would 
have paid out on top of Mr Gs sick pay. Mr G said he didnt have any savings he couldve 
used to help meet his repayments. So, I think the PPI couldve provided  him with valuable  
protection in his circumstances, allowing him to use his work benefits to meet his other 
living expenses.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Gs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so I think it wouldve 
been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
dont think having  better  information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said, but these points dont change  my decision. I 
cant see that he has lost out because of anything that Capital One couldve done  better.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr G. 
my final decision
I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN37028542Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 September 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3702854