K822xcomplaint
Mr A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc is holding him liable for a debt on a credit card 
that he didnt apply for.
background 
Mr A thinks  that an unknown third party used  his personal details to apply for a credit card 
account with Capital One. He disputes all the transactions  made with the card. He says that 
Capital One has defaulted the account and told him that he had to repay the outstanding  
balance of just over £300. 
Capital One said that following its investigation  of Mr As complaint it decided to hold him 
liable for the outstanding balance on the disputed credit card account. The account had 
been applied  for online  and it didnt  think that an unknown third party had opened  it. 
After Mr A had brought his complaint to this service, Capital One decided not to pursue Mr A 
for the debt. It agreed to write it off and remove all references to the account from his credit  
file.
Our investigator thought that Capital  One had acted  fairly in investigating Mr As complaint 
and that its offer was fair. He didnt think it had made a mistake  or acted unreasonably and 
so didnt think it should offer any compensation.
Mr A said that it had been a very stressful  time for him, for which he thought he should be 
awarded some compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid I have to tell Mr A that I agree with the investigators  view for 
broadly the same reasons.
As Capital  One has now closed  the credit card account, written  off the debt and removed  
any reference to the account from Mr As credit file, I dont consider  that I need  to investigate 
how this happened. But I have looked carefully at what steps  Capital One took once Mr A 
had complained to see whether it should  have done this any sooner than it did.
After Mr A told Capital One that he hadnt taken  out the card, I consider it was entitled to 
carry out its own investigations to verify the situation, which  Id expect it to do promptly and 
fairly. Im not persuaded that the circumstances of the credit card application were such  that 
Capital One should have  realised that Mr A wasnt the genuine applicant.  I say this because  
Mr As genuine personal details were used in the application, including  his postal address, 
date of birth and mobile telephone number.  And Capital One sent the credit card and 
personal identification number in separate posts  to Mr As genuine  address.  It also sent an 
activation link to register for mobile banking for this disputed  card by text message to Mr As 
genuine mobile phone.  So I dont think Capital One made a mistake or acted unreasonably.
I do understand that this would have been  very upsetting  and worrying  time for Mr A. I have 
very carefully considered what happened  and, as Ive explained, I consider the steps  Capital 
Ref: DRN34298562One took were  reasonable. Im satisfied that, as Capital One has now agreed to write off the 
debt and remove any reference to the account  from his credit file, Mr A hasnt suffered any 
financial loss because  of the card. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr A but overall Im not 
persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable for me to require Capital One to do any more 
than it has already done.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. If it hasnt already done so I require  Capital 
One (Europe)  plc to:
1.Write  off the debt outstanding against this card and close the account.
2.Remove any references to this account  from Mr As credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3429856