K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Ms C says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Capital One had to make it clear  that the policy was optional and Ms C had to agree to take 
it out. Ive been  given  a copy of the credit card application form that was completed at the 
time and on this form there is a section about PPI. In this section there are boxes to tick to 
accept or decline the cover and I can see that a tick has been placed in the yes box. If 
Ms C didnt want to take out the PPI she could have ticked the no box. Ms C has also 
signed the overall form which suggests  she agreed with everything that had been  entered.
In addition to this, Ive also seen  some of Ms Cs credit  card statements and the charge 
for PPI is shown as a separate entry. If Ms C didnt know what  this extra  charge was 
for, or hadnt agreed to take out the PPI, I think she would have questioned at the time.
So, based on everything Ive seen  and been  told, I think  Capital One made it clear that 
the policy was optional and that Ms C agreed  to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if 
she didnt want it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Ms C so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Ms C got the information she needed to decide for herself  
if it was right for her.
Its possible  the information Capital One gave  Ms C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI by ticking the box on the application form 
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover - so it would  have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks  like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have  put her 
off taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt need  to pay back the premiums  paid for the PPI to Ms C.
Ive thought about everything Ms C has said, including what she had said about not 
needing the policy as she would have  received  at least six months  full sick pay from her 
employer. But this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months which would  be in 
addition to her sick pay and would pay out for potentially longer than she would receive  full 
pay. And it would also provide cover for the same length of time if she was to lose her job. 
As Ms C didnt have  any other means  with which to meet her repayments if she wasnt  
earning, I think this policy could have provided  her with a useful benefit. So this point 
doesnt change  my decision.
Ref: DRN31113172my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3111317