K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complained that she was mis-sold  a credit card payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS).
background
Mrs M took out the PPI in April 2002 when  she applied  for a credit card. BoS said the sale 
took place during a meeting and that Mrs M was advised to take the cover.  Mrs M said the 
PPI was added to the card without her knowledge  and consent,  and she didnt know that she 
had a choice about cancelling it afterwards.
The policy cost 78p for each £100.00 owed. If Mrs M had successfully claimed on the policy 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, each month it wouldve  paid out 10% of the balance 
outstanding when she stopped work.  This wouldve carried on for up to 12 months per claim. 
The policy also provided life and critical illness cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that BoS mis-sold the policy, 
and therefore  didnt uphold the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
BoS sent in a copy of Mrs Ms credit card agreement. This shows  a cross in a box to say that 
she wanted PPI (but no cross in a second  box relating to another  insurance product). The 
cross was pre-printed  but so was all of the information on the form, including  Mrs Ms 
income and employment details.  So I think its most likely that the agreement was printed out 
after a discussion with the adviser  and that the PPI formed  part of that discussion. I 
consider it reasonable to think that Mrs M would have looked over the form she signed, even 
if only briefly.  So, on balance, I think Mrs M was aware of the PPI and was given a choice 
about whether  to take it - and that she agreed  to it. I think she probably just doesnt 
remember doing so after all this time.
Im satisfied BoS advised Mrs M to take out the PPI. So it had to make sure that it was 
suitable for her. I think it was. 
As the sale took place in a meeting I cant know how the adviser explained the PPI, or the 
things not covered by the policy.  But I cant see that Mrs M wouldve been affected  by any of 
these. 
Mrs M told us she wouldnt have been entitled  to sick pay from her employer, and had no 
other means  of meeting  the monthly  repayments  on the credit card. So I think she could 
quite quickly have found it difficult to make the payments if shed  been  off sick or lost her job. 
And Ive kept in mind that the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  per claim. So I 
dont think there was anything wrong  with BoS recommending the PPI. 
Ref: DRN31621562Ive also considered the information that BoS mightve given Mrs M. As Ive said, I cant  
know how the adviser explained  the policy, or at what  point  Mrs M mightve been given a 
policy summary or full policy document. So its possible the information about the cost and 
benefits may not have been  as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, given Mrs Ms circumstances, I dont think more  detailed information about  the 
cost and benefits wouldve changed  her decision to take the policy. It couldve provided 
useful protection  if shed  been unable to work. 
Overall, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mrs M 
paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mrs M back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
I understand BoS will make arrangements to pay Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3162156