K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds decision to record  a claim
as a fault claim against his car insurance  policy. Hes also unhappy  with its decision to settle
a personal injury claim from the third parties.  Mr Ds mother Mrs D is representing him in his
complaint.
background
Mr D drove  into a petrol station. He reversed his car to straighten up closer to the fuel pump.
As he did so another car was driving  past behind Mr D. The rear of Mr Ds car collided with
the right rear of the other drivers car. CCTV footage is available which  shows the incident.
Mr D said that the other driver had driven through the station to use as a thoroughfare. He
said that staff had told the other  driver she had driven incorrectly through  a no entry access.
Admiral reviewed images of the petrol station and found no evidence  of any signs  to say
which was the correct entry and exit route to use. So as Mr D was reversing,  it held Mr D at
fault for the claim as the onus was on him to check. There was no evidence  to show  the
other driver wasnt correctly  proceeding.
Mr D was very unhappy with Admirals  decision  to settle a claim for personal  injury from the
other driver and her passenger. Admiral said the reason  it did this was because the CCTV
footage showed occupancy movement  on impact with Mr Ds car. Mr D didnt agree the
footage showed this.
Our investigator thought Admirals decision to record the claim as a fault claim was reached
in a reasonable way. He explained  that it isnt our role to decide  liability. But based on the
terms of Admirals policy and the evidence available  to it, he didnt  think  it had acted
unreasonably here.
However, the investigator thought it wasnt reasonable for Admiral to have settled  a PI claim
without requesting any medical  evidence from the third parties, given the amount of the
claim which came to a total of £5,338.
And  although commercially sensitive so we cant share the details of its rates with Mr D 
Admiral confirmed that the costs of the claim will have an impact  on Mr Ds premium at
renewal. This date has since passed  since Mr D brought his complaint  to us.
So to put things right, the investigator recommended Admiral remove  the costs  of the PI
claim in total from Admirals record of the fault claim.
Mr D accepted the investigators findings.  Admiral didnt agree. It provided us with the
information the third parties gave them and its reasons  for reaching its decision to settle their
PI claim without medical evidence. We cannot  share this information  with Mr D or his
representative as it is private information about  the third party. But we can consider  it in
deciding whether Admiral  has acted  reasonably.
I issued a provisional decision on 23 January 2020. I thought Admiral had acted reasonably.  
Neither party has replied  to my provisional decision.  So the case  has been passed back  to 
me to decide.
Ref: DRN38727872my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I havent received any comments  from 
either party, my final decision remains along  the same lines as my provisional decision.
For ease Ive set out the complaints under  headings below.
Admirals decision to deal with the claim  as a fault claim
As the investigator  explained, Admirals policy has a very common term which allows  it to
take over the defence and settlement of a claim in Mr Ds name. This means that Admiral
might make a decision Mr D doesnt agree with. But the policy  allows Admiral to make  that
decision. We dont  disagree with this term in principle, provided  an insurer  can show  it
treated its customer fairly when applying it.
I understand Mr Ds mother is unhappy that Admiral appeared to accept liability  for the
incident before it properly  investigated the claim  and viewed the CCTV footage. However, I
think the evidence  available to Admiral shows that it reached its decision in a reasonable
way.
There isnt any evidence  to show that the petrol  station signposted the way in or way out of
the station. I know Mr D believes the other driver  should accept some responsibility for the
incident. But from the information available,  the other driver was correctly  proceeding. So as
Mr D was carrying out a reverse manoeuvre which led to the impact, I dont think  Admirals
decision to record the claim  as fault was reached  unreasonably.  The onus was on Mr D to
check it was safe and clear before carrying out his manoeuvre.
Admiral has settled a personal  injury  claim which isnt justified
Admiral said it made the decision  to settle  the third parties PI claims because  the CCTV
footage showed occupancy movement  on impact.
Ive reviewed the footage and I dont agree. I think its too far away  to show the occupants 
or any movement at the point of impact. However, it does show that Mr Ds car hit the right
rear of the other drivers  car. So it shows the incident did happen.
And this means  it shows causation. Its common practice for insurers to make  a pre-medical
offer (an offer made before any medical evidence is obtained)  in order to settle  an injury
claim quickly - where its likely that the medical  evidence and legal costs are likely to
escalate. We dont  necessarily think this is unreasonable, assuming that their policyholder  is
at fault for the accident. That is the case here.  But we expect to see that such  an offer is
supported by other evidence, such as vehicle damage for example.
I understand that the third party  hasnt  claimed for repairs to their car. But we know from the
footage that Mr Ds car hit the third partys car. This is a finely  balanced case. The claim
costs are a little higher than what we would  usually see in a low value  claim.  But I think
Admiral has provided sufficient information to show that its decision to settle the third parties
personal injury claims was reached in a fair and reasonable way without medical evidence. I
think its more likely  than not that  had Admiral obtained medical  evidence   the outcome
wouldnt have been different.
Ref: DRN38727873In any event, we cant  ask an insurer to remove claim costs from the third party database it
uses to record claims.  Where we find that an insurer has incorrectly recorded claim costs,
we usually ask the insurer to provide a letter  confirming what  the correct  costs should be.
But I dont intend  to ask Admiral to do this here. I think it properly considered the information
it received from the third parties in relation  to their claim, in relation to the incident which the
CCTV footage  showed,  and in line with the policy which allows  Admiral  to take over the
defence and settlement of a claim.
I realise Mr D will be disappointed with what Ive said.  And I can understand that this might
cause frustration as Admirals decision was based on information which  cannot  be shared
with Mr D. But I dont intend  to uphold his complaint. I think  Admiral  dealt with the claim
reasonably and in line with the policy. This means I think  the claim stands as a fault claim
and doesnt need to be changed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3872787