K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy that a claim for earthquake  damage under their commercial  
landlords insurance policy has been declined  by U K Insurance  Limited (UKI).
background
Mr and Mrs B own a building  comprising a shop with two flats above, all of which  they let out. 
In May 2015  they made a claim to UKI because theyd been  notified of cracking to the front 
elevation of the property. The next day there  was an earthquake. Mr and Mrs B say that 
caused the minor damage suffered by their property to become severe. 
After investigation  UKI said the damage had been there for a long time before the 
earthquake happened. It thought the damage was due to a failure or lack of wall ties in the 
brickwork. It declined the claim  in July 2015.
In 2018 Mr and Mrs B complained to UKI. By then theyd fully renovated the property and 
repaired the damage. UKI didnt change  its decision. It said the damage hadnt been 
caused by subsi dence,  earth quake or anything else covered  by their policy.
They brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. 
She wasnt convinced  that the earthquake was the main  cause  of the damage. As 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree, the matter has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes all the reports  from 
Mr and Mrs Bs builder  and their letting agent.
Mr and Mrs Bs policy provides cover for damage  caused to their property during the lifetime  
of the policy  by a range  of events  (which are listed in the policy). For any insurance claim to 
be successful its a requirement in the first instance for the policyholder to establish their 
claim by showing that the damage theyre claiming  for occurred whilst the policy was in force  
and was caused by one of the listed events. If Mr and Mrs B are unable to overcome this 
requirement, their claim will fail.
The claim was presented by Mr and Mrs Bs broker as possible subsidence damage.  The 
parties seem to agree that it isnt in fact subsidence damage.
Its not in dispute  that there  was an earthquake of 4.2 near Mr and Mrs Bs property at the 
time in question.  But its not agreed  that the earthquake caused the damage to their property 
that theyre claiming  for.
Mr and Mrs Bs builder  has provided various  reports in support of their claim that the 
damage was caused by the earthquake. He listed various works carried  out to the property 
and said that it was structurally sound.  He said there  were no outstanding maintenance 
jobs. But this is contradicted by UKIs loss adjuster who found various signs  of poor 
maintenance, including water  getting into the property because  of blocked or defective  
gutters.
Ref: DRN37810902UKI relied  on a number  of sources  to decide  that the damage had probably been present  
before the earthquake. The most persuasive  to my mind are as follows:
 Mr and Mrs Bs broker sent it photos taken before the earthquake which  clearly  show 
cracking to the property;
 An internet  image of the property taken in 2014 also showed cracking.
UKI doesnt have  to show beyond all reasonable doubt that the cracks  were present before 
the earthquake  just that it was more likely than not that they were. Im satisfied its done 
that. Consequently, on the basis of what Ive seen, I dont think UKI acted unreasonably in 
relying on its loss adjusters report and declining Mr and Mrs Bs claim.
Mr and Mrs B have  provided this service  with new evidence in the form of receipts showing 
that damaged  masonry was repaired  just before the earthquake. UKI said that these repairs  
arent evident from the photos its surveyor took on the day of the earthquake. Having looked 
at the photos I agree  with its conclusion.  I can understand  why this hasnt changed UKIs 
decision and I dont  think thats unreasonable.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3781090