K820x#14complaint
Ms U complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably in claiming that she has breached the terms and conditions  of her mortgage  
and not allowing her to transfer to a new product. She wants  compensation.
background
Ms U took out a buy to let mortgage with TMW through  a broker  in 2011. In 2017,  TMW 
wrote to Ms U and told her that it was a breach  of the terms and conditions of the mortgage  
to allow  the property to be lived in by a member of her family. Ms U said that this was 
incorrect and the terms and conditions issued in 2006 and 2009 allowed a member of her 
family to live in the property. Ms U also complained that she hadnt been able to transfer  to a 
new product since 2014  and since the letter of 2017,  TMW  had placed a hold on the 
account, preventing  a transfer to another lender or product, which she alleged  was a breach 
of her human rights and the law.
Ms U complained to TMW.  It said that it received evidence that the property was being lived 
in by Ms U herself, which wasnt  allowed under the terms and conditions of the buy to let 
mortgage. TMW refused  to remove the hold over the account  until Ms U provided the 
evidence requested to show she didnt live there. It denied  breaching  the law, including  data 
protection law. Other  issues not raised  with this service were  also dealt with.
Ms U complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that TMW wasnt at fault. He said there  
was no evidence Ms Us human rights or the law had been  breached.  The adjudicator noted 
that TMW asked Ms U to prove that she didnt live in the property and wasnt satisfied with 
the evidence she provided; it didnt comply  with what TMW had asked for and showed  that 
the property was rented out to a family member. He pointed out that TMW  explained this and 
that it was always  possible for Ms U to go to another lender. The adjudicator considered  the 
terms and conditions that applied and noted  that while they didnt  say that a family member 
couldnt live there, it was clear that Ms U couldnt  live there  as she couldnt  give herself a 
tenancy for her own property. He thought TMW had acted fairly  and reasonably as Ms U 
hadnt supplied  it with sufficient evidence that she didnt live in the property.
Ms U disagreed. She said that shed supplied tenancy agreements so she hadnt breached 
the terms and conditions of the mortgage  and shed  sent proof of sending documents to 
TMW, so she wasnt at fault if they werent  received. Ms U was adamant  that her human 
rights and the law had been  broken and there  was no reason why she or her relatives 
couldnt live in the property. She also said the adjudicators view was in breach of the law.
The adjudicator didnt change his view.  He explained that Ms U had to show  to TMW that 
she didnt live in the property, and she couldnt give herself a tenancy. TMW  was able to say 
what evidence it would  accept and there  was no evidence  that it received the package  Ms U 
sent to it. The adjudicator  pointed out that it was strange Ms U couldnt  send the evidence  
requested if she didnt live in the property.  Ms U remained unhappy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN37992102Its the role of the broker to explain the terms and conditions of the mortgage to a consumer 
and ensure that the product is suitable to meet their needs. So if the broker failed to ensure 
that Ms U understood that the property couldnt be lived in by a member  of her family, that 
isnt the fault of TMW.
Having reviewed the terms and conditions of the mortgage, I dont accept that Ms Us 
relatives cant live in the property, if a suitable tenancy is put in place. But I do accept that 
Ms U isnt allowed to live in the property as she cant give herself  a lease and this is a buy-
to-let mortgage. 
It is Ms Us inability  to provide acceptable evidence that she isnt living in the property which  
is the cause of TMWs refusal to allow the mortgage product to be changed. Ms U is free 
though to move to another lender. I also think that the evidence available  to me shows  that 
TMW is acting  reasonably to be concerned that Ms U is living in the property; its fair and 
reasonable for it to ask Ms U to provide evidence acceptable to it that she isnt living there.
Ms U hasnt provided that evidence to TMW. The package she says she posted  has not 
reached TMW, and the evidence provided is not what TMW  asked for. In all the 
circumstances, I cant  say that its unfair or unreasonable for TMW  to refuse to offer Ms U a 
new buy-to-let mortgage product for a property  in which she isnt allowed to live. While legal 
disputes are a matter  for the courts  to resolve, not this service, I havent  seen  any evidence 
that could support a finding  that Ms Us human rights or the law has been breached by 
TMW.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms U to accept or reject my decision before 
16 September 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3799210