K820x#14complaint
Miss H and Mr R say Bank of Scotland  plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Miss H and Mr R had an MPPI policy alongside their mortgage, which  they took out in 1991. 
They paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss H and Mr R disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss H and Mr Rs case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss H and Mr Rs complaint for the following reasons:
Because the MPPI was sold almost  30 years ago, and the mortgage account closed in 
2002  over 15 years  ago  Bank  of Scotland understandably doesnt have any records  
of exactly when or how the MPPI  was sold. But its records  show  the policy  did exist. 
This lack of records means  I cant be sure of what happened. 
I appreciate that Miss H and Mr R are adamant they didnt consent to or know  about the 
MPPI. But there  is no other evidence to support what  theyre saying. And the sale was a 
very long time ago. So it may be theyve simply  forgotten  that they agreed to it. Given 
how long ago it was, that would be completely understandable.  But overall, I dont think  
it would be fair and reasonable for me to conclude, solely on the basis  of Miss H and 
Mr Rs recollection of events  that were  almost 30 years ago, that Bank of Scotland didnt 
make it clear  they had a choice  about  buying  the PPI, or that they didnt consent to it. 
Ive assumed that Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Miss H and Mr R, 
because that means  theyd  have had to check it was right for them. Based on what  Ive 
seen of their circumstances at the time it seems that it was. The mortgage was an 
important outgoing,  and if theyd fallen behind with repayments they may have lost their 
home. While they had some sick and redundancy pay and some savings, I dont think  
this made the MPPI  unsuitable  for them. 
I dont know how the cost of the MPPI  was presented to Miss H and Mr R. So its 
possible that Bank  of Scotland couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. 
But even if Bank  of Scotland had provided  clear information  about the cost, I think 
Miss H and Mr R would still have bought  it. This is because the MPPI wouldve paid out 
for up to a year if one of them had been off sick or made redundant. That wouldve 
protected their savings and allowed them to use any sick or redundancy pay for other 
things. 
Ref: DRN35955922Its possible  that Bank of Scotland didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But Miss H and Mr R dont appear  to have  been affected  by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Miss H and Mr Rs comments. But these points  dont change  my 
conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss H and Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H and Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 August  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3595592