K821x#15complaint
Mr L says Elevate Credit  International  Limited  (trading as Sunny) mis-sold him payday loans 
because Sunny didnt carry out sufficient checks before providing him with credit. 
 
background
Mr L took seven instalment loans from Sunny between August 2015 and September  2016. 
And a summary of Mr Ls borrowing, based on the information provided  to us from Sunny, 
can be found in the table  below:
loan 
number loan 
amountreceived dateactual 
repayment  
datenumber of 
instalmentsmax monthly  
repayment
1 £400.00 29/08/2015 25/09/2015 6 £125.39
2 £100.00 13/11/2015 18/12/2015 6 £33.35
3 £300.00 01/12/2015 18/12/2015 6 £125.57
4 £400.00 13/02/2016 19/02/2016 6 £133.40
5 £50.00 01/07/2016 02/07/2016 6 £15.37
6 £400.00 17/08/2016 19/08/2016 6 £133.40
7 £50.00 08/09/2016 20/09/2016 6 £14.67
In our adjudicators most recent findings  he thought Sunny hadnt treated Mr L fairly when it 
gave him any of his loans.  The adjudicator thought that loan 1 shouldnt have been  provided 
to Mr L because he thought the information that Mr L declared along with the credit  report  
data that Sunny obtained shouldve led it to carry out further checks. And had Sunny carried 
out further checks, its likely it wouldve seen that Mr L had a number of outstanding short  
term loans and so the repayments for this loan and any subsequent loans were not 
sustainable.  
Sunny didnt accept  the adjudicators findings.  In relation to loan 1, Sunny said its checks 
indicated Mr L had sufficient disposable income  to be able to afford his repayments. And this 
loan was also repaid early,  which meant  Mr L didnt pay as much  interest  as he would 
otherwise have done. Sunny also pointed  out that its products are designed to allow a 
customer to have up to four active loans running at once. Finally Sunny also considers there 
to be a significant gap in lending between loans 4 and 5.
However, to resolve  this complaint  Sunny  offered to refund the interest,  fees and charges for 
loans 6 and 7 and remove these loan entries  from Mr Ls credit  file. 
Mr L rejected Sunnys  offer and as no agreement could be reached,  the case has been  
passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN32181822Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  in order to figure out whether 
Mr L could repay the loans in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  Mr L could  
sustainably make his repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Sunny has already accepted that it shouldnt have provided loans  6 and 7, so I wont be 
making any further findings about  these loans in this decision, because  they are no longer in 
dispute. But Sunny  does  need to provide compensation  for these loans  as it has already 
agreed to do. 
Before loan 1 was approved, Sunny carried out a credit search and it has provided us with 
the results of the check. The credit check results  that Sunny obtained, showed that Mr L had 
personal debt of just over £18,000 and had one outstanding short  term loan of £500. And I 
can see from Sunnys affordability  assessment that it factored in the outstanding short term 
credit commitments  when working  out Mr Ls outstanding credit commitments. And Sunny 
says that even when factoring in the known outstanding short term loan Mr L still had 
sufficient disposable  income in which to be able to afford this loan. 
Ref: DRN32181823However, there was other information in the credit  search results that Sunny ought to have 
given it cause for concern. It was aware, that Mr L had taken out 18 short  term loans in the 
previous 23 months  and had opened five such accounts within the last three  months. 
Additionally, Sunny was aware that his repayments to such lending were  nearly  £1,300 in 
the previous month. And these repayments  to other  short term lenders wouldve been a 
significant amount  of Mr Ls declared income.  
Keeping all of this in mind, I think this information  showed Sunny that this was a significant 
risk that these loan repayments may not have been  sustainable for Mr L because the 
information indicated  he had been  a regular long term user of short term lending. So I think  
this ought to have prompted Sunny to take a close look at Mr Ls finances. 
So, as our adjudicator  explained, proportionate checks for loan 1 and all subsequent loans 
would most  likely have  shown that:
Mr L had a significant number of outstanding short  term loans with a number of other 
short term loan providers.  And these short term loan commitments,  totalled nearly 
£1,000, which wouldve  taken up a significant portion of Mr Ls declared income of 
£1,850. On top of this, Mr L had his commitments to Sunny as well as his regular 
living costs. And I can see that, after loan 1 was approved, Mr L continued to use a 
number of other short term loan providers. 
So, in these circumstances,  I dont think Sunny couldve believed  that Mr L would've  
been able to repay loan 1 or any further loans without undue difficulty or without the 
need to borrow  again. 
Ive considered the comments Sunny  has raised  in response to the adjudicators findings. I 
can see some of the loans were  repaid  early  which either meant that Mr L paid no interest, 
or a very small sum. While this may be the case,  at the point that Sunny provided  these  
loans the expectation was that Mr L would repay these loans in line with the credit 
agreements. So Sunny cant rely on the fact that Mr L repaid these loans early to 
demonstrate that they were affordable for him or that he wasnt  having  any financial 
problems. In some situations this may be the case,  but it cant be relied upon as an indicator 
that Mr L wasnt having longer term difficulties, especially when  you take into consideration 
the result  of the credit checks.  
Ive also thought about the gap in lending  between loans  4 and 5 and whether this is 
significant enough to break the chain in lending. However, Sunny has pointed out that as the 
loan was taken  out and repaid so quickly  no interest was actually repaid on this loan, and 
this seems to be confirmed within the loan information it has provided.  
So, whether  or not Sunny was right or wrong to have approved loan 5 doesnt  make any 
difference to the redress due to Mr L, because  he didnt repay Sunny more than the principal 
amount he borrowed.  That means that Mr L wouldnt be due a refund for this loan regardless 
of what conclusions I might reach  about  whether it should have been given or not. Equally, 
as the loan was repaid so early, there  will be no adverse credit file information  to be 
removed from Mr Ls credit  file because the loan was settled early, with no missed 
payments.  
As Ive mentioned  above, Sunny has already agreed  to uphold loans 6 and 7, and this has 
been included  in the redress  that Ive outlined below. 
Ref: DRN32181824So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 1 - 5 and Sunny should put things right as 
detailed below. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans 1 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 1  4 from Mr Ls credit file
remove loans 6 and 7 from Ls credit  file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Mr Ls complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Mr L as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3218182