K820x#14complaint
Mr A and Ms A complain about the condition Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited left 
their carpet in having cleaned it following their home insurance claim for damage caused by 
an escape of water. 
background
Following an escape of water that caused  damage  at their home, Mr A and Ms A made  a 
claim under their home  insurance  policy in December 2016. Lloyds accepted the claim and 
appointed a surveyor to scope for the repairs. The surveyor was of the opinion  that the 
nature of the damage meant the carpet could be restored by cleaning  once the repairs  were 
finished. Photos  were  taken at the time of the inspection visit in January 2017. 
In March 2018, Lloyds carpet cleaning contractor attended to clean the carpet.  Photographs  
were taken before the cleaning was done. Shortly after Ms A complained to Lloyds that parts  
of the carpet had turned pink after being cleaned. Lloyds looked  into Ms As complaint and 
upheld it. It said it would  send its carpet  cleaning contractor back to the house  to inspect the 
carpet. It also paid Mr A and Ms A compensation  of £175 (this was made up of £100  for the 
poor service, £50 for the extra time the complaint took to investigate  and £25 towards  the 
costs of phone calls that had been made). 
Mr A and Ms A accepted  Lloyds offer and the carpet cleaning contractor returned.  They  were  
of the view that their cleaning process  hadnt  marked the carpet so took no further action. 
Mr A and Ms A complained again  to Lloyds. Lloyds  looked into their complaint but didnt 
uphold it. It said it had based its findings  on the report of its contractor and as a result of 
reviewing photographs taken before and after the cleaning took place. Lloyds was of the 
view that the carpet had been restored after cleaning to its pre-incident condition.  So it was 
happy that Mr A and Ms A had been placed back in the position they had been in before the 
claim was made.
Unhappy with the outcome of Lloyds investigation,  Mr A and Ms A complained to this 
service. They said the carpet was unhygienic and smelled damp  so wanted it replaced. They 
said that, in their view,  the carpets had never  been  cleaned properly and they said that the 
surveyor that attended originally said that the most appropriate course of action would be to 
replace the carpet. 
Mr A and Ms A also said that on the day the carpets  were cleaned the contractors machine 
broke and he spilled two buckets of water on the carpets. Ms A said that the cleaning spray  
that was then used left a pink hue on the carpet. Mr A and Ms A were also unhappy that, 
after their first complaint,  Lloyds had sent the same contractor that had cleaned the carpets 
originally back to their house  to inspect them. So they thought his investigation was unfair.
Our adjudicator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. She 
said it was clear from the photographs taken  at the inspection visit that the carpet was 
already suffering from some stains, ink marks and a pink hue none  of which  were  consistent 
with damage caused by an escape of water. Our adjudicator also thought that the report  
from the contractor was very clear and couldnt  reasonably be ignored. She thought  there 
was no evidence that the contractor damaged  the carpet whilst cleaning it.
Ref: DRN30123532Mr A and Ms A disagreed  with our adjudicators findings and said theyd been told at the 
outset that if they didnt  accept the carpet had been  properly  restored  then it would be 
replaced. They still thought that a different inspector shouldve been sent round to inspect  
the carpets after their first complaint. And they said the mould and the damp smell were still 
present. They  also said there werent any pink marks before the escape of water;  they said 
they were caused  by the cleaning fluid. 
Our adjudicator said that Lloyds wouldnt replace the carpets unless it considered that the 
cleaning attempts had failed  which it hadnt.  She reiterated that the pre-clean photographs 
showed the carpet was marked and whilst she noted  their comments about  the pink marks 
being caused by cleaning  fluid, she said Lloyds had raised this with the contractor and he 
maintained the carpet was already heavily marked in some  areas.  She also said that the 
contractor denied ever saying the carpet would be replaced. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A and Ms As policy provides them with cover for damage caused by any of the insured 
events listed  one of which is an escape  of water. An insurers  liability when it accepts a 
claim is to place the insured back into the position they were in before the insurance  damage 
occurred. Having reviewed the pre-clean photographs taken in January 2017 and March  
2018, I can see the carpet showed signs of ink marks, a pink hue in places and something 
that looks like a tea or coffee stain.  Its reasonable to think that these marks werent  the 
result of any damage caused  by an escape of water.  The marks are damage, they just arent 
insured damage. 
As an insurer is only liable for damage caused  by one of the events listed  in the policy,  and 
having looked at the photographs, I dont think that Lloyds is liable under this claim to 
replace the carpet as Mr A and Ms A would like. Thats  because  the damage isnt the result 
of this insured  event  nor - because there  is evidence (in the form of the photographs)  that it 
pre-dates the carpet clean - is it the result of the action of Lloyds contractor. The marks 
were clearly there  before he attended. 
Mr A and Ms A say the surveyor  told them the most  appropriate course of action was to 
replace the carpet. The surveyor denies ever making such a comment. And his report  from 
January 2017  makes  no mention of it either.  He says: Due to the nature  and extent of the 
damage an attempt  at rectification would be justified. Without any independent evidence  
that the surveyor told Mr A and Ms A that it would be more  appropriate  to replace the carpet,  
it wouldnt be reasonable of me to ignore the photographs or the surveyors comments  and 
make Lloyds replace  it. 
Mr A and Ms A have also said that they were told that if they didnt accept the cleaning of the 
carpet then it would be replaced. Unfortunately  Ive not seen any evidence  that this is what 
they were told and it wouldnt be fair for me to make Lloyds replace the carpet without it. I 
note that they have  said that they were left with mouldy and damp smelling  carpet by Lloyds. 
For me to make a reasonable finding  in Mr A and Ms As favour  in this respect I would have  
to see some independent documentary evidence  in support of what they say; Ive not seen 
any. 
Ref: DRN30123533Mr A and Ms A say that the carpet cleaning contractor  told them the cleaning  chemical  
couldve turned  the carpet pink. The contractor denies ever making such  a comment and 
says the carpet was significantly marked  before  the clean. Regardless,  I cant ignore the pre-
clean photographs which show  patches  of pink hue on the carpet.  And without any 
independent documentary evidence that the contractor damaged  the carpet whilst cleaning 
it, I cant, on balance,  reasonably find that he did.
Mr A and Ms A have also complained that Lloyds sent the cleaning contractor back to 
inspect the carpet after their first complaint. They said they didnt think  this was fair and that 
Lloyds shouldve sent someone  independent. I can see why Mr A and Ms A would think a 
different carpet specialist  wouldve  been preferable, but I dont think the fact he wasnt  has 
prejudiced their positon. Thats because  there  would still be the evidential hurdle  of the pre-
clean photographs and the original  inspection report to overcome. So I cant reasonably say 
that if an independent inspector had been appointed  it wouldve altered the outcome of their 
claim or complaint. 
So Im satisfied that Mr A and Ms A have been placed back  in the position they were in 
before the escape of water. Based on the evidence,  I think  that Lloyds has dealt fairly with 
Mr A and Ms As claim and I cant reasonably ask it to do any more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 March  2020.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3012353