K820x#14complaint
Mrs F and Mr L have  complained that Bank of Scotland plc Halifax  mis-sold them  a fee-
paying Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA).
Mrs F and Mr L have  said that they took out an URCA so they could benefit from the mobile 
phone insurance  that came with the account. They went to make  a claim on the mobile 
phone insurance  in November 2018 and discovered  that the excess had been increased  
from £30 to £100.
Mrs F and Mr L say that changing the excess on an insurance policy  without telling the 
account holders  is mis-selling.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs F and 
Mr L disagreed with the adjudicators findings  so the complaint has been  referred  to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think it might help for me to explain that mis-selling  is when a business has done something 
wrong when selling a product to a consumer. But in this case Mrs F and Mr L have 
confirmed that their complaint is not about how the account was sold,  but that they werent  
told about the change to the excess on the mobile  phone policy.  
I have therefore  considered  whether  Halifax has acted unfairly  or did anything  wrong  when 
the excess on the mobile phone insurance policy was increased.
Halifax has told us that it sent a notice  of variation  letter to URCA account holders in April 
2018. And it has provided a copy of the letter it says it sent out.
This letter contained information about changes that were  due to be made to the URCAs 
terms and conditions, with most  taking  place in July 2018. It explained  that the monthly fee 
was increasing and that the third party benefit providers were changing how they handled 
data about account holders. And it notified  accountholders that the mobile phone insurer  had 
increased the excess it charges on successful claims from £30 to £100 and that account 
holders would be covered for up to 2 claims in any 12 month period.
Having seen a sample of the letter that Halifax  says was sent to Mrs F and Mr L, I think it 
made it clear  that the excess on the mobile phone insurance was increasing  for example 
the information was contained in the second  bullet point on the first page  of the letter,  rather  
than being buried within pages and pages of small print. And I think  that the letter  gave Mrs 
F and Mr L sufficient time to consider whether  they wanted to continue with the URCA 
knowing how much  the excess would be. 
Ref: DRN37700612Halifax says that it sent this letter  to all URCA account holders. So I think its more  likely than 
not that it was sent to Mrs F and Mr L, I say this particularly as they received an annual 
eligibility statement  from Halifax  in June 2018 which shows that Halifax was sending  
important information  about the account  to Mrs F and Mr L.
Mrs F and Mr L have  said that its illegal how the excess was changed. But its clearly not 
illegal for an insurer to change the terms and conditions of a policy.  The account terms and 
conditions say that they can be amended, providing Halifax  gives them notice. And in this 
case I think it was simply  a matter of the letter that informed Mrs F and Mr L of the changes 
that were due to take place, was most likely lost in the post. And this is something that I 
cannot hold Halifax  responsible for.
Mrs F and Mr L have  also said that the annual eligibility statement they received in June 
2018 said that the excess on the mobile  phone insurance was still only £30. But, when the 
annual eligibility statement was sent,  that was correct  the excess was still £30 as the 
increase was not due to take place until the following  month. And although Mrs F and Mr L 
say this is misleading, I dont think it wouldve been  misleading had they received the notice 
of variation that had recently been sent out.
However, even if the notice of variation letter wasnt sent to Mrs F and Mr L, in its final 
response to the complaint, Halifax offered to pay Mrs F and Mr L £60 as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mrs F and Mr L say they spent £90 to get the phone repaired.  So the offer made  by 
Halifax essentially put them back in the position they wouldve  been in had they successfully 
claimed and only paid a £30 excess. I therefore  think that Halifaxs  offer is reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Mrs F and Mr L have  said that they would also like compensation because they were on the 
phone for a long time and for having  to raise the complaint. However, Im not persuaded that 
Halifax was at fault in this case  and I think their offer to resolve matters was sufficient 
compensation in the circumstances. 
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold the complaint and I dont require Bank  of 
Scotland Plc to do anything further,  beyond what it has already offered to do, in relation to 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 October  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3770061