K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Gain Capital UK Limited  allowed him to open  a spreadbetting account  
when this type of trading was not appropriate  for him. 
background
Mr S first opened an account with Gain on 14 October 2013. He has explained that he didnt 
have any interest in spreadbetting, but was called out of the blue and told about this 
opportunity. He deposited an initial £450. Between November 2013  and June  2014,  when he 
closed his account, he deposited  and lost - around  £5,000. 
In 2015 Mr S says he was contacted  again  by Gain and had a number of calls with one of 
their representatives. He was offered an incentive  to re-open his account,  and eventually he 
agreed to fill out another application form (in the end a new account  was opened, rather  than 
the previous one being re-opened). Based on his answers, Gain  considered  spreadbetting  
was appropriate  for him and allowed him to open  the account in June. 
Between June  2015 and January 2016 Mr S deposited money and traded frequently.  In 
January 2016  he wrote  to Gain and asked it to close his account. By this point he had lost 
just under £35,000. 
Mr S complained. He said he had been pressured into opening both accounts,  and had been  
encouraged and cold called to do so. He said he didnt know anything  about spreadbetting  
and he would never have opened  the accounts  or done this type of trading if he hadnt been  
pushed into it by Gain. 
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019.  In it I explained Gains regulatory  
obligations in the Conduct of Business Rules as they applied  at the time. I set out the 
relevant rule, COBS  10, in full:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter  applies, a firm must ask the client to 
provide information  regarding  his knowledge and experience  in the investment field relevant 
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to 
assess whether the service or product envisaged  is appropriate  for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm:
(a) must  determine whether the client has the necessary experience and knowledge  in order  
to understand  the risks involved in relation to the product or service offered or demanded;
(b) may assume that a professional client has the necessary  experience and knowledge in 
order to understand  the risks involved in relation to those particular investment services or 
transactions, or types of transaction or product, for which the client is classified as a 
professional client.
COBS 10.2.2 expands on the above,  and says:
The information regarding  a client's  knowledge and experience in the investment field 
includes, to the extent  appropriate to the nature of the client,  the nature and extent  of the 
service to be provided and the type of product or transaction envisaged, including  their 
complexity and the risks involved, information  on:
Ref: DRN33130792(1) the types of service,  transaction  and designated investment with which the client  is 
familiar;
(2) the nature,  volume, frequency of the client's transactions in designated investments and 
the period over which they have been  carried out;
(3) the level of education,  profession  or relevant former profession of the client.
COBS 10.3  Warning the client - sets out what a firm must do if it concludes that a service  
is not appropriate for a client. It says:
(1) If a firm considers, on the basis of the information received to enable it to assess 
appropriateness, that the product or service is not appropriate to the client, the firm must 
warn the client.
(2) This warning may be provided in a standardised format.
Finally, COBS 10.3.3 explains what a firm must do when a client  decides, despite  being  
given a warning,  that he wishes to go ahead with a transaction:
If a client asks a firm to go ahead with a transaction, despite being given a warning by the 
firm, it is for the firm to consider whether to do so having regard to the circumstances.
I explained that, in short, Gain to had to assess whether spreadbetting and CFD trading was 
appropriate for Mr S by establishing whether he had the necessary experience and 
knowledge in order to understand the risks involved. And if it concluded  that such trading 
wasnt appropriate for him, it needed  to warn  him of this and decide whether to let him open 
the account anyway. 
Having considered the evidence, I provisionally concluded:
In relation to the first account, there  was insufficient evidence about  the account  
opening process, or what, if any, assessment was done on Mr Ss knowledge and 
experience. 
Given Mr Ss evidence, I was persuaded that at the time he didnt  have the 
necessary knowledge  and experience to understand the risks of spreadbetting and 
CFD trading. 
I was provisionally satisfied that he didnt understand the likelihood that he would 
lose his whole deposit, and that small movements  in prices could significantly affect 
the value of his open  positions.
I was persuaded  that he wouldnt have gone ahead and opened his account if Gain 
had warned him in its view that he didnt have  sufficient  knowledge  and experience to 
understand the risks of spreadbetting or CFD trading. 
So I provisionally concluded Gain should  refund those losses  to Mr S and add 8% 
interest on those losses from the date he stopped trading  until the settlement date. I 
also said it should pay Mr S £250 for the trouble and upset that had caused  him. 
In relation to the second account, I considered that Gains application process  was 
deficient and it didnt ask sufficiently probing  questions in order to establish how 
frequently and for how long he had previously  traded, what his overall trading 
experience was as well as questions around  his understanding  of spreadbetting and 
CFDs. 
Ref: DRN33130793However, I was provisionally  persuaded that despite these deficiencies,  Mr S was 
aware at the time that spreadbetting was very high risk and something that could 
cause him significant losses. I considered that the amount of trading in the first 
account, as well as some large loss-making trades, gave Mr S the experience he 
needed to understand that the profitability of individual  trades could fluctuate 
significantly and potentially cause  him sudden and significant losses. 
So I was persuaded that even if Gain had carried out a thorough  appropriateness 
assessment, its likely it wouldve  concluded the account was appropriate for him. 
I therefore didnt  consider  that Mr S should be compensated  for any of the losses  
arising from the opening of the second  account. 
Mr S didnt fully agree  with my provisional  decision. He said he didnt understand why I had 
only relied on COBS 10, and not other breaches  of COBS in relation  to cold calls.  He also 
explained that the email I had relied on in relation to him asking about referring further  
business was taken out of context, and shouldnt be interpreted the way I had done. 
He said that he didnt deposit  £70,000 in the second  account   it only looks that way 
because he used to repeatedly withdraw  available cash  and then deposit money when he 
wanted to trade. He couldnt have afforded to deposit that amount of money. He said his 
account was not a Contracts for Differences (CFD) trading account, but a spreadbetting 
account. 
He explained  that he felt strongly that he should also be refunded the losses  from the 
second account / re-opening  of the first account.  He supplied a number of emails and 
screenshots from the time:
An email from June  2015 which confirms that someone from Gain  had spoken  to him 
and sets out the bonus terms of the account.  The email contained a link to the terms 
and conditions. 
Another email asking for payment  details from Mr S. 
An email from Mr S in July 2015  chasing the payment of a bonus to his account. 
An email acknowledging the complaint he raised  in July 2015 and his reply asking 
them to call him about it. 
An email from August 2015 from Gain which  dealt with the above  complaint. Mr S 
had complained about the non-execution  of a limit order and the companys spreads. 
Screenshots  of certain trades  from 2013.
A promotional email from January 2015  offering him the possibility of receiving  a 
£1,000 bonus, subject  to minim trade  volumes,  minimum deposits and withdrawal 
restrictions. 
Screenshots  of the terms  and conditions of the bonus offer which  demonstrated he 
needed to make  a number of trades, of certain volumes, in order  to qualify.  
Mr S also submitted an application  he had more recently tried to complete. He said he 
answered the questions in the same way he would have  at the time of opening the second 
account  and his application  failed. 
Gain didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said that in relation to the first account Mr S 
couldve complained  immediately about the cold call he received  and if he had done  so, he 
wouldve avoided opening the account  and suffering the financial losses  that ensued. 
Gain said that it didnt  think it should  be penalised  for the fact that Mr S didnt  raise  his 
complaint in 2014 about the opening  of the first account. It said that a reasonable and fair 
Ref: DRN33130794outcome would be that losses  are refunded up until [Mr Ss] first major loss of £676.50 on 26 
November 2013.  It then said that from the date the account opened  (October 2013) until 26 
November 2013  [Mr S] had crystallised  a net trading  loss of £1,591.50  and interest  of 8% 
ought to be added to that figure  until June  2014 when the account was closed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
At the outset I think its important to explain that where I refer to the first account  and the 
second account I do so for ease of reference. I appreciate Mr S strongly believes that the 
second account shouldnt be considered a separate account  he was always led to believe 
that his first account  would be reopened. However,  whether  a second account was opened,  
or whether the first was reopened, isnt material to my findings and therefore  its not an issue  
I need to decide. So, for ease, Ive referred  to the first account  and the second  account to 
refer to the two periods of trading which are in dispute. Mr S has also drawn  a distinction 
between CFDs and spreadbetting.  Where relevant Ive changed reference to this in the 
background of this decision. However,  while there  are some  differences between these, in all 
material respects the risks of both are the same. Spreadbetting and CFDs both trade  on 
margin, using leverage as a way to speculate on movements in price  without owning the 
underlying security and carry a high risk of capital  loss. 
Ive considered Gains submissions in relation  to the first account and the fact that Mr S 
couldve complained  sooner about that. Im not persuaded  this is material to the issue I have 
to decide  namely whether opening  the first account was appropriate for him. Ultimately, Im 
satisfied that at the time of opening that account Gain ought to have established that 
spreadbetting wasnt appropriate for Mr S. And as I concluded in my provisional decision, 
had it done so, it wouldve warned Mr S not to continue. Im satisfied, on balance,  that Mr S 
wouldve chosen not to go ahead at the time had he been warned. And I say this because 
Im persuaded by Mr S that the only reason he opened the first account was because  of the 
contact he received from Gain in advance of opening it. Therefore Mr S wouldnt have 
suffered the subsequent losses. Im not persuaded Mr S ought to have known at the time 
that Gain hadnt carried out its regulatory obligations properly, nor that spreadbetting wasnt  
appropriate for him. 
In relation to Mr Ss very detailed submissions,  Ive considered them very carefully. I can see 
he has provided a significant amount of evidence  which Ive looked into and taken into 
consideration. I appreciate he profoundly disagrees with my provisional conclusions  in 
relation to the second account  and believes that all of his losses  ought to be refunded to him. 
In explaining  my final decision, and why it doesnt  differ from my provisional decision, I hope 
he doesnt take it as a discourtesy that Ive not referred or addressed every single point he 
has made  thats  not the purpose of my final decision. The purpose of my decision is to 
explain my findings  and my reasoning. 
And looking through the evidence Mr S has provided, including his commentary  on my 
provisional findings, Im afraid I remain persuaded that by the time he opened the second 
account he had sufficient knowledge  and experience  to understand the risks of this type of 
trading. 
I say this for largely the same reasons:
Ref: DRN33130795Mr S had already  carried  out spreadbetting  for a period of time.  
He had lost a significant  amount of money  previously, including substantial losses  on 
individual trades. This means he understood that he could  lose his whole  deposit,  
and clearly knew that this type of trading was volatile and subject to price  swings  
which could cause  significant losses in a short space of time. 
He was also provided risk warnings  in the terms and conditions  of the account, as 
well as on the website,  which  he was invited to read and consider. 
Mr S wasnt  forced to open  the account   the enticement he was provided (the bonus) wasnt 
considered inappropriate at the time.  
And the terms are clear about  what he needed to do to qualify  he needed to place a 
certain number of trades, of a certain size. Given that Mr S already  knew, by that stage, that 
there was a significant risk of losing money  on individual  trades, he ought to have known that 
resuming trading in order  to receive the bonus would expose him to a greater than the 
benefits that the bonus had the potential to provide. In any event, this type of incentive 
wasnt unusual at the time  and Im not persuaded in the particular circumstances of this 
case that it was unfair for Gain to have offered  it. 
Ive looked at the emails Mr S has provided.  Im not persuaded any of the emails wouldve 
prompted Gain to reconsider whether  Mr S had sufficient knowledge  and importantly, Im 
not persuaded these emails indicate that it was no longer in Mr Ss interests to carry on 
trading. The fact that he complained about a limit order not executing is not sufficient, in my 
view, to demonstrate that he was unaware of how the platform worked. These types  of 
complaints are not unusual, and theres nothing in COBS 10 which  required Mr S to know  
everything about Gains platform or about spreadbetting. 
As Ive explained, what was required  was for him to have sufficient knowledge and 
experience to understand the risks of this type of trading.  And within a day of trading, Mr S 
had already lost over £800  yet he carried on trading for another  four months. So its clear 
to me that not only was he aware of the risks, he was prepared to take them in the hope of 
gaining a return  which he did on occasion, for example by making  a return of over £1,000 
a few days after opening the account.   
Mr S has also provided screenshots of a more recent application which has failed and where 
he has been told that an account  wouldnt be opened. I understand he wants me to consider 
this as evidence  that had everything been  done  correctly at the time, the second account 
wouldnt have been opened and he wouldnt have suffered  any losses. 
Ive considered this evidence,  but I dont find it persuasive. I say this firstly because in this 
most recent application  Mr S has ticked never in answer to the question  how often have 
you traded  the following products in the last 12 months  spread bets,  cfds.  But in June  
2015 he had ticked sometimes.  I understand he had explained that this previous trading had 
occurred on the previous  account (between  2014 and 2015). 
But more  importantly, in this new application in answer to the question I understand that 
spread bets and CFDs are leveraged products and their performance may be volatile Mr S 
has said I dont understand. I dont think this is an accurate reflection of Mr Ss knowledge 
at the time he opened the account. In fact, the individual trades he had placed had clearly 
shown to him that spreadbetting was volatile  he knew how quickly prices  could  change, 
Ref: DRN33130796and he knew and had experienced  the impact these price changes could have on his profits 
and losses. 
And in answer  to the question I understand that when trading leveraged products that my 
capital is at risk he has also put I dont  understand. This too is not an accurate reflection  of 
his knowledge  in 2015  Mr S had lost money spreadbetting. He lost substantial sums,  
including one £3,000 loss in June 2014. So he clearly knew  his capital was at risk. 
Given the answers he gave to these two questions, Im not surprised his most  recent  
application was rejected.  But for the reasons  Ive given, Im not persuaded this most recent 
application is reliable  evidence of the knowledge he had when he opened the second  
account in 2015. 
Its also worth adding  that even if I thought that the second account wasnt  appropriate for 
Mr S, it wouldnt follow that Id conclude Gain shouldnt have allowed him to trade all. 
As Ive said in relation to the first account,  if Gain had concluded that spreadbetting wasnt  
appropriate for him, it wouldve  provided  a warning  to Mr S explaining this. But this second 
time around,  Im not persuaded that this warning wouldve prompted Mr S not to trade. I say 
this because:
Mr S had already  lost £5,000 spreadbetting. He knew this was risky and he knew he 
could lose a lot of money. Given that despite  this, Mr S was still prepared  to trade, 
Im not persuaded a warning by Gain wouldve stopped him from doing so. 
In addition to the terms and the website which indicated the high risk nature of 
spreadbetting and CFDs, Mr S wouldve also received a risk disclosure notice.  This 
explained that this type of trading was high risk, and that even small deposits would 
lead to large losses. The notice also made reference to unlimited losses which was 
a possibility on these  accounts at the time. 
If Mr S was happy to trade despite  the above,  Im not persuaded an additional warning  by 
Gain wouldve convinced him not to.  
COBS 10.3.3 wouldve  then required Gain to consider whether it ought to have allowed Mr S 
to open the account regardless. Im not persuaded theres sufficient evidence to indicate that 
it ought to have prevented Mr S doing something  he evidently wanted to do. 
In any event, as Ive explained,  I dont  consider Gains assessment that the account  was 
appropriate in June 2015 to be unreasonable for the reasons Ive given. And so, on that 
basis, Im satisfied that the losses Mr S suffered from June 2015 were  trading losses which 
Gain had no control over and for which I dont think it would be fair to hold it responsible.  
I know Mr S will be disappointed by this conclusion, but Ive only reached it after considering 
all the evidence available.  
putting things right
In putting things right for Mr S, my objective is to put him as close as possible in the position 
he wouldve been  in had the business not made any errors. 
In this case, Im satisfied  that Mr S would never  have opened the first account if he had been 
warned, by Gain, that the account wasnt appropriate for him  and therefore Im satisfied he 
ought to be compensated for the losses he incurred as a result of opening that account. 
Ref: DRN33130797Im satisfied that Mr S wasnt looking  for an investment opportunity   and as a result of Gain  
not properly identifying that spreadbetting wasnt appropriate for him and warning him of 
that, Mr S was deprived of the money he lost trading. Given what  Mr S has said about his 
circumstances, Im satisfied its likely  being deprived  of these  funds wouldve caused  him to 
experience hardship  and likely affected a range of decisions at the time around his spending. 
As Im not able to quantify this impact, I think its fair to apply the rate of interest  this service 
normally applies to such cases  8% per year simple. 
Mr S has made some comments about the interest  on these losses and when they should 
run from.  Ive considered  his comments,  but remain of the view that interest  should  run from 
the date he stopped trading on the account.  I say this because 8% interest  is not an 
investment return he wouldve had at the time.  During the account, Mr S had use of this 
money  he traded with it and, on occasion,  made  profits. So it wouldnt  be fair to also give 
him 8%. However, once  he stopped trading, he was clearly deprived of the money he had 
lost from trading  money that I dont consider he wouldve lost but for Gains  omissions.  
This is why I consider  8% should run from when he stopped trading until the settlement date.    
So Gain  should  apply  this rate of interest to any losses  Mr S incurred from spreadbetting  
(that is, the balance  between what he was able to withdraw  from his account and what he 
deposited throughout the life of the account) from the date he stopped trading on the 
account until the date of settlement. 
Ive also considered Gains comments about this  but I dont agree its proposal would be 
fair. Regardless of what knowledge Mr S had in June 2015 when he opened the second  
account, theres no reason he wouldve known that Gain had failed in its regulatory  duties in 
2013. And given  that Ive found this failure  is what caused his losses, Im satisfied what Ive 
recommended is fair and reasonable  compensation for that. 
I can understand that losing money in the way he did without fully understanding  the risks 
associated with spreadbetting wouldve caused  Mr S trouble and upset for which he should  
be compensated for. I consider  Gain should  therefore also pay Mr S £250 for that. Mr S has 
made detailed  submissions about additional compensation as a result of the distress  he 
experienced from the losses he incurred when he resumed trading in 2015.  However,  Ive 
concluded that those losses were a result of Mr Ss trading decisions, and not something I 
can hold Gain responsible for. So Im sorry to say that I dont  consider it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Gain to compensate him for distress and inconvenience which I dont  
consider it caused.  
my final decision
My final decision is that Gain Capital UK Limited  must pay the compensation Ive outlined  
above within 28 days of when we tell it Mr S has accepted this final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33130798
Ref: DRN3313079