K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund his credit  card payment for a cancelled 
hotel stay.
background
In February 2019  Mr A spent three nights in a hotel.  He had been  due to stay for a fourth 
night, and he had pre-authorised the charge for all four nights on his Lloyds credit card.  But 
he had to leave  a day early, due to a family emergency. The hotel did not refund his money 
for the fourth  night. He asked  Lloyds to refund his money, but Lloyds declined to do so. 
Lloyds said the hotel had not breached  its contract with Mr A, and the room had been 
available for him to stay in. Mr A brought this complaint to our Service,  but our investigator 
agreed with Lloyds.
Mr A asked for an ombudsmans decision. He insisted that it was not fair to charge him for a 
night in a hotel when he had not stayed there on that night.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont uphold it. I will explain why.
It is unfortunate that Mr A had to curtail his stay and go home early because  of what were  no 
doubt difficult circumstances.  But that was not the hotels fault,  and while some hotels might 
voluntarily waive a charge  in those circumstances, there is no entitlement to that. This hotel 
chose not to do that, and as the room was still available  for Mr A to use  albeit that events 
compelled him to leave   the hotel  did not breach its contract with him.
That matters  because  Lloyds would only have been obliged to refund Mr As money if the 
hotel had breached its contract with him. Mr A has referred to section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, which makes Lloyds jointly and severally liable for a breach of contract  by 
the hotel. But in the absence of a breach, section 75 does not assist him. For similar 
reasons, Lloyds was not able to raise  a chargeback claim either.
It follows that I am unable  to say that Lloyds  did anything wrong by declining to refund Mr As 
money.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3422138