K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the increases in premiums on his home insurance with Royal  & Sun 
Alliance Insurance  Plc.
background
Mr C has held his insurance  policy with RSA for a very long time. In 2002 it cost £329 for the 
year. The next year,  2003,  Mr Cs insurance  cost £336. 
In 2017, Mr C negotiated his premium  and paid £340 for the year. In 2018, the renewal 
quote was for £574. At this time,  Mr C complained to RSA.  Having shopped  around  hed 
found that the going  rate for insuring  his property was around £350. After  initially being  told 
the lowest price he could renew  at was £498,  Mr C eventually took out a new policy with 
RSA at a premium of £335.
RSA said that the price  charged for Mr Cs policy  had been correct.  But it paid Mr C £50 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill. 
Shortly after this, Mr C received a letter from RSA saying that there had been a regulatory  
breach due to incorrect information being  quoted on some of his renewal  invitations.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed, so Ive been  asked to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price  risk and what  an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether RSA has treated Mr C fairly 
throughout the period  he held its insurance  policy.
If I found that RSA hadnt treated Mr C fairly, I would look to see what  compensation would 
be fair and, in this case, whether I think what RSA has offered is fair. In this case, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I dont think  RSA treated Mr C unfairly when  setting the 
price of his policy, and I think the £50 it offered is a fair and reasonable way to resolve the 
complaint. I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed with this, and Ill explain my reasons.
I can see that over the years since 2002, Mr Cs annual insurance premium  has both 
increased and decreased.  The highest  price he paid was in 2014, when he paid £594. But 
each year since then he has paid less than the year before.
Ref: DRN39262292Mr Cs policy  didnt automatically  renew each year. He paid his premium annually,  and I 
understand that he had to arrange  this himself after receiving his renewal invitation. RSA 
says that in recent years he did this via a card payment. So, I dont  think it was the case that 
Mr C wouldve been unaware of what he was paying each year. 
RSA has given us a lot of information about how it decided how much  to charge Mr C for his 
policy. Im afraid I cant share this as its commercially sensitive, but I would like to assure 
Mr C that Ive carefully considered what RSA has provided, as well as what  Mr C has said.
From what  Ive seen, it doesnt look like RSA was increasing Mr Cs premiums unfairly. It has 
shown there  were changes in its rates,  its view of the risk of insuring Mr Cs home and its 
understanding of future likely claims. These are all fair reasons for RSA to increase the 
premium. Theres  nothing  to suggest RSA was charging Mr C more  for his insurance,  just 
because hed had his policy with it for a long time.
Mr C says RSA was charging far more than what he feels  was the going rate for insuring 
his property. I fully understand Mr Cs view on this, but insurers  often  include discounts  in 
order to obtain  new customers. That means  that a new customer  will often  be paying less 
than the true cost of providing the insurance policy  theres nothing wrong with this. So, 
when Mr C shopped around to see what the going rate was, the quotes he received wouldve 
had the benefit of new customer  discounts.  As such they wouldnt be directly comparable 
with the renewal quote that he initially received from RSA. Or be reflective  of the price he 
may have  found  insurance for in previous years if hed shopped around.
In addition to this, insurance  policies are not all the same  they have different levels of 
cover, excesses and differing terms and conditions  that can affect the price  charged. While 
the differences may not be clear to a customer,  who just wants to insure their home, this 
does mean  that prices  can vary significantly.  Even,  as Mr C has seen, between different 
policies offered by the same insurer. 
There are now rules  (that were introduced in 2017) that say insurers  should,  in the renewal 
invitation, encourage their customers to shop around if theyve  had their policy  for a number 
of years.  These didnt exist when Mr C took out his policy with RSA.  And, even if they had, 
they dont go as far as to say insurers need  to tell their customers  about alternative  products. 
So, I dont think RSA needed to tell Mr C when it introduced a newer product that might have 
been cheaper for him.
Its possible RSA should have done more  in 2018 when Mr C called to negotiate  his renewal 
premium. He clearly wasnt happy with the price he was being offered  at that time and RSA 
should have given him clear, fair and not misleading  information about his options  
including the option of taking out a new policy. From  what  Mr C has said,  it took some time 
for this to happen.  But Mr C did end up taking  out a new,  cheaper  policy with RSA,  so he 
hasnt lost out financially because of this. And RSA has paid him £50 for any inconvenience  
he was caused.  I think this is fair compensation in the circumstances. 
I know there was an error in the information  provided to Mr C on some  of his recent renewal 
invitations. But it doesnt seem to have  affected what happened,  as Mr C engaged with RSA 
and obtained a cheaper price in 2017 and 2018.  I can see that Mr C has also said that this 
issue is not of concern  to him. 
Ref: DRN39262293my final decision 
For the reasons  explained, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3926229