K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited failed to activate his repayment option plan 
(ROP) when  he fell into financial difficulties. He wants Vanquis to backdate  the plan to 
November 2015,  put his account right and amend  his credit  file.
background
Mr S took out a credit card with Vanquis. He fell into financial  difficulties when his employer 
ceased his contract  in November 2015. He contacted Vanquis to explain  his position and 
activate the ROP. 
Vanquis advised him he had a ROP, which would freeze the interest and charges on his 
account for a limited  period.  The ROP allowed Mr S to make  any repayments he could afford  
which would come straight off the balance, or just take a break  until things improved.
Vanquis needed evidence that his employment contract  had ended  and advised Mr S that 
once it received the appropriate documents, the plan would  be activated.
Mr S sent in the required documentation on 9 March 2016.  On the same day, Vanquis wrote 
to him to confirm the ROP had been  activated  for three  months after which  the account 
would be reviewed. 
Vanquis wrote to Mr S on 12 May 2016 to explain the freeze on his account was due for 
renewal and he would need to provide further  documentation in order  to keep the freeze in 
place. Vanquis says it didnt receive any documentation so it wrote  to Mr S again on 10 June 
2016 to confirm the account had been reactivated and payments  to the account would need 
to resume.
On 15 November 2016 Mr S contacted Vanquis  as he was unhappy he wasnt  informed 
about the three month renewal period.  For this reason, he felt that the plan had been mis-
sold.
Vanquis responded to Mr Ss complaint on 6 January  2017.  It stated his complaint was that 
he had not given his consent  to be opted into the ROP. It refunded him the ROP fees, 
associated interest and charges applied to the account since  18 February 2014 when the 
product was taken  out. This totalled  £851.64.  It also removed the ROP  from his account.
Mr S remained unhappy  as he felt Vanquis had not addressed his complaint properly. He 
said he was aware  of the sale of ROP,  he was unhappy that the ROP  hadnt worked the way 
he expected. He says when he activated  the ROP it only froze for a short period of time. So 
his credit file was impacted.
Vanquis wrote back to Mr S on 6 February 2017. It explained that it only received 
documentation to support  his circumstances on 9 March 2016.  For this reason his account  
continued to accrue  interest and charges until this date. However, as a gesture of good will it 
amended his credit file for January and February  2016 as he had initially advised Vanquis  of 
his circumstance  in January  2016. It also refunded the interest and charges applied  during 
this period.
Our investigators initial view was that the complaint was outside  of our services  jurisdiction. 
She explained that Mr S had the right to contact  our service within  six months of the date of 
Ref: DRN39081952the final response letter from Vanquis. Unfortunately, he contacted  us outside of the time 
limit. She found that even if Mr Ss reason  for thinking the ROP  plan was mis-sold were 
different to those stated  by Vanquis, the remedy  would be the same. She said our service  
would look to put him back into the position he wouldve  been  in had it not been sold, which 
Vanquis had done.
Mr S agreed that the sale of the ROP  was out of time; however, he felt that the issue relating 
to the claim still needed to be addressed.  He said his account balance should  be the same 
as it was in November 2015  when  he initially tried to freeze his account. He also stated that 
his credit file had not been amended even though Vanquis stated it would do this. He also 
mentioned he missed a job opportunity due to the ongoing complaint with Vanquis.
Our investigator reviewed  the file and explained that she felt Vanquis had since correctly  
backdated the freezing of Mr Ss account to January 2016  and refunded  the ROP fees and 
associated interest, so had effectively  done  more then what she would have recommended. 
She noted that Vanquis had acknowledged that Mr Ss account was incorrectly  passed to 
debt collectors in 2017. To put things right Vanquis  took back  the account, removed the 
default and paid £50 compensation. When Mr S raised further concerns, Vanquis confirmed 
it would:
pay an additional £150 compensation for the trouble and upset caused
refund  £1,002.16 which represented  the interest and charges applied between  
September 2017 until February 2018
amend Mr Ss credit file between those dates
adjust Mr Ss account to clear  arrears due to non-payment from September 2017
Mr S remained unhappy.  He still felt the freeze  shouldve started in November 2015 when he 
says he initially contacted Vanquis  about  the ROP. 
As the complaint could not be resolved informally  it has been  referred  to me for final 
consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr S, but I wont be asking Vanquis to do anything further.
The ROP product  on Mr Ss credit card account allows him to stop making the required 
repayments to his account  in certain  circumstances.  In this instance Mr S says he lost his job 
and this would be something that would allow the ROP to be activated. Activation was 
subject to the consumer informing Vanquis and providing supporting evidence. The terms 
and conditions of the ROP plan state:
You agree  that if you wish us to Freeze your Account as a result  of any Difficult Financial 
Circumstance and you have notified  us within 90 days of its first occurrence and provided us 
with reasonable  evidence  as required under  paragraph 15, any Freezing of your Account will 
be backdated to the date of the first occurrence  of that Difficult Financial Circumstance. 
Where first notification of such Difficult Financial  Circumstance  is made  more  than 90 days  
after its first occurrence and you have provided us with reasonable evidence as required 
Ref: DRN39081953under paragraph  15, any Freezing of your Account  will be backdated to the date of 
notification of that Difficult Financial  Circumstance.
Vanquis says it was first aware of Mr Ss loss of employment in a call of 25 January  2016.  
Vanquis then explained  what supporting evidence it needed to activate  the account freeze 
but says it didnt receive the required evidence until 9 March 2016. Vanquis  has now agreed 
to backdate the ROP activation date to January 2016 in line with when it was first informed.
Mr S says he initially contacted Vanquis about  activating the ROP  when  he was made 
unemployed in November  2015.  Mr Ss call log with Vanquis doesnt detail any calls 
recorded during  this month. There was, however, a call made to Mr S in December 2015 
when he missed his monthly statement. Mr S advised this was due to being out of the 
country. There doesnt therefore  appear to be anything to indicate Vanquis was aware of Mr 
Ss loss of employment  before January 2016.  
On balance, I think its likely the first time Vanquis  were informed of Mr Ss situation was in 
January 2016.  And in the absence of evidence to demonstrate contact was made  before this 
date, I am unable to say Vanquis should  do anymore here. 
Vanquis wrote to Mr S on 11 May 2016 confirming the freeze was due for renewal in a 
months time. In order for the freeze  to remain  active, Vanquis required further evidence that 
Mr S remained unemployed. A further  letter  was issued  to Mr S on 10 June 2016 as no 
response had been  received. The letter explained  the account was no longer frozen as no 
further supporting  evidence  had been received. Payments to Mr Ss credit card account 
would now need  to resume.
Mr S has mentioned that he was unaware that the freeze would only last three  months. But I 
do think this was made clear to Mr S in the letter dated 9 March  2016. It confirmed that 
further information would be required after three months to continue the activation. And I can 
see the letters were  sent to the same address we have on our systems  for Mr S.  
I also dont consider it unreasonable for Vanquis  to require  further  evidence  of Mr Ss 
unemployment. It is quite  possible  that Mr Ss circumstances could change during  this period 
and the freeze wouldve no longer been required.  The ROP terms and conditions  also 
indicate that Vanquis can ask for further evidence throughout the freeze. So I cant say it 
was unreasonable for Vanquis  to unfreeze Mr Ss account when it did.
Mr S is unhappy at the level of interest  that had accrued on his account. He believes  had 
Vanquis dealt with his complaint fairly, no further  interest should have accrued on his 
account from November  2015 onwards. I dont however  agree  with this and as already 
referred to above,  Im satisfied Vanquis did activate  the ROP  reasonably  when it was told 
about Mr Ss loss of employment. Vanquis  also agreed to back  date this to cover the period 
where Mr S was providing information.  This does not go back  to November  2015  but I again  
havent seen sufficient evidence to demonstrate Vanquis was aware of the change of 
circumstances in November 2015.  
I havent seen  anything to indicate Mr S provided further evidence to show  he remained 
unemployed and I cant  say Vanquis were unreasonable by charging him interest  in the 
months after the account was no longer frozen. When there is an outstanding balance on an 
account, and the ROP is not active,  Vanquis is entitled to charge interest in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.  Notwithstanding this, as a gesture of goodwill, Vanquis  
Ref: DRN39081954has refunded the interest charged and amended  Mr Ss credit file between September  2017 
and February 2018.
Ive considered carefully Mr Ss comments that the issues he had with Vanquis caused him a 
great deal of stress and to lose a job opportunity abroad. Mr S says that he kept putting off 
starting the new job abroad  because his complaint hadnt been resolved. And this then 
meant that he lost the job opportunity. I sympathise with Mr S and appreciate Vanquis could 
have handled  things better. But, I dont think the issues here were  sufficient to prevent Mr S 
from starting the new job he says he had been offered. He could have continued 
corresponding by letter and/or email and being  abroad would likely have little or no impact.  I 
dont therefore  think Vanquis is responsible if Mr S did lose the job opportunity.  
Vanquis accepts it could have done things better in its dealings  with Mr S and it has offered 
to pay Mr S £200 (some  of this has I understand already been paid) compensation. I think  
this is reasonable  in the circumstances.  
I again appreciate  that Mr S will remain unhappy  with the decision Ive come to here but
after very carefully considering all that has been  presented in this case Im not satisfied
Vanquis needs to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint against Vanquis Bank Limited. 
There are no grounds for me to instruct Vanquis Bank Limited  to do anything  more than it 
has already done.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Mark Hollands
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3908195