K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc wont refund money she says she didnt withdraw 
from her bank accounts.
background
Mrs S says that after shed completed  a short journey on the London Underground on 1 
December 2018  she realised she didnt have her wallet. This contained her debit cards for 
her two accounts within the Bank  of Scotland  group  of financial businesses.  She reported  
her cards missing. But by the time she did so £500  had been  withdrawn in cash from each of 
the accounts. She wants a refund of £1,000.
Bank of Scotland said that it wouldnt  be refunding this money. A transfer of £500  had been  
made between the accounts the day before meaning there  was sufficient money  to make the 
withdrawals from both of the accounts. And the withdrawals had been  made  when the 
correct PINs had been entered first time and the chip on each card read. There  was no 
obvious point  when a fraudster could  have discovered both PINs especially as Mrs S had 
told it that these were different for each card.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-He didnt think it likely that Mrs S had carried out the withdrawals herself. Mrs S had 
reported her cards  lost soon after she would have got off the tube train.  And the 
pattern of withdrawals  was consistent with a fraudster  trying to take as much  money  
as quickly as possible from the accounts.
-Mrs S was required to take reasonable steps to keep her personal security 
information safe. And she shouldnt have kept her cards  and PINs together as he 
thought she must have done.
-Mrs S had told him that the PINs on both cards were different and she hadnt told 
anyone these. So he couldnt see any likely  scenario where the PINs  werent  
displayed in her wallet with the cards  in some way.
-He thought that her complaint should  be declined as she had acted with gross  
negligence by keeping  these  details together.
Mrs S didnt agree and wanted her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She said 
that shed memorised  her PINs and these werent  written down. Shed transferred money  
between her accounts as she was about  to send £500 to a family member she was 
supporting. And if shed  wanted £500  herself  shed have withdrawn it in one go.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment  Services  Regulations 2017 in considering  this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. 
If I find the payments  werent authorised Ill then need to consider whether Mrs S complied 
with the requirement  to take all reasonable steps  to keep  her personal security details safe. 
And if she didnt and acted with gross negligence then she would still be responsible for 
these payments.
Ref: DRN38035982So I will be thinking about  the following areas  in looking at his complaint:
-What is the most likely explanation of what happened to the cards and PINs used for 
these payments?
-Did Mrs S authorise the payments on the account?
-If she didnt then did she take sufficient care of her cards and PINs? 
Ive looked at the information Bank of Scotland has provided about  these  transactions. Im 
satisfied from the evidence Ive see that for each  one the genuine chip on the card was read 
and the correct PIN entered.  So I think these were authenticated.  I now need to think about 
whether she consented to them.
the timing and nature of the withdrawals
Mrs S has described the journey she made and says she used one of the cards  to touch in 
using the contactless facility at a tube station. I can see from the records  provided by Bank  
of Scotland that this happened at 17:52 on 1 December  2018. And that the first disputed use 
of one of the cards  was at 18:11  that day. A number  of individual  withdrawals were made 
with that card and two attempts were declined because the withdrawal  limit of £500 a day 
would have been exceeded. The disputed use of her other card started at 18:17 and 
continued to 18:21, when  again transactions in excess of the withdrawal limit were declined. 
Mrs S says that she discovered  her wallet which contained these cards and one for another  
financial business was missing when she tried to exit from the tube. She reported her Bank 
of Scotland cards  as lost at 18:42  and it is likely shed had to wait in a telephone queue 
before that to get through.
I find the timing of these  withdrawals entirely  consistent with an unknown third party taking 
her wallet while she was on the tube. And the withdrawals I can see were all made at one 
location close to a tube station on the route she says she took.  Bank of Scotland says it finds 
it suspicious that no balance enquiries were made. But I can see that the person making the 
withdrawals tried different  amounts with some declined attempts suggesting to me that the 
balance and withdrawal  limit wasnt known in advance.  Bank of Scotland also says it is 
suspicious that Mrs S transferred £500 between the accounts the previous day. I can see 
that the balance on one account was £360 before  the £500 credit  so I understand the point. 
But Mrs S has explained  she was regularly sending money to a family  member  from this 
account. And also it doesnt  seem to me that a transfer of £500 was required to ensure that 
the maximum withdrawal could be made the following  day especially as she had an overdraft 
facility of £500. 
The issue  I do need to consider is how a third party could have discovered both of her PINs. 
And I note from what she says that there  was also a withdrawal  made  on a credit card in her 
wallet held with the other financial  business.  There were no incorrect PIN attempts with the 
Bank of Scotland cards and Mrs S says that the numbers were  different. Bank  of Scotland  
has provided a PIN audit  and says that the numbers hadnt been changed since issue. Mrs S 
said she hadnt told anyone her PINs and she hadnt  made any other  chip and PIN 
transactions with her cards that day. And when shed used them the day before she was in a 
location over 80 miles away. I agree with our investigator that the only plausible  explanation 
for how these PINs could  have been found out by someone else was if these were recorded  
in her wallet. 
my assessment
Ref: DRN38035983I need to decide what is most likely. And taking into account all the factors  above I think that 
an unknown third party was able to take her wallet while she was travelling on the tube.  That 
person saw her PINs and took as much money as quickly as possible.  And Mrs S reported 
what had happened  as soon as she realised. I find her account to be consistent and credible 
and that she didnt consent  to these withdrawals.
That means that these  payments werent  authorised by her. But unfortunately thats  not the 
end of the matter.  An integral part of my finding is that Mrs S must  have recorded her PINs in 
a way that the third party could have quickly understood. Mrs S was reasonably  required 
under the terms  and conditions of her accounts with Bank of Scotland  to keep her personal 
security information safe. I need  to consider whether what  shed done was grossly negligent.
Negligence is often  referred to as a failure to exercise reasonable care. So, I think  it fair and 
reasonable to conclude,  the use of gross  negligence, rather than mere negligence, 
suggests a lack of care,  that goes significantly beyond ordinary negligence.
I think a reasonable  person would think that recording your PINs  in a way in which they 
could be so easily discovered with the card and almost immediately used to take out £1,000  
in cash was more  than careless. That allowed this fraud to take place. And Im afraid I 
conclude that Mrs S was grossly negligent  in not protecting her PINs  through recording them 
in this way.
That means that I dont  have a reasonable basis to require Bank of Scotland to refund any of 
the money shes lost. I appreciate how disappointed  she will be by this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3803598