K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mrs J says Capital One (Europe)  plc (Capital One) mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs J has said that she wasnt told the policy was optional but I think Capital One made it 
clear that Mrs J didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. Capital One has 
confirmed the PPI was taken out in a phone  call to activate the credit card which took place  
after the application  had been completed and processed. It no longer has a record of the call 
but it has sent us a copy of the telephone  guidance process from around that time which it 
says it would have  expected its staff to follow when selling PPI over the phone. Capital One 
says this would reflect the conversation if would have had with Mrs J. I have no evidence to 
make me think this wouldnt have happened. Whilst I cant be certain exactly  what was 
discussed in the call, this document  does direct the staff member  to ask for a customers  
permission before adding PPI to the account.
So based  on what Ive seen and what I know about  Capital Ones sales  practices at that 
time, I think its more likely that Capital One made  Mrs J aware that the policy was optional 
and she chose to take it, knowing  she could refuse it if she didnt want it  even if she may 
not recall that now.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs J got the information she needed to decide for herself if 
it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt  look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong.
Mrs J has told us if she was too ill to work she would have received full pay for six months,  
followed by half pay for six months.  But this policy would have paid out for up to 12 months 
which would have been in addition to, and potentially for longer than, the full pay she would 
have received. And it would have covered her for the same length of time if she was to lose 
her job. Even though  she did have some savings, this policy  would have meant the 
repayments to the card would be met leaving her free to use her savings to cover other 
essential living expenses. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better 
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J. 
Ref: DRN37729772But Capital One has paid back  some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs J about  that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Mrs J, that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs J.
But Capital One (Europe)  plc does have to pay back to Mrs J any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3772977