K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service he received from Shawbrook Bank Limited  when he made 
some overpayments to his mortgage  account.
background
Mr K has a buy to let mortgage with Shawbrook and hed been making regular monthly  
overpayments of £2,000. In August 2017 Shawbrook  agreed  to continue to accept 
overpayments until October  2017 but said it would need evidence  of where the funds  were  
coming from if Mr K wanted to continue with the overpayments past that point.
Mr K made further overpayments  on 29 November and 5 December 2017 and as it hadnt  
received the evidence Shawbrook put the funds aside. It phoned Mr K on 6 December and said 
the overpayments wouldnt be credited  to his mortgage account until he provided the evidence 
if needed.
Mr K sent a screenshot  of his savings account to Shawbrook on 12 December, which  it said 
wasnt of sufficient quality;  nor did it provide all the information Shawbrook needed. Mr K sent a 
copy of his full statement  to Shawbrook on 28 December 2017.  Due to the Christmas and New 
Year period there was a delay in Shawbrook  starting  to assess the information Mr K had sent, 
so Shawbrook had from 2 January 2018  when business resumed  as normal  to assess  the 
information. In the weeks  that followed Shawbrook told Mr K that it was still carrying  out its 
review. By 1 February 2018 Mr K wasnt willing to wait any longer and he asked Shawbrook  to 
return the overpayments to him. I understand the money was back  in Mr Ks account on 
23 February.
Unhappy with this Mr K complained. Shawbrook apologised for the inconvenience caused but 
said it had needed  the information and there  were  no significant delays on its part.
Our adjudicator looked at everything  but didnt think Shawbrook had delayed  things  by any 
more time that Mr K had himself. Mr K said he didnt agree, and that the adjudicator hadnt 
taken into account  the time it took for Shawbrook to ask for the information and respond in a 
timely matter. He asked  it be passed  to an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of what Mr K is unhappy about is that he disagrees with how Shawbrook chooses to 
do business. Its up to Shawbrook what information it wants  from Mr K if he wants  to make 
large regular  overpayments.  Thats  not something Id interfere with.
Shawbrook told Mr K in August 2017  that it would want  evidence of the source of the funds 
from him if he wanted to continue to make the £2,000 monthly  overpayments. It reminded 
him of that again on 6 December 2017  when it phoned to say the payments wouldnt be 
credited to his account until it received the information it needed.  Mr K said he was busy and 
he sent through a poor quality screenshot on 12 December. Shawbrook told Mr K that wasnt 
sufficient and then chased that up until a full copy of a savings account statement was 
received on 28 December.
Ref: DRN30107102Having considered everything  I dont agree with Mr K that there  was any delay in Shawbrook  
asking for the information it needed.
There was a short delay  in Shawbrook responding once it had the full savings statement 
from Mr K. But I dont  think  that delay was such that would warrant compensation. By the 
time Shawbrook reopened after the New Year bank holiday it was only four weeks  before 
Mr K decided not to wait any longer  and asked for the funds to be returned. As things like 
this can take some  time - and Mr K himself hadnt rushed getting  the information  to 
Shawbrook - I dont think the four weeks Shawbrook was allowed by Mr K was too long.
Ive also looked  at how long it took Shawbrook to return the funds to Mr K once he asked for 
them back. I understand the funds were  back in his bank account  on 23 February.  Normally 
Id expect a refund like this to take up to 10 working  days to be credited back  to a customers  
bank account,  whereas  here it took 16 working days. Whilst it took longer than Id normally  
expect, it wasnt by such an amount that I think compensation is warranted. There  was a 
process Shawbrook  needed to go through  to authorise the return of the funds and it wouldnt 
be appropriate for me to interfere with that.
Having considered everything  I dont uphold this complaint  and I make  no order  or award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr K to accept or reject my decision before 15 February  2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3010710