K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2004 
alongside a hire-purchase  agreement. Mr O says Welcome Finance Services Limited mis-
sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Os case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr O says he was led to believe the PPI was mandatory and that it had to be included in 
order for his application to be successful. Ive considered what  Mr O has said,  but based  on 
the evidence Ive seen I think Welcome  Finance  made it clear that Mr O didnt have  to take 
out the PPI and that he chose to take it out. I say this having  seen a copy  of his credit 
agreement which sets out the PPI policy under the heading Agreement  for Optional 
Insurance. Ive also seen a declaration on the credit  agreement which reads  I/We 
understand that the purchase  of Payment Protection Insurance  and other insurances are 
optional and not required by us as a condition of entering into this agreement . Mr O signed  
just underneath this declaration, confirming that he had read and understood it and that he 
consented to all the information  included  within  this agreement. Ive also seen that there  
were a number of other insurance products available which Mr O declined to take out  so I 
think he knew that he had the option  to say no to any of these optional extras.
Mr O also says he felt pressured into taking out the policy. But he hasnt told us what  was 
said that made him feel pressured. I note that the PPI was taken out a long time ago, around 
15 years  ago, which is something I have to keep in mind when deciding  what I think  is more 
likely to have happened. And I havent seen any evidence to support Mr Os allegation of 
pressure so I cant fairly and reasonably conclude that I think it likely he was pressured into 
taking out the PPI.   
Welcome Finance recommended the PPI to Mr O so it had to check that the policy  was right 
for him  and based  on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
Mr O had been working for his employer for six months at the point of sale.  The relevant 
policy documents available state that the applicant had to be employed continuously for 
twelve months immediately before they could make  an unemployment  claim.  We asked Mr O 
about his previous employment, and he said he was employed prior to this with no gaps in 
between  so I think this would count as continuously employment for the purpose of making  
an unemployment claim. Ive also considered the other terms of the policy  and I havent seen 
any evidence he wasnt affected by any of the other  exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and he seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Mr O says he was entitled  to some sick pay from his employer which  he couldve used to 
keep up his repayments if he was off sick  but he says this sick pay was limited to three 
months. The PPI policy  wouldve paid out until the end of the loan term if Mr O was too sick 
to go back to work, and wouldve paid out in addition to his existing sick pay. Ive also seen  
that Mr O didnt have  any savings or other  insurance  he couldve relied on to make his 
Ref: DRN38094572repayments had he been made unemployed. So I dont think Mr Os limited  sick pay meant 
the policy was unsuitable for him. 
Mr O wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the policy  
early. I dont  know if Welcome Finance thought  about this when it recommended  the policy.  
But I havent seen  anything to suggest  Mr O thought hed repay the credit  early. So I dont 
think this meant the policy wasnt right for him.
Its possible the information Welcome Finance gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  Having looked at the information it gave Mr O when he took out the policy; 
the cost of the PPI on the credit agreement was combined with the costs  of the mechanical 
breakdown insurance.  This didnt separately set out how much interest was going to be 
charged on the single premium  for the PPI or what the policy cost a month.  
However, Welcome Finance says Mr O wouldve also been given a statement of price, 
which wouldve set out the cost of the PPI clearly and separately  to any other  insurance. 
Unfortunately this document is no longer available. But it has sent me a sample  copy of a 
statement of price it says wouldve been  similar  to the one Mr O wouldve seen. This shows 
the amount of the PPI premium, the interest to be charged on it and the total cost separately.  
And as this was Welcome  Finances usual process at the time, Ive not seen any reason to 
doubt that a document  similar to this wouldve been  presented to Mr O at the time of the 
sale. 
It seems  like the PPI would have been  useful for Mr O if something went  wrong and it also 
looks like it was affordable. So overall I dont think better information about  the PPI would  
have put him off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
So for the reasons Ive outlined above,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3809457