K822xcomplaint
Mrs T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) cancelled her debit card 
while she was abroad, causing her problems and having a negative impact  on her holiday.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 18 September 2020, a copy of which  is attached as it 
forms part of this final decision. NatWest havent  made any further comments.  But Mrs T 
didnt accept my provisional decision and raised  the following points in response.
She says that NatWest  appear to be blaming third parties for the problems with the 
emergency cash. But, as far as shes concerned, she was dealing  with NatWest.  She says 
she wasnt aware of any third party involvement  until reading my provisional  decision. And 
she says she didnt  know that the card provider and NatWest are separate businesses. She 
thinks NatWest could  have made  this clear and that they should  be responsible for any 
failings of third parties by paying a financial penalty.
In relation to the card being retained  by the cash machine, Mrs T says there is no excuse for 
this and she is still non-the-wiser as to why it happened. She doesnt  believe she needed to 
take further cards abroad with her and says that shes funded many previous holidays in the 
same way without problems.
Mrs T doesnt agree with the amount of compensation  I recommended and doesnt think its 
proportionate to the distress she experienced or loss of the chance to visit attractions and 
have the experiences she had planned  on this once  in a lifetime holiday.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at everything again and taken 
into account Mrs Ts latest comments.  I realise  this will be disappointing to Mrs T, but I 
havent changed by mind  about the appropriate  outcome here.
Im sorry  to hear that Mrs T didnt realise  the card provider  and NatWest  are separate  
entities, or that there were  third parties involved in some of the issues  she experienced. But I 
dont find that to be NatWests fault. In relation to the card provider in particular, Mrs T was 
directed to that business by NatWest  while she was abroad. She spoke to them on more 
than one occasion to arrange  the emergency  cash and replacement  card. I realise its 
frustrating for Mrs T that the full picture of information isnt available  in relation to some  of the 
problems which occurred,  because  there  were other parties involved. But Im satisfied that 
NatWest have provided the information  they hold on these issues. So I dont  think theyve 
acted unfairly in this respect.
Mrs T may have cause to complain about one or more of the third parties  involved here. But 
I cant comment on the likely success of any such complaints,  as Im not looking at the 
actions of any other parties here.  This complaint is only about NatWest, so I can only make a 
decision here about NatWests actions.
For the reasons  I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think  NatWest did enough  at 
the time in relation to the problem with the emergency cash. And I dont think  theyve  done  
enough to put that right to date.  But, on the information available to me, I cant fairly 
Ref: DRN37236252conclude that NatWest are fully responsible  for what went wrong with the emergency cash. 
So the amount  of compensation  I award  here needs  to reflect  that.
As to the ATM retaining Mrs Ts card,  I know Mrs T feels  very strongly about this issue  and I 
sympathise with her over what happened. But I havent seen any evidence  that the card 
being retained was NatWests fault. The card was active on their system at the time it was 
used and the machine belongs to another bank.  Mrs T spoke to staff in the branch where the 
machine was located, but they werent happy with her ID and wouldnt return the card to her. 
I dont think there was anything NatWest  could have done about  this at the time, particularly 
as Mrs T didnt  tell them what had happened  until she was back  in the UK.
I realise Mrs T doesnt think the amount of compensation I suggested is enough to reflect 
what happened and the impact on her holiday. But, as Ive explained, Im only looking at 
NatWests involvement and the extent to which I think  theyre responsible for what 
happened. I havent seen  anything which changes my mind about that since I issued my 
provisional decision. And our awards  arent intended to punish a business. Rather, they try 
to reflect  the impact of a situation and put that right, so far as possible. 
Its very difficult  to put a monetary value on the stress and upset caused by a situation like 
this. Mrs T has explained in detail how the situation affected her and Ive taken that into 
account. But I have  to be impartial, so Ive balanced  what Mrs T has said against the 
information NatWest  have provided and the overall circumstances of this complaint. Having 
done so, I still think  compensation of £1,250 is the appropriate amount here.  NatWest  have 
already paid £1,000, so they will need to pay a further £250 to Mrs T.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, and as set out in my provisional decision (attached  below), I uphold 
this complaint. My final decision is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay further  
compensation of £250 to Mrs T, bringing  the total compensation for this complaint to £1,250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37236253copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs T complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) cancelled  her debit card while  she 
was abroad, causing her problems and having a negative impact on her holiday.
background
In 2018, Mrs T planned  an extended trip abroad. She planned to use her NatWest debit card to pay 
for things while she was away, so she says she visited the branch  to tell them there  would be multiple 
overseas transactions  on her account for a period  of around two months.  
Mrs T then tried to book flights using that debit card, but the transaction  was declined. NatWest told 
her there  had been a data breach at the airline  and that, although her card hadnt been involved,  they 
were going  to issue a new card to her. Mrs T says she explained to NatWest that she would  be away 
on her trip by the time the new card arrived, and that her existing debit card would be her only source  
of funds while  she was away. Mrs T says the agent assured her that the existing card would remain  
active as long as the new card wasnt used. Mrs T says she made it clear that she wouldnt  collect the 
new card until she returned  from her trip around two months later.
Mrs T used her original debit card successfully for the first few weeks of her holiday.  But, around half 
way through the trip, the card was declined.  Mrs T contacted NatWest and was told that the card had 
been cancelled. She called NatWests complaints department, who advised her to contact the card 
provider  which she did. Mrs T says this all took up a great deal of time, involving  several telephone 
calls over a period of around eight hours. In the end, she was told that NatWest had authorised the 
release of some emergency  cash.  She was given details of how and where  to collect it.
But when Mrs T got there, there wasnt enough  cash available and the amount  she was given was 
significantly less than she was expecting. Mrs T contacted  the card provider and they arranged to 
send her an emergency card, but needed  an address to send it to. Mrs T gave them  the address of an 
acquaintance some 400 kilometres away. She says she travelled there  specially to collect the card 
and wouldnt have made the journey otherwise.
Mrs T took her friend out for a meal but, when she came  to pay, the new card was declined. She says 
she called NatWest, who told her there  was nothing wrong with the card and to try again.
Mrs T says she tried to use the card on a couple of other occasions, and it was declined each time. 
So, she says she had to use cash for everything and, because she had less emergency  cash  than 
shed requested, she had to use it very sparingly. As a result,  Mrs T says she couldnt enjoy her 
holiday in the way shed  planned and couldnt make trips which shed wanted  to go on. 
NatWest contacted  Mrs T during her trip and upheld  her complaint about the cancellation of her 
original debit  card. They said the card was automatically cancelled after 21 days and there was 
nothing they could do to stop it. They acknowledged  that theyd given Mrs T the wrong information 
and paid £100  into her account as an apology.  Mrs T says that didnt even cover the fuel costs of her 
journey to collect the new card.
Mrs T contacted  NatWest again and raised  the issue of the new debit card being  declined. NatWest 
didnt uphold  that part of the complaint. They said the transactions had been rejected by the retailer, 
not the bank. Mrs T says NatWest didnt treat the issue with an appropriate level of urgency and she 
found the situation so stressful that she wanted to end the trip early  and asked them  if they would  pay 
for her to fly home. NatWest  offered Mrs T further compensation of £400,  which she declined as she 
felt it was derisory. 
NatWest suggested that Mrs T use the card to withdraw cash at an ATM. Mrs T attempted  this the 
next day, but the machine  swallowed her card.  She says she went into the branch  to ask for it back, 
but the staff werent  satisfied with her ID and refused  to return the card to her. 
Ref: DRN37236254When she returned to the UK, Mrs T contacted NatWest and explained  what had happened at the 
cashpoint. She says she found NatWests response to be entirely  lacking in sympathy and 
understanding of the situation, so she wrote to them again. NatWest later acknowledged that Mrs Ts 
holiday had been significantly impacted  by not having  access to her debit card.  They  paid her a 
further £900,  bringing the total amount of compensation to £1,000.
Mrs T didnt think that was enough to put things  right,  so she brought  her complaint to this service. 
Our adjudicator thought that NatWest had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask them  to do any 
more. But Mrs T didnt agree  and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. She 
says the cancellation of her debit card while  she was abroad caused a great deal of stress  and had a 
very negative  impact on her holiday. She says she couldnt visit the places shed  wanted and that her 
itinerary became dictated by her lack of funds, ruining the last four weeks of her holiday.  She says it 
couldnt have been further from the holiday of a lifetime  shed  planned. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
cancellation of the original  debit card
The problems Mrs T experienced stem  from the fact that NatWest told her the original debit card 
would remain active. NatWest accept this was wrong. They  say the card had to be cancelled because 
of the airline data breach,  so it was always going to stop working after 21 days  and they couldnt  
prevent this. But Mrs T had relied  on their advice and says that the debit  card was her only way of 
accessing funds and paying for things while  she was away. She hadnt taken  any other cards with 
her. 
The fact that the card remained active for 21 days meant that Mrs T was able to use it for the first part 
of her holiday. So, the problem didnt  come to light until she was part way through her trip. By that 
stage, Mrs T was abroad and had very limited options for accessing her money. NatWest  have 
acknowledged that, if theyd  correctly advised Mrs T that her card would be cancelled, she would  
have been able to make  other  arrangements  while  she was still in the UK.
Ive looked at everything  Mrs T has said about the way she was affected  by the card being  cancelled 
and everything which happened after that. Its clear it had a very detrimental effect  on her holiday as 
well as causing a great deal of stress. What I need to look at here is the extent to which  NatWest are 
responsible for that, and whether theyve done enough to put things right.
emergency cash
NatWest dont have any branches  abroad or partner banks in the country Mrs T was visiting, so they 
couldnt offer Mrs T any direct local help. Emergency cash and/or a card was what Mrs T most 
needed at the time.  These facilities are offered by the card provider and arent services which 
NatWest can provide themselves. Im not looking at the actions of the card provider here. Im satisfied 
that NatWest directed Mrs T to the card provider promptly and engaged with the card provider to 
authorise the release  of emergency cash. I think that was a reasonable approach and the most 
appropriate one for NatWest  in the circumstances.
But there was a problem with the emergency  cash. Mrs T had asked for a particular  amount (which 
was available in her account) but, when she went  to collect the funds, only a much lower  amount was 
available to her. The difference  between  the amount Mrs T was expecting  and the amount she 
collected was around £1,600. This is a significant difference and I dont doubt  that it had a big impact 
on Mrs Ts holiday by severely  limiting her spending  ability. 
Ref: DRN37236255There is only limited information available  about  the cash advance. But Ive seen the entry on Mrs Ts 
statement, which shows it in US Dollars.  Thats not the currency  of the country Mrs T was visiting, or 
the amount she was told had been authorised,  which was in the local currency. 
If there  was a mistake  over the currency to be used, it would have affected the amount of cash  which 
was released  to Mrs T. Ive asked NatWest about this and they say they dont have any information 
about the emergency cash withdrawal. They say they authorised  the full amount, but they cant say 
whether that was the full amount Mrs T had asked for, in the local currency,  or the lower amount in 
US Dollars. From the information available,  I cant conclude that NatWest authorised the release of 
the larger  amount, in the local currency.
NatWest were aware at the time that there was an issue over the currency and the amount of cash 
released. Mrs T raised it in a phone call on the day shed  collected the cash. NatWests  file confirms  
that the issue  was to be looked into. But I havent seen any evidence that this was ever followed up, 
and it wasnt addressed in NatWests complaint  responses. 
The lack of information around  this issue means I cant conclude that NatWest were fully responsible 
for the wrong amount  of money being  released. Other  parties were also involved in the transaction. 
But I cant conclude that NatWest played  no part in the problem. Whats  clear is that they released an 
amount in US Dollars even though that wasnt the currency  Mrs T had asked for or the currency of the 
country she was in. Its also clear that Mrs T told NatWest about the mix-up on the day it happened. 
But they didnt take any steps to release the balance  of funds to her or follow this up in any way. So, I 
dont think NatWest  acted fairly here. And I dont think theyve done enough  to put things right in 
relation to this issue.
emergency card
After the problem with the cash withdrawal, the card provider sent an emergency card to Mrs T. I 
understand Mrs Ts frustration at having to travel a long distance out of her way to collect the card.  
But this was arranged with the card provider,  not NatWest. As to NatWests involvement, Im satisfied 
that they worked with the card provider to approve the emergency  card. But the card wouldnt have 
been necessary if Mrs Ts original  debit  card had remained  active or if the amount of the cash 
advance had been correct.  
As to the declined transactions on the emergency card,  NatWest have confirmed that they werent  
experiencing any system issues at the time and there was no reason  from their side for the 
transactions to be unsuccessful. Theyve also confirmed  that the reason  code given  for the declined 
transactions indicates a terminal  error,  meaning  that the retailer declined them.  Mrs Ts original card 
had been working without a problem  before  it was cancelled, which suggests  there were no problems 
with NatWest authorising  Mrs Ts transactions while  she was away.  So, I havent seen anything  which 
indicates that NatWest are responsible for the unsuccessful transactions.
cash machine  retaining card
NatWest suggested that Mrs T use the card in an ATM  to withdraw cash. I think  that was a 
reasonable suggestion. Unfortunately, when Mrs T did this, the cash machine retained the card.  
NatWest apologised  for the inconvenience  this caused, but they didnt think theyd done anything  
wrong as they say her card was active at the time she used it. From  the information available,  Im 
satisfied thats the case.
NatWest say the reason they have for the card being retained was that it was a suspected counterfeit 
card. Theyve  also suggested that the card could  have  been damaged, meaning it couldnt  be read 
fully by the ATM. But they cant  say for sure why it happened  because the ATM is abroad and belongs 
to another bank. I dont think thats  an unreasonable  response. And I havent seen anything to 
suggest NatWest are responsible for the card being retained.
conclusion and compensation
Ref: DRN37236256I have great  sympathy  for Mrs T and I dont doubt that the second part of her holiday was seriously  
impacted by these events.  After the cancellation of the original debit card, there followed a catalogue 
of unfortunate incidents  which were extremely stressful. None of the issues were  resolved 
satisfactorily while she was away, so she wasnt able to get the holiday back on track. She had to 
spend time on lengthy phone calls to the bank and card provider and travelling around to collect 
emergency cash  and cards. None  of this would have been necessary  if the original card had 
remained active, as Mrs T had been told it would. I can understand that, from Mrs Ts point of view, 
everything that went wrong stems from NatWests first mistake, and she thinks theyre  responsible  for 
everything from that point. I find that NatWests mistake did have numerous  knock-on effects. But I 
dont think theyre responsible for everything that went wrong.  
I dont find that NatWest were responsible  for the new card being declined or swallowed by the cash 
machine. But I think NatWest have at least some  responsibility for the mix-up with the emergency 
cash. This incident clearly had further consequences  for Mrs Ts holiday  and caused significant further 
stress. But NatWest  didnt do anything to try and help Mrs T or put it right once  they were aware  of the 
issue. Over-all, I dont  think  NatWest have done enough to put things right here. And their initial  
response  paying £100 and then offering a further £400  showed  little understanding of the serious  
and very worrying situation  Mrs T found herself in. I can see how that added to Mrs Ts distress.  It was 
also of no practical help to her, as NatWest knew she couldnt access the funds in her account.
But I have to balance  everything Ive said above against the fact that it was Mrs Ts own decision to 
travel abroad  taking just one debit  card with her as her only source  of funds. I dont think  that was 
wise. Im aware that Mrs T was travelling with her husband, but Im not sure what means of payment 
he took with him. I think it would have been wise for them to take more than one card between  them.  
Taking everything into account, I think NatWest  should  pay compensation of £1,250 in total.  Theyve 
already paid £1,000,  so they will need to pay a further £250  to Mrs T.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  above, and subject to any further information I receive from the parties  which  
changes my mind, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and direct National 
Westminster Bank  Plc to pay further compensation  of £250 to Mrs T, bringing the total compensation 
in this complaint to £1,250.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3723625