K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the operation of their mortgage with Coventry Building Society. 
In particular, theyre unhappy about the level of interest theyre being charged,  as they 
believe the interest rate should  have  tracked the Bank of England  base rate.
background
Mr and Mrs L have been with Coventry  for many  years. During that time, theyve changed 
their mortgage interest rate several  times, most  recently in 2006. 
Mr and Mrs L complain that the interest  rate on their mortgage is too high. They  say that it 
should track the Bank of England base  rate - or that they were misled into believing it would 
 and that as a result the rate should  have fallen to a much lower  level than it has in recent 
years. They  say the result is that theyve  been  overpaying their mortgage  for many years. 
Although theyve never been in arrears  theyve had to struggle to keep up with the mortgage  
and theyd like the rate reduced to a fair level and the overpayments returned to them.  
Coventry says that their mortgage isnt linked  to the Bank  of England  base rate. Theyre on a 
managed variable rate. It doesnt  set the rate directly by reference to base rate. And it says 
Mr and Mrs L arent subject to any early repayment  charges and could  have taken a different 
interest rate or moved their mortgage  at any time if theyd wanted to.
Our investigator didnt  think Coventry  had acted unfairly, so Mr and Mrs L asked for an 
ombudsman to look at their complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The background Ive set out above is just 
a brief summary. But Im grateful for the detail and thoroughness with which  Mr L has made  
his case and I have  considered and taken into account everything thats been said. In this 
decision Ill focus on what I think are the key reasons for the decision Ive reached.  
This mortgage was originally taken out in 2001, for just under  £90,000.  At that time, 
Mr and Mrs L selected a fixed  interest  rate of 5%, and after the fixed rate period the interest 
rate would revert  to a tracker rate.
It may help if I explain at this point  the various types of mortgage  interest  rates available.
When a lender offers a mortgage, it will set out in the offer documents an interest  rate  or at 
least a mechanism for setting an interest rate from time to time  for the whole term of the 
mortgage. Often, theres an initial preferential rate period, and when that expires the 
mortgage will move  on to a reversionary rate for the rest of the term. When the initial rate 
expires, a borrower  can remain on the reversionary rate, ask their lender for a new 
preferential rate instead, or move  the mortgage  to another lender.
A fixed interest rate is  as the name suggests   one that is fixed and cant be changed. 
Fixed rates generally  arent  for the whole term of the mortgage, and periods of two, three  
and five years are common.
A tracker rate is an interest  rate that isnt fixed.  It varies from time to time  but does so by 
Ref: DRN34855462tracking an external  benchmark. That external benchmark is often the Bank of England base 
rate, though  other  benchmarks such as LIBOR are sometimes  used. The mortgage interest 
rate will track the external  benchmark by a particular margin   for example base rate plus 
2%. 
A variable rate is an interest rate that also isnt fixed.  But it doesnt  track an external 
benchmark either. Instead its varied by the lender from time to time  taking into account 
various factors, but not tracking one in particular.
A standard  variable rate (SVR) is a lenders standard rate  which  is generally higher  than 
any of its fixed or tracker rates  which often acts as the default reversionary rate for all or 
most of its mortgages. A discount rate operates  in a similar way to a tracker, but works by 
operating at a margin below  a benchmark  rate  often the SVR  rather  than a margin  
above.
Coventry also has a privilege rate, only available to customers of at least five years 
standing. Its a variable  rate which it guarantees to be up to 1% lower than the SVR.
When Mr and Mrs L took out their mortgage, they took a fixed rate which reverted  to a 
tracker rate at 1% above  Bank of England base rate. If the mortgage had stayed on that 
basis, theyd be right that their interest rate should directly follow, and mirror  movements in, 
the Bank of England base  rate.
But it didnt.  In 2002, they decided to take a new interest rate at the same time as they 
borrowed more money. Their new interest  rate was a discount rate  but not one that 
shadowed the Bank of England base rate. Instead it was guaranteed  to be 2.3% below 
Coventrys SVR until the end of the discount  period, following which  it would move to the 
SVR and then the privilege  rate. 
It was at this point, in 2002, that the direct link between Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  and the 
Bank of England  base rate was broken. Instead, their mortgage became directly  linked to 
Coventrys SVR. 
In 2004, they took a new discount rate. And then the final change in how Mr and Mrs Ls 
mortgage interest rate was set happened  in 2006. In 2006 Mr and Mrs L moved to a product 
Coventry calls its Flexx  product.  Its been on the Flexx product ever since.
The 2006  product offer is therefore  the latest document that sets out what interest rate will 
apply to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage and how its calculated.
The 2006  product transfer offer says this is Mr and Mrs Ls interest rate:
Flexx for term (FLZ64)   a variable rate which is guaranteed to be no more  than the 
Coventry Building Societys  Standard  Variable Rate, currently  6.59%, to the end of 
the mortgage term, to give a current  rate payable  of 4.85%. The tracker rate is 
reviewed on the 15th day of the month,  with any change  applying from the 1st day of 
the following  month.
And in the special  conditions appended  to the offer, it says this:
The contractual rate of interest  that you will pay will be the Societys Standard 
Variable Rate, which will be no more than 1.00% above the Societys Privilege Rate  
Ref: DRN34855463and is shown in Section  4 of this Offer of Mortgage. Subject to what  has been said in 
the first paragraph, from the date of completion  of the Advance  the actual rate of 
interest you will pay on your Advance, which is variable,  will be managed  by the 
Society during  the period up to and including the end of the mortgage term at a rate 
guaranteed to be no more than the Societys  Standard Variable Rate, currently 
6.59%, given an applied rate of interest,  which is also variable, of 4.85%....
The Current  Applied  Rate of interest of 4.85%  will apply until the first review. The 
applied variable rate of interest will be reviewed by the Society on the fifteenth day of 
every month from the date of completion of the Advance up to and including the end 
of the mortgage  term. Any change to the variable rate of interest as a result of these 
reviews will require amended monthly  payments, which will commence in the month  
following the particular  review. You will be notified  of the amended rate and monthly 
payments to be made.
I dont think this is at all clear. It seems to me to say that Mr and Mrs L are contractually 
obliged to pay the SVR  but that Coventry wont charge them  that. Instead it will charge 
them something called the Current Applied Rate, which is guaranteed to be no more than 
the SVR. But the Current  Applied Rate will be reviewed every  month  and could change  at 
any time, as long as it does not exceed the SVR.
Theres nothing in the offer itself or the mortgage terms and conditions that sets out how the 
Current Applied Rate  is to be calculated   beyond saying that it is capped at the SVR  or 
how it is to be reviewed  or varied. There are no reasons given  by which  Coventry may or 
may not change the Current Applied  Rate. 
Clause 4 of the terms and conditions set out how the SVR can be varied  but the SVR is 
not the Current  Applied Rate. The only mechanism for changing the Current  Applied Rate 
 or, as would also be permitted  deciding that it would increase to match  the SVR, is an 
open-ended power for Coventry to review the rate each  month.  Theres  no contractual limit 
on the number  of times Coventry can do this, the reasons it can do it for, or  subject to the 
SVR cap  the amounts of any increase. 
As a result, I think theres a significant imbalance between  the parties here. The borrowers, 
Mr and Mrs L, cant tell from their contract  what their interest rate would be from time to time 
or how and why it could  be varied. The Current Applied Rate  is set and varied  by an 
unclear mechanism.
However, in the particular  circumstances  of this case, I dont think theres been any 
detriment to Mr and Mrs L. 
Theres nothing in the contract  which  suggests  that the Current Applied  Rate,  or the SVR 
which forms a cap on it, is directly  linked to or tracks  the Bank  of England  base rate. 
However, the history  of rate movements shows that, in practice, Coventry has reacted to 
changes in the Bank of England base rate by making, around the same time, broadly 
equivalent changes  in the Current Applied Rate. 
As a result, by March  2009, the Current  Applied  Rate had reached 2.5% - and, apart from a 
period between September 2016 and November 2017 when it fell to 2.25% - there  it has 
stayed ever since. I think its important to note that, while Coventry  has used this unclear 
term to change the rate applicable to Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage, it has on the whole done so 
Ref: DRN34855464by reducing the rate they pay  and that rate is significantly lower than the SVR. So 
Coventrys exercise of the term has been  to their benefit, not their detriment.
Over the same period,  Coventrys SVR has been 4.74%, and the Privilege Rate  has been 
4.49%. I dont agree with Mr L that the Privilege Rate  allows a discount of 1% off the 
contractual interest rate once hes been  a customer  for five years or more.  Rather,  its a 
specific rate itself, for which only customers of five years standing  are eligible, which will be 
up to 1% less than the SVR. In other words, Mr and Mrs Ls mortgage  will only be charged 
the Privilege Rate  of 4.49% if thats  the specific rate applicable to their mortgage. But its not 
 they have a Flexx mortgage with its own Current Applied Rate, which  is almost  2% lower 
than the Privilege Rate.
So by being on the Flexx product, and its Current Applied Rate, Mr and Mrs L are 
considerably better off than they would  have been  had they been on the SVR or the Privilege 
Rate. Theyre not better off than they would have been had they been  on the base rate 
tracker which was the reversionary rate when they took the mortgage out in 2001  but that 
rate hasnt been applicable to their mortgage  since they decided to change  it for a different  
product when they took further borrowing in 2002. At no point  since  then has their mortgage 
been directly linked to base  rate. Mr and Mrs L say theyve always  believed theyve been on 
a tracker rate  but I think the paperwork theyve had over the years is clear that they havent 
been.
Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage  industry that for much of the period from 
2009 onwards,  2.5% was a competitive rate, and similar to or lower than many of the rates 
available in the market from other lenders. Thats less true now than it was, but 2.5%  is still 
not out of line with the initial promotional rates offered by other lenders.
A further  reason that I dont consider Mr and Mrs L have suffered any detriment is that ever 
since they became  subject to the Current  Applied Rate in 2006, there has been no early 
repayment charge  (ERC)  applicable to their mortgage. Theyve therefore been able to move  
their mortgage either to another of Coventrys rates, or to another  lender entirely, at any time 
without paying  to exit their Flexx  product. So if at any point they werent  happy with 
Coventrys decisions to change  or not to change  the rate applicable to their mortgage, 
they could have taken a different rate instead.
Mr L has suggested that staff remuneration is a motive for keeping their mortgage at a high 
rate. Its not for me to comment on Coventrys  internal matters  but in any case, Ive shown 
that I dont  think their mortgage  is at a high rate. I dont think  thats a factor in this case,  and 
for all the reasons Ive given I dont think Mr and Mrs L have been treated  unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3485546