K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 1994 Mr and Mrs R took out PPI following a meeting at one of Lloyds branches to cover  
each of their incomes.  Lloyds says the PPI provided 50% of their mortgage  payments in the 
event Mr R couldnt work through accident  or sickness  or lost his job or 50% if Mrs R couldnt  
work through  accident or sickness or lost her job. The policy  provided 100% of their 
mortgage payments  if both couldnt  work.
The policy cost £6 a month and it provided a 100% benefit to match Mr and Mrs Rs monthly 
mortgage payment  of £209.26 plus their monthly home insurance policy  premium  and it 
provided £3 a month for every £1000  they had borrowed.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs R chose to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate 
theyd lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs R disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Lloyds says this was an advised sale. This means Lloyds not only had to provide Mr and 
Mrs R with good enough information  about  the policy so they could make an informed 
decision about it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable  for them  based  on 
their needs  and circumstances at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of 
the case.
did Lloyds make it clear  to Mr and Mrs R that they had a choice about PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in November 1994. Mr and Mrs R say they didnt want PPI with their 
mortgage and were unaware  theyd been given it. While Im sure Mr and Mrs R have given 
their honest  recollections,  I think their memory of the sale is mistaken, which is 
understandable as the sale was twenty  five years ago. I say this for the following reasons.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Rs application form for the loan. On it Mr and 
Mrs R have ticked a box asking for a quotation for PPI and they have both signed the 
application form. Theyd previously had loans without PPI so they knew  the PPI was 
optional. I think its more  likely than not that Lloyds  would  have  sent them some information 
about the policy starting and they could  have cancelled the PPI at any time, but they didnt. 
Ref: DRN39383912So I dont  think I can reasonably say that its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs R knew 
nothing about  the PPI as I would need  to in order to uphold their complaint on this point.
So I think Lloyds presented the policy to Mr and Mrs R as optional and they chose to take it out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs R properly advised 
and informed? if not  have  Mr and Mrs R lost out?
I dont know what Lloyds  said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs R. I also 
dont know what information Mr and Mrs R were  given  about PPI. I dont know  whether the 
policys benefits were  explained to them or if they were told about the significant exclusions 
and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs R agreed to take the cover out knowing 
very little about it, but I dont know if they received  everything they needed  to know  to allow  
them to make an informed  decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Lloyds  
recommended to Mr and Mrs R that they take out PPI. I accept Mr and Mrs R may not have 
been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs R have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Rs circumstances  and needs at the time, I think  the 
policy cover  was suitable for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs R would have acted 
differently and not gone ahead with the cover if Lloyds had provided better information. My 
reasons are as follows:
Mr and Mrs R were eligible for their cover and all its benefits.
Mr and Mrs R were employed and in good  health at the time, so it doesnt appear they 
would have  been affected  by any of the key exclusions / limitations  of their cover such  
as existing  medical condition exclusions or unusual employment terms.
Mr and Mrs R both had income and some  sick pay entitlements  which could have 
helped them  make the mortgage payments if either  was off work ill or lost their job. But 
they had limited savings  and the policy would have paid out within 60 days in addition  to 
any sick pay or redundancy  pay and for up to 12 months for each claim. So I think  Mr 
and Mrs R had a need for their cover and that it would  have been  useful  to them  if either 
had found themselves  unable to work. It could have helped them financially at what  
would be a difficult time - it could  have helped them  protect their home.
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs R would have  agreed to something  without  having  some 
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely on 
the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them.  Ive already said they had a need 
for it and at just over £6 per month it appears  to have been affordable. And as they were 
paying for the PPI monthly,  they could cancel it without further  cost if at any stage  their 
situation changed or they no longer wanted  it.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Mrs R may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably by Lloyds in its dealings with 
them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive detailed 
above, I think Mr and Mrs R chose to take out the PPI and they would have been in the 
same position if Lloyds had done  more and properly advised and informed them  - I think they 
would have still taken  out the PPI.
Ref: DRN39383913my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs R have not lost out as a result of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3938391