K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about a mortgage  they took out on advice from St Jamess
Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP)  in order to invest in off-plan overseas property.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2019 in which  I set out the 
circumstances and background of Mr and Mrs Js complaint.   A copy  of that decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
In summary  I concluded the complaint should  be considered jointly  for Mr and Mrs J, and 
was not persuaded they received unsuitable  mortgage advice.  So  my provisional decision  
was not to uphold the complaint.
SJP responded  confirming it had no further  comments to make.
Represented by a claims management company (CMC), Mr and Mrs J disagreed  and 
provided a detailed response for consideration.  It provided submissions  on two key issues:
whether Mr and Mrs J have joint or separate complaints; and 
whether SJP is responsible for unsuitable advice.
Ive set out a summary of the submissions below.
joint or separate complaints
In my provisional decision I made reference  to another  ombudsmans  explanation of the 
rules and approach  to whether a complaint should be considered  jointly or separately.   The 
CMC says that:
Mr and Mrs J are individual people who have  their individual rights  granted to them.   
Our Service should treat them equally and give appropriate consideration to their 
own complaints distinctly.
Adequate reasons for my conclusion to treat as a joint complaint were not provided.
It reveals that I had spoken with another ombudsman and based my decision upon 
their opinion   and so have not decided the issue fairly.
It should be concluded that there are two complaints meaning that there  are 
£150,000 monetary awards available.
It is an application of rules and law which applies to matters of jurisdiction, and not 
what is fair and reasonable.
I am misdirected in my application of the rules and law and it makes  reference to the 
definitions of complaint and person as described  the DISP  rules in the FCA 
Handbook.
My conclusion  penalises a person on the grounds that they are married  or co-habit, 
and effectively reduces the monetary award limit from £150,000 to £75,000  for each 
individual.
SJP has not argued that the complaint should  be considered jointly, and so it is 
procedurally unfair for our Service to argue that case for SJPs benefit.
is SJP responsible for any unsuitable  advice?
Ref: DRN35962272The CMC has confirmed  that Mr and Mrs J are not complaining about  investment advice, but 
rather the suitability  of the mortgage  advice they received from the adviser. The claim is 
based upon the findings of the Court of Appeal  in the Emptage  case which involved 
circumstances which the CMC says are exactly the same.
It states the complaint about the mortgage is that there was no suitable repayment  vehicle 
and it was not affordable in any event.  In  summary the CMC  says:
It was impossible for the adviser to conclude there was a suitable repayment  vehicle.
At the time of advice,  the two Spanish  apartments forming the OVP  investment did 
not exist.
The money borrowed (£150,000) was clearly insufficient to purchase  two Spanish 
apartments.
For Mr and Mrs J to complete the purchase  of the two apartments was contingent  
upon further borrowing from a Spanish  bank.
The investment  carried a risk of currency fluctuations.
An adviser didnt  need to have  an in-depth  knowledge of the OVP  investment to 
understand that the repayment  vehicle was very high risk.
In addition to the Emptage case, the CMC referred to several decisions made by 
ombudsman at our Service where  it was decided advice was unsuitable in relation to similar 
types of complaint.
It was also re-iterated that there  are a number of documents from the time of advice which  
are not available.  The CMC suggested  that SJP has withheld those documents as they do 
not support its position in this complaint, and an adverse  inference  should be made 
accordingly.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so Im not persuaded to 
change the outcome as set out in my provisional decision, but I shall provide further  clarity  in 
relation to the submissions made  in response  to that provisional  decision.
joint or separate complaints
I should be clear that I have considered  this issue independently and specifically in relation 
to the circumstances giving rise to Mr and Mrs Js concerns. In my provisional decision, I 
stated that another ombudsman had explained the considerations around this point to the 
CMC representing Mr and Mrs J previously  and in some  detail.   But my conclusions are 
based upon the application of the relevant rules and law to Mr and Mrs Js circumstances.  
For the sake of clarity I have confirmed those in further detail  here.
A complaint is defined  in the FCA handbook glossary as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction,  whether  justified or not, from, or on behalf 
of a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial  service which:
(a)alleges that the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material 
distress or material inconvenience;  and 
Ref: DRN35962273(b)relates to an activity of that respondent, or of any other  respondent with whom 
that respondent has some connection  in marketing or providing financial  services 
or products which comes under the jurisdiction of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service. (my emphasis)
Ive considered the CMCs submissions about  what a person  is, and that Mr and Mrs J are 
individuals who each  have a complaint in their own right. But I disagree.  
It is not the case that because the definition of complaint refers to dissatisfaction on behalf  of 
a person, each  person who expresses dissatisfaction  has a separate  complaint.  The  correct  
interpretation is that whether there  is more  than one complaint is related to the provision  of, 
or failure  to provide,  a financial service and the complaint must relate to an activity  of that 
respondent in providing financial services or products.
I also note that s.6(c) of the Interpretation Act 1978  provides  that unless the contrary 
intention appears  words  in the singular include the plural, and words in the plural  include the 
singular.
So, in Mr and Mrs Js circumstances, one financial service was provided jointly  to them  
together. That is, advice  to take out their joint interest-only mortgage.  So Im satisfied this 
gives rise to one complaint about  the financial service provided.
As I set out in my provisional  decision:
Mr and Mrs J applied for a joint mortgage.
The assessment  of their ability to repay  the mortgage would have been based upon 
their joint circumstances.
As a joint mortgage, Mr or Mrs J couldnt have chosen to accept  the mortgage offer 
individually.
It follows, that on balance,  any advice was given jointly  to Mr and Mrs J, and so was in 
relation to the provision of one financial service.   If there was an act or omission  is then it 
was one act or omission.  So Im satisfied that it is appropriate to treat Mr and Mrs J as 
having one complaint.
I am aware  the CMC  says this interpretation penalises individuals  for being married  or co-
habiting, but that is not the case.  The relationship between  the individuals  is irrelevant to the 
question of whether  there are one or two complaints.   The same rules  apply to any act or 
omission in relation to a financial service provided  to more than one individual together.
suitability of advice  and whether SJP is responsible
I understand that Mr and Mrs J disagree with the reasons why I set out that the mortgage 
advice they received was not unsuitable  in the circumstances.  The  CMC representing them  
has made reference to previous decisions made by ombudsman at our Service and case law 
reviewed by the Courts.  I have taken all of that into account, but Im specifically required to 
consider Mr and Mrs Js complaint under the rules which this Service must operate, and 
having regard  to particular facts in this case.
As set out in my provisional  decision, the standards under which the adviser  was required to 
operate when  giving mortgage advice are set out in the Mortgage Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (MCOB) that applied  at the time.  I explained in some detail why I consider the 
Ref: DRN35962274adviser met his obligations under those rules, and having  considered  the further submissions  
made, Im not persuaded to change my conclusions.
The CMC has referred  to the situation where  consumers  have  been  given a package of 
advice about a mortgage and investment.  However,  in this case  Im not satisfied the adviser 
gave the investment advice, and have explained why I consider its likely on balance  he had 
limited knowledge  of the specific features of the OVP investment  which  was essentially 
Spanish property.
As the documentation  from the time is no longer  available Ive had to decide what  I consider 
to be most likely based upon  the evidence that I do have.  Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs J 
have said the adviser  was involved  and knew about OVP, Im persuaded otherwise.  This is 
supported by the fact they were  referred to the adviser by another  adviser who they first 
approached to obtain the mortgage (and so already had a need for the borrowing).
When considering  how the mortgage  would be repaid, I consider it reasonable for the 
adviser to have relied upon the fact Mr and Mrs J were  investing  in Spanish property and 
had likely received  investment  advice previously in relation  to that.  This is consistent with 
the requirements under MCOB 4.7.11E as explained  in my provisional decision.
So whilst I appreciate  Mr and Mrs J will be disappointed, I have received everything 
impartially and in full, but am unable to say the adviser gave them  unsuitable mortgage 
advice.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in this decision, I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint against St 
Jamess Place Wealth Management  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 November  2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35962275COPY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs J have complained about  a mortgage they took out on advice  from St Jamess
Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) in order to invest  in off-plan  overseas property.
background
Mr and Mrs J took advice  from SJP in 2006. They started a mortgage for £150,000  on an interest-only 
basis over a 20-year term. They were mortgage free at the time and their home  was valued at 
£250,000.
The money  raised  was used to pay deposits for two off-plan properties in Spain  through Ocean View  
Properties (OVP). One property was completed and Mr and Mrs J took ownership  (paying the 
balance by way of a further Spanish mortgage). The second  property was never  completed.
The completed property was caught in the Spanish property crash and didnt achieve  its expected 
capital or rental value. The property was repossessed  by the Spanish mortgage lenders. Mr and Mrs J 
lost the deposit payment for the second property in 2009  when OVP  went into liquidation.
Mr and Mrs J are represented in bringing their complaint. Through their representative
Mr and Mrs J say that the SJP adviser introduced them to the idea of investing with OVP  and 
recommended they raise  equity from their home to make the investment.
SJP says that it was only involved in arranging  the mortgage and didnt  give investment advice. It 
says the adviser  that Mr and Mrs J dealt with had no connection with OVP.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. In summary  she said that there was insufficient evidence 
to show  the recommended mortgage was unsuitable.
Mr and Mrs Js representative provided a detailed response  which Ive considered in full, but in 
summary he said:
Many financial advisers sold OVP investments, and that sales were not generally made  as a 
result of cold calls.
The whole OVP  concept  was unsustainable as the proposed incomes  didnt meet  the 
outgoings.
SJP holds  documentation from 2001 advice but not from this advice in 2006.
This suggests the later documents have been withheld.
It wanted  a fresh review  by an ombudsman  who had not been involved with reviewing the 
case previously.
So the case  was passed  to me for a fresh review and decision to be made.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, and subject  to any responses I receive, I have 
provisionally decided  this complaint should not be upheld  and Ill explain why.
Its important that I first address an issue raised  by Mr and Mrs Js representative. That is, whether  its 
right to treat this matter as one complaint brought jointly by Mr and Mrs J, or whether  they have 
separate complaints.
This is an issue which has been explained to Mr and Mrs Js representative by another  ombudsman 
on a similar complaint.  So I wont expand in full detail, but will address this point in summary.
Ref: DRN35962276The DISP rules which set out which  complaints we can consider says,  at DISP 2.3.1R:
The Ombudsman can consider a complaint under  the Compulsory  Jurisdiction if it relates to an act 
or omission by a firm in carrying  on one or more of the following activities [my emphasis].
I am satisfied  that Mr and Mrs Js concerns should be considered as one joint complaint.
This is because they relate to a single  piece of advice given to them jointly, not individually, and so 
there was one act or omission. Although there is limited evidence available  from the time, I consider 
this to be clear because:
Mr and Mrs J applied for a joint mortgage;
The assessment of Mr and Mrs Js ability to repay the mortgage would have been based upon 
their joint circumstances.
As a joint mortgage, Mr or Mrs J couldnt have chosen to accept the mortgage  offer 
individually.
So I think its more likely than not that any act or omission on the part of the business was given  to Mr 
and Mrs J jointly, and was in relation to the provision of one financial service. It follows that any 
resulting financial loss would  be suffered  by Mr and Mrs J jointly also.
The second  issue that I feel the need to address is that the 2006 documents from the time of sale are 
not available. Mr and Mrs Js representative says that the documents are likely to have been withheld,  
particularly as earlier  documents from 2001 advice are available. Its clearly unfortunate  that those  
documents arent available, but I dont agree  that means theyve been withheld. Its more than ten 
years since the advice  was given to Mr and Mrs J and so its not wholly  surprising that some 
documentation is missing  or incomplete. In such situations I have to decide what I consider to be most  
likely on balance.
Having reviewed  everything provided to me, I consider the key issues for me to decide are:
to what  extent to adviser knew about or advised Mr and Mrs J about  the OVP  investment;
what advice SJP is responsible  for that the adviser gave  to Mr and Mrs J; and
whether that advice  was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Js circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Js account  of what happened  is that the adviser went  through a suite  of literature about  
the OVP investment and advised them to borrow £150,000 against their home  to invest in two off-plan 
Spanish properties.
SJP says that there was no connection between  it and Ocean  View Properties.
I have little doubt  that the adviser was aware  Mr and Mrs J wanted to take the mortgage out to buy 
property in Spain. He gave them terms of business  and key facts documents  relating to the mortgage,  
but Ive seen  nothing  recorded in relation to any investment advice. Im not satisfied the adviser  was 
wholly familiar with OVP and how their developments were sold. I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs 
J were referred to SJP after they had decided to make  the investment in OVP.
This conclusion is supported by the fact that in 2006  Mr and Mrs J had contacted the SJP adviser who 
originally gave  them  separate investment advice in 2001. But as he didnt deal with mortgage 
products, he referred  Mr and Mrs J to a different  SJP adviser, who ultimately dealt with them  and 
arranged the mortgage.
So having concluded the adviser gave the mortgage advice and not investment advice, its that what I 
consider SJP is responsible  for. SJPs agreement with the adviser  did restrict the activities which it 
authorised and accepted responsibility for. But as SJP has confirmed its responsibility for the 
mortgage advice and I dont  think the adviser  gave the investment recommendations I havent had to 
explore this point further.
Ref: DRN35962277So for me to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint  I must conclude that the mortgage advice they received 
was unsuitable for their circumstances.
The obligations placed upon the SJP adviser  when considering Mr and Mrs Js options are set out in 
the Mortgage Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (MCOB)  that applied at the time. As the mortgage 
was taken  out on their residential property it was a regulated mortgage contract.
Under MCOB 4.7.2R a regulated mortgage  contract  was suitable  if having regard to the facts 
disclosed by the customer and other relevant  facts  about the customer  which  the firm is or should  
reasonably be aware, it had reasonable grounds to conclude that:
- the customer  can afford to enter into the regulated  mortgage contract;
- it is appropriate for the needs and circumstances  of the customer; and
- it is the most suitable  of those that the firm has available to it.
MCOB 4.7.8G states that a firm was generally  entitled to rely upon the information  provided by a 
customer unless taking a common sense approach it had reason to doubt it. But I dont think the 
advisers wider obligations were relinquished by the ability to rely upon information provided  by Mr 
and Mrs J.
In this case, SJP had to ensure that it had all the relevant information to enable it to recommend a 
mortgage that was appropriate and affordable for Mr and Mrs Js needs. Although it could generally 
rely upon what they said,  it was still required  to exercise  a degree of caution and question anything it 
had reason to doubt.
Its true that the documentary  evidence  from the time of sale is incomplete. There  is no fact find or 
suitability letter, and having contacted the mortgage lender the mortgage application  itself is no longer 
available. Without that evidence its very difficult to be certain about  precisely what happened  or what  
was said. But I must not let that advantage or disadvantage either  party, and as Ive explained above,  
in the absence of certainty I must decide what I think most likely on balance.
The mortgage  Mr and Mrs J were recommended was an interest-only loan, and so the adviser  would 
have been required  to consider how the mortgage was to be repaid.  Mr and Mrs J have explained  that 
the sale of OVP  investment property in Spain was intended  to be used to repay the mortgage,  and I 
agree that is likely. Their  representative has made a number of submissions about the viability of the 
OVP investment and how it was never affordable in line with what  was expected under MCOB 
4.7.2R.
Although advice on an interest-only  mortgage  includes  considering the repayment strategy, I dont 
think that extends  to making in-depth checks on the investment. MCOB 4.7.12G states it does not 
require a firm to provide  advice on investments when considering its obligations under  MCOB 
4.7.11E. So I dont think the adviser needed to assess the overall viability of the OVP concept. But it 
does go on to state that whether such advice  should be given will depend  upon the individual needs 
and circumstances  of the customer and that MCOB 4 does not restrict the ability of an adviser to 
refer the customer to another  source of investment  advice.
In this case, Ive not seen  anything to suggest that Mr and Mrs J were referred  by SJP to another 
source of investment advice. But as I explained above, I think its likely that OVP  had been 
recommended to Mr and Mrs J before  they approached  SJP for mortgage advice. I appreciate that 
this conflicts with their recollection, but as their representative has stated,  many different advisers  
may have recommended OVP, and Ive seen no documentary  evidence linking  the SJP adviser with 
OVP generally.
When considering whether  the mortgage Mr and Mrs J took out was appropriate for their needs and 
circumstances, the SJP adviser would  have  needed  to think about  how the mortgage would be repaid.  
Ref: DRN35962278Im satisfied they were able to afford the interest payments needed  to maintain the mortgage, so the 
issue for consideration  is the method of capital repayment.
From the information that is available, it seems that Mr and Mrs J were mortgage free with a home  
worth £250,000. They  borrowed £150,000 on an interest only basis over 20 years.  Its not clear what 
Mr and Mrs J may have been told about repaying the balance of the mortgage or precisely what  plans 
they had to do that. But given the investment  they were making and their wider financial 
circumstances, I think its likely the funds would have been expected to come from the OVP 
investments.
But as Ive said,  Im not satisfied that the SJP adviser  had a connection with OVP and cant  be sure 
he knew the specific  features of the investment.  He wasnt  required to make an in depth check of the 
investment and may well have understood that Mr and Mrs J would have ownership  of property 
abroad  particularly given the amount of funds  they were  raising to invest.
So in the circumstances I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to uphold  the complaint. 
Ive concluded SJP werent responsible  for the investment advice and Im not satisfied  the adviser  had 
a detailed knowledge of OVP.
I realise Mr and Mrs J will likely be very disappointed. I appreciate that they have been badly let down  
by their investment in OVP, but Im unable to say the mortgage itself was unsuitable.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint against St Jamess Place 
Wealth Management  Plc.
Ref: DRN3596227