K821x#15Complaint
Mr F complains that Allianz  Insurance Plc didnt pay him enough for his written-off car when 
he made a claim on his motor insurance policy. He also says its advisors gave  him poor 
service and that he was harassed into returning a hire car too soon.
background
The accident  in which Mr Fs car was damaged  in November  2018 was the other drivers 
fault. Mr F bought a new car for £2,900 in order to continue with his work as a driving 
instructor. He had it adapted for that purpose. When Allianz  valued  his damaged car it said it 
was worth £3,300.  But it made a deduction  of £1,000 for its very high mileage, plus a further 
£900 deduction. Allianz didnt think an advisor  had been rude to Mr F, but it said hed been 
given feedback anyway. It said a separate  company  (firm P) provided the hire car. Allianz 
apologised for the poor service from its claims team in terms of some delay, but as it didnt 
accept that the delay  had affected Mr F directly,  it didnt offer him compensation.  
Initially, one of our investigators  said the valuation wasnt fair, given the £900  deduction.  He 
didnt think Allianz  had given a good  reason for that. He noted that the call in which Mr F said 
an advisor was rude to him wasnt available. But he thought  it was reasonable that Allianz  
had apologised  for poor service and had given  the advisor feedback. He said the policy 
didnt provide cover for a replacement  car, so Allianz  wasnt responsible for that issue.  
Allianz then explained that the £900 deduction was due to the pre-existing damage  its 
engineer had noted on the car. It referred to a dent in the drivers door.  The investigator 
thought the deduction  was reasonable. Mr F said Allianz knew  the dent was caused in 
another non-fault accident less than three months earlier  and was due to be repaired.  The 
repaired car would have been  worth  £2,300, so Mr F said thats  what Allianz should pay him.  
Allianz said it would ask that a further  payment be made to Mr F. It said it didnt know  the 
previous damage  hadnt been repaired, as it hadnt  dealt  with the claim. The investigator  
asked it to clarify how the earlier  claim would now be recorded, but Allianz didnt reply. He 
then issued another view saying Allianz should  pay Mr F £900, plus interest, and £100 for 
distress and inconvenience. Mr F accepted that proposal. Allianz  said Mr F had never 
mentioned the uncompleted  repairs when  discussing the settlement with it. It said it had 
offered to put matters right, so his complaint against it shouldnt  be upheld.  
As Allianz  asked for a review of the complaint by an ombudsman, it was passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Without a copy of the call recording, I cant say whether the advisor Mr F thinks  was rude to 
him acted  unreasonably  during their conversation. At one stage Allianz was able to listen  to 
the call. It didnt think he was rude to Mr F, but despite that, it says a manager  gave  
feedback to the advisor. So it must have thought he could have handled the call better  in 
some respects. In my view taking  that action was a reasonable  way to handle  the issue.  
In terms of the replacement car, the file notes show Allianz contacted Mr Fs broker,  and it 
confirmed that Mr F had paid it extra for separate cover from firm P. Under Allianzs policy, 
Ref: DRN30912332Mr F wasnt entitled to a courtesy  car or a hire car. He called Allianz after the accident and it 
arranged for his car to be recovered.  The notes  show that it did so - in line with an 
agreement with the broker  by passing the matter  on to firm P. So Allianz wasnt  
responsible for the replacement car or for any harassment Mr F faced about returning it.         
Allianzs engineers  report says there  was moderate  damage to the drivers door. But I dont 
think its clear  in the report what the £900 deduction was for. It was set out as due to market  
variation. It seems that (even  if pre-existing damage was mentioned to Mr F) no-one 
explained the situation to him properly. As a result  he couldnt have known he should have 
raised the unrepaired damage to the door as an issue when talking  to Allianzs advisors.   
Even when  our investigator queried  the deduction, Allianz didnt clarify it properly. It was only 
after he issued his first view that it emerged  the deduction was for the damage to the door. 
That damage (which Mr F wasnt responsible for) was due to be repaired the following week. 
Allianz accepted  the situation  and its advisor told us shed ask for a further  payment to be 
made. But Allianz didnt  contact Mr F (or this service) after that to confirm  that £900  had 
been paid - or was about to be paid - to Mr F. It didnt reply to the investigators  query.  As 
Mr F had been without the £900  for many months,  I think its fair to say that paying him 
should have been a priority. The complaint  could  then have  been  settled. 
In the circumstances, I think its fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Fs complaint. I think  
Allianz should pay him £900, plus interest, within 14 days. Allianz confirmed recently  that the 
way Mr Fs previous claim  was recorded  (as notification only) isnt going to change. But I 
think Mr F has been confused and inconvenienced by some  of Allianzs other  actions, so I 
think its reasonable for Allianz to pay him compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Allianz Insurance Plc to do the 
following:
Pay Mr F £900 within 14 days of Mr F accepting this decision
Add interest to the £900 at the simple  yearly rate of 8%, from the date of the original 
payment for the car to the date of settlement
Pay Mr F £100 compensation for distress  and inconvenience
If Allianz thinks its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr F how much  its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 June  2020.
Susan Ewins  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3091233