K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that BMW Financial  Services (GB) Limited (BMWFS) has unfairly charged 
him for excess mileage  and damage under a hire-purchase agreement that he terminated 
early. 
background
In April 2015, Mr G took out a hire-purchase  agreement over 49 months with BMWFS for a 
used car. Mr G wasnt obliged to buy the car but could instead opt to return it to BMWFS, 
either at the end of the term or by exercising  his right to end the agreement early.
As part of the return arrangements the parties  agreed that if Mr G went over a specified 
mileage, BMWFS would  be entitled  to charge  him for the excess  mileage.  The total mileage 
would be assessed  on a pro-rata  basis in the event of early termination.  The parties also 
agreed that if Mr G returned the car, BMWFS  could  charge for any damage that wasnt down 
to ordinary wear and tear.
Towards the end of March 2018 Mr G decided  he wanted a different car. He notified 
BMWFS, taking out a new finance  agreement on another vehicle. By that point, Mr G was 
three years into his four-year  agreement,  and had already repaid more  than half the total 
amount payable. Mr G says that he believed he had nothing further to pay under the original 
agreement, noting that BMWFS had previously allowed him to terminate  early  without further  
costs. 
However, a few months after Mr G handed back the car BMWFS  charged him a further 
£1,193.50. It said this charge comprised excess mileage and damage costs.  This amount 
later increased by around £21 due to accrued interest.
Mr G complained about the charges.  He didnt think they were fair, saying that he took out 
the new agreement  on the basis hed handed back his previous car without charges. Mr G 
added that the closing  mileage and the cars condition werent confirmed  when he handed it 
over. He provided  his own calculation of the excess mileage, noted work  hed had carried  
out on the car, and commented  on the time BMWFS  took to collect  the vehicle from the 
dealer to whom  hed returned it. Mr G was also unhappy that matters werent put on hold in 
response to his complaint.
Our investigator was satisfied that BMWFS had calculated the excess  mileage  charge  
correctly and in line with the terms of the hire-purchase agreement, that the damage costs  
werent raised unfairly, and that the charges were not inconsistent with relevant  provisions of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA1974). He found that the terms of the agreement  were 
clear around  the possibility of excess mileage and damage charges being payable  on 
voluntary termination.  
Mr G remains  unhappy. He feels the investigator focused on the contract terms rather than 
the concerns hes expressed about matters  such as the new agreement  he entered  into, the 
timescale for collection and assessment of damage  and excess mileage costs. Hes asked 
for this review.
Ref: DRN37479422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Mr G has said about the investigators assessment. It is of course 
important that in assessing  the fairness  of the charges hes queried,  we consider other 
principles that might  be at stake,  including that provision  exists within  the agreement. Mr G 
appear to accept that it does, but for the sake of completeness Ill summarise  my view of that 
point.
Mr Gs arrangements  with BMWFS were governed by a number of factors.  The contract 
between the parties  set out the terms on which they agreed to do business. That agreement  
is regulated by the CCA1974 and by the provisions in the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), both of which  provide  a layer of protection to 
consumers to ensure  fair treatment. 
Under his hire-purchase  agreement, while Mr G was entitled to use the car, he agreed  that 
use would  be subject  to certain obligations,  such as maintaining and taking care of the car. 
One of the other things Mr G agreed  with BMWFS was that he would pay an additional 
amount based  on the use he made  of the car over and above a specified  mileage (annual, 
and for the duration of the agreement). The agreement  set out what would happen should 
Mr G return the car with damage  beyond fair wear and tear and/or having exceeded the 
specified mileage.  Im satisfied it did so clearly, and that its terms werent inconsistent with 
the relevant provisions in the CCA1974.
As Ive said,  Mr G doesnt seem to dispute the contractual right of BMWFS  to levy charges. 
He objects on the basis that a) his entry into a new credit agreement and past experience  
led him to think he was starting afresh  and hed have  nothing further to pay; b) he handed 
back the car at the end of March, but it wasnt collected from the dealer and assessed  for 
damage and excess  mileage until mid-June. Its therefore possible additional mileage and 
any damage happened in the meantime. And c) its unacceptable that BMWFS  didnt invoice 
him for the charges until July, given his understanding in a).
Although Mr G calculated the excess mileage  differently in his original  submissions,  Ive no 
reason to think that BMWFS calculated  the charge incorrectly. It appears to me to be 
consistent with the agreement  and the mileage recorded when  the car was collected. Mr Gs 
pro-rata calculation  appears to have been based on the collection date, rather  than the date 
he handed back the car. I think that explains any apparent discrepancy.
Im satisfied the wording  of the agreement is sufficiently clear that Mr G ought  reasonably  to 
have been aware  when  handing back the car that he might  incur charges. I further note that 
on 28 March 2018 when he handed back the car, Mr G signed a termination notice. This 
indicated mileage of around 101,500,  which is broadly consistent  with the figure  BMWFS 
used to calculate the excess mileage  charge. The termination notice  also includes the 
following declaration:
I understand that as a result of my instruction:
my agreement  will be irreversibly terminated;
I must  return  the vehicle to you;
the vehicle  will be inspected in accordance  with the BVRLA (British Vehicle 
Rental & Leasing Association) Fair Wear & Tear standard;
Ref: DRN37479423I may be charged for any Items  which fall outside of this standard;  and
an invoice will be sent to me for any excess mileage charge due in accordance 
with my maximum  contractual  mileage, which will be pro-rated to the date I return 
the vehicle, (Select  Agreements  only).
Given this declaration, I dont think I could properly say that Mr G ought  reasonably  to have  
held the belief that he would have no further liability after handing back the car. The 
information I can see he received at the time made  it clear that he might  well do so, and that 
he would  be invoiced for this at a later date.
Mr G hasnt suggested that at any point the dealer or BMWFS  told him he would have 
nothing further  to pay. I accept Mr G might have assumed this to be the case in light of his 
past experience.  But given the terms of his original agreement  and the declaration Mr G 
made on handing back the car, I dont think it would  be right to say that BMWFS is 
responsible for him holding that assumption. It follows that I dont consider it provides a basis  
for the charges to be reduced or waived.
On the issue of the damage assessment, Ive reviewed the report  completed  by the third 
party assessor when  they collected the car. The damage for which BMWFS  has levied the 
charge is consistent  with the report it received. I accept its possible that the damage  could 
have been sustained in the time between Mr G handing back  the car and when the 
assessment was made. But that doesnt  mean  its more likely to have happened then rather 
than in the three years over which Mr G enjoyed possession of the car.
Mr G has said that the car had previously been  to a body shop to have any damage 
corrected. Be that as it may, the items for which damage costs were levied relate in the main 
to the alloy wheels and a significant chip in the windscreen. I dont find the available 
evidence suggestive this damage was more  likely  to have been incurred while  the car was at 
the dealer than during  the period the car was in Mr Gs possession.
I do think BMWFS could do better in terms of the overall timescale. Any material  delay in 
conducting an inspection  of a returned  car presents scope for doubt over the legitimacy of 
claims made  for damage and/or excess mileage.  I also take Mr Gs point  about  the time 
BMWFS took to raise the invoice. In this case, I dont consider that the delay  has put Mr G in 
a different position  than he was in when he handed back  the car, so Im not proposing 
BMWFS needs to take any action in redress.  However, I would encourage BMWFS  to take 
steps in future to minimise  such delays.
Ref: DRN37479424my final decision
Overall, Im not persuaded BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  has acted unfairly  or 
unreasonably towards  Mr G such that I require it to take any action to resolve his complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2021.
Niall Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3747942