K820x#14complaint
Ms O complains that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds trading at the time of sale as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Ms O took out a mortgage in March  2004 and at the same time took out an MPPI  policy  that 
covered her against  accidents, sickness and unemployment. She arranged the mortgage 
and insurance  in a meeting in one of Lloyds branches. The mortgage  and PPI ended in or 
before August 2006. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Ms O doesnt agree with the adjudicators 
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Os case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Os complaint for the following reasons:
Ms O has said she didnt want or have  a need for the MPPI policy  and felt pressured 
into having  it, but her recollections about this are not detailed. This is understandable 
due to the amount of time that has passed  since the date of sale.  So I have needed  to 
look at the sales  documentation provided from that time to obtain an understanding as 
to what more  likely happened and whether she was given  consent  to have it.
I think, after considering the documentation  provided and what I know of how Lloyds 
sold policies  at that time, it is more likely that Ms O was advised it was a good idea to 
have the insurance to protect her mortgage repayments, and she took it on that advice.
I have come to this conclusion  because  the sales documentation  I have suggests to me 
that the policy was presented as optional.  I can see that, when the separate application  
form was being  completed and signed  by Ms O, that the MPPI policy  was presented  on 
this form as an optional  requirement.  On balance, when considering  the information in 
front of me, I am persuaded  Ms O was given a choice to have the MPPI policy.
Moving on, I think Lloyds recommended  the MPPI to Ms O, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for her based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time. She says had 
some small amount of savings so the benefits  provided  by the policy would have been of 
use to her in a time of need.  Having the policy in place  would mean Ms O could  use any 
provisions to cover other expenses.  I think, on balance, Ms O would have found the cover 
the policy  provided useful for any extended  period  of unemployment or sickness.  I can 
also see no other reasons  such as a significant  or restrictive term that would make the 
policy unsuitable.
I cannot be sure if Ms O would  have received the costs of the policy clearly in the 
meeting but even  if she had received all the information  on this, I dont think  it would 
Ref: DRN38122812have changed  her mind  to have the cover  for the reasons that I have already given. The 
MPPI policy was reasonably priced  compared  to similar policies available  at the time 
and to the monthly repayment. And Ms O could have cancelled  the MPPI  if it did 
become unaffordable.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its unlikely 
Ms O wouldve  been affected by any of these based on what  I have already concluded.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms O, but on balance,  I do not uphold her 
complaint for the reasons that I have  given.
my final decision
I dont uphold Ms Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms O to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019 .
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3812281