K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited provided poor service to him when 
he made a claim on his motor insurance policy for a replacement  windscreen.
background
Mr M made the claim on 12 September 2018.  As the policy only covered £300 of the cost of 
the windscreen (minus  a £50 excess)  Mr M paid £646.11 on that date for the work. It was 
due to be done six days later by Calpes approved  supplier, but the firm cancelled the 
appointment. It said the manufacturer  didnt have the glass  in stock and said there was a 
lead time of up to 10 days. A further  appointment was made for 6 October 2018. That was 
also cancelled, as the glass was still not available. The work was done on 7 November 2018.
Mr M said hed been looking to change his car, but that due to the time it took to get the 
windscreen replaced, that had been  delayed. He said hed had to make two extra finance 
payments and that hed also have cancelled his insurance in September 2018.  
Calpe said neither it nor its supplier  could be blamed for the time it took for specialist glass  to 
be provided by the manufacturer.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Ms complaint. He didnt think the delay  was Calpes 
fault or that of its supplier. Mr M said hed faced a significant financial  loss as a result of the 
delay. He said Calpe or its supplier  couldnt say the delay was reasonable because  it was 
caused by the manufacturer. He thought  it should have apologised to him and offered an 
alternative solution. He thought it should have  offered the £300  so he could  try to get the 
windscreen from another supplier. Mr M also thought that the refund on the policy after he 
cancelled it in November  2018 should be calculated from September  2018. 
Mr M then said hed found another supplier who said it could provide the windscreen for 
slightly less than Calpes  supplier had quoted and had said the lead time was up to 10 days. 
The investigator thought Mr M could  have chosen to use a non-approved supplier  although  
Calpe would  only have  paid £100  towards the cost.  He didnt  think  it was for Calpe to go 
outside the policys terms and conditions to look at alternative suppliers. 
Mr M asked  for a review  of his complaint by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think it should be upheld.
The policy gave Mr M the right to choose whether to use one of Calpes approved suppliers 
or not. I dont think it was for Calpe to suggest  he should find another supplier, or to arrange 
that for him. And although I can understand why Mr M was frustrated by two appointments 
for the work  being cancelled, I dont  think that was the approved suppliers  fault. 
It seems  the supplier initially thought the glass would be provided by the manufacturer within  
a few days, which may be the usual waiting  time.  So I think it took the payment from Mr M in 
good faith. It was then told by the manufacturer that there was a lead time of 10 days. At that 
point, the supplier had no reason to believe that wasnt  the case. The alternative supplier 
Ref: DRN35435242Mr M later contacted quoted the same  lead time. So I dont think it was unreasonable for the 
approved supplier to book  the second  appointment. 
I dont agree with Mr M that he was given the run-around by the supplier. The delivery date 
for the glass  was entirely down to the manufacturer. The supplier  could do nothing to shorten 
the waiting period, as the specialist glass  came from one source. So I think the second 
cancelled appointment was also due to the manufacturer.
It appears that Mr M contacted the alternative supplier in December 2018. It seems  that it 
quoted less for the windscreen than Calpes supplier. But had Mr M used that supplier  
initially (or after the first or second cancellation) Calpe  would have paid £200  less for the 
work. I think  that would  have been  fair, as it would have been in line with the policys terms 
and conditions. 
The alternative supplier  quoted a lead time of up to 10 days. As it could only source  the 
glass from the manufacturer,  I assume  that by then there was no shortage  of it. But theres 
always the possibility  that the lead time might have ended up being far longer than expected, 
depending on the manufacturers later actions.
Although Mr M may have planned to change his car, theres no guarantee he could have 
done that in September  2018. Had he done  so, hed still have had to pay for insurance  and 
he may have had another finance plan. In any event, we can only consider the losses  a 
consumer may have had if we think a business  acted unreasonably, and that its actions led 
to the losses. I dont think Calpe or its supplier was to blame  for the delays in replacing the 
windscreen on Mr Ms car. It follows that Calpe wasnt to blame for any losses  Mr M may 
have faced either. So Im not upholding his complaint.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3543524