K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that AIG Life Limited  failed to notify  him that it hadnt managed  to collect the 
premium for his term assurance policy which then lapsed.
background
AIG accepted that it had failed to notify  Mr D that it hadnt managed to collect  a premium 
through the direct debit that was in place. It initially  offered  to waive  two of the premiums as 
a result,  but in a letter dated 5 October  2018  it offered to waive  a total of three premiums 
leaving one premium currently payable  at that time - for 1 October 2018. It said that if this 
would be agreeable to Mr D it would reinstate the policy but Mr D had already referred his 
complaint to us and didnt agree to this.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought AIG should pay Mr D £100 for 
the trouble and upset caused - in addition to waiving  three  premium  payments - as a result  of 
what it did wrong.
Mr D accepted this but AIG didnt. It provided  a timeline of events and in short said the 
following: 
It referred to previous  issues  with Mr Ds premium payments at the end of 2017  and 
beginning of 2018 caused by the non-payment  of premiums when it hadnt  provided 
clear information to him about  what needed  to be paid to put things  right. It had 
agreed to waive three premium payments as a result of this, which Mr D agreed to.
Its second error was in July 2018 when  an automated letter  wasnt  generated to tell 
Mr D it hadnt been able to collect the premium due on 1 July 2018. When the 
payment of 1 August  2018 also wasnt paid the policy  then lapsed due to non-
payment.
It has a responsibility to tell customers when it hasnt been able to collect a payment 
but there is as much  responsibility on customers to ensure that funds  are in their 
account to pay the premiums.
Mr D indicated on 1 October  2018 the complaint could  be resolved by waiving  three 
premium payments. It agreed  to do this in its letter of 5 October 2018 but he then 
didnt agree to this.
It accepts  Mr D will have been  caused  some anxiety by what it got wrong  but not that 
it has caused significant inconvenience  and not inconsiderable upset as the 
adjudicator had said.
It doesnt consider  £100 is reasonable compensation  in the circumstances of the 
complaint. When Mr D rejected  the offer of waiving three premiums on 10 October 
2018 it offered  to waive  a fourth  premium.  But Mr D then wanted it to waive the 
premiums for the rest of the year which it didnt think was reasonable.
Mr D commented he might  as well take his complaint  to us as he had nothing to lose. 
So it thinks he is just using us to get more  compensation  than is necessary.
As AIG didnt agree with the adjudicator the matter  has been referred to me for review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN32575352It is important  to be clear about  what AIG are, and are not, responsible for. As it has pointed 
out, it is for Mr D to make sure he has sufficient money in his account to pay the premiums 
when these fall due. And AIG isnt responsible for the non-payment of premiums that has 
occurred at various times over the course of the last year or so.
What it is responsible for is not notifying Mr D that it wasnt able to take the premium payable  
as of 1 July 2018. It accepts an automated letter shouldve  been produced to tell him this but 
wasnt. Mr D also failed to make  payment  for the premium  due on 1 August 2018  and as a 
result of there now being two outstanding premiums the policy  was lapsed automatically.
So to some extent Mr D is in the position he is in because he hasnt done what he is required 
to do under the policy, namely to pay the premiums as they are due. He set the date of 
premium payment as the first of the month so shouldve had money available as at that time 
to pay the premiums. 
I note he has referred  to the premium payment being taken at different times but he has 
made various changes  to the date of payment of the premium  over the last year which 
inevitably has led to payments being payable  at different times. Also,  as the direct  debit 
system operates  over working  days there  will be days  when payment won\t  be made. As an 
example, in the case of the 1 July 2018 payment, this was a Sunday  so payment wouldnt be 
made on that date but would be likely to be taken the next working day.
Although I acknowledge Mr D had an obligation  to ensure he had money available  to pay the 
premiums as they fell due, what shouldve happened when the payment was missed on 1 
July 2018 is that he shouldve been  made  aware of this. This wouldve given him the 
opportunity of putting this right. 
I also think AIG missed another opportunity to let Mr D what  was going on. He contacted it in 
July after the 1 July 2018 premium payment was missed, to reduce his premium from £23.66 
to £19.63 which was agreed with the new premium  being payable  on the next payment date 
of 1 August  2018. It doesnt  appear  there was any mention of the unpaid  premium in the 
telephone discussion   I think surprisingly, given the discussion was about the premium 
payments.
It is clear that he wants to keep the policy going and I think it is more  likely than not that if he 
had been made aware he had missed a payment  he wouldve made attempts to put this right 
and wouldve communicated with AIG about this. In the circumstances I think  it is more likely  
than not that he wouldve avoided his policy lapsing  if he had been made aware  there was a 
missed premium.
I dont think the offer to waive some of the premiums is sufficient to compensate  Mr D for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by the policy having lapsed. It is clear this cover is 
important to Mr D and it is inevitable  that being told the policy was now lapsed will have been 
of great  concern  to him. 
I acknowledge that Mr D indicated on 1 October  2018 that he was prepared  to accept the 
waiver of three premiums  to resolve the complaint but when this was offered in the letter on 
5 October 2018 he decided  not to agree with this. But I note the telephone discussion  on 1 
October 2018 was left on the basis he would get a call back that day which  doesnt  seem to 
have happened. 
Ref: DRN32575353Im not sure if this was because no one attempted to call him that day or because of difficulty  
in getting hold of him - as there is some indication  AIG hasnt always been  able to get hold of 
him. But whatever  the reason I think he expected  the matter to be resolved on 1 October 
2018 and it wasnt.  In the circumstances  I dont think his indication  he wanted  AIG to waive 
three premiums and then didnt accept its later offer on that basis  doesnt mean I cant award  
something more than this.
I also note what AIG has said about  Mr Ds stated reasons for referring his complaint to us. 
But although  he is wrong that he has nothing  to lose - I could decide  AIG doesnt need to 
pay anything and it could  withdraw its offer of waiving premiums  so he would get nothing   I 
dont think the fact he said he referred  his complaint to us because he wanted more 
compensation is in any way unusual in a complaint and I dont think  this changes  anything.
In all the circumstances I think  an amount of £100 in addition  to the waiver of three 
premiums as already  offered by AIG is reasonable redress for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by what AIG got wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold this complaint. AIG Life Limited has to pay Mr D 
the redress I have  set out.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3257535