K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although a copy of Mr Ss credit agreement or application is no longer available due 
to the time thats passed, Halifax  has shown  us an example document that they say 
is representative of what Mr S would have seen when completing his application.
On balance, I think this document is likely reflective of what Mr S would have  seen 
when completing  his application.  
It has a section headed; PROTECTING YOUR PAYMENTS. In this section theres 
an option to apply for PPI that requires  an additional  tick. On balance, as PPI was 
added to this account, I think Halifax made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out  although  I can understand why he may not 
remember this given  the time thats  passed.
Halifax didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr S got the information he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it looks  like he was eligible 
for the cover and it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about not needing PPI 
because of his existing means for making  his repayments. 
But this PPI policy could  have paid out for up to 12 months  for an accident or sickness claim, 
whereas Mr Ss sick pay would have  decreased  to half pay after 6 months. So I cant fairly 
say that Mr S wouldnt have found the PPI useful if he was unwell and unable to work. 
Mr S has also told us that he had no other means for making his repayments if he was made 
unemployed. Given his length of employment I think  that its likely that he would have been 
entitled to at least statutory redundancy. But Halifax has said that this PPI policy  could have 
Ref: DRN38933792paid out for up to 10 months for an unemployment  claim. So again, I still think that Mr S 
could have found it useful and these  points dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr S paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr S back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr S.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3893379