K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander  UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs H bought  the policy in 1998  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr H only for accident,  sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £130 a month  towards Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £9.02 a month.  
At the time,  Mr H was employed  as a van driver. He has told us he was entitled to 
redundancy payment from his employer. He also told Santander that he mightve  been  
entitled to sick pay but wasnt  sure how much.  He didnt have any other means of repaying 
their mortgage should he be unable to work.  Mr H has said he was in good health at the time 
of the sale. 
Mrs H was not working at the time of sale, but she wasnt covered under  the policy.   
Santander has sent us records to show that Mr and Mrs Hs MPPI policy  was taken out at 
the same  time as their original mortgage account  which closed in 2006. At this time, Mr and 
Mrs H took out further lending  (2006).  
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Hs representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs H 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Hs representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs H 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN38680262The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs H received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The original  mortgage  agreement with which Mr and Mrs H took the PPI itself concluded in 
2006. The new mortgage that was arranged at this time (2006) was arranged  after mortgage  
lending became regulated in October 2004   as such  this was an FCA regulated mortgage. 
That means the unfair relationship provisions  set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, 
the Supreme Court  judgment in Plevin  about  s.140A  of that Act and the rules and guidance 
made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN38680263Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN38680264-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs H, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs H 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs H 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs H know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage application does not mention their PPI policy   so theres nothing 
on this form indicating that PPI is a mandatory part of the mortgage application. 
A separate  PPI application form was completed  requesting cover for Mr H only. It also 
specified the cost,  benefit and the type of cover, i.e. full accident, sickness  and involuntary  
unemployment cover. Mr H signed this form as well as signing  a direct debt mandate  
authorising the PPI premiums to be collected  so I think  its clear  the PPI is a separate  
product with as separate cost. 
I can also see they were sent a welcome  letter prior to the policy starting  - this advised them  
that they could  cancel  the policy within 14 days and receive a full refund of any premiums  
already paid. But the policy wasnt cancelled  at this time. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs H knew the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Santander says that advice  was provided  during this sale. Mr and Mrs H cant remember  if 
they were given advice.  
Looking at what happened when Santander  sold Mr and Mrs H the PPI, Im persuaded that it 
provided advice.  I say this because Ive got no reason to doubt  what Santander has said.  
This was also a branch sale with an advisor  present  based on what Ive seen of sales 
made in branch, they were  usually advised.  And an advised sale holds Santander to a higher 
standard when  selling the policy. 
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs H with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs H. It seems  Mr and Mrs H cant  remember clearly what 
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited 
information about Mr and Mrs Hs financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence 
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr H would have been caught by the 
Ref: DRN38680265significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet 
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Santander considered whether Mr H 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs H given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs H, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr H met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs H had a need  for the policy  Mr H was the main  wage  earner and it 
seems likely Mr and Mrs Hs finances would be put under strain if he was not working 
 even allowing  for the sickness  and redundancy benefits he mightve been entitled  
to. The policy would  have helped Mr and Mrs H manage the consequences if Mr H 
was unable to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs H. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr H (as the 
policy holder). There was nothing about Mr Hs employment or occupation which  
would have made it difficult for him to claim.  And he hasnt told us about any pre-
existing medical conditions that could  affect  his ability  to claim. There were  also no 
additional restrictions on cover  for mental health  or back  problems.
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr H be disabled  or unemployed for 4 
weeks days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits for a 
maximum of 12 months for each claim,  it still provided valuable cover  given: Mr and 
Mrs Hs circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments  
relating to their home and the potential consequences should Mr H be unable  to 
make the repayments on loans  secured  against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs H 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr H was unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because this was set out in the PPI 
application form and I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would have taken out the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs H agreed  to take 
out the policy. 
Ref: DRN38680266Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs H Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs H all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Hs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Hs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Hs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs H have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs H? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs H suffer  loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs H. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs H suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs H would have still taken  out the policy,  had Santander  done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs H, I have found that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs H have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs H would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Ref: DRN38680267Mr and Mrs H say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs H had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
Mr H was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mr and Mrs H were given about  the cost and 
benefit was clear. The cost and benefit amount was set out in the PPI application form they 
signed when they agreed to take the PPI. Ive also seen a welcome letter with their 
insurance schedule  sent prior to the policy starting which  again  set out the cost and benefit 
for them. So Im persuaded Santander made clear exactly  what Mr and Mrs H would pay for 
the PPI and what they would get back in return in the event they made a successful claim. 
They also paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs were  significantly at odds 
with their expectations at the point of sale, its possible  they might have raised that with 
Santander at the time or reconsidered their decision.  
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the limitations  and exclusions 
wasnt as clear as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs H thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating any condition Mr H had at the start date or which 
he had received treatment  or advice for during the 12 months before the start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr H 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr H be unable  to 
do his own normal job or any paid work which  his experience, education or training 
reasonable qualified him to do;
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs H pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs H from taking out the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN38680268But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr H was eligible  for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr H wouldve been caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr H didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs H would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs H had known that Mr H could only claim  for disability if he was not only unable 
to do his job but also unable to do any job which in the insurers  view he might  reasonably  be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would do. And I accept it 
may have  given them pause for thought  although  given  Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances and 
the limited other means they had to make their repayments if Mr H wasnt  working,  on 
balance, I still think they would have been  interested in taking  out the cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs PPI application  form specified  that the policy cover was for 12 months. I can 
also see the benefit period of 12 months  was set out in the insurance  schedule  that was 
attached to their welcome letter sent before the policy started. So, I think Mr and Mrs H 
wouldve known at the time they applied for the policy, that it didnt  pay out for the remaining 
term of the mortgage.  I also note that they had limited other means to fall back on, so I still 
think they had some good reasons  to take this policy out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs H would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr H was made redundant, or unable  to 
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not 
Mr and Mrs H would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on 
cover.
Mr and Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs H would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN38680269Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs H found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs H believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs H in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs H compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs H think Santander misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  
of Santanders  statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and Mrs 
H, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1998 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Hs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs H and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs H in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN386802610my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2021.
Asma Begum 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3868026