K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) for closing his accounts  
without giving him a reason. He wants NatWest  to reopen his accounts, give an explanation 
for the closure, and to pay him compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused to 
him. 
background
Mr A has been a customer of NatWest  since 2004. In early  2018 Mr A held 5 accounts with 
NatWest, including  accounts he held on behalf of his children. 
In April 2018, NatWest  wrote to Mr A setting out that, following a review,  it intended  to close  
his accounts.  This gave  him 60 days notice. 
Mr A identified an alternative account and tried to arrange for his accounts to move  through  
a switching service. This was rejected by NatWest. He later opened  accounts  elsewhere and 
hi NatWest accounts were  closed.  
Mr A complained to NatWest about  the closure of his accounts. He was concerned  that the 
reason for closure may be his ethnicity and he set out that the closure caused inconvenience 
and upset to both him and his family. 
NatWest responded  to Mr As complaint in late April 2018, although it appears that Mr A did 
not receive that email at the time.  
In that response, NatWest said that it would not reconsider the decision and that it had taken 
many factors  into account in making  the decision to close the account, but that it would not 
divulge the precise reason behind the decision. 
NatWest directed Mr A to the terms and conditions which allow it to close  accounts by giving 
60 days notice. 
Mr A complained again to NatWest and received a further  reply,  referencing the first reply. 
This again said it would not give further explanation for the decision. It therefore did not 
uphold Mr As complaint.  
Mr A was unhappy with this response and contacted us. He explained that one of his 
children had additional needs and that the closure of the accounts had caused particular 
upset and inconvenience because of this. He also said that he had been told to use a 
switching service by NatWest staff, but when he had tried to do this it was rejected.
One of our adjudicators has looked into this matter and set out a view to the parties.  This 
was that she had seen no evidence of NatWest doing anything  wrong  and so was unable to 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr A responded to that view disagreeing with the outcome and requesting evidence to 
support the adjudicators view that the closure was not based on Mr As ethnic background. 
He also reiterated  his concern that NatWest  had told him to switch accounts, but then 
rejected his application for switching. 
The complaint has therefore been  passed for an ombudsman decision. 
Ref: DRN38074452my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I appreciate Mr As concern and frustration at having to find alternative  banking 
services after he was not aware of any issue with his accounts.  Particularly  after a long 
period with a bank,  I can imagine that this was worrying when no precise reason was given 
to him. 
However, businesses  are entitled  to decide  who they want as customers, just as customers 
are entitled  to decide who they want to bank  with. So long as the business complies with its 
terms and conditions, and does not discriminate  unfairly, it is able to close customers 
accounts as a commercial  decision.  
In this instance, the business has described  that it made a commercial decision to close  Mr 
As 5 accounts. I can see that one of those  accounts was used regularly, and some of the 
others were  barely used  at all over the previous  year, with negligible balances. 
The business has provided evidence of it having  gone through  a review process and making  
a decision to close Mr As accounts  on a commercial basis, and I am satisfied that this was 
done fairly and without  discrimination.  
I understand Mr As concern but I have not seen any evidence to suggest  that the account 
closure was influenced by his ethnic background or any other irrelevant factors.  
NatWest gave the notice required by its terms and conditions  and so, as it has done 
something which it is entitled to do, and has complied with its terms, I cannot say the 
business has acted  wrongly. As a result I cannot  uphold Mr As complaint. 
In relation to Mr As comments that he was advised by NatWest  to use a switching service 
but then his request to switch was rejected,  I do not doubt Mr As account, but I note that the 
business set out in its account closure  letter  ways  that Mr A could move his accounts 
elsewhere. This letter does not include reference to a switching service and NatWest has 
said that it rejected  the application because it had not discussed switching with Mr A in 
advance. 
I appreciate that Mr A may have  been  pointed to switching by NatWest  staff at some stage, 
but as this was not included as an option available to Mr A within  the account closure letter I 
cannot say that NatWest  has done  anything significantly wrong in rejecting this, once the 
decision to close his accounts had been  made.
As a result I do not uphold Mr As complaint, and so the issue  of compensation does not 
arise. 
Mr A also wanted confirmation that the account  closure had not affected his credit rating. 
The business has confirmed that its decision to close has not been reported  to credit 
reference agencies.  I realise that my decision not to uphold the complaint is not what Mr A 
wanted, but I hope that he will be reassured that the decision  to close  his accounts will have 
had no adverse effect on his credit rating. 
Ref: DRN38074453my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr As complaint and do not ask National 
Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3807445