K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that a new motorbike he got from BMW  Financial Services  (GB) Limited  
(BMWFS) with a hire purchase agreement  was of unsatisfactory quality when it was 
supplied. 
background
Mr W got this motorbike  with in March 2017.  Soon after delivery a suspension light 
illuminated and Mr W found  the bike lost power on acceleration at times.  He told the dealer 
and it ran diagnostic  checks in May 2017 - when  the bike had just over 400 miles on the 
clock - but no faults were identified. 
Mr W didnt use the bike every  day but he found  the same issues were still present when he 
took the bike abroad a few months  later. The dealer agreed to take another look and 
replaced a faulty  shock absorber and suspension unit in 2018. Mr W was unhappy  that the 
dealer changed the control  unit without  telling him and let staff take the bike out. He 
continued to experience power loss on acceleration - which  was dangerous when pulling out 
into traffic especially - and complained to BMWFS in April 2018. 
BMWFS says the dealer  was entitled  to have  the opportunity to repair and it fixed any faults 
found in April 2018. Those repairs  were  carried out under the manufacturers warranty at no 
cost to Mr W. And BMWFS considers the bike is of satisfactory quality.
Our investigator considers the dealer  took reasonable steps to check the bike when Mr W 
reported issues. She appreciates it was frustrating for Mr W to be without the bike while  the 
dealer investigated and carried  out repairs. But, she doesnt think  this took too long and 
shes satisfied Mr W was given a courtesy bike to minimise inconvenience. She thinks  its 
likely that any faults have been  rectified now and doesnt recommend the complaint  should 
be upheld. 
Mr W was unhappy with this outcome. He says BMWFS had the chance to repair  but the 
bike wasnt fixed properly. He thinks the bike was faulty when it was supplied and all efforts 
at repair  failed so BMWFS should take it back and provide a refund. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the matter.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I am sorry to disappoint Mr W but Ive 
reached much the same conclusions as our investigator for broadly the same reasons. 
Mr W acquired this bike with finance provided by BMWFS. And BMWFS was required under 
legislation to ensure that bike was of satisfactory  quality when Mr W got it. The level of 
quality thats considered  satisfactory will vary according to circumstances. This motorbike  
was brand new so I think Mr W had a reasonable expectation that it would be fault free at the 
point of supply.  
I accept Mr W reported  two issues  within first 30 days - a suspension light came on in the 
first week  and he found the bike lost power  sometimes on hard acceleration. But I havent 
Ref: DRN31929732seen anything to show that Mr W asked to reject  the bike at this stage. As far as I can see he 
agreed the dealer could have the chance to repair and I think that was reasonable.  
The dealer  ran some diagnostic checks when the bike went  in for its first service  in May 
2017. But, no fault codes were found  and it couldnt  replicate the issues  Mr W had been 
having. Mr W didn't ride the bike every day so its understandable that he didnt  report any 
more problems until he went on holiday in the summer of 2017. The dealer agreed to check 
the bike again then but it took a while  for this to happen - Mr W was busy  with work and 
there was some difficulty arranging for the bike to go back to the dealer. 
In April 2018 the dealer found there was a problem  with the suspension and carried  out 
repairs. I appreciate Mr W considers this took too long but the dealer seems to have been  
waiting on a part. Im satisfied it provided  a courtesy  replacement bike to reduce Mr Ws 
inconvenience and the cost of repairs was covered under the manufacturers  warranty. I 
cant fairly say that sounds unreasonable. On balance, I am satisfied the suspension issue  
seems to have been fixed at this stage. It looks as if the dealer also investigated the loss of 
power Mr W reported - more than one staff member took the bike for a test run but the 
problem didnt recur.  
I have no doubt  this was really  frustrating for Mr W. I can see he raised  the matter with 
BMWFS around  this time - and the bike had about  4,000 miles on the clock. But I think the 
dealer seems to have  carried out some reasonable  investigations. Im satisfied it was unable  
to replicate the loss of power  Mr W experienced. But, I accept some  faults  are intermittent 
and can be very difficult to pinpoint. So, I spoke to Mr W to find out a bit more about what 
happened. 
I can see (from emails  between the dealer and Mr W) that it was suggested at one point that 
Mr W could have the bike recovered if it cut out again and there  were  safety concerns. I 
asked if Mr W ever had the bike recovered - or checked by a third party when he was 
abroad. He explained  the bike never actually broke down so that wasnt  necessary. 
Mr W also told me that BMWFS had mentioned  possibly getting a specialist engineer  from 
the manufacturer to take a look at the bike. He felt it was unlikely that an engineer sent by 
the manufacturer would  identify a fault. And we talked about whether an independent expert  
should be instructed  to take a look. Mr W didnt think this was likely to take matters  much 
further because  the fault is intermittent and might  not occur  even on a long test drive. He 
didnt think it would  be feasible to try and video the problem for the same reason. 
I understand the points Mr W has made. It can be helpful to have a report from a specialist 
engineer in this sort of situation but I cant be certain  it would make  any difference here.  As 
things stand I have  limited information  about  what might have caused  the loss of power Mr 
W experienced. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach 
my decision  on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr W feels theres clearly a fault here so BMWFS  should have taken the bike 
back and given him a refund. But, Id only be able to require BMWFS to do that if I was 
satisfied that its more likely than not this bike has an inherent defect that was present from 
the point of supply. 
Ref: DRN31929733On balance, Im afraid I am not satisfied that there is sufficient evidence  to fairly find that this 
bike still has a fault. And I dont think there  are enough fair and reasonable grounds to 
uphold this complaint.  I realise this isnt the outcome Mr W wanted  and Im sorry if he feels  
let down. Mr W doesnt have to accept my decision  in which case  it remains  open to him to 
pursue this matter  by other means,  should he wish to do so.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I am unable to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3192973