K820x#14complaint
Mr Us car was stolen from a garage  that was part of esure  Insurance Limiteds (Esure) 
network. Mr U is unhappy with the compensation offered by Esure for what  went  wrong. 
background
Mr U has a car insurance policy with Esure.  In October 2018, Mr Us car was involved in a 
minor incident. Mr Us car was sent to a garage  within Esures network for repairs.  Whilst in 
the garage, Mr Us car was stolen. Mr U complained to Esure. 
Esure reviewed three  trade  guides to find out the market value of Mr Us car before it was 
stolen. The valuations returned were £17,250, £17,930 and £18,241. Esure  agreed to pay 
the highest value of £18,241, and a further £500  as compensation for the trouble and upset  
caused to Mr U. 
Mr U rejected Esures offer, saying  that he wouldnt be able to buy a similar  car to his one 
that was stolen with the amount offered. Mr U provided evidence  of similar cars which  hed 
seen advertised at the time for a lot more  than what Esure  were offering. 
As Mr U remained unhappy, he brought his complaint to this service for investigation. The 
adjudicator thought Esures offer was fair, and didnt recommend any further compensation. 
Mr U didnt agree, saying that his claim wasnt against his insurance policy  so it wouldnt be 
fair to treat the claim as a theft claim.  Mr U says the principles of negligence apply and he 
should be put back into the position  he would be in had negligence not occurred. As the 
complaint couldnt  be resolved, its been passed  to me for decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr U. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the adjudicators findings, 
and I wont be recommending Esure do anything more. I can understand this is likely to 
come as a disappointment  to Mr U but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why 
Ive reached this decision.   
Ive looked at the policy booklet and what was explained about what  how the value of Mr Us 
car would be calculated in the event of theft. I accept that Mr U didnt claim on his insurance 
policy for this theft  as it happened whilst in the care of his insurer. But I still think 
understanding what his insurance  policy would have paid out in the event of similar 
circumstances is fair. 
Mr Us insurance  policy  explained that Mr U wouldnt receive  more  than the market  value 
(less any excess) in the event of a claim  for theft.  Keeping in mind what  Mr Us insurance 
policy explained about theft,  Ive considered  whether the approach taken by Esure  has been 
fair when  deciding on what compensation to pay for Mr Us stolen car.
Esure have referred to valuation guides to determine the likely market value of a car like 
Mr Us before the theft happened.  Ive also checked two of the three valuation guides  Esure 
used, plus an additional one. There was one guide  that esure used which  I couldnt  rely on 
because this guide is usually only for losses that have taken place in the last three months.  
But this hasnt had a negative impact on Mr U. Ive see that from the three I checked, they all 
Ref: DRN30270702returned lower values than what Esure have offered. I think Esures  decision to pay Mr U the 
higher of the three values  returned at the time was fair. 
Mr U has provided evidence  from car sales magazines to show what he considers is the 
value of his car. I think trade guides  give a clearer indication of the likely market  value of a 
car than adverts  online and in magazines.  Trade guides are based  on extensive nationwide 
research of likely (but not actual) selling prices.  They use advertised prices and auction 
prices to work out what  likely selling  prices wouldve been. We expect insurers  to use trade 
guides when valuing a car for claims purposes, and based  on the circumstances of Mr Us 
complaint, I think its fair that they used the trade guides here. 
Mr U says that as he didnt claim on his insurance  policy, the principles of negligence should 
apply when assessing what fair compensation  should be. I can appreciate Mr Us frustrations 
with whats happened. But its not the role of this service to determine a complaint the way a 
court would do. The decisions that we make  are based on what  we think  is fair and 
reasonable. In this case, by relying  on the values  provided by the trade guides, and agreeing  
to pay Mr U the highest of the three  valuations,  I think Esure have acted  fairly.  
Esure have offered £500 in recognition of the trouble and upset caused to Mr U. Theres  no 
doubt that Mr Us had a very troubling  experience with his car being sent to the repairers for 
minor work  to be done, only to then be stolen from the garage.  In considering whats  
happened, I think £500 is fair compensation. Esure acted promptly  in taking responsibility for 
arranging compensation as soon  as they found out what had happened.  The steps they took 
to try and sort things out was fair. So I wont be recommending  they pay anymore. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
The offer esure Insurance Limited have made to Mr U is fair and reasonable. I leave  it to 
Mr U to decide whether  to accept this offer by the date specified  below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3027070