K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about the fees hes being  charged by Hartley Pensions Limited 
(Hartley) since  it took over the management of his Self-Invested Personal  Pension 
(SIPP).
background
In 2018 Hartley took over the management  of Mr Hs SIPP  from a previous  provider  that 
went into administration.  Mr H is unhappy about the fees which  have been charged since 
that time and has said:
I have monies invested in a SIPP which is linked to land purchase awaiting Planning 
permission.  Remaining  funds are retained  within an account at RBS which  is retained for 
management fees however Hartley SAS are continually extracting monies from the 
account without  issue of an invoice or any justification.  The original arrangement  was 
they would  manage  the SIPP for a fee of circa £300 however they are now extracting 
over £900  per annum.  I have complained but they continue to take fees from the account 
despite an assurance that no fees would be taken this year.   I would like to sack Hartley 
SAS but do not know how this can be done.
The businesses involved in the set up and operation of Mr Hs SIPP are set out below:
The Lifetime SIPP Company (Lifetime)
Lifetime was a regulated SIPP operator that provided Mr Hs SIPP until 30 March 2018  when 
it entered administration.
Hartley Pensions Limited (Hartley)
Hartley is a regulated  SIPP operator which acquired Mr Hs SIPP on 30 March 2018  by 
novation when Lifetime went into administration.
Hartley SAS Limited (Hartley SAS)
Hartley SAS administered the pension scheme for Lifetime.  It carried out the day to day 
administration of Mr Hs SIPP and collected fees from his SIPP account on behalf of 
Lifetime.  It  continues to perform this role for Hartley since Lifetime went  into administration.
Howard Taylor Associates  (the IFA)
Howard Taylor Associates  is an independent  financial adviser.  It provided advice to Mr H in 
February 2012 to establish a SIPP with Lifetime,  then switch  existing personal pensions in 
order to make an investment in land plots.
Falcon International Estates Limited  (Falcon)
Falcon operated  the investment Mr H was advised  on by the IFA.  It was a land banking 
scheme which essentially involved the sale of plots of land with a view to planning 
permission being  granted for the development of the land, and the plots being sold at a 
profit.  Falcon is currently in liquidation.
Ref: DRN30993862When the SIPP was established in 2012,  Mr H agreed to pay Lifetime an annual 
administration fee of £500 + VAT,  which would  increase year on year in line with the Retail 
Price Index.  In 2016 following changes in the FCA rules relating to capital adequacy, 
Lifetime introduced  a further Non-Standard Asset (NSA) fee of £300 + VAT due to the 
nature of the Falcon investment.
It was reported that Falcon was in financial difficulties throughout 2017, and administrators 
were appointed on 31 January 2018.  The problems are not limited  to the operation  of the 
investment, but also the investment itself.  Its effectively worthless as its a small parcel  of 
land within  a larger plot of green  belt land,  for which no planning permission has been 
obtained. This resulted in Mr Hs investment becoming illiquid and him being unable  to sell or 
transfer it out of the SIPP.
Lifetime  via Hartley  SAS  wrote to Mr H in August 2017  confirming that it would be 
suspending its fees due to the position of Falcon and his inability to do anything  with the 
investment.  The letter  said:
Your SIPP holds an investment in Falcon  International Estates Land  Plot.  Due to 
the current position of this investment  we are suspending the invoicing of any 
outstanding or on-going fees that would otherwise be due for the administration of 
your SIPP until further notice.
Lifetime subsequently  went  into administration in March 2018 and Hartley  acquired Mr Hs 
SIPP. Hartley  wrote  to Mr H in July 2018 advising it had reinstated  the SIPP fees in full  in 
line with the terms  agreed  with Lifetime initially.  This resulted in Mr H being due to pay 
£984.00.
As the amount in Mr Hs SIPP account had fallen to £19.95, he was not able to pay the SIPP  
fees upfront.   Hartley  initially threatened Mr H with legal  action  for non-payment,  and 
following negotiation  Mr H agreed to a schedule  of staged payments of £164.00 per month 
over a specified period.
In July 2018 Mr H complained to Hartley about the fees he was being asked to pay.  It 
investigated his concerns  and didnt uphold the complaint.  
Hartley issued a final response  letter in September  2018 which said, in summary:
It cant be held responsible for any misleading  advice about  the establishment  of the 
SIPP or fees.
A letter was sent to Mr H in February 2018 explaining the SIPP  fees and what  they 
were for.
The NSA fee was introduced in September 2016  due to Capital Adequacy  
requirements and continued to be charged annually.
It was not upholding the complaint as all fees had been properly charged in line with 
the terms agreed when the SIPP was set up.
The letter also explained  that any complaint  about fees or administration  of the SIPP before 
Hartley acquired the SIPP should be directed to Lifetimes administrators.
Ref: DRN30993863Unhappy with the response from Hartley, Mr H referred his complaint to this Service  for 
review.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Hs concerns and recommended the complaint be 
upheld.  He concluded that Hartley  hadnt treated Mr H fairly and, in summary, said:
It hadnt provided details of any specific  work it had done in relation  to Mr Hs SIPP.
The fees its charging Mr H are considerably higher than the fees advertised for new 
customers on its website.
Its charging the fees because it can, not because it reflects the cost of administering  
the SIPP.
Inadequate regard has been given to Mr Hs circumstances, as its clear  hes having 
difficulty paying the fees.  This  is reflected by the fact there is no money left in the 
SIPP and Mr H has had to arrange payment in instalments.
The support  Hartley has given to Mr H is not adequate.  The circumstances Mr H 
finds himself in are not of his own making,  and although Hartley didnt give the advice 
that caused the situation, it does have an obligation to act in his best interests and 
treat him fairly.
The investigator said it would be fair for Hartley to stop charging  fees and to refund the fees 
it has collected since taking over Mr Hs SIPP.  He also suggested  it should  pro-actively 
engage with relevant parties to help Mr H bring  the matter to a conclusion  and close  the 
SIPP.
Mr H accepted the investigators opinion, but Hartley  did not.  It responded with a number of 
points including:
The fees it had charged were  those which Mr H had agreed with Lifetime and are 
entitled to be collected.
When Hartley  SAS wrote  to Mr H in August 2017  and was acting on behalf of 
Lifetime, it explained it was only suspending the invoicing of any outstanding or 
ongoing fees until further notice .  
The fees new customers  are charged is not relevant to Mr H, as he had already  
agreed fees for his SIPP with Lifetime.
It isnt required to provide a breakdown  of costs for individual  administration  tasks as 
Mr H is charged  a single, total fee for the administration of his SIPP.
Its addressed all the concerns raised  by Mr H in accordance with the Principle of 
Treating Customers Fairly.
Whilst it appreciates the difficulty Mr H has experienced, it is not responsible  for that 
and is unable to give him advice about  what to do with the investment or SIPP.
Ref: DRN30993864It insists the fee agreement should  be honoured until the Falcon investment can be 
removed from the SIPP.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has now been passed for a fresh  review  
by an ombudsman to decide whats fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why.
I should make it clear that I understand Hartley is not responsible  for any advice Mr H was 
given about the setting  up of the SIPP and investment in Falcon.  In this decision, Im 
considering the administration of the SIPP following it being  acquired by novation  from 
Lifetime on 30 March 2018.
relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in this complaint, I consider the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA) Principles for Businesses  to be of particular relevance.
The Principles for Businesses (PRIN) which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a 
general statement  of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system 
(PRIN 1.1.2G).  In  addition, in British Bankers Association, R (on the application of) v The 
Financial Services Authority & Anor [2011] EWHC 999 (Admin) (20 April 2011) Ousely  J 
said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman to 
reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding  what would 
be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford.  Even  if no Principles had been 
produced by the FSA,  the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory duty 
without having  regard to the sort of high level principles which find expression in the 
Principles, whoever formulated  them.  They are the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject  to the argument about  their relationship  to specific  rules (para 77).
The Principles are best understood as the ever present substrata to which the specific 
rules are added.  The Principles  always have  to be complied with.  The specific  rules  do 
not supplant them and cannot be used  to contradict them.  They are but specific 
applications of them to the particular  requirements they cover.   The general notion that 
the specific rules can exhaust  the application of the Principles is inappropriate.  It cannot 
be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific rules (para  162).
I consider Principle 6 to be of particular relevance:
Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and 
treat them fairly.
In September  2009 the FSA published a thematic review report  on SIPPs which  stated:
We are very clear  that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle  6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
Ref: DRN30993865interests of its customers and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure  the 
fair treatment of their customers.  COBS 3.2.3(2)  states that a member of a pension 
scheme is a client  for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes 
clients
The context  that these comments were made are in relation  to the quality of the business  
that a SIPP  operator accepts.  As Ive already explained, I understand that in this complaint 
Hartley is not responsible  for the acceptance  of Mr Hs business,  but its clear  from the FSAs  
comments that SIPP operators were obliged to ensure fair treatment of their customers.
So, Ive carefully  considered Hartleys obligation  to treat its customers (and specifically Mr H) 
fairly when  deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything provided to me by both parties, I dont think  Hartley has treated 
Mr H fairly   and so I cant say it has acted  in a fair and reasonable  manner.
Mr H is unhappy hes been charged  unaffordable SIPP  fees when hes in financial hardship, 
and that he has been threatened with legal action for the collection of those fees.
I realise the fees Hartley has charged  Mr H are those which were agreed with Lifetime  when 
the SIPP was established, and so under  the terms of the SIPP  it is contractually entitled  to 
collect them.   But Im required to consider whether thats fair and reasonable in the wider 
circumstances.
Mr Hs SIPP  holds a single asset.  The investment in Falcon has become illiquid and is 
effectively worthless at present.  This has resulted  in Mr H being unable to transfer that asset 
or close the SIPP.
Before Hartley acquired Mr Hs SIPP, Lifetime  had suspended the collection of fees relating 
to the SIPP  in recognition of the position of the Falcon investment.  That  was despite 
Lifetime being contractually entitled  to collect the fees. 
In its letter  to Mr H of February 2018, Hartley SAS set out a list of the duties it carries out in 
relation to SIPPs, and for which the annual  administration charge is made.  It says those 
duties must  be undertaken irrespective of the SIPP value.  Both parties  are familiar with that 
letter, and the list of duties was set out by the investigator in his assessment of the 
complaint, and so I wont repeat it here.
Hartley stated the list doesnt include  everything  required to administer customers SIPPs 
and isnt the maximum amount of work undertaken.  It  also explained that it doesnt break 
down charges for individual  administration tasks on a per activity basis,  and the annual  
administration fee is a single fee.
I recognise there are ongoing responsibilities  as a SIPP operator, including regulatory 
reporting.  But Hartley  hasnt provided  any details  of work that has specifically been  carried  
out in relation to Mr Hs SIPP.
I also note that Mr Hs SIPP holds  a single asset, which is relatively  dormant, and no monies  
are being  paid in or out.  The SIPP has not been  crystallised and so Mr H has not taken any 
benefits.  This suggests that the amount of work  required in relation to Mr Hs SIPP is not 
significant and would  be considerably less than a SIPP  which is being more  actively  used.  
Ref: DRN30993866Included in the fees is a Non-Standard Asset (NSA) fee.  This started  being  charged in 
2016 when the financial regulator introduced  a requirement for SIPP  operators to hold a 
certain amount  of capital, calculated by reference to the total NSA value in its SIPP.   As 
Falcon is in liquidation and has a nominal value it may not have an impact on the capital 
adequacy requirements of Hartley   and it hasnt provided details of any additional costs 
resulting from the NSA.
So, in principle it doesnt seem reasonable for Hartley to have charged Mr H the level of fees 
it has.
I understand the fees were set by, and agreed  with, Lifetime.  But  on its website, Hartley sets 
out details of the fees it charges new customers for the SIPP products it offers.  The  fees for 
single asset SIPPs are considerably lower for new customers than Mr H has been charged.  I 
think its reasonable to assume those services are offered on a commercial basis  and 
involve a similar amount,  if not more,  work  than is required to administer Mr Hs SIPP.
So, it seems  to me that Mr H is being charged  fees as a result of the existing charging 
structure in place with Lifetime.  Hartley is entitled  to legitimately exercise its commercial 
judgement when setting fees, but when  doing so it must have  its regulatory  obligations in 
mind.  It needs to ensure theres  a fair balance  between its commercial interests and those 
of Mr H as the consumer.  Its commercial decisions should not result  in unfair outcomes that 
arent in the best interests of the customer.
Ive also considered Mr Hs wider circumstances, and whether Hartley  ought to have done 
more to help him. 
Hartley said its treated Mr H fairly and as its required to.  I note that when Mr H made it 
clear he wanted to close his SIPP, Hartley  suggested he seek  financial advice and provided 
him with the following  options as to how he could proceed:
Transfer the assets to alternative  pension arrangement.
Liquidate and encash.
Transfer in specie.
Whilst I understand that Hartley is not able to provide advice, I dont think  its response  to Mr 
H was very helpful.  The  first and last options  are effectively the same,  and I dont think any 
of the options  were  available in practice given Mr Hs situation.
I consider that Hartley  should have given  Mr H a response that was specific  to his 
circumstances, rather than the generic options  it provided. It could,  for example, have 
spoken to the administrators  of Falcon  and looked  into the position of Mr Hs investment  
but Ive seen no evidence to suggest  it did that.
The Falcon investment  cannot be realised and so any transfer  would have to be made in 
specie, as it is.  Given the position of the investment its unlikely any other SIPP provider  
would be willing to accept  it, and so its not realistic for Mr H to be able to transfer.  This 
means that Mr Hs position  is frustrated  by the fact hes effectively trapped in his SIPP with 
Hartley, and he cannot transfer  or close it.
It appears that Mr H has lost the entirety of his pension as a result of being  unsuitably 
advised previously.   I recognise Hartley is not responsible for that advice or for Mr H being in 
Ref: DRN30993867the position he faces, but I think it could reasonably do more  to help him.  This is particularly 
important given theres no apparent end in sight that will enable Mr H to exit the investment.
The planned  success of the investment through Falcon was intended  to be as a result of 
obtaining planning consent for the plots of land purchased, and the subsequent sale of that 
land for development. The prospect of that happening seems highly unlikely as the land is 
reported to be in an Area of Outstanding  Natural  Beauty  and lacks  the facilities  and services 
that would  be required for a major  residential development.
As Falcon  is in liquidation, its also unclear how the sections of land bought by Mr H can be 
separated, or how all investors might be brought together.  This is likely to make it very 
difficult for the land to be sold.
Hartley reintroduced  the fees and invoiced Mr H without notice and didnt fully review the 
situation when  he made it clear he was in financial difficulty. Whilst Hartley did allow  
payment in instalments, I dont think that was enough.
Im aware that aside  from having lost the value in his pension,  Mr H is also experiencing 
financial difficulties more  generally.  This ought to have become apparent to Hartley  when Mr 
H had to arrange a payment schedule in instalments to pay the fees in 2018, as there were 
no funds left in the SIPP.   In order  to treat Mr H fairly Hartley should  take account  of this  as 
charging annual  fees approaching £1,000 per year is likely to compound Mr Hs financial 
difficulties.
Having taken everything set out above  into account, I dont consider it fair and reasonable 
for Hartley to charge Mr H the annual  SIPP  fee of almost £1,000.   Its likely the SIPP will not 
be able to be closed  for a number of years, as the issues with the underlying investment are 
unlikely to be resolved.
putting things right
Ive carefully considered  what I think would be a fair and reasonable way of resolving 
matters.  In the circumstances I dont  think Hartley has treated Mr H fairly by charging the 
fees it has.
I acknowledge there will be some work required in relation to Mr Hs SIPP,  but Hartley  has 
explained that it doesnt charge a per activity fee  and as Ive already explained, I dont  
consider the annual fee its charged to be fair and reasonable.  
Ive also considered the fees Hartley has charged since taking  over the SIPP  in 2018.   Ive 
explained that I dont feel Hartley has treated Mr H fairly and could  have done  more to take 
account of his circumstances.  
Ref: DRN30993868So, whilst I acknowledge  theres  some  work  involved in administering Mr Hs SIPP, Ive not 
seen any evidence to show  that anything significant has been required  and Hartley  hasnt  
provided any detail  of what work has been  undertaken.
Ive explained  that I dont  think  Hartley  has acted fairly and reasonably, so to put things right 
I think it needs to do something to compensate  Mr H and address the unfairness going  
forward.
I agree  that Hartley  should waive any fees for administering Mr Hs SIPP  and effectively 
reinstate the position taken by Lifetime in 2017  before the SIPP was taken over.  But  Ive 
also considered  the fees Mr H has been charged by Hartley to date, and have concluded 
that its appropriate for them to be refunded in the circumstances of this complaint.   So, any 
fees collected from the SIPP should  be returned  to the SIPP, and any fees paid by Mr H 
directly should returned  to Mr H.
If, however,  Mr H is provided with the opportunity to close the SIPP and chooses not to, it 
would be fair for Hartley to reinstate the relevant fees at that time.
As its unclear what the position is with Mr Hs investment and when it might be possible  to 
transfer or sell the land,  I feel Hartley should engage  with the administrators of Falcon and 
other relevant parties.  It should  then provide an update to Mr H on the position of the 
investment (including  where possible,  details  of what can be done to realise  the investment).
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint against Hartley  Pensions Limited.  It 
should put things right by:
A)Ceasing to charge Mr H fees until such time as he has the ability to close  the SIPP.
B)Refunding any fees collected  in relation  to Mr Hs SIPP  since  March 2018 as set out 
above.
C)Paying 8% simple  interest per annum on all refunds made  under B above, from the 
date the fees were  paid to the date a refund is made.
D)Pro-actively engaging with relevant parties to help Mr H bring matters to a 
conclusion.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3099386