K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them payment protection  insurance  (PPI)
alongside a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out their mortgage in 1985. In 1995, they took out a regular premium 
PPI policy  to protect their mortgage repayments. The policy covered Mr C only for accident,  
sickness and unemployment. It covered  their mortgage repayments, plus a bit more  per 
month, and cost £19.50 per month.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs C
didnt agree with the adjudicator. So the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ive first considered whether Bank of Scotland gave  Mr and Mrs C a choice to buy PPI.
As the PPI was added  some years  after Mr and Mrs C took out their mortgage, and they 
completed and signed  a separate form to apply for the PPI, I think it likely PPI was added 
because they said they wanted  it, knowing they didnt have to have  it.
Bank of Scotland  says it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. So it had to check  it was 
right for them, as well as giving them enough clear information about it so that they could 
make an informed choice  and decide whether they wanted to buy it. 
Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances,  I think PPI appeared suitable for them. 
Mrs C wasnt in paid employment  , so it looks appropriate that the cover was taken  out in 
Mr Cs name  only. Mr C was eligible to take out the cover and it appeared affordable.  Mr C 
doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover. He 
said he wouldve been covered by his employer if he was off work  sick, and wouldve got six 
months worth of pay at full pay and six months worth at half. But, this policy would pay 
benefits in addition to any sick pay he received.  They  said they had other  insurances to fall 
back on, but couldnt remember much  about  these.  They said they didnt have any savings at 
the time of sale. Looked  at overall,  I cant see that their other resources meant that the policy 
wasnt right for them. Also, the PPI protected a mortgage  so their home was at risk if they 
couldnt make the repayments. They couldve made  repeated  claims under  the policy  so I 
think the cover couldve  been useful if they needed  to claim.  
Its possible that the information Bank of Scotland gave Mr and Mrs C could have been 
clearer. Even if it had been,  I dont think this would have put them off deciding to buy the 
PPI. I see in the original  application form it set out the amount that the policy  would pay out 
in the event of a claim, together with how much the policy cost.
Ref: DRN36557632In all the circumstances, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 January  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3655763