K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that a car he acquired  via a hire purchase agreement with FCA Automotive 
Services UK Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
background 
In February 2019  Mr H acquired a used car via a five-year hire purchase agreement  with 
FCA. Mr H says he was unhappy at how the dealership handled his purchase of the car as 
there were issues over the 7-day  insurance  cover, and a payment for a car he had used  in 
part exchange. 
Mr H also says that two weeks after he took the car it broke down  close  to his house. An oil 
light illuminated on the dash and, on checking  the dip stick reading, he found the oil level 
was very low. Mr H took the car back to the dealership,  who said that they found the oil level 
was satisfactory but topped it up and switched  off the warning light. The dealership  said 
there was no fault with the car and no sign of any oil leak. The car was returned to Mr H. 
Mr H also says the cars Sat Nav system has never  worked  and, although he has raised this 
with the dealership, no action had been  taken.  
As Mr H was unhappy about the dealerships handling of both the sale of the car, and the oil 
level, he complained  to FCA. He said he wanted  to reject the car. FCA didnt uphold  his 
complaint. It said there was no evidence the car had a fault.  
Mr H complained to this service. He said that the illuminating oil light meant  there was a fault 
with the car and, according to the manual, this light shouldnt be switched off until the oil had 
been changed. Mr H said that the car had apparently been  serviced  prior to the point  of sale 
and so, for the light to come on, meant  there was an issue. Mr H said he was concerned that 
the cars  engine would be badly damaged  if the car was used  with insufficient oil and he was 
concerned that it may not pass its next MOT. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She said she 
didnt think the low oil level could be considered as a fault as there was no sign of any oil 
leak, and there was no current evidence that there  was anything wrong with the car. Our 
investigator said she appreciated Mr Hs concern that the cars  engine could have been 
damaged by being driven with insufficient  oil, but that she wasnt  able to look at what  might 
have happened. 
Our investigator also said that the problems Mr H had encountered  with the insurance cover 
when he first took the car, and payment  for the car hed used in part exchange,  were  issues  
he would  need  to raise with the dealership. She said as FCA wouldnt be responsible for 
those matters she wouldnt be looking at those matters further. 
In regard to the Sat Nav, the dealership had said the car wasnt  advertised  as having this 
feature as the previous  owner hadnt supplied the SD card.  However, as a gesture of 
goodwill, it had ordered an SD card at no cost to Mr H and he would simply need to collect it.
Our investigator said she didnt think Mr H was entitled to reject  the car.
Mr H disagreed with the views of our investigator. He said that the dealership had referred to 
the light that had illuminated as the service reminder  light,  but the cars manual  only referred 
Ref: DRN31295642to an alert that an oil change was required.  All the dealership had done was reset  the light 
and added oil, which wasnt  the required action according to the manufacturers handbook. 
He said that a low oil level would  cause severe  damage to the engine.
Mr H said he was also concerned that the car may have missed a service in 2018,  as the 
service didnt appear on an invoice for work  that was carried  out on the same  date.
The complaint has been passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at this complaint  I need  to have  regard to the relevant law and regulations,  but I 
am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mr H is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. FCA is also the 
supplier of th goods under  this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  there is an implied  term  that when goods are 
supplied "the quality  of the goods is satisfactory".  The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  taking into account  any description of the goods,  price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
If goods are found  to be of unsatisfactory condition when supplied then a remedy  for 
that can be rejection,  though this depends  on the cause and type of fault,  as well as 
when it came to light. However, evidence  that a fault was present  at the point  of sale is 
required. 
Here, as the car wasnt  new,  it wouldnt be judged by the same standard as a new one, 
but I accept that the car breaking down 14 days after Mr H acquired it would have been 
a source of concern that the car had a fault. And I accept  that a reasonable  person  
wouldnt  expect  the car to have  developed  a fault within  such  a short  period  of time.
Ive seen  that Mr H checked  the oil level  and found  it very low, and there  was also 
an oil warning  light illuminated  on the dashboard.  Mr H says  this light meant  that a 
full oil change  was required  and that the failure  of the dealership  to take this action  
means  the engine  was at risk of damage.
I accept  that Mr H found  the oil level  was low and Ive seen  that he had someone  
who witnessed  him checking  the dipstick  reading.  Ive seen  that the dealership  
considered  the oil level  was satisfactory  but added  more,  and it also reset  the 
warning  light.  And while  there  is a disagreement  about  the oil level  at that time,  
what  doesnt  appear  to be disputed  is that, since  then,  the car has run without  
problems.  Theres  been  no issues  that would  indicate  either  damage  to the engine  
has occurred  through  lack of oil, or that there  are signs  of any oil leak.  Ive seen  
that Mr H has been  able to continue  to use the car.
Ref: DRN31295643Ive also seen  that Mr H had the car serviced  in October  2019,  and Im not aware  
that the service  on the car found  any issues  arising  from damage  to the engine  
from lack of oil.
So, although  I accept  it would  appear  that the cars  oil level  may not have  been  
checked  at the point  of sale,  this was rectified  when  the car was taken  back  to the 
dealership.  I dont  have  any evidence  that there  was a loss of oil prior to the cars  
break  down  due to a fault.  And,  with older  cars,  issues  with maintenance  are to be 
expected,  and this would  include  checking  and adding  oil as and when  required.  
Low oil doesnt  necessarily  mean  the car has a fault and isnt of satisfactory  
condition.  If the car needed  oil so soon  after the point  of sale I would  expect  the 
dealership  to rectify  that at no cost to Mr H, which  it did.
Once  the oil was topped  up the car has worked  without  issue.  I appreciate  Mr H 
feels  strongly  that the warning  light meant  the oil required  changing  and that, as 
this wasnt  done,  the car was at risk of being  damaged  through  use, but I dont  
have  any evidence  that corroborates  his view.  I think  its more  likley  than not that 
this light was set to come  on at a designated  service  interval  and this wouldnt  
mean  that the oil necessarily  needed  changing.  The dealership  resetting  this light 
isnt unusual  in these  circumstances  and doesnt  mean  it did anything  wrong.  I 
cant  reasonably  say that the light illumintating  as it did means  that there  is a fault 
with the car.
Mr H has raised  a query  about  the number  of services  the car has undergone.  Ive 
seen  that the vehicle  service  record  shows  it was serviced  annually,  in line with the 
manufactuers  recommendation,  as there  is stamp  for each  of the years  and 
recording  of the mileage.  While  I appreciate  the invoice  for November  2018,  for 
some  work  that was undertaken  on the car on the same  date as the service,  
doesnt  actually  include  the service  in the list of what  actions  were  taken  however  
the service  book  was stamped.  So, I dont  think  I can fairly  say that the invoice  
shows  this service  didnt  take place  and the stamp  is fake or a mistake.
I also dont  have  any evidence  that the car wasnt  serviced  properly.  Oil changes  
would  be part of a cars  service,  but, as set out above,  I dont  think  the car having  
a low oil level  would  necessarily  mean  that the oil needed  to be changed.  
Checking  oil levels  is an expecetd  part of car maintenance.  I havent  seen  any 
evidence  that suggested  the car had been  neglected  before  Mr H acquired  it 
resulting  in any engine  damage.  
So, looking  at the evidence,  I cant  reasonably  say the car had a fault at the point  
of sale.  I am satisfied  that it was of satisfactory  quality  when  it was supplied  to 
Mr H by the dealership.  
Mr H was unhappy  at the dealerships  handling  of the seven  day insurance  cover  
that the car came  with,  and also over the payment  for the car he part exchanged.  
As set out by our investigator  these  arent  things  that FCA would  be responsible  
for, and although  I can understand  Mr Hs frustration,  Im not going  to look at those  
matters  further.
Ref: DRN31295644Mr H says  that the car came  with Sat Nav as the salesman  offered  to show  him 
how it worked  when  he picked  up the car. He says  he was keen  to get home  at the 
time so didnt  take him up on the offer.  The dealership  says  the car wasnt  
advertised  as having  Sat Nav.  As I havent  seen  how the car was described  by the 
dealership  I dont  know  what  was said about  the Sat Nav facility.  However,  Ive 
seen  that the dealership  has obtained  the SD card for the car to have  working  Sat 
Nav at no cost to Mr H. And,  while  there  has been  some  difficulty  getting  the card 
to Mr H, I think  this is a fair resolution  to that matter  and Im not going  to ask FCA 
to do more.  Mr H and the dealership  will need  to liaise  to get the card fitted.
As Im satisfied  the car was of satisfactory  quality  at the point  of sale Im not 
upholding  Mr Hs complaint.  I dont  have  any evidence  that car required  anything  
more  than a top of oil when  Mr H returned  it to the dealership  two weeks  after 
collecting  it.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3129564