K821x#15complaint
Miss S complains  about issues shes experienced with a car supplied with finance from 
Close Brothers Limited.
background
In October  2018 Miss S was supplied with a car and entered  into a conditional sale 
agreement with Close Brothers. At the point of supply the car was 14 years old and had 
covered 81,689 miles.
In April 2019 the engine management  light came on and the car wouldnt start. Miss S 
contacted the supplying  dealer who suggested she arranged for a local garage to look at the 
car.
Miss S took the car to a local garage. It provided  a diagnostic and a estimate  for repairs. It 
said the car access system (CAS) unit needed  replacing. It also found fault codes relating to 
previous faults  with the CAS at 67,797  miles, 69,204 miles and 69,246 miles, all of which 
were prior to Miss S acquiring the car.
Miss S complained to Close Brothers. She felt that the fault with the CAS had been present 
at the point of supply.
Close Brothers rejected  the complaint. It said it had spoken to the dealer and based on 
evidence obtained  by the dealer, it didnt think the CAS was faulty at the point of supply.
Miss S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He said that Miss S had made both the dealership 
and Close  Brothers aware of the fault and had arranged for the car to be inspected by a 
specialist garage  as she had been asked to do. He said that Close  Brothers had the 
opportunity to arrange an independent inspection but chose  to rely on unattributed  
statements provided by the dealership instead.  The investigator recommended  that Close 
Brothers should pay for the necessary repairs and refund Miss Ss monthly payments for the 
time she was without the use of the car.
Close Brothers didnt  agree. It said it wanted to arrange an independent inspection. The 
independent engineer concluded that the fault wasnt present or developing at the point of 
supply.
Close Brothers said that on the basis of the findings  of the independent  inspection,  it wasnt  
prepared to pay for repairs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Close Brothers has supplied the car under a hire purchase  agreement,  theres an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what  a reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the age and mileage of the car and 
the price paid. I would  expect a second  hand  car, such as that supplied  to Miss S, to have  a 
Ref: DRN31758202degree of wear and tear. So in order to uphold this complaint, I would need to be satisfied 
that the fault with the CAS was present or developing  at the point of supply.
Miss S and Close Brothers disagree  about  whether the fault was present at the point of 
supply. In order to reach  a decision,  I need  to look at the available  evidence  and determine,  
on the balance  of probabilities whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply.
The diagnostic report provided  by the garage shows that there were historic  fault codes 
relating to the CAS. Close Brothers has suggested that the independent  inspection  in this 
case is the highest  qualified  evidence. I dont agree. An inspection  or diagnostic provided  
by a reputable  garage carries equal evidential weight as an independent inspection report. 
Ive see nothing to suggest that the garage  wasnt independent or reputable. 
Ive also considered the evidence provided by the dealership. I havent given this as much  
weight as the independent  report or the garage  diagnostic because it largely comprises  of 
hearsay evidence (reporting what someone  else has said).  The comments  relied  on by the 
dealership arent attributed to a named individual whose credentials have been established. 
And because the evidence  was supplied by the dealership, Im unable to treat it as 
independent.
Ive considered the independent inspection carefully.  The inspection was carried  out when 
the car hadnt  been used  for several months, although I can see that the engineer was made 
aware the fault had arisen in the first 6 months. The car couldnt  be started, so the inspection  
was limited to a visual inspection only.
The inspection concludes that the fault with the CAS was a sudden failure. But it doesnt  
provide any explanation as to why this is the conclusion. Im not persuaded that a CAS can 
only fail suddenly, as opposed to progressively. From my own research, I can see that a 
CAS module can become worn over time and that oxidisation on the relay  contacts  can 
cause a voltage drop which prevents sufficient  current being delivered  to the starter 
solenoid. This information  is readily  available on the internet.  Im surprised that the engineer  
didnt comment on the possibility of am progressive CAS fault,  if only to discount it. Overall  I 
think the independent inspection was limited in scope and the comments  arent as detailed 
as I would expect.  I havent  found  the independent report persuasive.
I cant ignore the diagnostic provided by the garage, which clearly shows previous faults 
relating to the CAS before  Miss S purchased the car. The independent  inspection  hasnt 
addressed this at all.
On balance, Im persuaded, having taken  into account all of the available  evidence,  that the 
fault with the CAS was present or developing at the point of supply. This means the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality and Close Brothers  should put things  right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Close Brothers Limited  must:
Pay for a replacement CAS unit (including  parts and labour)
Refund Miss Ss costs  of the diagnostic and recovery of the car when it broke  down, 
subject to Miss S providing receipts for these  costs
Refund Miss Ss monthly payments from May 2019 until the car is repaired, because  
she hasnt had use of the car
Ref: DRN31758203Pay £100 for distress  and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3175820