K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the way TSB Bank plc handled a number of instances of fraud and
suspected fraud on his account. Whilst he hasn't suffered any direct loss (because  no fraud
actually took place on his account), Mr C says that he's suffered inconvenience and
consequential losses as a result of the bank's actions.
background
In November 2018 TSB contacted Mr C because its systems had identified  a card
transaction that appeared to be fraudulent. In fact it was, and Mr C's card was cancelled.
Something similar happened the following  month, after the card had been  replaced. A few
weeks after that Mr C found  that his second replacement card wasn't functioning correctly
because of a security marker.  Further cards were replaced in March  and July 2019 - after
Mr C had referred the complaint to this service.
None of the incidences of fraud (or attempted fraud) resulted in direct loss to Mr C. That is,
the fraudsters were unable to access his account to make  payments or transfers from it. But
Mr C suffered inconvenience as a result.  For example,  he was left without a card while
replacements were  provided and had to use alternative methods of payment. And he found it
difficult to travel home at Christmas without a functioning bank card.
Our investigator noted that, in general, if a bank  responds promptly  to fraud and ensures that
a customer isn't out of pocket, this service  won't require it to do any more in response to
fraud or attempted  fraud. In this case,  however, he thought that TSB should have done
more, given that there were a few incidents within a relatively short  space of time.  He
thought the bank should have done  more to work out how the fraud  had occurred; this might
have helped prevent further instances.
The investigator said too that Mr C had told him that he'd missed some loan payments as a
result of what had happened  and that hadn't been  able to use contactless  payments for local
travel. He recommended that TSB pay Mr C £250 in compensation. Whilst this was rather
less than the £2,500  he'd been seeking, Mr C agreed with the investigator's assessment.
TSB didn't, however,  and asked that an ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I thought I was likely to reach a different conclusion  from the 
investigator, issued  a provisional decision  so both parties, but particularly Mr C, could  
comment further if they wanted to. 
I noted that the investigators reasoning was that, if TSB had done more to work out how the 
attempted fraud  had occurred, it might  have been  possible to prevent further attempts. 
I took the view,  however, that this placed  onerous  and impractical obligations on the bank; it 
went further than its regulatory  obligations to help detect and prevent fraud. There  were,  I 
noted, a number of different ways in which each attempted  fraud  might  have  occurred. 
Investigating each  to the extent Mr C expected wasnt realistic  or necessary, since TSB 
hadnt in any event sought  to hold Mr C liable for them. 
Mr C didnt accept my provisional findings.  He said that on at least  one occasion his card 
had been stopped without  notification.  Because he couldnt make payments, he had suffered 
loss and inconvenience. And hed been  told on more than one occasion that his case was 
being considered by a complex fraud team, but he then found  it that the bank hadnt fully 
investigated each  case.
Ref: DRN30556062my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I know that Mr C has spent  a lot of time and considerable effort in bringing  this complaint, 
and Ive considered  his further comments very carefully. But I remain  of the view that TSB 
has treated him fairly. It stopped payments and restricted his account  and its features in 
order to protect him (and itself) from fraud  that was being attempted  by third parties. It was 
inevitable that this would cause Mr C a degree  of inconvenience. I cant  properly require TSB 
to compensate him for that, however, since the steps TSB took are those I would expect it to 
take in the circumstances.   
Mr C said he was told his case was being investigated by a complex  fraud team, but doesnt  
think the outcome  reflects  that. I dont believe however that the designation of a team as 
dealing with complex cases means  that team must investigate  to the level expected by Mr C. 
TSB investigated sufficiently to identify that Mr C had been  targeted  and wasnt involved in 
any fraud himself; I dont believe its for me to say the banks investigations should have 
been more detailed.    
I understand that Mr C feels TSB could have done more. But the issue I have to decide  is 
whether  having regard to its legal and regulatory obligations  it should have done  more. In 
my view, there  was no duty on TSB to investigate to the level suggested  by Mr C. Further, as 
I indicated in my provisional decision, I think its most unlikely that the overall outcome for Mr 
C would  have been significantly different. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank  plc to take any further  steps to resolve  Mr 
Cs complaint Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3055606