K820x#14Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS), trading  as Halifax, wont refund 
transactions on his account which he says he didnt authorise.
Background
Mr H says that after the sale of a car he transferred the proceeds into his BoS account. He 
contacted BoS to tell them he had two cards for the account and didnt know which was 
valid. He says he was told to destroy  the cards and a new PIN and card would be issued to 
him.
Five days after requesting  his new card and PIN, several payments and withdrawals were 
made or attempted  from his account over a ten-day period. Mr H says he didnt authorise 
these transactions  as he hadnt even received the new card and PIN. He says he became 
aware of the transactions after contacting BoS to find out where  his new card and PIN were. 
It was at this point he was told of the balance on the account and that transactions  had taken 
place.
BoS reviewed Mr Hs fraud claim, but decided that it was likely  hed authorised the 
transactions; so they didnt refund him the transactions. BoS said that they thought  Mr H 
authorised the transactions for the following  reasons:
The pattern of spending wasnt consistent  with what  theyd normally  see in cases  of 
fraud.
There was no explanation as to how a third party managed to obtain Mr Hs new card 
and PIN. Both were sent to his address in unmarked envelopes on separate  days.
The disputed transactions were made  using the genuine card and PIN issued to 
Mr H.
Mr H was unhappy with the response to his complaint, so he brought it to our service. An 
investigator here looked into everything and came  to the conclusion  that it was more likely 
than not Mr H authorised  the disputed transactions. He said this because:
It wasnt likely that Mr Hs card and PIN were intercepted considering that they were  
sent at different times,  in disguised  mail and he had no previous issues with his mail.
Mr Hs testimony  wasnt persuasive in that he transferred funds from an account he 
used regularly, to an account he didnt use and didnt  know  the card and PIN details 
of.
Mr H said he was asked by BoS to cut up the cards he had possession of, but when 
listening to the call Mr H said hed already cut the cards up before the call.
The pattern of the disputed transactions wasnt consistent with what hed expect from 
someone who was aware the card could be blocked at any moment.
Mr Hs online login  pattern was unusual in that he checked his online banking 
regularly before the transfers into his account,  but didnt  check it again until well after 
the fraud was reported.
Mr H wasnt happy with the investigators assessment of his complaint. He thought that there 
were opportunities for BoS to obtain CCTV of the transactions to prove  it wasnt  him making 
them. He also couldnt understand  how someone  could go in to a branch and withdraw 
money from his account over the counter. Additionally, he said his card and PIN could have 
been intercepted  at any point during their transit from the bank to his home address.
Ref: DRN38404352As Mr H didnt  agree with the investigators assessment of his complaint, the matter has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
In short,  BoS is required to refund the amount of any unauthorised transactions  on Mr Hs 
account. The regulations relevant to this are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the 
PSRs 2017). Mr H says that he didnt make any of the transactions totalling £5,659.46 on 
his account between 12 and 22 February  2018 and wants  BoS to refund this amount. So my 
primary concern is to come  to a view about whether or not I think  Mr H authorised the 
transactions.
Having reviewed the evidence provided, Im satisfied that Mr Hs genuine card and PIN were  
used to make the transactions; albeit  a card and PIN he says hed never received. And 
despite what Mr H has said, Im not persuaded that a third party has intercepted his card and 
PIN and used these  without his permission.
There are a number of scenarios here where it is possible that Mr Hs card and PIN were 
intercepted prior to being  delivered  to his home address. But I find each of them unlikely for 
the following  reasons:
Both card and PIN were posted  to Mr Hs home  address  in unmarked envelopes on 
separate dates  and from different  areas of the business. So it would be very difficult 
for a third party to intercept both intentionally.
Mr H has said that his mail is sometimes  delivered to his neighbour, but hes never 
experienced any post going missing and both him and his neighbour have always 
exchanged incorrectly  delivered post without issue. 
Mr H lives with family  members and in a property  that has a letter  box which  isnt 
shared with any other property.
Whilst I acknowledge that it isnt impossible that Mr H had both his card and PIN intercepted,  
I think it is unlikely when  considering the points above. I therefore find that it is more  likely 
than not that the card and PIN were delivered to Mr H at his home  address.
In addition to the above,  there are several other factors that persuade  me Mr H likely 
authorised the disputed  transactions.
Mr H has given slightly conflicting testimonies which casts some doubt over the validity of his 
claims.
I can see from looking at the evidence provided by BoS that Mr H attempted  to use one of 
his older cards on 7 February 2018.  I can also see there  were  three incorrect  PIN attempts 
when trying to use the card leading to it being blocked. Mr H contacted BoS the same  day 
and requested a new card and PIN. He says during the call that hed got rid of the card and 
then goes on to say that hed cut both cards  up and they were  in front of him whilst making 
the call.
Ref: DRN38404353I find it unusual that Mr H cut the cards  up prior to making a telephone call to BoS when all 
that was required  was a new PIN and confirmation regarding which card was valid. But he 
informed our service that hed been  instructed to cut the cards up by the BoS representative.  
As Ive outlined above, this wasnt the case from listening to the call. 
Mr H has also changed his testimony  regarding the source of the funds transferred to his 
BoS account. At first, Mr H claimed  that the money  originated from the sale of a vehicle and 
then changed  this to money hed loaned from a credit card company.  But he then later 
changed this again saying  that it originated from a credit card in the name  of a friend who 
owed him money.  
Although I appreciate some time had passed between the events that occurred  and the 
testimony Mr H provided, I think that some  of these details seem  to be quite pertinent to the 
facts of this complaint. In cases such as this where the evidence is finely  balanced,  it is 
important to look at the finer details to determine  what the likely scenario is. Having said this, 
I do think these changing testimonies do cast some doubt over their reliability and the 
explanation given for some of Mr Hs actions.
Ive also considered that it had only been a few months since  Mr H had ordered  replacement 
bank cards before,  so Id expect him to have some  degree of knowledge as to how long it 
would take for his new cards to arrive. But he waited  two weeks  before reporting that hed 
not received the cards, and this was after being  advised of the five-day timescale  at the time 
of ordering them.
I also find the online account login patterns quite unusual. BoS has provided evidence that 
Mr H logged into his online banking several times  prior to the transfers  being  made  into the 
account. He then logs into his online banking several times almost  every day up until the 
same day the disputed transactions begin.  Once  the disputed  transactions begin, he doesnt 
log on to his online banking until 9 May;  more  than two weeks after he raised his claim of 
fraud with BoS.  I find it likely to be more  than a mere coincidence that Mr H didnt log on to 
his online  banking in line with when the disputed  transaction began despite logging  on quite 
frequently prior to this. And I also find it unusual that he didnt log on once he was made 
aware of the transactions he says he didnt carry out or authorise.
Mr H responded to our investigators opinion stating that the login information was 
erroneous. Mr H hasnt said why he believes it to be wrong, and Ive no reason to believe the 
evidence provided  by the bank is incorrect. But Ive considered the possibilities here and 
Mr H must either believe he didnt log in at all, as much, or that he logged in more regularly 
than our investigator said. If Mr H doesnt agree he logged into his online banking at all or at 
the times  reported  in BoSs evidence, Id have  to question  how someone else did. But 
considering the level of security information that is required  to login to online banking  
facilities, it is unlikely that the person performing these logins would have been able to just 
guess this information. And the logins start before the disputed transactions and sending of 
the new card for the account. So I dont  think there  is a reasonable explanation as to how 
someone had accessed  this unless authorised to do so. If Mr H believes the information is 
erroneous because he logged  in more frequently  and during the course of the disputed 
transactions  then I cant understand why he wouldnt have reported the activity more  
quickly.
Ive also considered the pattern of spending  over the ten-day period of the disputed 
transactions. Fraudsters in most cases will attempt to extract  the maximum value  from an 
account in the shortest possible time.  This is because theyd normally be aware that as soon 
Ref: DRN38404354as the victim  realised  the use of the account  or the theft of their card then their access  would 
be blocked. I recognise that a large ATM  withdrawal was made each  day and an even more  
substantial withdrawal was made  over the counter with another  attempted.  Then  a large 
number of payments  were  made  to a supermarket for approximately  the same value over the 
course of a few days, multiple  times. For me this does somewhat follow  what  youd expect to 
see in instances  of fraud, so I do think that this is suspicious. But I do find it unusual  
behaviour for a fraudster to enter a bank and make a withdrawal over the counter 
considering the risk that this poses   although  I acknowledge that this does happen. I also 
find it unusual that if this was a fraudster  that they wouldnt have withdrew a larger amount 
considering the balance  available. And I also think this applies to the smaller  payments 
made in supermarkets  where a fraudster would likely try to purchase  higher value items 
rather than multiple smaller  value  payments.
Mr H has said that CCTV  had it been obtained   wouldve shown that he wasnt  the person  
carrying out the withdrawals in branch  or the payments made in supermarkets. And whilst I 
accept that this may have been  the case, it doesnt prove Mr H didnt give authority to use 
his bank card had another person been  shown.  Considering its likely that Mr H did receive 
the bank card and PIN in the post, I think had another person been in possession  of the card 
and used it, the likely explanation for this would be that Mr H gave permission for them to do 
so.
Mr H is also concerned about the fact that a third party could withdraw funds over the 
counter in branch without any intervention by the bank.  Having  seen the evidence provided  
by BoS, the withdrawal made was carried out using the genuine  card and PIN for the 
account. Withdrawals over the counter dont necessarily require additional authentication 
checks unless the bank deems  this necessary in the circumstances.
The second  withdrawal made in branch was unsuccessful  as additional checks were  flagged 
for the transaction.  BoS have been unable to provide information on what  exactly happened 
here, but considering the bank didnt raise any fraud concerns regarding  the transaction I 
think it likely  that the cardholder was unable to produce identification at the time. I wouldnt 
necessarily deem that suspicious  considering people dont always  carry identification with 
them. And even  if it did have concerns regarding the attempted  transaction or the person 
making it, this wouldnt have likely impacted the outcome as I think Mr H authorised  the use 
of the card.
So, when looking at all the above points I think it likely the card and PIN were delivered to 
the home address of Mr H. And considering  his testimony has been  unreliable  and the 
pattern of behaviour regarding his account is unusual,  I think it more likely  than not that he 
authorised the transactions. It follows that I dont think it fair or reasonable that BoS refunds 
Mr H in the circumstances.  
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Ref: DRN38404355Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3840435