K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) lent 
money to him that he couldnt afford to repay.
background
Based on the information provided, Mr S entered into eight  loans with Satsuma Loans 
between February 2016  and October 2017.
Loan Amount Date Term Repaid
1 £300.00 Feb 2016 13 Weeks May 2016
2 £200.00 Jun 2017 6 Months Jun 2016
3 £300.00 Jul 2017 6 Months Jul 2017
4 £400.00 Jul 2017 3 Months Jul 2017
5 £1000.00 Sep 2017 12 Months Sep 2017
6 £1500.00 Sep 2017 12 Months Sep 2017
7 £1000.00 Oct 2017 12 Months Oct 2017
8 £1000.00 Oct 2017 12 Months Oct 2017
Mr S says that at the time of the loans  he was vulnerable and had other outstanding debts. 
He says he had to take out the loans to pay his bills and had to keep borrowing to meet his 
repayments. He says the loans made  his financial  situation worse and that had adequate 
checks been carried out Satsuma Loans would have realised the lending wasnt  responsible.  
Satsuma Loans  says that at the time of the loans there was no indication  that the 
repayments werent affordable.
Our adjudicator noted that there was a substantial gap between when Mr S repaid his first 
loan and took out his second. Therefore she considered loan two as starting  a new lending  
chain. She said that she didnt have enough to say that loans one to six shouldnt have been 
provided. However she thought that by loan seven Mr S overall  pattern  of borrowing 
suggested he had become persistently reliant on short-term loans. She recommended that 
Mr S be refunded the interest and charges  he paid on loans seven and eight and that his 
credit file be amended  in regard to these loans.
Satsuma Loans  didnt accept out adjudicators  view and so this case has been passed  to me 
an ombudsman to issue a decision.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  We've  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma Loans  needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's  income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
Ref: DRN31640222But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma Loans should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer.  These factors  
include:
the lower a customer's income  (reflecting  that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma Loans was required to 
establish whether  Mr S could sustainably repay his loans - not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint.
Mr S entered into eight  loans. There was a break of around a year between when the first loan 
was repaid and when  the second  was taken out. Therefore I agree with our adjudicator that 
the second loan should be considered  as starting  a new lending  chain. The subsequent loans 
were taken out in close succession and so these all form part of the same lending  chain.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that there was enough to say that loans one to six shouldnt  have 
been provided. Loan one was the first in a lending  chain  and based on the information I have 
seen I agree there isnt enough to say this shouldnt have been provided.  Loan two was the 
first in a new lending chain and I agree that I dont have enough to say that loans two to five 
(first four loans in the second lending chain)  shouldnt have been provided.
However, by the time loan six was provided,  I think that Satsuma Loans should have been 
concerned about  Mr S borrowing.  This was his fifth loan in close  succession and although 
he had withdrawn from a number of the loans, I think his pattern of borrowing and repaying 
or withdrawing should have caused concern. Given this I think  a full review of Mr S financial 
situation should have been  carried out before this loan was provided.
Ref: DRN31640223I have looked  through  the information provided and can see that Mr S was making  use of 
other short term loan providers around  this time however the loans were being settled. On 
balance, having  looked through the information  provided I dont find I have enough to say 
this loan shouldnt  have been provided. 
However, by loan seven.  Mr S pattern of borrowing should have caused  concerns. He was 
taking out new loans and the amounts he was requesting werent decreasing. He was taking 
out loans shortly after withdrawing from previous  loans suggesting he was struggling  to 
manage his money.  Because of this I dont think it was reasonable that loans seven and 
eight were provided.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in regard to loans  seven and eight. Provident 
Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma Loans) should:
refund all interest  and charges that Mr S paid on loans seven and eight;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement*;
the number of loans  taken from loan seven means any information recorded  about them 
is adverse. So all entries about loans seven and eight  should  be removed from Mr S 
credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Provident Personal Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma 
Loans) to take off tax from this interest. It must give Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax 
its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3164022