Complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about the loan they took out with Firstplus  Financial Group  Plc 
(Firstplus). They say the loan was mis sold to them, as several  terms or features of the loan 
werent explained and they are unhappy  as the capital on the loan has been paid back and 
theyre now just paying interest.
Background
Mr and Mrs T signed a credit agreement for a secured loan with Firstplus  on 7 December 
2006. The loan was for £55,000, to be paid back over 300 months.  The interest  rate was 
9.729% per year, variable. The loan was sold through  a broker, who Ill refer to as U. U 
ceased trading  during 2008.
Mrs T has advised  that she and Mr T separated several years ago and shes been 
responsible for the loan since.
The loan fell into arrears  during 2010 which then resulted in court  action. A consent  order  
was obtained  as a result, with an agreement put in place that Mr and Mrs T would maintain 
the contractual monthly instalments, plus £20 per month towards the arrears.
Mr and Mrs T first complained to Firstplus in December 2017.  The complaint was about the 
way they were sold the loan during 2006, and some  of the terms and conditions  of the loan. 
One of the points they raised was about the amount of interest theyd be paying over the 
term of the loan. Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with the response so referred  the complaint to 
our service.
The case  has been reviewed informally twice. Subsequently an offer was made by Firstplus  
and this was to reduce the loan by £12,795 and pay Mr and Mrs T £150 in recognition  of any 
inconvenience theyd  been caused.  The offer, along with a cover letter from a new 
investigator, was sent to Mr and Mrs T and the investigator felt the offer was fair and 
reasonable and allowed Mr and Mrs T to transfer the remaining balance to another provider 
if they wished.  If that wasnt appropriate  for their situation, they could ask for specialist  help 
to see if other options were available.
The investigator also responded  to some of the specific points  raised by Mr and Mrs T at the 
outset and during  the course  of the complaint. In summary the investigator explained that the 
sale of the loan was through U, so the complaint about a mis-sale would need to be against  
U, not Firstplus. It was also noted that U is no longer trading, so this may not be possible.
The additional points  that Firstplus were  responsible  for were  not upheld by the investigator.
Mrs T has not accepted  the offer. Shes  said that while she accepts  the offer as Firstplus 
admitting liability, it hasnt dealt with the complaint about the loan being  mis-sold.
K822x
Ref: DRN3705983As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  its now been  referred  to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the offer that 
Firstplus has made  in this case is fair and reasonable and I do not consider there to be 
grounds to instruct  Firstplus to do anything more  than it has already offered.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive 
done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by all the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think 
are the key issues here.
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal  nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres  something Ive not mentioned,  it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent.  Im satisfied  I dont need to comment on every individual  argument  to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Firstplus have offered  to reduce the outstanding balance on the account  by £12,795 and pay 
an additional  £150 to Mr and Mrs T. Theyve  done this after considering  Mr and Mrs Ts 
particular circumstances  and to acknowledge the time the complaint has been  outstanding.
Mrs T has set out her reasons for not accepting the offer, and Ive considered these in detail. 
In summary,  she appears to be unhappy because the offer doesnt take into account her 
additional points  regarding what she says was the mis-sale of the loan, and the points shes  
raised around an alleged hidden  power of attorney (POA),  the securitisation of the loan and 
the termination clause. She hasnt said that the offer itself is unacceptable.
Mrs T says she wasnt told about  the POA  in the mortgage agreement. But she had advice 
from a mortgage  broker,  who would have been  able to explain the full details and terms of 
the loan agreement. The POA isnt hidden as Mrs T believes  its set out in the terms and 
conditions. Mrs T says she wouldnt  have  consented  to Firstplus having a POA if shed 
known about it. In that case, Firstplus wouldnt have lent her the money she and Mr T 
wanted to borrow  from it. Mr and Mrs T were free to choose who to borrow  the money  from, 
providing they met the lending criteria,  and as already set out above it would have been for 
them and their broker to ensure  they understand the various terms and conditions of the 
loan. Borrowers dont  have the option to decide which  of the lenders terms and conditions  
they want to be bound by, and Mr and Mrs T wouldnt  have been able to proceed if they 
wanted certain terms removed from their agreement.
Mrs T has expressed  her concern that the loan has been securitised. She says that Firstplus 
have refused to say what documents  they have created  in her and Mr Ts names in order  to 
do this. Mrs T wants these documents as she says the only way the loan can be finished is 
by her destroying the original versions. Im not persuaded this is the case  and the loan will 
be finished once  it has been repaid.
Ref: DRN3705983Ive also considered what Mrs T has said about  the loan being void and unenforceable but 
as the investigator has explained already, this is something a court  would need  to decide. I 
have no power to find a loan agreement is unenforceable and only a court  can do this.
My final decision
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs T will remain unhappy  with the outcome  here,  but my final 
decision is that Firstplus  Financial Group Plc should make  a payment of £12,795 to Mr and 
Mrs Ts account  and pay an additional  £150  directly to them.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 November 2020. If the decision is not accepted it will 
not be binding  on Firstplus Financial Group Plc and it will not be obliged  to maintain the offer.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3705983