K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way agents instructed by Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) dealt with a claim he made  when his windscreen was damaged and he claimed 
under his motor  insurance policy.
background
In March 2016, Mr Hs windscreen was damaged.  He claimed under his insurance  policy  
with Admiral, who arranged for its agents (A) to replace it. Mr H had to pay £75, the excess 
for a windscreen replacement under  his policy.
After twelve months the rain sensor  attached to the windscreen fell off. Mr H assumed any 
warranty from A would  by then have  expired.  So he tried to glue the sensor back on. But 
after a short time it fell off again. While  trying  to get the sensor to stick he noticed a small 
crack had now appeared in the windscreen. So he called Admiral to arrange for a 
replacement under his insurance policy.
Admiral transferred him to A. He explained  what had happened to As representative.  They 
explained that all work by A was covered for manufacturing defects and workmanship as 
long as he owned his car. So in the circumstances  they thought the windscreen  would be 
replaced by A under this warranty rather  than under his insurance policy.
When As operative arrived to replace the windscreen he said the work wouldnt be covered 
by As warranty because Mr H had tried to effect  a repair  by gluing the sensor back  on. Mr H 
said he had done  this because he didnt know about As warranty.  The operative  said he 
should have because it was in the terms and conditions on his repair receipt.
After some argument the operative spoke to a superior. It was agreed that A would claim its 
costs as usual  from Admiral, but would waive the £75 excess  he would normally  have had to 
pay under  his policy. The windscreen  was replaced on this basis.
When Mr H checked his original receipt  he found that the warranty A had referred to wasnt 
mentioned in the terms and conditions in his receipt.  He complained  to A and said he 
thought it should do more  to make customers aware  of the warranty. A said it was mentioned 
in messages while customers were waiting on the phone.
Mr H didnt think this was enough and complained to Admiral  and to us, He said A should  
stand the cost of the second  windscreen  itself rather than charging  Admiral under his policy.  
He was worried that his making a second  windscreen claim on his Admiral policy would 
affect his no claims discount (NCD), policy excess, and future  premiums  on his policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She said Admiral  
had pointed out that As website contained  details of its quality guarantee, which  would have 
been seen by a customer of A when making  a booking online.  It said:
put simply, our workmanship is guaranteed for however long you own your vehicle.
Although the terms and conditions on As receipt didnt say this, they did say a customer 
should contact  A if he wasnt  happy  with As workmanship. They also said that if a customer 
organised repairs  without first contacting A, the cost of these might not be covered.
Ref: DRN30584252The adjudicator said that A had acknowledged Mr Hs comments  about not knowing about 
the warranty, and as a result had waived the £75 excess he would otherwise have had to 
pay. She thought that was fair and reasonable as the repairs carried out by A on the second 
occasion resulted  from the crack,  and werent related to As workmanship.
In addition, Admiral had confirmed that the fact that Mr H had now had a second windscreen 
claim on his policy:
wouldnt affect his future premiums  as windscreen claims werent  taken into account 
in calculating premiums; and
wouldnt mean his windscreen excess under the policy would increase in future.
So she thought that overall Admiral had acted fairly.
Mr H responded to say, in summary, that:
when he first contacted A to make  the second  claim  he was told it would be covered  
by As warranty. Then the operative  who attended told him it wouldnt be covered;
the operative rudely told him the warranty was contained in his previous receipt,  
which it wasnt;
at no time was the warranty  advised to him by A verbally or in writing.  So although A 
had waived the £75 excess, he didnt agree it had acted  fairly;
he didnt think Admiral  had acted fairly as they hadnt tried to resolve matters but 
simply passed him on to A; and
he still wasnt sure his excess  wouldnt increase as this contradicted what he had 
been told by Admiral.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think A could have done more to make customers aware of its warranty in its terms and 
conditions printed in its receipt. However  it does  in those terms and conditions  tell customers  
to contact it if they have  any complaint about  its service.
We cant fine or punish a business, or tell it to change the way it runs its business for the 
future. That is the role of the Financial Conduct Authority as its regulator. However we can if 
appropriate require  a business  to compensate  a customer for any loss it has caused them.
Mr H is unhappy that A first said the second  claim would  be covered by the warranty,  and 
then said it wouldnt.  However A quickly agreed  to waive the £75 excess  he would otherwise 
have had to pay.
Admiral has confirmed in writing to us that his windscreen excess and future policy  
premiums havent been  affected by the second  incident being treated as a claim. Mr H is 
entitled to rely on this and complain to us if Admiral were ever to go back on this.
Although Mr H felt Admiral didnt properly  try to resolve his dispute with A, it had the difficulty  
that it had no involvement itself in the matter  and had to rely on As file and what A said.  
Ref: DRN30584253I conclude that Mr H is now in the position  he wanted to be in when he complained to us, 
with the second claim  not having  cost him anything or increased  what  he will pay under his 
policy. I think A and Admiral acted promptly when  asked  to produce this result.  So I dont 
think I can reasonably require Admiral to do anything more.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3058425