K820x#14Complaint
Mr S complains that Fairway Financial Consultancy (FFC) provided him with unsuitable 
advice to switch  his personal pension to a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP) for the 
purpose of investing  in an overseas  property  development.
Background
In 2011 Mr S was exploring the possibility  of investing his pension in Harlequin,  an overseas 
property development.  Mr S said he had been persuaded to invest in the development by 
Mr N, with whom  he had a long-standing business  relationship and who was an agent  of 
Harlequin. Mr S reserved a property  in the development,  paying  a fee of £1,000 to Harlequin 
on 6 July 2011. As Mr Ss existing personal  pension couldnt hold the Harlequin investment, 
Mr S was referred to FFC to arrange  a SIPP. 
Documents, including a fact find and attitude to risk (ATR) questionnaire were completed on 
20 July 2011 by Mr N or an introducing agent  and sent to FFC,  so it could provide a 
recommendation. FFC acknowledged receipt  of the documents on 3 August 2011. It 
confirmed to Mr S that it would be providing  advice but this would be limited to whether 
establishing a SIPP was appropriate to achieve  Mr Ss objective  of investing in Harlequin.
On 1 September 2011 FFC provided  its recommendation to Mr S. It reiterated  that it could 
not advise on the suitability of the Harlequin investment, but explained it considered  it to be 
high risk. It warned Mr S that he could  lose his entire  investment and said he shouldnt  
proceed with the transfer unless he was prepared to take a more speculative  risk with his 
retirement savings. FFC included a copy of the ATR questionnaire, in which it had provided 
further information about the risks associated  with the investment. FFC recommended that 
Mr S establish a SIPP with G in order  to meet his objective. FFC confirmed it would be 
charging a fee of £1,000  for the advice and to process his application. 
The SIPP was established  on 19 September  2011 and on 27 September  2011  £119,614.29  
was transferred to it. Mr S went on to invest £81,000  in Harlequin, which  was the deposit 
equivalent to 30% of the purchase price. The investment was to be jointly owned by the 
SIPP and a Limited Liability Partnership  (LLP) that Mr S had set up.
In 2017 Mr S complained via a solicitor  that FFC had provided  unsuitable  advice. It said Mr S 
was not a sophisticated investor and FFC shouldve advised that the whole transaction  was 
unsuitable for him. It said Mr S had told FFC he had a low ATR at the time.
FFC didnt agree. It said it hadnt  provided  any advice in respect of the Harlequin investment, 
but it had provided  multiple warnings about  the high-risk nature of it. It said Mr S had already 
made up his mind to invest when  he was introduced to FFC and it was simply facilitating  the 
transaction. It added  that Mr S had specialist knowledge and experience  of property 
investment so believed  he fully understood  the nature of the investment he was making.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service but decided to try and recover  his losses through 
court action in the first instance. This was discontinued so Mr S asked  our service to 
consider the merits  of his complaint. FFC said the complaint had been  referred  to our service 
too late under the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules but I determined the complaint 
had been made in time.
Ref: DRN38350682Our investigator ultimately  didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think FFC could advise  on 
the establishment of the SIPP without considering the suitability of the investment Mr S 
intended to make. And if FFC had provided advice, he thought  it shouldve  told Mr S that the 
Harlequin investment  was unsuitable  for him. However, the investigator  thought  Mr S 
wouldve most likely gone on to invest in Harlequin  in any event.  He was persuaded that 
Mr S had already  made his decision to invest by the time he was referred to FFC and advice  
to the contrary wouldnt  have dissuaded  him. The investigator reached  this view taking into 
account that Mr S had experience in property investment and had a close relationship with 
Mr N, who he said had persuaded him to invest in the scheme. Furthermore, he noted that 
FFCs clear warnings  about the high risk nature of the Harlequin investment also hadnt 
impacted Mr Ss decision to proceed  with it.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings,  but his representative didnt provide any 
other comments.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
The regulatory position
It appears that when  Mr S was applying for the SIPP in July 2011, he believed  it was going 
to be arranged on an execution-only  basis. I say this because on 20 July 2011  Mr S 
completed a SIPP Appropriateness Test document that G, the SIPP provider, required him 
to complete along with his application  form. A box was ticked  next to the following statement:
I have not received advice regarding the investment and am classed as an Execution  Only 
customer.
However, FFC has confirmed that Mr S was referred  to them  for advice on the suitability  of a 
SIPP for his needs.  This was after the date on which the Appropriateness Test form was 
completed. So, Im satisfied that FFC provided  Mr S with advice.
The FCAs conduct of business sourcebook (COBS) sets out the obligations a firm has 
when providing  advice. COBS 9.2.2R required FFC to obtain  the information  necessary 
about its client to have a reasonable basis for believing its recommendation met his 
investment objectives;  that he was able to bear any related investment risks and that he had 
the necessary  experience and knowledge to understand those risks.
FFC says that it only provided advice on the suitability  of the SIPP,  and not the investment  
Mr S intended to make in Harlequin. But Mr Ss main  objective was to invest  in Harlequin   
the SIPP was recommended  specifically  for that purpose.  So it follows that the risks 
Harlequin entailed  were related to the recommended  product (the SIPP).  The FCA (formerly 
the Financial Services  Authority  FSA) has also issued a number of alerts about advising  on 
pension transfers  and switches with a view to investing pension  monies  in unregulated 
products through a SIPP. The alerts demonstrate the regulator took the view that, in order  to 
provide suitable  advice,  consideration had to be given to how a consumers funds would be 
invested.
An alert from 2013  specifically mentioned unregulated investments such  as overseas
Ref: DRN38350683property developments.  The regulator  made  its position clear in the 2013 alert, where it said:
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that,
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment
strategy the customer is contemplating.
This is further demonstrated  by an alert from the regulator in 2014  which  stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer or
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
The alerts do not denote  a change in regulation or position by the regulator. They simply 
restated the principles  that already applied and were  in place  in 2011 when the advice was 
given.
So, as per COBS 9.2.2R, and the alerts Ive mentioned  above,  FFC had to also consider the 
suitability of the Harlequin investment  for Mr S when  it provided a recommendation on the 
suitability of the SIPP. This means  if it didnt consider  this investment to be suitable for Mr S, 
it shouldve said so. I do note that FFC went some way to pointing out the high-risk  nature of 
the investment  in Harlequin, both in the recommendation  letter and the attached  ATR 
questionnaire, in which it expanded on the specific risks attached  to such  an investment. It 
also highlighted that Mr S shouldnt proceed  with the investment if he wasnt  comfortable 
with the risks or if he didnt understand how the investment worked. However,  that isnt the 
same as determining  whether the investment was suitable for him or providing a clear 
recommendation against investing in it. So, I dont think FFCs  advice complied with the 
regulators requirements.
Ref: DRN38350684Would advice to invest in Harlequin have been suitable for Mr S?
In effect, COBS 9.2.2R  requires any regulated  firm to carry out a fact-find. It appears in this 
case that the fact-find process was initiated by the introducing agent or Mr N, rather than by 
FFC. I say this because  the fact-find, the ATR questionnaire and other documents  relating to 
the SIPP were signed  on 20 July 2011,  before Mr S was introduced  to FFC.  So, it would 
appear that FFC did not carry out its own assessment of Mr Ss needs,  investment 
experience or ATR. 
Mr S says he had a low ATR, but that isnt supported by the evidence Ive seen, which 
shows Mr S considered himself to have a high ATR. Its also evident  that FFC provided 
numerous warnings  about the high risk nature of the investment in Harlequin,  so if Mr S 
genuinely considered himself to have a low ATR, I think he wouldve known  that the 
investment in Harlequin didnt align with his own risk appetite.
In the ATR questionnaire  Mr S completed, he marked boxes next to the following 
statements: 
I can afford to lose a large proportion of money  without  my financial security  being 
affected.
I am prepared to accept a very high degree  of risk.
I accept the risk of losing most  or all of my money.
My earning capacity is such that I can absorb  this risk.
Nevertheless, it isnt for Mr S to assess his own ATR,  that falls to FFC.  Whilst FFC may have 
been content to rely on the ATR questionnaire  that had been provided  to it, I think  it needed 
to do more to satisfy itself of not only Mr Ss ATR, but his capacity for loss. And despite 
Mr Ss answers, I think it should  have  been  apparent to FFC that there  was a problem with 
his capacity to take this risk, whether or not he considered himself to be a risk taker.
According to the fact-find passed  to FFC,  Mr S had other investments in property, but it 
appears he had a large mortgage covering this. He had modest  savings and another 
pension, but no details of this pension  were provided (or asked for). So, its difficult  to assess  
how much  Mr S could afford to lose, if anything. Whilst  Mr S was contributing to another 
pension, it would take many years  to accumulate  another fund of £119,614.29 and Mr S was 
intending to put the majority  of this at considerable risk by investing in Harlequin. So overall, 
I think a more reasonable assessment of Mr Ss ATR shouldve  been balanced or medium  
at most, given his limited  capacity for loss.
It doesnt appear that FFC knew that Harlequin  met the criteria to be a UCIS when it gave its 
advice, but its clear it understood that this was a high risk, non-mainstream  investment. The 
ATR questionnaire highlighted,  amongst other things, that Mr S was investing within one 
specific sector; the scheme involved gearing (borrowing); there  were  economic, 
geographical, political and exchange  rate risks;  and the projected returns  couldnt  be 
substantiated. It added that his investment might be pooled with other sums, not necessarily 
used to complete  the development hed selected, and that it was unclear how Harlequin 
would be able to repay the investment if required.
All of these points, which I agree with, suggest  to me that the Harlequin scheme  could only
have been suitably recommended to investors  who were  experienced in making unregulated
or more  esoteric investments and who could also afford to take the multiple  risks involved. 
Whilst the fact-find shows Mr S owned other properties, I dont think that means Mr S had 
Ref: DRN38350685experience of making an investment in an off-plan overseas property scheme which  also 
involved borrowing, which  is the way Harlequin was intended to operate. I also note that on 
the ATR questionnaire  Ive referred to above,  Mr S did not mark the box which  said:
I have existing investments and have a very good  understanding of how investment markets 
work.
So, it would appear Mr S did not consider  himself  to have a good understanding  of how 
investments worked.  With all of this in mind, I dont  think it wouldve been a suitable  
recommendation for FFC to recommend Mr S invest any of his pension funds in Harlequin.  It 
was too high-risk  for him, and having already  invested in property, making  further such 
investments would also mean that Mr S lacked diversification in how he was planning  for his 
retirement. So, Im satisfied that the only suitable advice FFC could reasonably  have given to 
Mr S in these circumstances was not to switch his existing pension to a SIPP to invest in 
Harlequin.
What would Mr S have done differently  if suitable  advice had been  given?
I think FFC should have  advised Mr S against  switching  his pension to a SIPP and investing  
in Harlequin. But I dont think that means it shouldve refused to transact. It is clear to me 
that Mr S had some relevant knowledge  and experience in property as a result of his job, so 
wouldve probably known  more about the investment in Harlequin than a layperson.  In these 
circumstances, I think  providing  clear, suitable advice is preferable   in this case  advice 
against investing in Harlequin. And if Mr S still intended to go through with the transaction,  
FFC had the option of treating him as an insistent client.
In light of this, Ive considered whether Mr S wouldve gone on to open the SIPP  and invest  
in Harlequin in any event, either as an insistent client through  FFC or another adviser.
FFC says that an unequivocal recommendation not to switch  Mr Ss pension  to a SIPP  
would have made no difference to Mr Ss decision. It says Mr S had already paid a non-
refundable deposit for the property  he was employed in the property industry  and fully 
understood the investment. FFC also says Mr S trusted Mr Ns judgment  as he had a long-
standing business  relationship with him. FFC added that it believes Mr S must  have received 
an incentive to invest (as it understood other customers did) and that Mr S became a sub-
agent of Harlequin,  promoting the investment to others.
I havent been provided with any evidence to demonstrate that Mr S received an incentive to 
invest in Harlequin,  or that he became a sub-agent of Harlequin. So, I havent taken these 
allegations into account. But having  considered the nature of Mr Ss job, his close  
relationship with Mr N and the progress hed made with the investment before the 
introduction to FFC, on balance, I think Mr S wouldve invested in Harlequin  in any event 
even if suitable  advice had been given to him.
In his statement  for the court, Mr S said he had a long-standing  business  relationship  with 
Mr N and said that Mr N had recommended he invest in Harlequin.  Mr S said he had been  
persuaded to invest and made contact with Harlequin via Mr N. So, it is clear  to me that Mr S 
trusted Mr N enough to make contact  with Harlequin  and start the process of making the 
investment without seeking any independent  advice. I understand Mr S reserved a property 
and paid a non-refundable deposit of £1,000 on 6 July 2011,  before any involvement of FFC 
was envisaged.
Ref: DRN38350686This long-standing  relationship with Mr N contrasted with the brief dealings Mr S had with 
FFC, which  appear  to be based on necessity due to FFCs role as the only regulated  
adviser. Mr S however, was prepared to forgo  any advice, previously signing a declaration to 
confirm he should  be treated  as an execution-only client and putting down a deposit. So, it 
isnt the case  that Mr S sought out advice from FFC because he believed he required it, 
rather that he was referred to FFC to fulfil a requirement of the SIPP provider, G. So, on 
balance, I think Mr S wouldve trusted  the judgment  of Mr N, even if FFC had provided clear 
advice not to transfer.
Im also mindful of the fact that FFCs  recommendation letter  and the attached ATR 
questionnaire contained a number  of warnings about the high-risk nature of the investment 
in Harlequin. FFC went as far to say that it did not recommend Mr S proceed with the 
investment unless he accepted the risk of losing all of his money. This sentiment was 
repeated several  times in the ATR questionnaire  and highlighted in the recommendation 
letter. So, it ought  to have been clear  to Mr S that the proposed  investment was highly 
speculative and could  result in him losing everything he invested. I think such  warnings 
wouldve given any investor cause for concern  if they werent already committed  to making  
the investment.
Despite the clear warnings, Mr S proceeded with the investment. So, overall,  I dont think  
FFC going one step further  and giving a clear recommendation  not to invest  in Harlequin 
wouldve made a difference  to Mr Ss decision. In my view,  by the time FFC became  
involved, Mr S had already been  persuaded to invest by Mr N, whom he trusted. I also think  
that because of his job, its likely Mr S felt he understood the risks involved and was prepared 
to take them.  So, I dont think Mr S wouldve done  anything differently if suitable advice had 
been provided by FFC. For this reason, I dont think FFC is responsible for the loss Mr S has 
suffered as a result  of investing his pension in Harlequin.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3835068