K820x#14complaint
Ms Q says she was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Bank  of Ireland (UK) Plc (BOI).
background
Ms Q took out a mortgage with BOI in 1989. At or around the same  time she took out a 
regular premium PPI policy to cover her repayments  if she was unable  to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  she didnt think there
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented  as optional and thought
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Ms Q.  
Ms Q disagrees, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Qs complaint.
BOI havent  been  able to say how or when the policy was sold or provide any of the 
documentation which  I think  is understandable  given the sale took place over 25 years ago. 
But fortunately Ms Q has provided some documentation so Ive made my decision on the 
basis of what information I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOI needed to make  it clear to Ms Q that she had a choice  in taking the policy  and that she 
agreed to take it. Ms Q has provided us with documentation showing she made a successful  
claim on the policy and that the policy was cancelled at her request. I think this shows that 
she knew she had the policy   as she claimed  on it  and that she knew she didnt have  to 
have it  as she cancelled it. So on balance I think it was likely Ms Q understood the policy  
was optional and she had it because she chose to take it.
Ive not seen enough to say that she wasnt  given  a choice or that she didnt agree to buy it.
Im treating  the sale as if BOI advised Ms Q to take the policy   this puts her in the best 
position. What  this means is that BOI not only had to provide information about  PPI in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way so that Ms Q could  make an informed choice about buying  
PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it was to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable for 
Ms Qs needs and circumstances.
I dont know if BOI did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable
recommendation for Ms Q for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve
made it difficult to make  a successful claim.
Ref: DRN35544612Ms Q says she was entitled  to some sick pay, had savings and her parents wouldve 
helped make her repayments  if she couldnt work. But there is no guarantee her 
parents would be able to help and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work 
benefits and savings and for potentially longer, covering her for up to 12 months  if 
she was unable to work due to accident  or sickness or if she lost her job.
So I think the policy wouldve and did provide a useful benefit to Ms Q in her 
circumstances especially considering she was taking on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if she was unable to meet her 
repayments I think Ms Q wouldve been interested in protecting  them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Ms Q at the time. 
And if she decided she no longer wanted the policy  she could cancel it.
I also need to consider  whether BOI gave Ms Q information in a way which  was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the policy  out. 
I dont know if BOI did give all the information as it shouldve.  But for the same reasons that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Ms Q has told us about  her circumstances at the 
time, I think she wouldve  still taken out the PPI policy  if shed been  given all the proper 
information.
This means  that the policy  wasnt mis-sold and I wont be upholding Ms Qs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Qs complaint  against Bank  of Ireland 
(UK) Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3554461