K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains about what happened when she asked John Lewis Financial Services  
Limited to add her husband to her existing  credit card account.
background
Mrs W told us that she asked  John Lewis to add her husband onto her credit  card account, 
and to issue a new card in his name.  But she said that it told her it wouldnt do that without 
proof of his identity. Its asked him to send it a certified copy of a personal identity document. 
Mrs W told us that because  of former  roles  in public life, she and her husband  arent on the 
electoral roll. But she said that they both have another  relationship  with John  Lewis,  that 
should mean it knows their identity.  Mrs W didnt think that they should have to be put to the 
cost of obtaining certified copies of documentation.
John Lewis  said that it did need  this additional  documentation from Mrs Ws husband. It said 
that it hadnt been able to verify him through other means. It didnt think that Mrs W would 
necessarily have to pay for certified  copies, as not all of the persons it would accept copies 
from would  charge for that service.  But it said that it couldnt go ahead with adding Mrs Ws 
husband to the account without that information. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that banks have legal  duties to make 
sure they know who their customers are, as part of preventing  financial crime. Our 
investigator thought  that John Lewis was required to consider those laws when deciding 
whether to process the application  to add Mr W to Mrs Ws credit card account.  He said that 
he knew about the other legal relationship that Mr and Mrs W had with a different part of 
John Lewis, but he said that was actually  a separate business, so this application couldnt 
just be accepted on the basis  of that. 
Our investigator said that John Lewis had asked for proof of Mr Ws address. Mr W didnt 
have to get that certified. He didnt  think that John Lewis  had done anything  wrong. 
Mrs W wrote  to say that she didnt agree with this. She said that she thought  wed 
misunderstood the legal relationship that existed  between the couple and John Lewis, so 
she set that out for us. And she said that John  Lewis  wasnt just asking for proof  of address, 
which didnt need  to be certified.  It was also asking for certified proof of identity. 
Mrs W said that she didnt think that it was fair for John Lewis  to require her to pay for 
someone to certify a copy of a personal  identity document. She said that she wouldve been  
happy to send an original document securely. She set out a number of factors about herself 
and her husband which made them  lower  risk for financial crime. She said that she wanted 
John Lewis  to accept  either two original proofs  of address, or a copy  of a personal identity 
document. 
Our investigator noted Mrs Ws comments,  but said that he still didnt think  it was 
unreasonable for John Lewis to ask for proof of identity. Because  Mrs W and our investigator 
didnt agree, the case was passed to me for a final decision. Mrs W then wrote to our 
service, enclosing historic bills which  showed that she and her husband  had lived at the 
same address for a long time. She said that she was willing  to provide copies, or even 
originals of proof of identity, but she didnt want to pay for certified copies.
Ref: DRN35285052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
I do accept that getting certified copies may well end up costing Mr and Mrs W some  money.  
John Lewis  has set out a list of professional persons who could certify documents, and it 
says that not all of those  charge. But not everyone has personal  friends  who are in those 
professions, and without  that, I appreciate that it can be difficult to get certified copies  
without paying  for them.  The cost of obtaining those copies, however, may not be high. I 
dont think that I can assume  that it would necessarily be significantly more  than the cost of 
sending original ID documents  securely,  which I know  that Mrs W has offered to do.
Mrs W says that she and her husband are law-abiding persons, who oughtnt to be put to the 
cost of getting certified copies of documents. But I dont think  that means that John Lewis 
has to accept the documentation that Mrs W has offered.
John Lewis  assesses the risk to it, when it decides  whether  to ask a potential customer to 
provide evidence of their identity. It has done so in this case, and it says that it would like 
additional evidence  of Mr Ws identity.  I dont think thats an unreasonable  position for 
John Lewis  to have  taken. And I dont think it becomes unreasonable  in this case  because  
the credit  arrangement is with Mrs W. 
Mrs W has said shes happy to send original  documents.  But I think its reasonable for 
John Lewis  to say that it doesnt want the responsibility of keeping and returning  original  
documents securely.
I note that Mr W has an existing  legal  relationship  with a different part of the same group. 
And I understand why this makes  things more frustrating for Mr and Mrs W. But Mrs W 
hasnt suggested  that this legal relationship  is with the same  business. So I dont  think  that 
John Lewis  request, which I think is reasonable, becomes unreasonable because of that 
either. 
I know that Mrs W will be disappointed, but I dont  think that this complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3528505