K820x#14complaint
Ms Y has complained about  the service she received from Barclays  Bank  UK PLC in 
connection with an application for a credit card.
background
In March 2019 Ms Y made an online  application to Barclays for a credit  card.  She intended 
to transfer the balance  on a credit card she held with another  provider to a new credit  card 
with Barclays.
Barclays declined Ms Ys application.  It said it had reviewed her levels of borrowing 
compared to income  and it was concerned she might find it difficult to keep up with 
repayments.
Ms Y complained to Barclays. It acknowledged shed experienced technical problems when 
making her application and it offered  her £25 for this. But it didnt uphold her complaint about 
her application  being declined.
Ms Y wasnt happy with Barclays  response to her complaint and referred  it to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. They didnt think 
Barclays had treated Ms Y unfairly. Ms Y didnt accept our investigators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whether or not a bank is prepared  to give a potential customer a particular financial product 
is a commercial decision for the bank to make. I wouldnt normally  interfere with such  a 
decision.
I appreciate Ms Y had an excellent credit record when she applied  to Barclays for a new 
card and she was intending to transfer existing borrowing rather than increase her overall  
borrowing. She was also given an indication her application would be successful. But she 
wasnt given any guarantee that Barclays would offer her a new credit card. Im satisfied 
Barclays considered  Ms Ys application in accordance with its lending  criteria. I havent seen 
any evidence that would  enable me to reasonably conclude  Barclays  didnt treat her fairly 
and reasonably.
Ms Y says Barclays should remove the record of a credit search it carried out in connection 
with her application from her credit  file. I think the credit search was properly carried out with 
Ms Ys consent to enable Barclays to assess her application.  As I said above, Ms Y wasnt 
given any guarantee the application would be successful. The fact that it was unsuccessful  
isnt a sufficient  reason  for me to require Barclays to remove  the record  of the search.
Ms Y has referred to the way in which Barclays responded to her complaint and the technical  
issues she experienced when she applied for the credit card. Ive considered Barclays 
response to the complaint and Im not persuaded I could reasonably  say it was below the 
Ref: DRN32981972standard Ms Y was entitled to expect. Barclays has offered  her £25 compensation for the 
technical issues she experienced  and I think this was reasonable in the circumstances.  Im 
not going to require Barclays to pay her any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3298197