K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains about the service she received from Advantage Insurance Company 
Limited following  a car accident. She says it passed her details on to an accident 
management company.
All references to Advantage include its agents.
background
Miss H was involved in a car accident  caused  by a third party  driver.  She phoned for 
assistance and her car was recovered.  The same  day, an accident  management  company  
called her. It arranged for her car to be repaired.
Miss H wasnt  happy with the standard of repairs so she rang Advantage, but it said it wasnt 
aware of her accident. 
Miss H complained to Advantage. In response  it said Miss H had phoned  the breakdown 
team following  her accident. The breakdown  team should have advised her to contact the 
claims department to log a claim but it hadnt done so. It apologised for the service  it had 
given her after she contacted it and offered her £75 compensation for this. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Hs concerns, but didnt think  her complaint should be 
upheld. She said she hadnt found  anything to show Advantage had referred Miss H to the 
accident management company. Shed also contacted the accident management company 
directly and it told her Advantage did not refer Miss H to them  for their services.
Miss H disagreed with our investigators  view,  she said it didnt explain why Advantage didnt 
have any evidence of the three calls shed  made  to them on the day of her accident. She 
said nobody else knew about the accident when the accident management company rang 
her apart from the third party driver, who didnt have any details other  than her phone 
number. 
As Miss H didnt agree, her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Advantage was the underwriter for Miss Hs car insurance but an intermediary  (Hastings) 
deals with administration and claims on its behalf.  Hastings also appears on the paperwork 
relating to Miss Hs car insurance,  including the policy  document. So when Miss H phoned 
Hastings on the day of her accident,  she understandably thought  she was notifying her 
insurer of her accident. 
But Miss H had actually  phoned the number for Hastings  breakdown  assistance  rather  than 
Hastings claims  on the day of her accident.  Ive listened to recordings of these calls and Im 
satisfied this is what happened.  
Ref: DRN33877852Hastings breakdown arranged for Miss Hs vehicle to be recovered, but it didnt explain that 
she also needed to speak to Hastings claims.  Its understandable  that Miss H thought shed  
advised her car insurer of her claim. But her breakdown cover was actually provided  by a 
different insurer - as an add on to her car insurance. 
Hastings breakdown says it never informed Hastings claims (Advantage) of Miss Hs 
accident. From everything Ive seen and heard, I think this is correct.  So I dont think  
Advantage was aware of Miss Hs accident  until she phoned  to complain about the accident 
management company.  It follows  that Advantage couldnt have referred Miss H to the 
accident management company because it wasnt aware of her accident  at that time.
Ive also listened  to recordings of Miss Hs conversations  with Hastings claims (Advantage)  
and Ive reviewed  the emails shes sent us. I think the customer service Advantage provided 
could have been better. But I think the £75 Advantage  has already offered her for this is 
reasonable, so I wont ask it to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2020.  
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3387785