K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 December  2019.  A copy  is attached 
at Appendix A, and forms part of this final decision.
Mr M didnt  make any further representations in response to my provisional decision.
Elevate responded to say that it wanted me to reconsider  my decision to uphold the 
complaint about  loan 7. It said, in summary  that:
it had independently checked the true state of Mr Ms finances to make  sure he could 
sustainably repay his loans.
its checks in the period leading up to loan 5 were  proportionate.
it didnt consider pattern of borrowing and the number of loans taken suggested Mr M 
was experiencing difficulty managing his money.  
in the absence of any other evidence, it disputed that its loans would  impair  Mr Ms 
ability to access mainstream credit. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Elevate considers the checks it carried out in the lending period up to loan 5 were  
proportionate. As I said in my provisional  decision,  I dont dispute  that it was reasonable for 
Elevate to provide loans 1 to 6 to Mr M. So I wont make any further findings in connection  
with those loans.
The only loan that remains in dispute is loan 7.
Elevate doesnt  consider the number of loans Mr M took, or his pattern of borrowing,  
demonstrates that he was struggling  to manage his finances. It points out that loan 7 was for 
a relatively small amount,  and that the contractual repayments for that loan were a small 
proportion of Mr Ms disposable income.  Mr M also repaid loan 7 in full.
Mr M had been borrowing  from Elevate for 12 months by the time he took loan 7. But 
Elevate doesnt  consider this means  he wasnt using the loans for their intended  purpose.  It 
also says the borrowing  period wasnt inconsistent  with the Financial Conduct Authoritys 
(FCA) definition of short term high cost credit.  
Ive thought carefully about everything Elevate  has said. I accept that from the evidence 
available to Elevate  loan 7 may have  appeared affordable to Mr M. But as I explained in my 
provisional decision, there is another consideration I need to take into account here.  There  
may come a stage where Elevate should reasonably have seen that further lending was 
Ref: DRN39274272unsustainable, or otherwise harmful  even if the loans appeared to be affordable  on paper. 
And so Elevate should have realised  that it shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
I remain of the view that in the particular circumstances  of Mr Ms case, this point was 
reached by loan 7. This was Mr Ms seventh loan in just over a year. And the amounts  hed 
borrowed during  that time hadnt  decreased significantly. Mr M had paid large amounts of 
interest to, in effect, service a debt to Elevate over an extended period.
The purpose of short term loans was set out in OFT guidance (Section 6.25 referenced by 
CONC Section 6.7). They  are a short term solution  to temporary cash  flow problems. The 
FCA defined what is meant by this short term solution (credit  due to be repaid or 
substantially repaid within 12 months of advancement) but it doesnt define  what is meant by 
a temporary cash flow problem. Its reasonable to consider that this could mean different 
things for different consumers depending on their circumstances. And in this case,  I think by 
the time Mr M asked  for loan 7 he was not likely to have been borrowing to solve a short 
term problem, but rather  to meet an ongoing  need.  This means I still think  this loan had the 
effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness  by continuing to allow him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term use.
 
And despite what Elevate has said, I still think the number of loans by loan 7 was likely to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream credit. I am not 
concluding that Mr M was unable  to access any form of mainstream credit  of any amount 
because of Elevates  loans. But that borrowing from Elevate potentially  limited his access  to 
mainstream credit as the number of loans he borrowed and the length  of time over which  he 
borrowed was likely  to have been viewed negatively by other  lenders.  And so there  was a 
risk that agreeing  further credit  at this point would  cause  harm. 
It may be that Mr M was treated unfairly by other lenders but this complaint is against  
Elevate and so its actions  or omissions are the focus of my decision. 
Overall, I remain of the view that Mr M lost out because Elevate arranged loan 7. So Im not 
persuaded to depart  from what I said in my provisional decision.
putting things right  what Elevate needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr M paid on loan 7;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number of loans  taken by loan 7 means  any information recorded  about it is 
adverse. So all entries about loan 7 should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Elevate to take off tax from this interest. Elevate must 
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN39274273my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partially  uphold Mr Ms complaint. I direct Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39274274APPENDIX A
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr M says Elevate  Credit  International  Limited  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  seven instalment loans  Elevate provided to Mr M between  June 2017 and June 
2018, all of which were to be repaid over six months. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan numberAmount  
borrowed  (£)Date taken Date repaid Total repaid (£)
1 200 18.06.17 25.07.17 216
2 150 08.07.17 25.07.17 171.60
3 250 31.07.17 29.11.17 425.73
4 50 08.09.17 29.11.17 78.13
5 250 06.12.17 25.05.18 470.74
6 100 16.04.18 25.05.18 126.63
7 150 21.06.18 29.07.18 290.03
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ms complaint and thought loans 6 and 7 shouldnt have been given.  Elevate 
disagreed and the complaint  was passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Elevate needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr M could repay  the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Elevate  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
the lower a consumers  income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to meet  a higher 
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during which a 
customer has been  given  loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN39274275I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Elevate was required to establish  whether  Mr M 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
The adjudicator concluded  that they hadnt seen enough to say it was unreasonable for
Elevate to arrange loans 1 to 5 for Mr M. I agree with those conclusions. The loans
were arranged  during the early part of the lending relationship, and were  for relatively small
amounts. While I think Elevate ought to have done more before agreeing to loan 5 and,
for example,  verified  Mr Ms financial information, from the information I have available to
me, there  was nothing to suggest to Elevate that it wasnt appropriate to arrange those
loans. And so Im not upholding Mr M complaint about these.
In addition, I dont intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint about loan 6. Mr Ms borrowing history by that 
point was that he took out his first two loans and repaid them together. He then took out loan 3 shortly 
afterwards and repaid this together  with loan 4. He then took out loan 5 shortly after this. This pattern of 
borrowing shortly after repaying loans ought  to have raised concerns  for the lender  as this isnt how 
these loans were intended  to be used and might suggest that Mr M was borrowing to cover a hole left in 
his finances by repaying  previous loans. 
As Ive explained I dont  have enough information to uphold Mr Ms complaint  about loan 5. And Mr M 
didnt take out another loan then for another 4 months. As with loan 5 I think  the lender ought to have 
done more checks before agreeing to loan 6 but I havent seen enough to say that it would have 
made a different lending decision had it done  so. 
However, Mr M took out loan 7 within two months of loan 6. This was for a higher amount and it was a 
year since hed first taken out a loan with Elevate. I think by this point Elevate should  reasonably  have 
seen that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise  harmful.  And so Elevate should  have 
realised that it shouldnt  have provided this loan.  
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Elevate. Even though there had been 
some gaps between repaying a loan and taking the next,  this was Mr Ms seventh loan in just over a 
year. And the amounts hed borrowed  during  that time hadnt decreased significantly. Mr M had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Elevate  over an extended period.
I think  that Mr M lost out because Elevate provided loan 7 because:
this loan had the effect of unfairly prolonging  Mr Ms indebtedness  by allowing him to take 
expensive credit intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans by this point was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ms ability to 
access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost  loans.
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 7 and Elevate should put things right.
Ref: DRN39274276putting things  right  what Elevate needs to do
refund all interest  and charges Mr M paid on loan 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded  interest and charges from the date they were  
paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken by loan 7 means any information recorded about it is adverse. So all 
entries about loan 7 should be removed  from Mr Ms credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Elevate to take off tax from this interest.  Elevate must  give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I intend to partially uphold  Mr Ms complaint. I intend to direct Elevate 
Credit International  Limited to pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3927427