K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Santander UK Plc didnt close his current account after it had told 
him it was going to close it.
background
Mr G has been in dispute with Santander about  his current  account  since  2007. Santander 
made the decision to close  his account some years  ago but didnt implement the closure. In 
2015 Mr G complained to Santander about the closure of his account and referred his 
complaint to this service  after Santander  didnt uphold it. We issued a final decision on that 
complaint in April 2016.
In February 2019  Mr G complained to Santander  because his current  account was still open 
and was overdrawn. Santander  cleared the overdraft and closed the account. It also sent 
Mr G a cheque for £30 as it had identified some service issues.
Mr G contacted Santander again  in March 2019.  He said it hadnt paid direct  debits from his 
current account to a credit card account  he also holds with Santander  as a result  of which  
hed been charged late payment fees.  Santander  sent him a cheque for £24 for the late 
charges.
Mr G wasnt happy with Santanders responses to his complaints and referred them to this 
service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think 
Santanders failure to close  the account  had had a negative effect on Mr G as hed been 
able to use the account. He noted  the payments that Santander had made  to Mr G and that 
he hadnt had to repay the overdraft. He thought  this was a fair response to Mr Gs 
complaint.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service has already  considered the complaint Mr G made in 2015  so this decision only 
concerns matters that have arisen since then.
Santander says it didnt close Mr Gs account  because there was a balance  in the account 
which Mr G needed to withdraw before it could be closed. Its surprising that Santander 
permitted Mr G to continue  to use the account and to set up a direct debit for payments to 
his credit card. But I cant see that this caused him any detriment.
I think Santander has treated Mr G fairly and reasonably by making  payments to him totalling 
£54 and clearing  the outstanding overdraft. Im not going to require  it to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN37876702my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make  no award 
against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3787670