K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with a further  flexible  advance on his mortgage in 2002.
background
The PPI covered Mr B in the event that he became unemployed.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On Mr Bs behalf, his representative disagreed with these findings,  and asked  that an 
ombudsman review this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Nationwide has only been able to provide a limited amount of information about  this sale. Im 
not surprised by this, bearing in mind that it was a number of years ago. It has however been 
able to provide  flexible  advance forms signed by Mr B. Nationwide has also explained  that 
the advance on Mr Bs mortgage  was made  available  in small amounts between 2002 and 
2004.
On each of the flexible  advance forms that Nationwide has been  able to provide, there is a 
section headed  Payment Protection. There are two boxes, headed yes and no, to allow  
the applicant to confirm whether they wish to take out PPI. In each case  on the forms signed 
by Mr B, the yes box in respect  of PPI has been ticked.
Mr B had already  held this mortgage  since 1985. That would indicate to me that he was 
aware that PPI was not compulsory in order to be granted the mortgage, or a further  
advance. The flexible advance forms also indicate  that Mr B agreed to take out PPI. Overall  
my view is that Mr B was offered PPI as an option,  and that he chose  to take it out.
Mr B was not advised by Nationwide to take out PPI. However, Nationwide  still had to give 
Mr B clear, fair and not misleading information  about  the PPI so that he could make  a 
properly informed choice  about it.
There might  have been areas in which Nationwide didnt give Mr B as much information as it 
should have done. But taking into account  his circumstances, my view is that better  
information would not have put him off taking out PPI. I say this for the following reasons:
Within his submissions to this service,  Mr B has stated that he didnt have any means to 
meet his mortgage  repayments in the event of unemployment. The PPI policy would 
have covered the mortgage repayments if Mr B had been unable  to work due to 
unemployment, and it would have paid a benefit for up to 24 months  for any one claim.
Bearing in mind the importance of meeting mortgage repayments, on balance  my view is 
Ref: DRN32043142that PPI provided  a useful benefit to Mr B.
Mr B was self-employed  when he took out the policy. However  the policy terms did not 
make it significantly more  difficult for a self-employed  individual  to make a claim for 
unemployment than it did for an employed person.
Mr B was eligible  for the cover, and wouldnt have  been affected by any of the main 
things not covered  by the policy that might make  it unsuitable for him;
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable.
Although I appreciate that Mr B will be disappointed with my findings, my conclusion is that 
the policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3204314