K820x#14complaint
Mr Ws complained  that Premium  Credit Limited refused to pay his loss of earnings after it 
made a mistake that led to him being  stopped by the police for driving without insurance and 
his vehicle being impounded.
background
Mr W complained  to us after Premium  Credits  mistake led to him being stopped by the 
police for driving  without  insurance and his vehicle being impounded on 29 March  2018. To 
resolve that complaint Premium Credit agreed to pay Mr W:
£584 storage  costs  while  his car was impounded;
£1,000 compensation for distress  & inconvenience;
£180 additional compensation;
£400 towards a new insurance policy.
In January 2019 Mr W brought a new complaint to us. He said hed challenged the 
conviction in court. And thought Premium Credit should pay for his loss of earnings for the 
time his vehicle was impounded and when he needed to attend  court.  He also said his car 
had been seized by the finance company after being  released  from the impound,  which had 
caused him to lose further earnings.  Mr W said he earnt £180  a day and asked          
Premium Credit to pay him 17 days of lost earnings.  He said this had also placed a strain on 
his relationship and hed needed to move out of the family home. He said while  staying in 
alternative accommodation his vehicle and tools had been stolen. He thought this had only 
happened due to Premium Credits mistake. 
Premium Credit said the invoices Mr W provided didnt show  hed lost earnings, only the 
amount hed charged when he was working.  It said a new policy had been  set up on 6 April 
and it had paid the release fee on 9 April. It said the compensation it had already paid was 
enough to compensate him for what had happened. 
Our investigator didnt  think hes seen  enough to show Mr W had lost earnings,  so he didnt 
ask Premium Credit  to do any more. Mr W didnt agree. He said around £3,000 was a fair 
and reasonable amount to compensate him for what had happened.  He asked  for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr Ws vehicle was impounded on 29 March.  He had a new policy  on         
6 April and the release  fee was paid on 9 April. I accept this would have caused Mr W a loss 
of earnings if hed had work booked in. But I dont think the invoices hes provided  are 
enough to show  what he would most  likely have earnt during that time.  I say that because 
the invoices show  what hes been  paid and dont show  whether he had work booked  in for 
the days his vehicle was impounded or while he was in court.  
Mr W said the finance company seized  his car after it was released from the impound. 
However, I havent seen  anything  to show this was Premium Credits fault. 
Ref: DRN32277052Premium Credit has already paid Mr W £1,000  for his distress  and inconvenience and for not 
having the vehicle while it was impounded. Given that I havent seen enough to persuade 
me of Mr Ws lost earnings, Im not going to ask Premium Credit to pay him anymore. 
I also havent seen  enough to persuade me that any difficulties Mr Ws experienced in his 
relationship are down  to Premium Credits  mistake.  It follows that I dont think its responsible  
for any losses caused by Mr W having  his tools stolen while staying in alternative 
accommodation.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome he was hoping for, but Im not going to ask                
Premium Credit to do anything  else. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3227705