K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that AWP P&C SA has turned down his cancellation claim under his travel 
insurance policy. 
My references to AWP include its agents.
background
Mr J has arranged travel  insurance with AWP for a number of years. His usual practice  is to 
take out annual multi-trip  European cover. If he arranges a trip outside Europe he arranges 
single trip insurance  with AWP  just for that trip. This is what  he did for a long haul trip hed 
planned for March  2018. He called AWP and answered questions about  his medical 
conditions and then he paid for the single trip cover. 
Unfortunately Mr J fell ill with pneumonia shortly before  his trip. Both he and his travelling 
companion had to cancel  the holiday. Mr J made a claim  for his cancellation costs. But AWP 
turned down the claim. After looking  at the GPs medical certificate it said Mr Js claim was 
linked to his pre-existing  asthma that hed not told it about.  This meant  his claim wasnt  
covered under the policys terms. His GP had said hed been diagnosed with asthma  in 
2014. 
Mr J felt sure he had told AWP about  his asthma.  In support of this he sent it a medical 
endorsement letter listing  the medical  conditions hed told it about, which included asthma. 
He said hes had lifelong asthma, for which  he was prescribed  medication. He said his 
medical centre had been mistaken  when  saying he had been  diagnosed in 2014.  
AWP said again that hed not told AWP about the asthma for the single trip insurance,  and 
so he wasnt covered. Mr J came to us.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Initially he said Mr J appeared to have  told AWP about 
the asthma,  given the medical endorsement.  AWP later sent the call recording  for the single 
trip cover, where Mr J had confirmed a number of medical conditions  but not asthma. Our 
adjudicator asked Mr J about  this, and he said hed been sure hed told AWP about his 
asthma  having  done so in the past. Asthma  was a condition hed had since childhood and 
it didnt affect his everyday life. So he thinks he must simply have forgotten  in the knowledge 
that hed previously told AWP about it. 
Our adjudicator sent Mr Js comments to AWP. Our adjudicator said it appeared Mr J had 
been careless in not telling AWP about  the asthma,  but he had given it this information 
previously. And in any event AWP couldnt show that it would have charged any additional  
premium for the asthma. So based on the relevant consumer legislation  he said AWP should  
pay the claim, less the excess,  together  with interest. He asked AWP to respond  by a given 
date, and our casework manager sent a reminder. Weve not had any response. So the 
complaints come to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint 
for the same reasons  given by our adjudicator in his most  recent opinion  to AWP. Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN32027942The consumer law that applies  here is called the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 or CIDRA. In very brief summary, CIDRA says that a consumer 
must take reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation to an insurer, in response to its 
clear and specific questions. If the consumer is careless then the insurer  has a remedy  
against the consumer only for a qualifying misrepresentation. It is a qualifying 
misrepresentation where  had a consumer  taken reasonable care - an insurer can show 
that it would  have offered the policy on different terms or not have offered the policy at all. 
In this case, theres no dispute that Mr J had told AWP about his asthma in previous policy 
years. In particular, AWP has shown  that in 2014  it had asthma listed  as one of the declared 
conditions. For the 2017 to 2018 policy year theres  no dispute that Mr J had told AWP about 
a list of medical conditions for his annual European  cover. The list included a previous heart  
attack and coronary stent. AWP listed those medical  conditions  to Mr J during the call for the 
single trip insurance.  So I can see why Mr J thought hed already told AWP about all his 
medical conditions.  
Mr J explains  that hes lived with asthma  all his life and remains very fit into his older years.  
He doesnt dispute he had medication  for it. But when AWP asked him whether he had any 
other medical conditions  for which hed received treatment, medication  or had visited  his 
medical surgery in the previous two years  hed answered no. I entirely  accept his 
explanation that this was a mere oversight. He had told AWP about it previously but not for 
that policy year. I appreciate hes explained  his GP made an error  in the year of diagnosis  
but I dont think  that makes a difference. I think he failed to take reasonable care in 
answering AWPs question when he overlooked telling  it about his asthma, even though  this 
was an oversight.
It didnt help that the medical endorsements  that AWP  sent to Mr J werent dated. So when 
he was checking  his paperwork it appeared to him that he had told AWP about the asthma.  It 
now appears this was for the 2014  policy year,  but Mr J wouldnt have realised this. 
Importantly, AWP  has said that it cant now say whether it would have charged Mr J an 
additional premium  for the asthma even  if hed mentioned it during the call to arrange  the 
single trip insurance.  It hasnt suggested it wouldnt have offered him a policy  at all.
As Ive explained, where an insurer cant show whether it would have offered a policy on 
different terms then this means it isnt a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA. It also 
means that AWP doesnt have any remedy against Mr J, even though there was a careless 
misrepresentation. In other words, where it cant show the additional premium, if any, it 
would have charged Mr J it isnt entitled  to reduce the claim payment proportionately  or not 
pay it at all. Its not fair for AWP to apply a pre-existing medical condition exclusion where it 
has asked questions about medical conditions  before offering the policy.  
So for the reasons Ive explained,  and having taken into account  CIDRA, I find the fair 
outcome is for AWP to pay Mr Js cancellation  claim, less the excess, together with interest 
as set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date on which  
we send it Mr Js acceptance  of my final decision I require AWP P&C SA to pay his 
cancellation claim, less the policy excess.  AWP must add interest* to the resulting claim 
payment at the rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN32027943Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If AWP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr J how much its taken off. It should also give Mr J a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN3202794