K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs  decision to decline his claim under the 
personal accident section of his farm and estate insurance policy.
background
In November 2015, Mr H started feeling soreness in his ankle. This continued for 18 months 
but didnt prevent him from working.
In July 2017 the pain suddenly became worse. He visited  his GP who referred him to a 
specialist (Dr B). Mr H underwent various  tests and was diagnosed with arthritis and also a 
fracture.
In December 2017, Mr H underwent an operation on his ankle to fuse some of the bones 
together. He was unable to work until April 2018 as he recovered from the operation. He 
made a claim under  his policy for total temporary  disablement benefit.
AXA initially  declined the claim on the basis that Mr H had reported that the accidental injury  
had occurred in November 2015  which was over two years before he became disabled from 
working.
Mr H provided  information  from Dr B confirming that the fracture was likely to have occurred 
within the six months before his December 2017  operation.
AXA obtained further information  but continued to decline Mr Hs claim. It noted that the 
operation which Mr H underwent was to alleviate the pain and discomfort of arthritis. It said 
the arthritis was a change  to his long-term  health and he should  therefore have informed it of 
this at the policys renewal. It said if he had done so, it would have added  an appropriate 
exclusion to the policy. 
Mr H pointed out that he couldnt  have  advised  AXA about the arthritis when the policy last 
renewed in March 2017 because it wasnt diagnosed until September  2017.
AXA continued to decline the claim. It said the operation which led to his incapacity  was to 
treat an illness rather than an injury and because Mr Hs policy  didnt cover  absence due to 
illness his claim wasnt eligible.
Mr H was unhappy at AXAs  decision. He referred his complaint  to us.
I issued a provisional decision explaining why I considered the complaint should be upheld. 
My findings  were as follows:
The policy  states  that benefit will be paid if Mr H suffers an injury  which  temporarily prevents 
him from performing his normal occupation. The policy defines injury as:
Accidental bodily injury (not consisting  solely of illness,  disease or disorder) caused solely 
and directly by violent, accidental, external and visible  means resulting directly  and 
independently of any other  cause  within two years in death, loss or disablement  as 
described in the Schedule of Benefits
Ref: DRN35817492The only medical  evidence which AXA has provided is a report  completed by Mr Hs GP and 
a letter  from Dr B. The GPs report confirms that Mr H had suffered a fracture and that he 
was expected to be unable to work  for twelve weeks while he recovered from an operation.  
The letter from Dr B states: [Mr H] underwent  an ankle and subtalar arthrodesis often 
referred to as a tibiotalar calcaneal arthrodesis  for arthritic change  across the ankle and 
hindfoot on 13 December 2017. The pain was made  worse  by the fact that he developed  a 
fracture within the talus and is likely to have occurred in the six months prior to surgery.  He 
is currently mobilising steadily and it may take him up to 12 to 18 months  to completely 
rehabilitate.
AXA decided on the basis of this information  that Mr Hs claim was ineligible because his 
disability was due to an illness rather than an injury. However, I dont  think  AXA had 
sufficient grounds for reaching this decision.
Mr H was suffering from arthritis in his ankle, though he wasnt  aware  of this. It seems that in 
July 2017 he suffered  a fracture  to his ankle. This was presumably as a result  of an accident  
even if Mr H cannot exactly  recall  when, where and how it happened.  I have seen no 
evidence to show that his ankle injury  was related to his arthritis and wouldnt have occurred 
were it not for the fact that he suffered from this illness.  AXA has made  no effort  to establish 
this. In the absence  of any evidence to the contrary, I have to assume that Mr Hs ankle 
injury was sustained  entirely independently  of his arthritis. This means he fulfils the first part 
of the policy  definition, in that he suffered an accidental  bodily injury caused solely and 
directly by violent, accidental, external and visible means.
This leaves  the question  as to whether this injury was sufficient to result  directly and 
independently of any other  means in his disablement. AXA says that it wasnt  but it has 
provided no evidence  for this beyond the letter from Dr B. However, I dont think the letter 
from Dr B addresses this point. Dr B explains the operation which  he carried  out but AXA 
has made no effort to establish whether this operation, as well as treating Mr Hs arthritis, 
simultaneously treated  his fracture. Nor has it made any effort  to find out whether the 
treatment of the fracture, in its own right, would have resulted in Mr H being disabled  for the 
same length  of time. If it were the case that Mr H suffered a fracture, independent of his 
arthritis, and this would independently have resulted in him being disabled from work  for the 
period from December 2017  to April 2018 then I dont think  AXA can escape  liability simply 
because Mr H was simultaneously recovering from treatment of his arthritis.
AXA suggested to our adjudicator that if we thought  the claim might be eligible, we should  
obtain the necessary further medical  evidence. However, I should point out that it isnt our 
role to act as claim handlers.  It was up to AXA to make further appropriate enquiries of Dr B 
to enable it to come to a fair conclusion.
On the face of it, I therefore think it fair that AXA should pay Mr Hs claim in accordance with 
the policys remaining  terms  and conditions, plus interest. However, because I have gone 
into more detail than the adjudicator did in his view,  I am issuing this as a provisional 
decision. This means that AXA has the opportunity  to obtain and provide me with further 
evidence should  it wish to contest the decision.
Regardless of whether  AXA is able to provide further evidence,  I think  its handling of the 
claim has been poor. This will have caused  Mr H a certain amount of distress and 
inconvenience for which I think it should pay him £300 compensation.
I invited both parties to comment  on my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN35817493AXA responded to say it didnt accept my provisional decision. It said Mr H had been  vague 
and inconsistent in describing the timing and nature of the accident. It said that in a severely 
arthritic ankle and foot, a fracture could occur  as a direct consequence  of the arthritis 
through ordinary  use of the limb only without the need for an external, physical incident. 
Given the delay  in Mr H receiving treatment, the vagueness of detail and the comments of 
the medical practitioners, it tended  to think that this is what  had happened in Mr Hs case, 
which was why it had declined the claim.
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note AXAs  explanation of how Mr H might have suffered  his fracture  purely as a result of 
his arthritis and without suffering an accident.  AXA might be right in its speculation, and if 
that were the case then I wouldnt expect it to pay the claim. I also recognise  that the onus is 
on the policyholder to prove a claim rather than on the insurer to disprove it.
However, in this case I think Mr H had done enough initially  to suggest he may have a valid 
claim. And while the letter from Dr B cast doubt  on this by introducing  the information about 
Mr Hs arthritis, I think AXA should  have  investigated the matter further by contacting Dr B. 
That would have  enabled  it to determine for sure whether  Mr H was eligible for benefit.
Instead of doing that, AXA chose to dismiss the claim. I think this was premature as it didnt 
yet have the information to reasonably conclude that the claim was ineligible.  And it still 
hasnt obtained  that information  following my provisional decision. In view of this, I remain of 
the opinion that AXA should  pay Mr Hs claim in accordance with the policys remaining  
terms and conditions. It should also pay him £300 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its poor handling  of the claim.
  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to accept and settle Mr Hs claim in accordance with the 
policys remaining terms and conditions. It should add interest to this at the annual simple 
rate of 8%, calculated from the date each benefit  payment was due to the date of 
settlement.*  It should also pay Mr H £300 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If AXA considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3581749