K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  has not offered enough 
compensation for giving  him incorrect  information about branch closing times.  
background
Mr M called Halifax  on Christmas Eve to ask what time his local branch would close that day. 
He was told the branch would close at 5pm. He arrived  at the branch  that afternoon but it 
had closed at 3pm. This meant that he was unable to make a deposit in order  to pay a bill.   
Mr M made a complaint to Halifax regarding the incorrect information he had been given and 
the inconvenience caused to him. Halifax apologised  and offered £39 compensation (£12 for 
travel costs, £12 for call costs and £15 for the inconvenience that was caused).  
Mr M wasnt willing to accept  that offer. He says Halifax initially  offered him a higher  amount 
of compensation  but this has been taken away. 
Ive read the case notes  provided by Halifax to work  out why different amounts of 
compensation were  discussed. This shows the initial higher amount arose  because  Mr M 
said he had spent £40 in taxi fares to and from the branch.  However, the telephone  call was 
taken over by a Team  Manager who explained to Mr M that because  of how close he lived to 
his local branch, a lower  amount of compensation was a more reasonable offer. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Mr Ms complaint be upheld.  She explained  Halifax  had 
done enough to apologise to Mr M and had offered sufficient compensation for the expenses 
incurred and inconvenience caused.   She also explained the reason why Halifax  initially 
offered Mr M a higher amount of compensation in respect of his travelling costs.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and have decided not to uphold  Mr Ms 
complaint.
Halifax agrees it gave wrong information  to Mr M about when  the branch would be closing. 
From the information and evidence I have seen from both parties,  Mr M did not suffer any 
financial loss by not being able to make his deposit at the branch on Christmas Eve.  
Additionally, I have not seen any taxi receipts  to confirm the £40 Mr M said he spent  on 
travelling to and from the branch.  
Halifaxs notes show it was initially thinking about  paying Mr M £40 for his travel costs. 
However, the telephone call was taken over by a manager who explained to Mr M that £12 
compensation was more  reasonable.  This is because of how close  he lived to the branch. 
I think the £12 offer was fair, given his proximity to the branch and the lack of any taxi 
receipts.
Ref: DRN37440052I think the compensation offer of £12 for the cost of any telephone calls is also fair. This is 
because Mr M hasnt  shown his call costs were more than this and he wasnt calling 
premium rate numbers.  
I realise it would  have been frustrating  and inconvenient for Mr M to have made  a wasted 
journey to the branch.  But I think the £15 compensation Halifax has paid for this is fair. This 
is because Ive not seen he suffered any financial loss (other than travel  and calls which  
Halifax has offered to cover) or that his journey to the branch was particularly long or difficult. 
For these reasons I think the apology and total compensation of £39 is a fair way for Halifax  
to resolve the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the apology  and offer of £39 
compensation made by Bank  of Scotland Plc trading  as Halifax  is fair and reasonable. If it 
hasnt already, Halifax should pay Mr M £39. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Greg Callander
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3744005