K820x#14complaint
Miss G has complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly charged her an 
additional premium  for her car insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes their agents.
background
In June 2017, Miss G took out car insurance with Advantage through a price  comparison 
website. She said she had been resident in the UK all her life and that she had a recent no 
fault claim.  Her premium for the policy year was set on that basis.
But a few weeks later Advantage found  out that Miss G hadnt been resident in the UK since  
birth and that the recent claim she had was in fact a fault claim. So they amended her policy 
and added an additional premium to reflect the changes. Miss G spoke with Advantage 
about the additional premium. Advantage told her it was important that her details were 
correct, otherwise in the event of an incident  her claim either wouldnt be paid or that it might 
only be paid in part. Advantage also told Miss G that she could cancel the policy; take out a 
new policy; or pay the additional  premium  to continue the existing policy.  Advantage also 
explained why the additional  premium was being  charged, and how insurers assessed risk 
and set premiums. Although Miss G was unhappy, she agreed to pay the additional premium  
for the existing policy to continue. 
But Miss G then complained and said the additional premium, because  she hadnt been  
resident in the UK from birth, was unfair and discriminatory. Advantage looked into her 
complaint but didnt  uphold it.
Miss G didn't think that was fair and brought her complaint  to us. One of our adjudicators  
looked into the complaint. He felt that Advantage had treated Miss G fairly. As Miss G didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Miss G, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
In her complaint, Miss G has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Advantage have dealt with Miss G in a fair and reasonable way.
premium calculation
Miss G believes the increase to her premium  was excessive and discriminatory given  it was 
based on the place of her birth. It might help if I explain that we're  not the industry  regulator.  
That means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. 
And our service  generally takes  the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they 
treat customers with similar  circumstances in the same  way - insurers  are entitled to charge 
what they feel they need to in order to cover  a risk.
Ref: DRN33245832Miss Gs premium  did go up, so I can understand why she was concerned. But just because 
Miss Gs premium  increased, I don't think that means that Advantage have treated her 
unfairly. Advantage provided me with information  to show how Miss Gs premium has 
increased. That information is commercially  sensitive so I can't share  it with Miss G. But 
having looked at it carefully,  Im satisfied that Advantage treated Miss G in the same way as 
it would  other policyholders in similar circumstances. So I think  they calculated her premium 
reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
I can understand why Miss G thinks it was unfair for Advantage to charge a higher premium,  
because she hadnt lived in the UK since birth. But each  insurer will have their own methods 
of calculating risk. Im also aware  that many  insurers think  an individual  who hasnt lived in 
the UK since  birth presents a higher  risk than people who have. But other insurers might not 
think the same. As insurance is essentially  an assessment of risk, I dont think theres 
anything wrong  with insurers considering whether or not certain  individuals fall into higher 
risk groupings. But Miss G is mistaken  in her belief that her premium was calculated based  
upon where she was born, it wasn't. Advantages premium calculation only reflects how long 
their policyholders have  lived in the UK. So they dont consider a customers nationality or 
race. So I think a British  citizen born and raised abroad who becomes resident in the UK 
later on in life would be treated in the same way as Miss G, so I cant say Miss G has been 
singled out or treated differently to others in similar circumstances. 
charging the additional premium
Advantage have  suggested that what Miss G did amounted to, what is known in the 
insurance industry, a careless misrepresentation. And theres  specific  legislation  - the 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out 
what insurers may do in such a situation.  It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that it will settle  any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or apply 
other exclusions or limitations  it would otherwise  have applied). But if the consumer 
isn't happy  with that approach, they can cancel the policy  themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium. But we think  its fair 
for the insurer to give the policyholder the option  of paying the additional premium allowing 
the insurer to settle any future claim in full instead  of settling the claim proportionately.  
CIDRA also gives the insurer the option  of cancelling  the policy where  there has been  a 
careless misrepresentation.  But we think its fair for an insurer  to explain to the consumer 
theres a problem and give them the option of paying the additional premium in order to keep 
the policy going or otherwise to cancel the policy themselves.  Thats because the insurer 
cancelling the policy will have serious consequences on the policyholder  because  they will 
have to declare  it when  they want to take out insurance later on.
Ref: DRN33245833In Miss Gs case, when  she was told she would be charged an additional premium she 
contacted Advantage. Advantage then told her the policy could  be cancelled or they could 
quote for a new policy. But after going through the payment  options  for the existing policy  
with the additional premium, Miss G decided to continue with the existing policy.  I think  if 
Miss G was unhappy with the additional premium  she could have cancelled the policy  and 
looked elsewhere for alternative cover, but she didnt  do that. And I don't think  Advantage 
dealt with her unfairly.
Finally, Miss G made  the point that the policy terms and conditions  didnt say anything about  
the residency  factor. As mentioned above,  the information as to how Advantage set their 
premiums is commercially  sensitive, so I dont expect them  to be in the policy terms and 
conditions. When a customer makes  an application  for insurance the insurers questions  are 
designed in a way to find out all the relevant information to enable  them  to decide  whether or 
not they will offer cover, on what terms and at what cost. So I think  that had Miss G 
answered all the questions accurately during the application, she would have been told what 
the correct premium was before deciding whether or not she wanted to go ahead with the 
policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.  
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3324583