K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that shes  been left owing money to Lloyds Bank PLC after her credit card 
was used fraudulently.  
Mr D acts on behalf of Mrs D as her representative.
background
In July 2018, a total of five fraudulent transactions were made on Mrs Ds credit card. This 
was quickly recognised, and each of the transactions were refunded back to Mrs Ds card by 
Lloyds fraud  department  within a few days. 
However, the merchant  also refunded credits to Mrs D. Because Lloyds had already 
provided a full refund, they debited  these credits around a month later.  By this time, Mrs D 
had carried out genuine spending  on the card and had withdrawn the sum of the second 
refund after being told by Lloyds it was hers. This left a total balance  to pay of £260.60. 
Mrs D complained as she had been  told the money had been paid onto her card correctly. 
She was also unhappy  as Lloyds hadnt told her the money would be debited from her 
account. 
Our investigator was of the opinion that Lloyds could have handled the matter  better. While 
he accepted Mrs D owed  £260.60, he felt the interested that had been applied  since Lloyds 
took back the second amount in October  2018  should be refunded. 
Lloyds disagreed. They said that interest had been added  as per the terms and conditions of 
the credit  card meaning theyd need to be paid. In relation to the telephone conversation 
Lloyds had with Mrs D, they explained  the advisor did tell Mrs D the money had been 
credited correctly, however they wouldnt have  known at that time the refund had been made 
in error.  
Mrs D also didnt agree  with our investigators opinion. She now feels that no money should 
be paid back to Lloyds.  
Because of this, the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Overall, I feel Lloyds  could have handled  the matter better, Ill explain why. 
Having looked  over the timeline of events,  I can see that Mrs D called  Lloyds on 27 
September 2018 to ask whether the money had been credited to her card correctly.  She was 
told it was and that it would be transferred to her savings  account. 
It then took Lloyds just over a month  to debit the amount back from Mrs Ds card after it had 
been paid, which I feel could have been done  sooner. However,  while Mrs D wasnt  given 
any warning or notice that the second refunded  amount would be, or had been taken from 
her account,  I can see that she called  Lloyds the day after it was taken. So I cant see that 
there was any length of time where interest could  have  been added incorrectly.  
Ref: DRN32679022Overall, I can understand why Mrs D would've been  a bit confused about what was going on. 
The money taken  fraudulently  was taken in multiple transactions, and the refunds made 
incorrectly were  for different amounts. So I can see why she wouldnt have realised  the 
refunds had been made in error. And she called to ask whether or not the money was hers, 
which was the right thing  to do. 
Mrs D withdrew  the money from her savings account after she was told it was hers to spend,  
and so benefitted from it. I can see that the money was then debited  from her credit card on 
22 October 2018, and Mrs D questioned this on 23 October 2018. So while I understand 
Mrs D was given the wrong information,  she still benefitted from the money  and so should 
pay the £260.60 back. 
However, I do feel Lloyds could have handled the situation better. I believe they could have 
debited the money  sooner and that they should  have told Mrs D that they had done so. They  
also gave Mrs D the wrong information regarding  the refund when they said the money was 
hers. 
The money was transferred  to Mrs Ds savings account but taken  back from her credit  card.  
And by the time Lloyds took the money back Mrs D had already withdrawn it from her 
savings account  meaning she wasnt able to pay it back straight  away. Because of this I feel 
Lloyds should  refund the interest  owed on her credit  card relating to the incorrect payment. 
This will likely be refunded  back  on to Mrs Ds credit  card, meaning Mrs D will need to pay 
back whatever balance remains by 13 September 2019. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lloyds Bank Plc should refund the interest 
that has been charged on Mrs Ds credit  card leaving her to pay off what remains by 
13 September 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Danielle Padden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3267902