K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
I understand Mr and Mrs W applied for a mortgage with the Halifax in 1997 and bought a PPI 
policy at around the same  time.  They paid a monthly amount for the policy  which wouldve 
paid a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  for each successful accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment claim Mrs W brought.
Mr and Mrs W say Halifax  implied  that if they didnt  take the PPI they wouldnt get the 
mortgage. And they say they didnt  need the cover because they wouldve got redundancy 
and sick pay and had savings.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint didnt uphold it. They disagree and 
so their complaint  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs W they had a choice about  PPI and get their 
agreement to it. Halifax hasnt been  able to give us any paperwork from the time of the sale. 
But this isnt unusual  for a sale that took place over 20 years ago, and businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. And Mr and Mrs Ws recollections of the sale arent  
detailed. Because  of this lack of information,  I dont have enough to say its likely Halifax 
didnt give Mr and Mrs W a choice in taking  out the PPI or that they didnt agree to it, so I 
cant uphold their complaint for either of these reasons.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it needed to make  sure the PPI 
was right for them. Based on what they say of their circumstances  at the time and the policy 
details Ive seen,  I think that it was. For example,  it doesnt seem Mrs W was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI  so there was nothing to stop her from claiming  the 
full policy  benefit  if shed needed to. 
Mr and Mrs W say shed have got some sick pay if shed been  off work because  of sickness  
or an accident. But, as Ive mentioned,  the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for 
each successful accident or sickness  claim Mrs W made. This was longer than her sick pay 
lasted for. And it wouldve  paid out in addition  to her sick pay  and also if she lost her job. 
Having PPI would also mean Mr and Mrs W wouldnt have needed to use their savings  
which they mightve needed for other things  to pay their mortgage if things got difficult. So, 
especially bearing in mind Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage was a significant and long-term 
financial commitment secured on their home  which was at risk if they fell behind with their 
mortgage repayments  I think the PPI still gave Mr and Mrs W a useful benefit.
Ref: DRN36078632Its possible some of the information  Halifax  gave  Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But, as Ive said, I havent  seen enough to make  me think  they 
didnt agree to it or know they had a choice about it. And I think  it wouldve been  useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think clearer  
information from Halifax about the PPI  if it had been needed   wouldve put them  off taking 
out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 September 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3607863