K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about the actions of Computershare  Investor  Services  Plc 
(Computershare).  Its the registrar responsible for administering the shares which  Mr S 
accrued through employment, and hes unhappy that it sold those shares.
background
An investigator from our Service looked into the complaint and set out what had happened 
as described below.
In September  2017 Mr S left his employment which ended his entitlement to the employee 
share save scheme.  He  had 90 days to decide whether to sell his shares or transfer  them to 
another broker.  However Mr S never received  the letter which  set out his options.
In November 2017 Mr S called Computershare,  but was given incorrect information.   He was 
wrongly told that he didnt need to do anything if he wanted to keep his shares.  Accordingly, 
Mr S never gave Computershare any instructions about what he wanted to do within the 90 
days, so it sold his shares as per the scheme requirements.
Mr S contacted Computershare again  in December 2017 to ask why the shares  had been  
sold without his instruction.  He  said had he known action was required,  he wouldve 
transferred the shares to another  broker.  Computershare  acknowledged  hed been wrongly 
advised and agreed to re-build his shareholding.
Mr S returned the funds  hed received from the original sale of the shares and received  an 
email on 29 January 2018 acknowledging receipt and confirming the shares would be put 
into his account.   Computershare  followed  this with a letter  sent by recorded delivery on 14 
February 2018 advising the shareholding had been reinstated and Mr S could now transfer  
the shares to another broker.
23 days later on 9 March 2018 Computershare again sold the shareholding as it had 
received no correspondence from Mr S.  He subsequently complained that he was unaware  
there was a particular  timescale to transfer the shares away.
The investigator who reviewed the complaint recommended that it wasnt upheld.  In  
summary she said that Computershare was required to dispose  of the shares  if not 
transferred within  90 days  of Mr S employment ending.  She said that given the 
correspondence prior to the shareholding being re-built it was reasonable to have expected 
Mr S to have arranged the transfer quickly, or let Computershare  know if there were any 
problems doing  so.
Mr S didnt agree.  He  responded explaining that there were  factual errors in the timeline set 
out by the investigator.   He said that in fact he was only given 16 working days  to respond 
and transfer the shares once his account  had been  rebuilt, and unlike other leavers from the 
scheme, he never had 90 days in one period to act.
Despite further  communication between Mr S and the investigator,  no agreement could be 
reached.  So Mr S asked  that an ombudsman review everything afresh and make  a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN38405662my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator,  and for broadly the same  reasons.
Its important I explain  that in reaching a decision I have  reviewed  all the correspondence  
provided by both Mr S and Computershare.   I understand  Mr S feels that his complaint has 
not fully been understood  and there  have been factual inaccuracies.  So Ive taken his 
comments into account, and where there is a lack of evidence or uncertainty Ive based my 
decision upon what I consider to be most likely.  I havent referred to everything  in setting out 
my decision,  but just the things I feel are most  relevant.
I understand that Mr S had to work  hard for a long period in order  to be eligible to accrue the 
shares he held.  And so I appreciate the frustration the sale of those shares caused him.  
Computershare accepted  it had sold the shares in error at the outset, and by re-building  the 
shareholding it put things  right in the first instance.   So the key issue  here is whether it then 
acted reasonably by selling  the shares on the second occasion.
Mr S accrued his shares through entitlements he had obtained by working for his former 
employer.  Computershare was instructed to act as administrator of the share scheme by 
that former  employer.  The way in which the scheme was operated was dictated  by the 
employer, and one of the requirements was that shares had to be sold or transferred to 
another broker within 90 days.
Its clear that one of Mr S concerns is that he was never given  a full 90 day period to take 
that action, and so he says that he was treated differently to other shareholders.   I 
understand his point,  but when considering whats fair and reasonable, I dont agree.  When 
the shareholding was re-built, the 90 days had passed since Mr S employment had ended.
There was undoubtedly  confusion at the outset when Mr S spoke with Computershare and 
was told he didnt need to do anything.  But as a result of the subsequent communication  he 
had with Computershare  Im satisfied he knew what was required,  and if he wanted to keep 
the shares he had sufficient time to find a new broker and arrange the transfer.  I dont think 
it was reasonably necessary for Computershare  to restart  a 90 day period from the time the 
shares were  put back in Mr Ss ownership.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr S says he was only given around 16 working  days allowing for 
bank holidays and weekends, Im satisfied that was long enough.  This is due to the fact he 
already knew the shares would need to be transferred and the impact of not doing so.  I note 
that Mr S has explained his wife was unwell for part of that period, but as Computershare 
was unaware of that, I cant say it acted unfairly in the circumstances.
Mr S has said he would reasonably have expected  to receive  contact from Computershare  
saying that it would be selling his shares.  But given the whole purpose of re-building  the 
shares was to enable  a transfer, Im satisfied  he was already aware  that the sale of shares  
would happen  if a transfer didnt  take place.
Im also aware Mr S has explained that having contacted Computershare  more  recently  he 
has found out his account is still open  following the sale of the shares. Although  I appreciate 
this has likely added to Mr S frustration, I dont feel that has any bearing upon the sale of his 
shares which is central to the complaint.
Ref: DRN38405663I empathise with Mr S, and whilst Computershare undoubtedly made an initial  error by 
selling his shares, it acted  reasonably by re-building the shares and giving Mr S the 
opportunity to transfer them.   I realise that Mr S will be disappointed with my conclusions,  
and feels that he wasnt given sufficient time to carry out the transfer.  But  overall Im 
satisfied that Computershare did what  was required to act fairly  and reasonably in the 
circumstances, and so it wouldnt be right for me to ask it to anything  more now.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint against  Computershare  Investor 
Service Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3840566