K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to 
Mrs A. Allianz didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale.  So Ill 
refer to it as the seller.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs A was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.   
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs A has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Mrs A says she has always  been well paid and had good work benefits  and, because  she is 
risk averse, shes always had ample savings in case of unforeseen events. So she has 
never had a need for PPI. She doesnt  remember agreeing to it. However the form, which  
Mrs A apparently filled in and signed,  does set out the PPI as a choice, which you make  by 
ticking a box. That box is ticked on the copy Ive seen. So, although I cant be completely 
certain, I think  it more likely than not Mrs A was aware there was a choice  and that she 
agreed to have PPI, even  if she doesnt  remember it now.  
It doesnt seem that Allianz recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable  for Mrs As 
individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her circumstances. It 
would have been for Mrs A to decide  whether  it was suitable.
However Allianz did need to give Mrs A clear  and fair information,  so she could make  an 
informed choice. I can see that the form said PPI would cost 66p for every  £100 outstanding 
on the credit  card. But I think the actual cost could have been expressed more  clearly, and 
there was no real information about  limitations on how much  benefit you could receive. So 
Mrs A probably wasnt given enough information.  
So Ive thought about whether better information is likely to have made a difference.  But, in 
Mrs As circumstances at the time, even if shed been given all the necessary information, I 
dont think its likely  to have made a difference to her decision. (This is assuming she was 
given a choice  and agreed  to take PPI  which I accept she doesnt believe happened.)  I say 
this because the premiums were  not especially high, and the policy potentially paid 15% of 
the balance for each  month of the claim. This means it could have cleared most of the 
balance within a fairly short time of claiming.  Also it doesnt look like Mrs A would have been 
affected by any of the significant exclusions in the policy. So I think,  even with full 
Ref: DRN33235372information, the PPI wouldnt  have seemed significantly  less useful than was suggested in 
the limited information  actually  given. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3323537