K821x#15complaint
Mr Bs complaint against National Savings  and Investments (NSI) is that it wont refund him 
his loss following  fraud on his account.
background
Mr B is an elderly man, represented  in this case by Mr D, who holds a Power of Attorney for 
him. For ease of reference,  Ill refer only to Mr B throughout  this decision.
In 2018, members of Mr Bs family  realised  that his NSI account  had been accessed 
fraudulently the previous year, and all his bonds  released. They  explained that theyd found 
out Mr Bs carer, Mrs M, had been  stealing from him for some time,  and had also taken 
money from other accounts.  And that she was being investigated by the police. 
Mr B had held £20,000 in bonds in his NSI account, but in January 2017  this money was 
transferred into another account  held by Mr B with another bank. This was done over the 
phone by Mrs M, with Mr B present. I understand that Mrs M then accessed  this other 
account and took the money.
Mr B complained to NSI after it became clear hed been a victim of financial abuse. He said 
that NSI should  have realised in the three phone calls trying  to arrange the release of funds 
that he was vulnerable and that something suspicious might be going on. He also said he 
hadnt signed the release  forms,  nor had he verbally agreed to the release of his bonds. He 
said that if it had tried to carry out further  checks, and recognised the numerous  warning  
signals, his money wouldnt have been compromised, and the loss avoided.
NSI responded saying that it believed  Mr B had authorised  the removal  of the money. That it 
had spoken to him on three occasions, and on each of them  hed been  clear that he wanted 
to take the money out, and for it to be paid into another of his accounts that he used for bills 
and shopping.  It said it followed its security processes in all of the calls,  and had also 
received the necessary signed paperwork.  So it didnt agree there was any reason to be 
concerned, or to carry about further checks. It said it wouldnt refund him his money.
Mr B remained unhappy,  and brought his complaint to our service. 
Our Investigator  carefully considered all the evidence, including  the phone  calls and 
paperwork, and concluded that opportunities had been missed by NSI to ensure Mr B wasnt  
being taken advantage of, and therefore that the fraud could possibly have been stopped. 
So he asked it to refund  him.
NSI didnt  agree, maintaining its arguments that Mr B had specifically consented to the 
withdrawal. It asked  for an ombudsmans review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that this complaint should  be upheld  
and that NSI should refund Mr B with the money he lost when his bonds were  fraudulently  
released.
Ref: DRN32674902I know my decision will be very disappointing for NSI. Its stated its position  articulately, and 
its arguments are not without merit. But ultimately,  I have to decide whether I think it could  
have done anything differently, and if so what I think needs to happen  now.
To be clear, the person  truly responsible for Mr Bs loss is Mrs M. And I do hope the police 
are able to succeed  with a prosecution against  her. NSI didnt take Mr Bs money,  but it also 
didnt protect it adequately. Mr B is elderly  and vulnerable. That much  can be easily  gleaned 
from his date of birth,  and the fact he has a carer making his calls for him. NSIs also 
admitted that via the three  phone calls concerned  in this case,  it was made  aware that he 
was hard of hearing, and that his medication meant that he was sleeping  a lot and didnt 
always understand what was happening.  Im not convinced  this paints a picture of somebody  
with full awareness and control over whats going  on. And if I can see that, then I think  
somebody at NSI also ought to have. 
I think it ought to have been  abundantly clear from what could be heard in these calls, and in 
the controlling manner Mrs M dealt  with them, that she was driving  the instruction to 
withdraw the money, and not Mr B.
I think there were a number of red-flags that NSI ought to have  noticed  and reacted to. The 
following list isnt exhaustive:-
1.Mr B was elderly and vulnerable  so immediately before taking any action  on his 
account these  factors should be at the front of any advisors mind
2.Mr B didnt  make the calls  he was present, and came on the line briefly  to repeat 
and confirm things   but he himself  didnt initiate the calls, nor drive  them
3.A large  amount of money was at stake   representing 100% of the account balance,  
in a long-standing account   this in itself would be a warning  signal 
4.In the first call in November 2016,  Mrs M says she has Power of Attorney for Mr B, 
but when pressed  further in this she backtracks   this should have been  a major  red-
flag moment
5.Mrs M strongly  coaches Mr B during  all the conversations, so that anything he 
verbally confirms to NSI in his brief time on the phone  is purely  repetition of what 
shes said, and has told him to say. None of what he says are his own words, coming 
naturally and directly  from him.
6.Mrs Ms general language and demeanor itself is sufficient  to be questioned.
So do I think  NSI made errors which ultimately compromised Mr B? Im afraid  I do. 
Its job was to protect his money, and ensure it was acting on his own clear instructions, and I 
dont think it did this properly. As outlined above, I think  there  were  a good number of alarm  
bells rung over the course of November 2016  to January 2017, when NSI should  have  given 
pause to consider if everything was as it should be, and that Mr Bs request to withdraw  his 
funds was genuine. But it failed to take notice of these.
Turning to the paperwork, I agree  that the signatures on the release forms arent a good  
match for the copy NSI held on file. And while some account can be taken for old age, and 
the fact that Mr B was on medication,  I think in all the circumstances this warranted some 
further investigation. 
I also agree  with our Investigator  that Mr B at no point actually says himself  that he wants  
the bonds to be released. So without a valid signature, or verbal request, I cant  agree that 
he authorised it. 
Ref: DRN32674903Banks are supposed to protect customers from financial harm  that might occur as a result of 
fraud or financial abuse; and be aware  of customers who might be at risk; how to assess the 
potential risks to the individual; and how to take the necessary actions to prevent or minimise 
financial harm. Im afraid to say that I dont think NSI satisfied these obligations. Mr B was 
clearly vulnerable, with Mrs M very much in control.  So think more  effort  should  have  gone  in 
to ascertaining who Mrs M actually was, and what was the extent of her authority. She said 
she was Mr Bs daughter,  which we know was a lie, but this wasnt  tested at all by NSI, even 
after shed slipped up on the Power  of Attorney point.
Id like to be clear that Im not saying the full ethical responsibility for what  happened should 
lie at NSIs door. Rather,  that appears to be a case for Mrs M to answer.  But I do think  it 
failed in its responsibility to keep Mr Bs money  safe, and as such its only fair it 
recompenses him for his loss. 
I hope Ive managed to explain why, on the evidence,  I think  this is a fair and reasonable 
outcome. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve matters, Im asking 
National Savings  and Investments to repay Mr B the £20,000  that was taken  by fraud from 
his account. To avoid  any incidence of double-compensation, its allowed to first of all seek 
confirmation that the bank  running the account into which the funds were paid, also in Mr Bs 
name, isnt also arranging a refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 July 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3267490