K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained that Carrot Risk Technologies Ltd provided him with poor service after 
he bought a motor insurance policy through it. 
background 
Mr H bought a policy  online  through Carrot in September 2018. For the policy  to work he 
needed to have smart phone he could load the Carrot app onto and pair it with the Bluetooth 
in his car or a device Carrot provide for cars without Bluetooth.  Mr H had to download the 
app and pair it in a set time and provide certain information. He hadnt done this within  the 
time allowed, so he got a letter warning  him hed need to do this or his policy  would be 
cancelled. 
Mr H made  numerous calls to Carrot about this and about a change of address. And on 
some occasions he had to hold for periods of time to get through to speak to an adviser.  In 
the end, Carrot allowed him until 30 October to pair the app with the device it had sent him. It 
said in its email about this that if he hadnt  done  it by this date it would cancel his policy. He 
hadnt done it by this date, so it cancelled his policy and wrote to him to let him know this 
had happened.   
Mr H phoned up after the policy  had been cancelled and was incorrectly  told he was actually 
covered under it until 5 November. He complained about the service hed received and the 
amount hed been charged following cancellation.  
Carrot issued a final response on Mr Hs complaint and didnt  uphold  it. Carrot 
acknowledged Mr H was given incorrect information after the policy was cancelled  and 
apologised for this, but it didnt feel it needed  to amend what hed been  charged for the 
policy or compensate  him for any issues with the service it had provided. 
Mr H complained to us and one of our investigators  considered his complaint. She didnt 
think it should be upheld.  Mr H didnt  agree  and another  investigator took over his complaint. 
He let Mr H know that Carrot had agreed to amend the charge for the policy in conjunction 
with the insurer  and asked Mr H if hed accept this revised offer to settle his complaint. Mr H 
didnt think it was enough and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive checked the information provided to Mr H before he bought the policy  with Carrot and I 
think it was clear from this he needed a smart phone for the policy  to work.  And it also 
seems like he moved address at the end of September  and Carrot  correctly explained to him 
his insurance cover  would  be more  expensive and that he needed to pay an additional 
premium. And it seems  from Carrots notes and the call recordings its provided that these 
two issues were what caused Mr Hs dissatisfaction.  
There were occasions  when it took longer  than it really should have done for Mr H to get 
through to an adviser at Carrot. And on one occasion after the policy was cancelled  he was 
incorrectly told hed been covered until 5 November, when he was actually only covered  
until 30 October. But  in the main  I think Carrot provided an acceptable level of service 
Ref: DRN37336782and did its best to enable Mr H to make  the policy work for him. And everything Mr H said 
suggested he was moving at the end of September, so I think Carrot was right to amend  the 
policy to reflect this and this did generate an additional premium.  Mr H clearly  wasnt happy  
about this and tried to get Carrot to discount it, but it was not obliged to do this. And  in any 
event  the extra premium was charged  by the insurer for the extra risk it thought Mr H 
presented when he moved,  so it was outside  Carrots control. 
I think Carrot acted  reasonably in cancelling the policy  on 30 October 2018 as Mr H hadnt  
paired a smart phone  with the Bluetooth device by this time. And I am satisfied Carrot gave 
Mr H adequate time and an adequate warning this would  happen.  So I think Mr H should 
have known he wasnt insured from 30 October 2018. Its unfortunate an adviser at Carrot 
told him later he was insured until 5 November. But I dont think this made any difference to 
the way Mr H acted. 
When Carrot originally  cancelled the policy it made various charges, including  the premium 
the insurer wanted to charge for the time on cover. This was based on special short-period  
rates. The insurer  later agreed to reduce its charge and only charge an amount 
proportionate to the time Mr H was on cover. Ive seen the calculations  showing what  Mr H 
has paid and what hes been charged and I can see he is now due a refund of £219.47. And 
I am satisfied this is correct, fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I also think the service due to the waiting time on some phone calls and the incorrect 
information Mr H was given about  when his cover ended caused  Mr H some  unnecessary  
distress and inconvenience. But  as Ive said above, I think  overall Carrot  provided an 
acceptable level of service, so I dont  think  it needs to pay any compensation for distress and 
inconvenience. I appreciate Mr H was told hed been  covered when he wasnt,  but this was 
after the period the adviser was referring to, so I dont  think this mistake  warrants  
compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that Carrot  should pay Mr H a refund of 
£219.47. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 June 2020.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3733678