K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that they were mis-sold a regular  premium mortgage protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy by Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide).
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a further  advance on their mortgage with Nationwide  in 2003.  At the 
same time they were sold a PPI policy to protect  their mortgage repayments if Mr and Mrs H 
lost their jobs for up to 12 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  should  be upheld  because she thought  
Mr and Mrs H made  it clear in their application  they wanted the policy and it wouldve 
provided a useful benefit. 
Mr and Mrs H disagree so their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
  
Nationwide had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs H that they had a choice  in taking out the PPI 
and that it was separate from the mortgage.  Mr and Mrs H cant  remember much of the sale 
which is understandable as the PPI was sold a while ago. So to help me reach  my decision 
Ive relied more on what the documents from the sale show.  
Ive seen a copy  of Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage application form which  looks  to have been 
completed by an advisor on a computer. There is a separate section on it that deals with 
PPI. I can see in it PPI wasnt selected. So I think Mr and Mrs H wouldve understood PPI 
was optional as they were  able to decline it in the mortgage application. 
At some point during the sales  process  Mr and Mrs H changed  their minds and decided to 
take PPI. Nationwide have given us a copy of their PPI application  and I see that there were  
a number of different levels  of PPI cover available  to purchase  unemployment,  accident  
and sickness or both, for either 12 or 24 months  cover. I can see on the PPI application that 
unemployment cover  only was selected  for 12 months cover.  
So I think because there were a number of options  available this wouldve been  discussed  
with Mr and Mrs H at the time of filling in the mortgage application. And I think  Mr and Mrs H 
selected unemployment cover only because that was the level of cover they wanted and 
agreed to take.  Again,  if PPI wasnt  optional I dont think they would have been given a 
choice about the level of cover and I think they wouldve understood this.
From what  we know of Nationwide PPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis.  
And I havent seen  anything from this sale to make me think  it was any different here. What  
this means is that Nationwide didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs H, it just gave them 
Ref: DRN35377422information about PPI. This information  needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and 
not misleading so they could make an informed  choice  about buying PPI. 
Given the length of time that has passed  since the sale, I dont know if Nationwide  did give 
all the information  as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference  because I 
think Mr and Mrs H wouldve  still taken the policy if they were given all the proper 
information. I say this because at the time of the sale:
 
Mr and Mrs H were eligible for the policy.
It doesnt look like Mr and Mrs H wouldve been  caught by any of the main exclusions 
in the terms and conditions of the policy for unemployment cover which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs H say they were entitled to redundancy pay which  they could use to 
make their mortgage  repayments if they became unemployed. But the policy 
wouldve paid out on top of this and covered them for potentially  longer if they 
became unemployed for up to 12 months  per claim.    
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs H in their 
circumstances especially considering Mr and Mrs H were taking on a significant and 
long term financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were  unable to meet 
their repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting  them. 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs H and if they 
no longer wanted the policy they were  able to cancel  it. 
Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs H.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  31 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3537742