K821x#15complaint
Mr L complained that MCE  Insurance Company Limited were taking too long to deal with his 
claim under his motor  insurance policy.
background 
When Mr Ls scooter was stolen he made a claim under his policy with MCE. They asked a 
firm of assessors to assess his claim, but Mr L said that the assessors delayed in contacting 
him and so MCE delayed  in dealing with his claim. He wanted MCE to settle  his claim and all 
the costs hed incurred as a result. 
The adjudicator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She thought  that MCE 
hadnt acted reasonably, and that they should  compensate him for their delay, for his loss of 
use of his scooter, and for his inconvenience.  Mr L agreed but MCE didnt agree and so his 
case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ls scooter was stolen in early  November 2017 and he reported  it to MCE that day.
MCE asked a separate firm of claim assessors  to get in touch with Mr L and find out what  
happened. This is something insurers often outsource and its not unreasonable.  However 
MCE remain responsible  for what their assessors do on their behalf.
Ive looked at MCEs file notes which include a report from their assessors. I can see that the 
assessors called  Mr L to discuss his claim. But he couldnt take the call at the time, and so 
he asked them to call back later the same day. They didnt do that but instead tried to call 
him a few days later and emailed him too. They said that they didnt get any response from 
him and so they closed their file, assuming that he didnt want to proceed with his claim. 
However this still was only about  10 days after the incident. 
Mr L did want to pursue his claim so he contacted  MCE.  He said he wasnt able to take calls 
right away  at his workplace, but that hed tried to phone and email the assessors back. 
So MCE asked their assessors to re-open their file and try to contact Mr L again. According 
to the assessors  records they did make a couple  of attempts to call him around early 
December but werent  successful. 
In January Mr L contacted MCE again  to complain about the lack of progress with his claim. 
By that point he had lost faith in the assessors. He didnt want  to deal with them  any more, 
and wanted to deal with MCE direct. MCE said they couldnt take his claim assessment in-
house, as they hadnt  finished setting up their team to do that. So they wanted the assessors 
to continue with his claim.
. 
The assessors did manage to set up an appointment  with Mr L in February 2018 to discuss  
his claim,  but they missed that appointment due to adverse  weather. While  clearly that 
wasnt their fault, it was the final straw  for Mr L and he didnt want to arrange another 
appointment with them.  MCE did then take his claim back in-house in about  March 2018. 
Ref: DRN32225752The assessors said that Mr L hadnt co-operated  with them.  The adjudicator asked MCE for 
evidence of the calls the assessors say they made  to Mr L, but we havent  received that. Mr 
L says that he did phone and email  them back;  theyd given MCE inaccurate information  and 
it wasnt true that hed failed to co-operate. I dont have evidence  of the calls Mr L says has 
made. But its clear from MCEs records that Mr L consistently told MCE that he wanted to 
pursue his claim. So, even if there  had been some lack of action on Mr Ls part, I still think  
that the assessors didnt do enough  to contact him, and they were  too quick to close  their file 
within 10 days of the incident. And even after MCE asked them  to reopen the file, they 
werent proactive.  At the time of the adjudicators opinion, MCE hadnt settled Mr Ls claim. I 
agree that MCE had taken too long to settle  it and the delay up to then could  have been  
avoided if theyd taken  it back  in-house earlier, or monitored the assessors  actions better. 
So I agree with the adjudicator that Mr L did not receive good customer service. He also lost 
the use of his scooter and had to use public  transport instead. 
The adjudicator recommended that MCE should make a payment  to Mr L to cover  the loss of 
use of the scooter  from 11 December  2017 to the date when MCE settle his claim, at a rate 
of £10 per day. She chose that start date assuming  the claim would have taken around six 
weeks to conclude if the process  had gone smoothly. I agree that is reasonable. MCE did 
acknowledge thered been  some  delay and they paid him about £125  for his travel  
expenses, which they can deduct  from the loss of use payment. But they said that they 
wouldnt cover  loss of use up to the date of settlement, as this included  the period  during 
which this service was dealing with his complaint. But thats not relevant; this service  looking 
at a complaint  doesnt stop an insurer settling a claim it at any time, but MCE chose not to. I 
understand MCE also offered to consider loss of earnings and the cost of any telephone 
calls subject to satisfactory evidence, but Mr L didnt provide that so I dont make  any award 
for that.
I also agree  with the adjudicator that MCE should  pay interest on the settlement payment 
they make  to Mr L. This should be at the simple rate of 8% and should be added from
the date of the claim until the date of the settlement offer.  
I see that Mr L has found it very frustrating dealing with MCE over an extended  period  of 
time. And I think that he should be compensated for the trouble and upset MCEs poor
service has caused. So I think MCE should  also make him a compensation payment of 
£150.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I uphold  this complaint and I 
require MCE Insurance  Company Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr L £10 per day for the loss of use of his scooter from 11 December 2017  to 
the date of settlement, less the amount of about £125 theyve already paid him,
Add interest of 8% simple per year to the claim settlement amount from the date of 
claim to the date they pay the settlement amount to him.
Pay him £150 in compensation for his trouble and upset 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN32225753Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
MCE must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell them  Mr L 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If MCE consider that they are required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr L how much  they have taken off, and give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3222575