K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1992 to 
protect a mortgage. Ms A says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Ms A aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her mortgage. I cant be certain what was said at the time Ms A applied for the 
PPI and there isnt much  paperwork  available from the time the policy  was sold. But from the 
information that is available I dont have  enough to say that Santander didnt make Ms A 
aware the PPI was optional, or that Ms A didnt choose to take it out. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Ms A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her. 
Ms A has told us she would have  been entitled to some sick pay and that redundancy wasnt  
something she would have been concerned about  at the time as this was unlikely to have 
affected her. Due to the time thats  passed  Santander have been  unable to confirm  whether 
Ms A took the redundancy part of the policy, but have assumed she did.
The PPI would have  paid out in addition to Ms As sick pay and for longer. And while  Ms A 
says its unlikely she would have been made redundant  I still think this could have been a 
possibility.
Based on what Ive seen  of Ms As circumstances at the time, she wasnt  affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and she seems to have had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information Santander gave  Ms A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms A.
Ive thought about everything Ms A has said - including what  shes  said about  asking  about  
alternative policies  when she took out the PPI and being told the policy  she took was the 
only one available. Ms A has said that if she was made aware Santander could offer 
alternative cover she would have taken  something else that better suited her needs.
I cant be certain what was said at the time Ms A applied for the policy,  and due to the time 
thats passed I cant be sure if alternative  policies could have been  offered. But if Santander 
were in a position  to sell Ms A an additional policy I think its unlikely it wouldnt have taken 
the opportunity  to sell further insurance to her. In addition  to this Ms A could have looked 
Ref: DRN30602032elsewhere for alternative cover if she wasnt happy  with the cover  the PPI policy  provided.  
So these points dont  change my decision.  
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019..
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3060203