K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003. Mrs P 
says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading  as Egg, mis-sold  her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs P says it wasnt clear the PPI was optional. I think  the PPI was taken out over the 
internet based  on the online applications  report, which recorded the answers  entered online, 
and the credit card agreement which followed.  And Ive seen  screen shots of the online 
application process Canada Square says Mrs P wouldve  seen and completed.  Ive not seen 
any reason to doubt that these are the types  of screens Mrs P wouldve  completed,  so Ive 
relied on these samples in my decision.  These show Mrs P wouldve had to select  either 
yes or no for the PPI before  submitting  her application. Canada  Square says the PPI 
wouldve only been added to her account if shed ticked the yes option  online, and she 
wouldnt have been able to progress with her application without making  a selection here. 
The online applications record suggests that Mrs P chose  the yes option  to have PPI added  
to her account. So based on the evidence Ive seen  I think Canada  Square did make  it clear 
that the PPI was optional, and she chose to take it out. 
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs P so it didnt have to check if the policy  
was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs P got the information she needed to 
decide if the PPI was right for her. 
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Mrs P says she was entitled  to sick pay from her employer at the time and she also had 
some savings in place. However, the PPI wouldve paid 10% of her outstanding monthly  
balance, up to a maximum  of £1,500, for up to 12 months. And this wouldve paid out in 
addition to her sick pay and savings, meaning  these funds wouldve been  free to use for 
other expenses. Mrs P also says that her husband was working at the time and she couldve 
relied on him to make her repayments.  But support  from others cant be relied upon because 
although its likely Mrs Ps husband  wouldve wanted to help, his circumstances couldve 
also changed.  
So overall, I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  Which  means  Canada  Square doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. But Canada Square has paid back some  of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: 
Ref: DRN35318412Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because Canada Square didnt 
tell Mrs P, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs P any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs P to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3531841