K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) mis-sold them  an 
Advance packaged bank  account  in 2011.
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint  and didnt think HSBC  had mis-sold  the 
Advance account. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman  to look at his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  this complaint. Id like 
to explain the reasons  for my decision  in more detail.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr and Mrs B were given a clear choice in taking this 
account. At this point,  it may also help for me to explain that I have to make my decision 
based on what I think is more likely  than not to have  happened.  
When the parties to a complaint disagree about  what happened (such as here)  and theres a 
lack of evidence  from the time, I have to base  my assessment on what  I think is likely to 
have happened.
Mr and Mrs B upgraded to the fee paying  Advance account from a free account. So I think  
they wouldve  known  HSBC did free accounts  and that they couldve had one of those if 
thats what they really  wanted. Mr and Mrs B say they were told that they had to upgrade  to 
get Mrs B a debit card. But it is common knowledge that debit cards are available  on free 
accounts and I can see that they did have a debit card which  they used on their fee free 
HSBC Premier joint account.  I cannot  say whether this debit card was in both Mr and Mrs 
Bs names  but I cant  see why they would think that Mr B was entitled to a debit card on a 
free account  but Mrs B was not. Theyve not told me anything which could  explain that. So 
overall I am not persuaded that this is why Mr and Mrs B took out the account and I think its 
likely that they were given  a fair choice and they chose to upgrade their account.
Mr and Mrs B say they were recommended the account and HSBC  have said that it did not 
recommend the account. But either  way I think that the advance account was a reasonable 
fit for Mr and Mrs B. Let me explain why. Mr and Mrs B say that they had all the benefits that 
came with the Advance account already with their Barclays packaged bank account. But this 
to me suggests that they had a need for those benefits as they chose to pay for them with 
Barclays and I cant see why they could not downgrade their Barclays account if they wished 
to do so and use the benefits  that came  with the Advance account.  Bearing  all of this in 
mind, it appears to me that the Advance account  was a reasonable fit for Mr and Mrs B 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN32070262HSBC may not have  told Mr and Mrs B everything about all of the benefits that the account  
came with but I cannot see anything specific that they were not told that I think wouldve 
altered their decision to take out the account.
Mr and Mrs B may now believe they didnt  benefit as much  theyd initially  hoped and 
expected to. And given what they mayve  since read and heard about  packaged  accounts,  I 
can understand why they may believe their account  was mis-sold. But I think they chose to 
take the account while having a decent understanding of what it included. So I want  to 
reassure Mr and Mrs B that having looked  at everything provided and thought about what 
theyve said, I dont  think that this Advance account  was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3207026