K821x#15complaint
Mr O is unhappy with UK Insurance Limited because  it told him he could not claim for 
cancellation of his holiday. 
background
Mr O and his wife were due to go on holiday with close friends when  sadly  one of their 
travelling companions became unwell and unable to travel. Mr O said he discussed  a 
potential claim for cancellation  with UKI only to be wrongly told his policy  did not offer cover  
for this. Mr O said he and the other travellers still decided to go on holiday because of the 
advice UKI gave. 
UKI accepted it gave  Mr O the wrong information on more than one occasion. But 
highlighted it had previously told him in an earlier conversation, that he would be covered for 
the cancellation. UKI offered £150 as compensation for the mistake  but said it would not 
make any further award for the loss of enjoyment Mr O experienced as this is not something 
covered by his policy.   
Our investigator thought UKI should  increase its offer to £300  for the trouble and upset  it 
caused by giving incorrect advice. He was persuaded that Mr O would likely have not gone 
on holiday  had he been given the correct  information. He also said that the impact  of UKIs 
actions on Mr O meant he was unable to enjoy the holiday which was part of the reason he 
increased the level of compensation. 
Both UKI and Mr O disagreed with our investigator. In summary,  Mr O said the holiday was a 
special occasion  that was ruined by the absence of his friend.  He said the holiday cost in 
excess of £10,000  and so the level of compensation awarded should therefore be much 
higher than whats currently on the table.  
UKI said Mr O was given the correct  information when he initially  spoke to its claims 
department on 16 April. And that the wrong information was given  because  he spoke to an 
out of hours department the following day, which was also the day they were  due to travel. 
UKI suggested Mr O could have perhaps  called again when he arrived  at his destination as 
the correct department would have been available  to speak  to by then. 
It also questioned  why Mr O and the other travellers waited until they were at the airport 
before they decided  to check the cancellation  policy again  suggesting that perhaps  Mr Os 
friends situation was not an emergency, which would effectively mean Mr O would not have 
been able to bring a cancellation  claim. 
And so its for me to make a final decision.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the compensation 
suggested by our investigator  is fair and so I make no further award  here. Ill explain why.
Mr O and his partner  were celebrating their anniversary with their closest friends. There  were 
six travelling companions in total.  Mr Os policy would  have only covered him for his own 
costs and not for the other  travellers. The reason  Im highlighting this is because Mr O has 
Ref: DRN38101622made the argument that the holiday cost a lot of money and has suggested that the amount 
of compensation  should be increased  to reflect  this. But I must consider whats  fair in the 
circumstances and the impact the error  has had, rather  than be led by the overall  cost of the 
holiday. Its also worth noting  that although this was an expensive  holiday, Mr Os individual 
costs were significantly lower than the figure  mentioned above.
That said,  Mr O still went on the holiday and so theres not a claim for the cancellation for me 
to consider. And so it would not be fair for me to award him compensation equal  to or closer  
to the cost of the holiday, which is what he would like me to do. 
Ive thought very carefully about the impact  UKIs  mistake had on Mr O. I think the increased 
level of compensation  suggested by the investigator is fair. I dont doubt that the whole 
holiday would have  been marred by the absence of a close friend, especially one he wanted  
to be there  to celebrate such  an occasion.  But Im not persuaded it impacted  Mr O 
significantly enough to cancel the trip altogether. And so whilst I accept theres  a loss of 
enjoyment aspect to his complaint, I think the increased compensation fairly  reflects the level 
of upset caused.  
UKI suggested that because Mr O went to the airport before he decided  to double  check  
whether he could still cancel his holiday, this somehow means the medical attention  his 
friend needed was perhaps not as serious as it had initially  thought  and further questioned 
whether it should  be considered a medical  emergency. Or to put it another way, if it was not 
a medical emergency   the policy would not have  provided cover  in the event Mr O didnt 
travel because it would have been a case of a disinclination to travel. Im not persuaded by 
this either.  Im satisfied  there was a medical emergency that prevented one of the party 
travelling. But the timeframe in which this all took place was very narrow.
Mr O spoke to UKI on 16 April when he first found  out his friend  was ill and needed 
treatment. He was told during  this conversation he would  likely be covered for a cancellation 
claim. The following  day is when  they were due to leave the UK and so the remaining 
travelling party met at the airport and discussed  what to do. It was from here Mr O said the 
general consensus  was that it would not be the same holiday if they all could not make it. 
And so this prompted  him to speak with UKI again to further enquire about  the cancellation. 
He was given  wrong  information twice and this is what led him to the decision to travel. 
Im persuaded that Mr O would have not gone had he been  given  the correct  advice  at that 
time. Further, it does not change  that Mr Os friend  was in need of urgent medical treatment 
and had he brought a claim for the cancellation I think its likely this would have been 
covered. The issue  here though is that Mr O went ahead with his holiday  which  was 
impacted by one of the party not being there. Thats why I cant say Mr Os proportionate 
costs of the holiday be covered by UKI . Because he has had the benefit of the holiday. The 
impact though caused by the incorrect advice does need to be recognised.  £300  in total 
feels fair for the reasons  explained above.  
I note UKIs suggestion that Mr O could have caught the flight to the destination  and then 
called to check the cancellation  clause  with the correct department  from there, but I think 
thats unreasonable. Whilst I understand what UKI said about  Mr O speaking  to an out of 
hours representative, who didnt necessarily have  the knowledge about the cancellation 
terms, I dont think  its a reasonable  excuse for the misinformation he was given. 
Ref: DRN38101623my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im upholding  Mr Os complaint and UK Insurance Limited 
must now pay Mr O a total of £300  compensation for the trouble  and upset it caused.  If UK 
Insurance Limited has already paid £150 that was previously offered to Mr O then if he 
accepts my decision a further £150 would be payable.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3810162