K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) wont pay the 
additional costs  hes claimed since settlement of his home insurance  claim for water damage 
at his property. 
background
Mr D made  a claim under his LV home  insurance  policy in August 2016 following a water  
leak that caused damage to part of his home and some of its contents. LV accepted the 
claim and appointed a claims handler.  A drying  company was also appointed  and dryers  
installed at the property within a short time. Once  the property was certified dry, it was 
stripped out and LVs appointed contractor scoped  the works to reinstate it. LV paid Mr D for 
the electricity used by the dryers (£685.44). 
In mid-October 2016 the contractors sent the scope of works to LV for review. Approximately  
two weeks later, following some discussion between the contractor and LV, it approved the 
amended scope of works. In the meantime, Mr D had told LV that he wanted to see a copy 
of the scope when it was approved because he wanted to get estimates for the necessary 
works from his own locally sourced contractors. LV sent the (unpriced)  scope to Mr D at the 
end of October 2016. It also agreed to pay Mr D £240 for him to get his piano moved.  
LVs claims handler kept Mr D informed of progress at all times and told him when sending  
the scope that LV would  only consider estimates from Mr Ds contractors for the works listed  
in the scope. Mr D sent LV his contractors  estimate for the works in mid-December 2016. 
Having reviewed the estimate, the claims handler contacted Mr D the following day to say 
that it was considerably higher that the quote  provided by LVs contractor and it couldnt 
match it. An offer was made to Mr D to cash settle  the claim for the amount (£10,253.37) it 
would cost LVs contractors to complete the work.  The claims handler  said to Mr D:
This figure is the total amount for the works  required  as per the scope you were  sent.  With 
this in mind there is no room for negotiation on this figure as we can never exceed the 
costing provided  by our trades and this is the full price scoped.
The claims handler reminded Mr D that he could still have  LVs contractors do the work or he 
could also source  another quote. At the end of January 2017, Mr D sent in a second  quote 
which was much closer in value (£11,855) to LVs. Mr D said he wanted his own contractor 
to undertake the works. At the same  time he said to LV that hed had to live with stress and 
inconvenience for six months and had suffered untold financial losses due to keeping  
unusable rooms  heated  to prevent damp.  He said hed mitigated LVs losses  by storing his 
furniture in 2 rooms of the house  instead  of it incurring storage costs. He said hed only 
offered to store his furniture because he thought  the claim wouldve  been resolved by the 
end of 2016 when it fact it now looked  like the repairs wouldnt be completed before the 
summer of 2017. Mr D said he expected to be compensated by LV for the inconvenience. He 
also said hed like to be moved  to alternative  accommodation (AA) during the reinstatement  
works because of his poor health.  
LVs claims handler replied to Mr D the following day. She said LV was prepared to increase 
its settlement offer to the full amount (£11,855) of the second quote so that Mr D could use 
his own appointed trades as desired. It also said it would offer him AA for the duration of the 
works but that it required an estimate of how long Mr Ds contractor thought it would take.  
Ref: DRN38656592Mr D estimated the works would take 6-8 weeks depending on the weather. He reminded LV 
of the stress hed been suffering from and the money hed saved it in storage costs. LV 
replied to say that its contractor estimated  the works would take 3-4 weeks  and that it 
couldnt accept  it was in any way weather dependent because  the works were all internal. It 
said it could only cover the cost of AA for the time it would take for the insurable works to be 
carried out. Finally LV said that its decision to settle  the claim based  on Mr Ds second 
estimate was made having taken into account  his comments  about the distress and 
inconvenience the claim had caused him and the storage costs he maintained he had saved 
it. It said he was receiving  an additional  £1,601.63. It reiterated it was willing to provide AA 
for Mr D and asked him if he was happy to proceed  on the basis of its offer.
Mr D said he could in fact stay with a friend whilst the works were  carried  out so LV said it 
would pay him £100  per week  for 4 weeks if that was what he preferred. Mr D accepted  this 
amount but remained of the view he should be compensated  beyond  the additional  amount 
of £1,601.63 He also said he wanted  to see LVs priced scope of works. LV declined to 
provide it on the basis it was confidential. Mr D said he wanted 50% of what it wouldve  cost 
LV to put his furniture in storage or £800.
LV logged a complaint for Mr D. It said it would pay Mr D an inconvenience  allowance of 
£400 as agreed  and settle the claim based  on the second quote hed got (£11,855) despite  
its liability being limited  to £10,253.37. As no storage costs had been incurred, and as Mr D 
had agreed he would store his furniture, it wasnt prepared to pay him anything  for them.  It 
said it would   and had  paid electricity  costs for (drying) equipment used by its contractors 
but wouldnt pay to heat any rooms thereafter.  
Mr D agreed to accept LVs offer to cash settle  his claim for £11,855. In mid-April 2017  LV 
paid Mr D a total of £12,495 (made up of his contractors quote,  the cost of moving the piano 
and the inconvenience allowance) in full and final settlement  of his claim. 
In June 2017 Mr D wrote to LV saying hed revisited his file and was writing to let it know  
about the status of outstanding works.  He complained  about  the unacceptable  state  of his 
home and said he was looking to bring all matters  associated with the claim to a close  
particularly with respect to compensation for costs, distress,  inconvenience  and delays. Mr D 
said there were additional costs  hed incurred which he was looking to be reimbursed for. LV 
asked for details of the additional items and an explanation about why these hadnt 
previously been  raised  or allowed for in the original  scope of works.  
In November 2017 Mr D sent LV a list of 11 items  totalling in excess of £14,500 which he 
wanted it to pay him for. Over half of the total claimed concerned  furniture storage of £500 
per month for 15 months. LV agreed to pay one item on the list for £85 but said it needed  
evidence was required that the amounts requested had actually been incurred. 
Mr D complained to this service. He said as LV had agreed to pay for one item on the list 
without requiring any supporting proof  he couldnt  see why it wouldnt pay for the other items 
he was claiming for. 
Our adjudicator looked into his complaint but didnt  think LV had done anything wrong. Mr D 
disagreed and asked for his complaint to be referred  for an ombudsmans  decision. 
Ref: DRN38656593my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen no evidence  that LV handled  Mr Ds claim poorly. It accepted  the claim and 
appointed a claims handler  and drying  company immediately. Within  8 weeks the house  was 
dry and the works scoped and ready  to proceed. They were  always  scheduled to take no 
longer than 4 weeks. Any delay thereafter,  from the evidence Ive seen, seems to be as a 
result of Mr Ds actions.  He was, of course, entitled  to obtain quotes from his own 
contractors but any delay associated in the production of those  quotes  is not the fault of LV. I 
think LV reasonably agreed that Mr D could use his own contractor  to carry out the 
reinstatement works  at his house. But it was Mr Ds decision to do so. So I cant fairly hold 
LV responsible for any delay  in the works starting or finishing. 
What I have seen  from LVs file is that it answered all of Mr Ds queries promptly, that it kept 
in constant contact with him about  the claim and advised him of his options. 
All insurance  claims,  by their very nature come with a certain  degree  of inconvenience. 
Thats to be expected. When an insurers actions cause additional distress  and 
inconvenience above and beyond that which is normally associated with an insurance claim, 
this service would  consider whether  any compensation should  be paid to the policyholder. 
But theres no evidence  here that LVs actions in any way made the nature of Mr Ds claim 
any worse. An escape of water claim is stressful but the fact its happened and a claim 
needs to be made is not the fault of the insurer. Ive seen no evidence  that the distress  Mr D 
says he suffered was the result of unreasonable  conduct  by LV. It follows  that I cant  
reasonably recommend that LV pay Mr D any compensation  for the distress,  inconvenience 
and delays he say he has suffered. 
Insurers have a number  of options  available  to them when settling  a claim. For example they 
can choose to repair or replace items or to cash settle (either  at the request of the 
policyholder or because  it chooses to). Here, Mr D said he wanted his own contractors to 
carry out the reinstatement works.  LV agreed to Mr D doing so and so agreed it would cash 
settle the claim. Once an insurer pays a policyholder a cash  payment in full and final 
settlement of their claim, its liability in respect  of that claim is at an end. 
LV sent Mr D a copy of its scope of works. Ive seen the scope  myself  and it appears 
comprehensive. Mr Ds own quote was based on the works listed in the scope. Ive seen no 
evidence, as suggested by Mr D, that the settlement paid to him in April 2017 amounted to 
an interim or phased  payment of his claim.  So I dont think  it was unreasonable  for LV to ask 
Mr D for evidence  of the costs he said hed subsequently incurred and which  related to the 
claim. 
And it wouldnt be reasonable for me to ignore that LV  as a compromise  agreed to settle 
Mr Ds claim based  on the second  estimate hed obtained. It wasnt  contractually required  to 
do so but agreed  to pay the additional  £1,601  to compromise on Mr Ds request he be paid 
compensation and for saving LV the cost of storing  his furniture. I think  that LVs decision  to 
settle the claim in this way is more than reasonable. Indeed,  if it had chosen  to settle the 
claim based on its own contractors estimate, I wouldnt now be recommending a 
compensation payment to Mr D of £1,601. So I think that LV has treated Mr D fairly. 
Ref: DRN38656594A large  proportion of the additional cost Mr D is claiming is for storage costs.  This comes to 
£7,500. But he didnt actually incur this cost. He also agreed  with LV that he would store  his 
furniture, fittings and audio visual equipment. As Mr D isnt out of pocket for storage costs  
and as he agreed to store  the furniture I cant reasonably require LV to pay Mr D this 
amount. Its also worth  noting that LVs contractors would likely have completed the repairs  
by the end of 2016. As I dont think LV is responsible for any delay in the works starting, I 
think its treated Mr D reasonably by paying  him an additional £1,601. 
Another cost Mr D is claiming (£1,595) is to replace the foam in his sofas  which he says was 
damaged by toxic waste. Ive seen correspondence  from the company responsible for 
restoring Mr Ds soft furnishings which confirmed the restoration  was complete and that the 
foam didnt require  replacement.  LV offered to arrange for an independent  assessment to be 
carried out but the evidence Ive seen indicates  that Mr D declined to accept it, choosing to 
replace the foam himself.  The offer made seems reasonable to reach a satisfactory outcome 
in respect of the amount  being claimed. So, without  any documentary  evidence to support 
Mr Ds claim that the foam was contaminated, it wouldnt be reasonable  for me to ignore 
what the restorer had said and make  LV pay this amount to Mr D. 
Im unable to agree  with Mr D that because LV paid one item on his list - £85 to hang  an 
artwork  without  requiring  any proof  from him of the cost incurred,  it should  simply pay for 
the other costs hes claimed. LV paid that particular cost at its own discretion. And it cash  
settled Mr Ds claim in full and final settlement of its liability. Its only reasonable that any 
additional amounts said to subsequently form part of the claim are properly evidenced, 
particularly given the amounts in question. LV has provided a reasonable explanation why it 
paid for this particular  item without requiring proof and Im unable to agree it sets any sort of 
precedent for other payments to be made. 
Finally, the remaining items Mr D claimed  for included four wall lights the supply of which I 
can see formed part of the scoped  works as accepted by Mr D. So I cant agree that LV 
should pay for these  a second time. There was also a claim for outstanding works for which  
LV not unreasonably asked for proof of what these were as with the claim for transport 
charges for Mr Ds television. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3865659