K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says PDL Finance Limited  trading as Mr Lender irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one loan for £200 which was taken out in December 2012. Mrs Bs 
loan was rolled over eight  times. Following some  further repayment  problems,  it seems, 
based on the statement of account provided  by Mr Lender that an outstanding balance 
remains.
Mrs B told us she did not believe Mr Lender  had carried  out the necessary background 
checks to validate  the affordability for her loans and she became dependent on short term 
lending and struggled to make  the repayments  often defaulting resulting in extra  interest 
and charges.
Mr Lender told us Mrs B opted to book an interest only repayment during the application 
stage of the process. It said it advised  Mrs B to make payment towards the principal amount 
owed to reduce  her outstanding balance  and provided flexibility. Mrs B paid her interest only 
repayment in December 2012 as planned but then made another interest  only repayment in 
January 2013  through to July 2013, and following this, Mr Lender liaised with her about an 
affordable payment plan.
Our adjudicator said he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair for Mr Lender  to provide the 
initial loan and the subsequent rollovers  up to 28 February 2013. But he said any 
subsequent rollovers  shouldnt have been  given.  Mr Lender disagreed with this view.  It said 
the adjudicator  had referred to regulations, but Mr Lender  had never been regulated by the 
organisations mentioned and this view highlighted inconsistency  in how we looked at cases. 
It pointed to other cases where  the matters had not been upheld. 
As the parties are not in agreement the complaint  was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN33162442the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mrs B could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Bs complaint. Ive decided to agree with the 
adjudicator and say that any rollovers of the loan after 28 February  2013  shouldnt have 
been provided to Mrs B. I will explain why.
I dont think Mr Lender did anything  wrong when it gave Mrs B her loan. But this loan was 
not repaid according to the original agreement. The loan was originally due to be repaid via 
two payments of £60 on 28 December 2012 and then a final payment of £260 on 28 January 
2013.  Each rollover fee cost Mrs B an extra £67. This was broken down as £7 
administration fee and then £60 for an additional  months interest. I can also see that Mrs B 
missed some of her repayments and further interest was added  as a result. In total Mrs B 
paid £424.75 interest and rollover fees towards her original principal sum of £200.Some of 
her repayments were made via a repayment  plan set up in November 2016.
I dont think Mr Lender treated Mrs B fairly  by allowing the loan to rollover for so long. It had 
a duty to treat her positively and sympathetically  if she was in financial difficulty  and 
Mr Lender was likely aware that Mrs B was in financial difficulty  when she called to arrange 
an affordable repayment  plan through  a chosen  debt management agency. However, 
Mr Lender hasnt told us when this call was made or what  was discussed. But in any event, it 
wouldnt change the outcome that Ive reached  because I dont think further interest 
(including roll over fees) shouldve been applied  after February  2013.
By the time Mrs B had rolled over her loan for the fourth time she had repaid more  in the 
fees to Mr Lender for the rollover  than she had originally  borrowed. Mr Lender  ought to have 
been on notice  because Mrs B wasnt able to reduce the capital sum she had borrowed. 
Ref: DRN33162443Instead she was paying £67 per calendar month just to allow the loan to rollover.  So, Mrs B 
was just servicing the interest rather than repaying  what she needed  to pay to clear her loan.
Ive considered what Mr Lender  says,  that it wasnt signed up to either the Finance and 
Leasing Association  (FLA)  Code or the Consumer Finance  Association  Code. However,  I 
dont think this changes  the outcome of the case.
These codes suggested that limiting a customer to roll over a loan three times would be fair. 
Mr Lender says these considerations dont apply in this case.  But these codes developed 
standards of good industry practice,  so I dont  think its unreasonable  to consider what was 
happening in the wider  industry at the time in order to determine whether I think  Mr Lender  
acted fairly.  And I think good industry practice was something Mr Lender should  have 
adhered to.
Mr Lender should  have treated Mrs B positively and sympathetically. By prolonging 
repayment of Mrs Bs loan for so long I dont  think this was a fair way to treat Mrs B. 
Mr Lender should  have come to an arrangement  to repay the outstanding loan balance 
rather than allow her to continually rollover her loan.
I would also point out that each case is decided on its own merits. So, the considerations 
applied to one case dont necessarily apply to another case.  
Overall, Mr Lender shouldnt have continually deferred Mrs Bs loan and I uphold her 
complaint from the fourth rollover it gave to Mrs B. Mr Lender should things right as set out 
below.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
Mr Lender must:
Remove any unpaid  interest fees and charges which were added to the account  after 
28 February 2013. Then re-work the account balance  as if all payments made by 
Mrs B had been made towards  the balance on the account after that date.
If Mrs B has paid enough to have  repaid  this balance, then any surplus should be 
repaid to Mrs B adding  8% simple interest*  per year from the date the overpayment  
became due to the date of settlement. 
If there  is still an outstanding balance after the above steps have been taken, then 
Mr Lender and Mrs B should try and agree a mutually agreeable repayment plan for 
the outstanding balance.  Mr Lender is reminded of its duty to treat Mrs B positively 
and sympathetically.
If Mrs B has already repaid Mr Lender  enough to repay her balance  then Mr Lender  
should update Mrs Bs credit  file to reflect her payment arrangement  from 
February 2013 until the date the account would have closed had the interest, fees 
and charges been frozen immediately after 28 February 2013.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN33162444my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mrs Bs complaint. PDL Finance Limited  
should pay Mrs B compensation as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3316244