K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont  give him copies of bank statements going 
back around 16 years. 
background
Mr T recently asked Barclays to provide copies of bank statements from around 16 years 
ago so he could  look at the transactions.  But because of the length of time thats  passed  
Barclays explained it didnt have the information he wanted. Mr T complained but Barclays 
didnt agree itd made an error.  
Mr T referred his complaint to this service  and an investigator looked  at what had happened.  
They said that Barclays isnt required  to keep information for more  than six years so didnt 
find itd made a mistake  when it wasnt able to supply statements from before that time. The 
investigator gave Mr T details of how he can complete  a Subject Access Request  (SAR) to 
get the personal information Barclays holds about  him. 
Initially the investigator didnt hear back from Mr T and the case was closed.  But he got back 
in touch and explained he was still unhappy  that Barclays couldnt provide the statements he 
wanted. Mr T asked for his complaint to be appealed  to so its been passed  to me to make  a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr T wanted to see statements from around 16 years  ago to look for a specific 
transaction. So I can appreciate why hes frustrated that the statements he wants  arent 
available now. But businesses dont have  to retain  information indefinitely and I havent  
found Barclays has made an error by failing to retain statements that are more  than six years  
old. 
There are rules governing  how information  is retained by businesses.  But this service  
doesnt regulate how businesses handle information, thats the role of the Information 
Commissioners Office.  Were an informal dispute  resolution service. We look at whether a 
business has made a mistake and if its followed the rules. In this case, Barclays  says it 
didnt have to keep historic statements so Ive not found its done anything  wrong when  it 
didnt provide the information Mr Ts asked for. 
The investigators provided information  about  how Mr T can complete a SAR.  But the 
information Mr T receives will likely  only go back for around six years  so its unlikely the 
information he wants will be included.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr T but Im satisfied Barclays  didnt have to keep statements on file 
indefinitely so Ive not found it made  an error when it wouldnt give him the statements he 
asked for. As I havent found  Barclays  made an error Im not asking it to do anything else to 
resolve this complaint. 
Ref: DRN34947842my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision 
before 13 March 2019.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3494784