K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a mortgage. Mr L says Nationwide  Building Society mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 3 April 2019, which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. However, Nationwide had 
already offered to refund Mr L the accident  and sickness element of the PPI policy.  I also 
instructed Nationwide to pay back some  of the cost of the unemployment cover as set out in 
my provisional decision.   
Neither party responded with any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on 
my previous  findings,  and in the absence of any new information, I see no reason to change 
my mind  about this complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold  so Nationwide Building  Society doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr L. 
But as stated in my provisional decision,  Nationwide Building Society has offered to pay 
back to Mr L the premiums he paid for the accident  and sickness  cover.  Nationwide  Building 
Society also has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it got that was more  
than 50% of the unemployment premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2002 alongside  a 
mortgage. Mr L says Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN39671602Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain  why.
Mr L says he thought  the PPI was mart of the mortgage package. But hes not told us why he thought 
this or what was said at the time which  led him to this belief.  And the PPI was sold a long time ago  
around 17 years  ago  which  is something  I have to keep in mind when deciding what  I think  is more  
likely to have happened.
Ive seen a copy of some  sample PPI application  forms that Nationwide says wouldve been used in 
Mr Ls sale, and Ive not seen any reason to doubt this. These show  that Mr L wouldve had the option 
to select,  unemployment cover; accident and sickness cover; or both. But there is nothing  on the 
samples which suggested  that the applicant had to take out the cover or that it was part of the 
package. Ive also seen a copy  of a Mortgage Product Confirmation Document which  outlined the 
products Mr L took out when  completing his mortgage application process. The document states you 
have decided  to proceed with Nationwides MPPI which will be arranged  as followed: and then 
outlines the main details of the cover. So I think its likely Mr L chose to take out cover on his PPI 
application form and so it was included  in the mortgage  product  document. So overall I think 
Nationwide made it clear  that Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this.
Our adjudicator assessed  this complaint as a non-advised sale and neither party responded to 
dispute this, so Ive also assessed this as a non-advised sale.  As a non-advised  sale Nationwide 
didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to 
make sure Mr L got the information he needed to decide if the policy  was right for him.
Its possible the information Nationwide  gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been - 
including the information  around the exclusions  relating  to medical conditions which  were present at 
the time of sale. But even  though Mr L had a medical condition at that time,  this wouldve  only been 
excluded for the first 12 months of the policy. And it was free for the first 12 months  so once Mr L 
started paying for the policy he wouldve  been  able to claim for his condition. In any event, Nationwide 
have provided evidence that Mr L couldve taken out a policy which covered him for unemployment 
only and it has offered  to pay back  the premiums  Mr L paid for the accident and sickness cover.
Ive thought about Mr Ls employment  circumstances from the time and Ive seen that even as a 
director of his own company,  it looks  like Mr L wouldve been  able to make a successful claim  had he 
been out of work. He also wasnt affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the 
unemployment cover  - so it wouldve been useful for him if something went wrong.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And even though  Mr L says he had some savings and 
wouldve had help from his partner if he was suddenly  unable to work,  the PPI wouldve  paid out for 
up to 12 months and in addition to his other means. This means his savings
were protected for other expenses and Mr L didnt have to rely on others to make his repayments.  In 
any event, help from others cant always be guaranteed as their circumstances  can also change. So 
overall, I dont  think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out this cover.
This means  I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything else in relation to the mis-sale of the PPI, 
and I think the offer its made  for the refund  of the accidence  and sickness premiums is a fair way to 
resolve Mr Ls mis-sale  complaint. But Nationwide will also pay back some of the costs of the 
unemployment cover  to Mr L because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit  share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - 
so it should have  told Mr L about that. Because Nationwide didnt  tell Mr L, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has basically  offered  to pay back  the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN39671603what the business needs to do
Nationwide has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of 
the PPI premium. Nationwide should  also pay back to Mr L any extra interest he paid because  of that.
Nationwide should pay back to Mr L the extra he paid each month because the commission and profit  
share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide should also pay Mr L 8%* simple 
interest on each payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my provisional  decision
At this point I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so I dont intend to tell Nationwide to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L. But Nationwide  have offered to pay back the premiums Mr L paid for 
the accident and sickness cover.
I do, however, intend to tell Nationwide Building Society  to pay back to Mr L any commission and 
profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
I now invite  both parties to respond  to my provisional  decision by 17 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3967160