K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment 
protection insurance (PPI) on three  of their mortgages.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out a number of mortgages  through the Halifax over the years. PPI was 
added to three of these  mortgages.
PPI was added to their joint mortgages  taken out in 1988, 1996 and 1997. The 1988 PPI 
policy covered both Mr and Mrs F for accident, sickness and unemployment. Only Mr F 
was covered under the 1996 and 1997  PPI policies. The policies were  paid by a monthly 
premium, which  didnt  attract interest.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about the mis-sale of these three 
policies. Mr and Mrs F disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.  They said, in summary, that they didnt want  or need PPI 
because they were in secure long term jobs and didnt want the additional cost. They 
questioned why they wouldve taken  out PPI on some of the mortgages  and not others, if 
they needed or wanted the insurance. They also highlighted the fact that the PPI was 
added only when they took out their mortgages  through one particular branch, not 
through the other  branches.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
While I know  this will disappoint Mr and Mrs F, I cant see that these policies were  mis-sold. 
Ill explain  why.
These sales took place  a long time ago and the accounts involved have long since  closed. 
So I think its understandable that neither Halifax,  nor Mr and Mrs F, have  the original 
records from the time of sale.  Under data protection rules, Halifax was required to dispose 
of Mr and Mrs Fs data rather than hold onto it for too long. 
Mr and Mrs F say they didnt agree to take out PPI. They say they wouldnt have wanted to 
incur the additional cost.  I dont doubt Mr and Mrs F have  given  us their best recollections. 
But, memories can, and do, fade over time.  
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened   based on whats available.
Weve dealt with a number of cases involving Halifax and havent  seen  any wider problems 
with its sales processes from around the time of  these sales. I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that the branch Mr and Mrs F say sold these three policies to them was 
acting outside  of Halifaxs usual sales arrangements at the time. 
Ref: DRN34904982Given how much time has passed,  I cant reasonably expect Halifax to be able to produce  
paperwork from the time to show how the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs F. I can see from its 
system records  that PPI was added to their mortgage  accounts in 1988, 1996  and 1997. I 
can also see that at least four other  mortgages  didnt  have  PPI attached.  I think  its more  
likely that these sales  followed a relatively standard sales process, and that Halifax gave  
Mr and Mrs F a choice,  and that they chose PPI these three times  even  if, understandably,  
they no longer  recall  doing so after so long.
Circumstances can change over time,  so its possible  that on these three occasions Mr and 
Mrs F considered that PPI would be of use to them, at that time,  whilst on the other 
occasions they declined it. 
Mr and Mrs F said they didnt take PPI with their first mortgage, that being the case I think  
they probably wouldve understood that PPI wasnt compulsory  when it took out these next 
three mortgages..
So, I cant fairly conclude  that these policies  were added to Mr and Mrs Fs mortgage 
accounts in 1988, 1996 and 1997  without  their knowledge and consent.
Given the limited amount  of information  now available its not clear whether Halifax 
recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, or not. The requirements were  stricter on 
Halifax if it did recommend it. So to be fair to Mr and Mrs F, Halifax has treated  these  as 
advised sales. For the same reasons, so have  I. That means Halifax  had to check  each 
time whether the policies were right for them. Whether these were advised  sales or not, 
Halifax also had to give them enough clear information about the PPI, so that they could 
make an informed choice  themselves  about whether it was right for them  and they 
wanted to buy it.
Based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances  on each occasion, I cant see that PPI 
was unsuitable  for them.  Their circumstances  were broadly the same  between 1998 
and 1997. Mrs F wasnt covered under  the 1996  and 1997 policies, but as these were  
joint mortgages, Ive taken into account her circumstances too when deciding if these 
policies were suitable for them.  
Halifax no longer  has a copy of the policy terms and conditions that applied  in 1988. Its 
sent in the terms  and conditions that applied after that. I think it likely that the terms and 
conditions wouldve been similar in 1988.
I think it likely that Mr and Mrs F were  both eligible for PPI cover and I cant see that any of 
the policies were unaffordable.  It doesnt  look inappropriate that they tailored  their cover so 
that only Mr F was covered under the 1996 and 1997 policies.
They both said that they wouldve got sick pay from work. Mr F said he wouldve got 12 
months worth of sick pay. Mrs F said she wouldve got at least six months worth of sick 
pay. Mr F said his parents  wouldve helped with their repayments  in the short-term, if 
necessary, or they wouldve sold their home if needs be and rented. 
The 1988  policy  wouldve paid out on top of their sick pay if one of them  was off work sick. 
The 1996  and 1997 policies wouldve only have paid out if Mr F was off sick. The policies 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. They couldve made repeated  
claims on the policy and I think PPI wouldve provided them  with valuable reassurance  that 
their mortgage repayment a could be met if Mr F was out of work (and Mrs F in respect of 
Ref: DRN34904983the 1988 policy).  The 1988 policy also provided  cover for unemployment for both of them, 
whereas the 1996 and 1997 provided  Mr F with unemployment cover only.
I accept that Mr Fs parents may have  wanted  to help with their mortgage  repayments. But, 
help of this kind cant always be guaranteed when the time comes, so I havent placed 
much reliance on this. I cant see that they had any other means  of making  their 
repayments, so I think  PPI couldve been of use to them if something went wrong, to 
safeguard their family  home.  They said they couldve  sold their home  and rented. But, this 
might not have been quick  to achieve  or financially possible. So, again  I havent placed 
much weight on this.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs F about  PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think  better  information  was likely to have 
changed their minds.
I cant see that either of them was affected by any of the main things the policies didnt 
cover, so I dont think this wouldve  put them off taking out the policies.
The 1996  and 1997 policies wouldve paid out £200 per month, which  appears  to have 
been enough to meet their mortgage  repayment. Halifax  cant say how much the 1988 
policy wouldve covered  them  for each month. But, I think it likely that it wouldve been set 
to cover their mortgage repayment. I cant know what Mr and Mrs F were told about the 
costs and benefits of the policy, but from what theyve said they clearly understood PPI 
came at an extra cost. So, I think they wouldve understood they had to pay something  for 
it. The policies cost between £8 and £10.12  per month, so I think  they wouldve likely been 
able to afford this extra cost. And as Ive said above,  I think  it more likely they opted to take 
the cover. 
The PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mr and Mrs F couldve cancelled  it at any 
time without  losing out financially if they wanted to. Overall, I dont think  that better  
information was likely  to have put them off taking out the cover.
Given the long term nature  of their mortgage commitment and that PPI was protecting their 
family home, I cant  see that any of these three policies were mis-sold to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained  above,  I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs F 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3490498