K820x#14Complaint
Mr R complains that Barons Autostar Ltd did not provide him with a full range of options 
when he entered  into a number of car finance  agreements over several years.    
Background
The background to Mr Rs complaint was set out in my provisional  decision, the text of which 
is annexed to this decision. My provisional decision also set out why I did not consider that I 
could properly uphold  the complaint. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr R said that he thought there was some confusion  
about the nature of his complaint. He clarified that his complaint was not that Barons 
Autostar had given  poor financial  advice but that it had not told him about the option of using 
corporate finance to fund the car. He asked that I review the case and issue a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am of course grateful  to Mr R for his clarification. I did however  refer to both the actions of 
Barons Autostar and to its inaction.  I also noted that the investigator  had indicated that he 
thought Barons Autostar should  have discussed commercial as well as personal 
agreements.
For the avoidance of any doubt,  however, I do understand that Mr Rs complaint is not that 
he was given poor advice but that he was not given sufficient information  about the options 
available to him. I accept  that he was not given financial advice.   
I remain of the view however that Barons Autostar did what  it was engaged to do, namely to 
introduce finance arrangements. It made  clear  to Mr R that different packages might  be 
available  that is, the fact that it introduced a particular arrangement did not mean it was the 
most suitable or that other options  might  be better. It did not mean either that it had 
presented a full range  of options.
Mr R says that his choices were restricted because he was not given the full range of 
options. I am prepared  to assume for the purposes of this complaint that corporate finance 
would have been available in this case, although I note that Barons Autostar has said that 
not all packages were  available to all customers.  It has also said that its corporate finance 
packages were designed for corporate customers who have a need  for a number of vehicles 
but do not wish to visit a dealership. Mr R did not fit that profile. It said,  as I noted in my 
provisional decision, that a corporate deal would  not necessarily have saved Mr R any 
money.  
I do not believe however that Mr R had an entitlement  to be introduced to corporate  finance 
options, even  if he would  have been  able to apply for them. Nor was he told that all options 
had been presented. On the contrary,  he was told that other  sources of finance  were 
available. I am satisfied that Mr R was provided  with sufficient information about the deal he 
took out to enable him to make an informed decision about whether or not to take it out. 
Ref: DRN39293222My final decision
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in my provisional decision,  I do not require 
Barons Autostar Ltd to do anything  more  to resolve Mr Rs complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision 
before 22 July 2021.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN39293223Annex - provisional  decision

Complaint
Mr R complains that Barons Autostar Ltd did not properly advise him about a number of car
finance agreements he entered into over several years.
Background
Mr R is a partner in a professional services firm. From about 2010  he has taken out a
number of finance agreements for cars, brokered by Barons Autostar.  Some  have been in
his own name  and some  have been in the name of his firm, which Ill call B. Until recently,
however, all have been personal rather than commercial agreements. Mr R has explained
though that all were for cars for the use of his business. His complaint is, in summary, that
Barons Autostar should  have advised him to take out commercial rather than personal
agreements, since they would have been cheaper and therefore more  appropriate to his
needs and those of his business.
Until April 2014  this service  had no power to consider complaints about credit broking for
business purposes where the total amount payable was more than £25,000. That meant that
we could not consider a number of the agreements about which Mr R was complaining. A
different ombudsman issued a decision explaining that in more detail. We can however
consider one agreement in the name of the partnership  (which is the subject of this
complaint) and one in Mr Rs name (which is the subject of a separate  complaint).
The agreement I am considering here was in the name of B and was signed  on its behalf by
Mr R in September 2014. I do not know whether Mr R was the sole proprietor of B at the
time, but I do not believe  that anything turns on that.
The agreement was a three-year hire agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit  Act
1974. It required  the hirer to make an advance payment of just over £1,800 followed by
monthly payments of £603.88. It was a fairly  standard consumer hire agreement.
Mr R has explained that it was not until the agreement came to an end in 2017 that he
realised he could have taken out a business agreement instead and that this would  have
worked out much  cheaper  for him and his business. With all the other agreements he had
taken out over the years,  he could have saved  tens of thousands of pounds. As I have
indicated, however, this service cannot consider  complaints about the setting up of those
agreements.
Barons Autostar did not accept that it was responsible  for advising Mr R on the type of
agreement he or his firm should have  taken out. It noted that its terms of engagement
expressly said that it was not a financial adviser and could not provide financial advice. Mr R
referred the matter to this service  where one of our investigators considered what  had
happened. He thought that Barons Autostar should have appreciated from its dealings with
Mr R that the car was for business purposes and should therefore have discussed the option
of a commercial  rather than personal  finance agreement. He recommended compensation to
reflect what he considered  to have been the additional costs incurred by Mr R and B.
Neither Mr R nor Barons Autostar  accepted  the investigators recommendation and so the
case has been passed  to me for further consideration.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
Ref: DRN39293224reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my view it would not be fair to determine this complaint in Mr Rs favour unless I thought
that Barons  Autostar had done something wrong. And I can only make an award in Mr Rs
favour if I do that and conclude that Barons Autostars actions or inaction caused financial
loss or material inconvenience.
The role of Barons Autostar as a broker was to introduce Mr R and B to suitable products
and where  necessary to explain the key features of them. Its disclosure document  says that
it can introduce customers to a limited  number of lenders who may be able to help. Those
lenders provide a range  of products which  may be suitable. It also says:
We are not Independent  Financial Advisors and so are unable  to provide you with
independent financial  advice.  There are also other sources of finance which  you may wish to
investigate.
I think  therefore that Barons Autostar made it clear that it was not recommending one
product over another or giving advice about the suitability of any arrangement. Nor would I
expect it to do so without  asking  about Bs business. In my view Barons Autostar was
entitled to proceed on the basis that Mr R had, if necessary, taken  his own advice on how
best to finance cars for his business.
I do not therefore need  to consider whether  in fact taking the car on a commercial deal would
have been cheaper for Mr R and I make no comment on that.
My provisional decision
For these  reasons my provisional decision  is that I do not require Barons Autostar Limited  to
do anything more  to resolve Mr Rs complaint.
Ref: DRN3929322