K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited said his treatment  was unproven  
and so it wouldnt meet its full cost when he made a claim under his private medical 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr A was suffering from plantar fasciitis  in both heels. His consultant  recommended he 
undergo shockwave therapy. He asked  AXA PPP to provide cover for this but it said the 
treatment was unproven  and therefore not automatically eligible for cover. It noted that the 
conventional treatment for Mr As condition was physiotherapy for which he had an 
allowance of £350 remaining on his policy. It said it would pay up to this amount towards  the 
cost of his shockwave therapy treatment, though this would come  out of his therapies 
allowance.
Mr A was unhappy at AXA PPPs response. He arranged  to have his treatment through  the 
NHS. He cancelled his policy and referred  his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied  
that AXA PPP had acted fairly.
Mr A didnt accept the investigators opinion. He thought the NHS wouldnt carry out the 
treatment if it was unproven. He said the £350  offered by AXA PPP wouldnt even have 
covered the cost of two shockwave therapy  sessions.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states  that cover is provided for conventional  treatment. It states:
We define  conventional treatment as treatment that:
is established as best medical  practice  and is practised widely within  the UK; and
is clinically appropriate  in terms of necessity, type, frequency, extent, duration and 
the facility or location where  the treatment is provided; and has either
been shown  to be effective for your medical condition  through substantive peer 
reviewed clinical evidence in published authoritative medical journals; or
been approved  by NICE (The National Institute  for Health and Care Excellence) as a 
treatment which may be used in routine practice.
NICE issued  guidance  on the use of shockwave  therapy  to treat chronic plantar fasciitis in 
2009. It said:
Ref: DRN35152242The evidence on extracorporeal shockwave therapy  (ESWT) for refractory  plantar fasciitis 
raises no major safety concerns; however, current evidence on its efficacy is inconsistent. 
Therefore, this procedure  should only be used with special arrangements  for clinical 
governance, consent and audit or research.
It went on to outline  the special  arrangements that clinicians should  take,  which included 
making sure that patients understood the uncertainty about the procedure,  and auditing  and 
reviewing the clinical  outcomes  of all patients receiving the treatment.  I recognise  that this 
guidance is now ten years  old but it hasnt been updated since then which  means that the 
treatment still hasnt  been approved by NICE as a treatment which  may be used in routine 
practice.
This means  that for the shockwave therapy to be classed  as conventional treatment under 
the policy, there needs to be substantive peer reviewed clinical evidence in published  
authoritative medical  journals to show it is effective for plantar fasciitis.  I may have expected  
Mr As treating consultant, on learning  of AXA PPPs position, to have referred to this 
evidence. After all, he is the one advocating the treatment. However,  it doesnt  appear that 
any evidence was provided to contest AXA PPPs position. In light of this, I have to conclude 
that the treatment  isnt conventional treatment as defined  by the policy.
The policy goes on to explain that if a consultant recommends that a member should 
undergo treatment which is not conventional  treatment, this would be regarded as unproven 
treatment for which cover  was more  restrictive. The policy states:
The amount we pay for unproven treatment will depend on how much it costs and how 
much we would  pay if you have conventional treatment  for your medical condition instead. 
If the unproven  treatment costs less than the equivalent conventional  treatment we 
will pay the cost of the unproven treatment.
If the unproven  treatment costs more than the equivalent conventional  treatment we 
will pay up to the cost we would  have paid for the equivalent conventional treatment. 
We will pay up to the amount we would have  paid a Priority Health specialist and 
hospital in the hospital list. To understand what the equivalent conventional treatment 
is we will look at the treatment other  patients  with the same medical condition and 
prognosis would be given.
I appreciate that Mr A might be frustrated by AXA PPPs position,  given  that he was able to 
receive the treatment  through the NHS. However,  this doesnt in itself necessarily mean  that 
the treatment is proven,  as is shown by NICEs  guidance.
Given that the treatment  is unproven under the terms  of the policy,  AXA PPP wasnt  required  
to pay any more than it would have paid for equivalent conventional treatment. AXA PPP 
has explained that the equivalent conventional treatment  would have  been  physiotherapy 
which would have been paid out of a £350 annual allowance for therapies under  Mr As 
policy. In light of this, I think it was right for AXA PPP to tell Mr A it would provide cover but 
only up to £350  and that this would come out of his therapies allowance. I recognise that this 
would be insufficient  even to cover the full cost of just two shockwave therapy sessions but I 
cant reasonably  conclude that AXA PPP acted  unfairly.
Ref: DRN35152243my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3515224