K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited has declined  her motor insurance 
claim. Shes also unhappy about  the length  of time its taken Calpe to make a decision about 
it.
All references to Calpe include the agents its appointed to handle  the claim.
background
In November 2017, Miss H notified  Calpe that her car had been damaged in an accident  
caused by another driver. She told Calpe that the other driver had admitted he was at fault 
and would be claiming for the damage to her car from his insurance.  Further to this, the 
other drivers  insurance policy was voided  and the insurer  told Miss H shed need to claim 
under her own insurance policy.  So Miss H made  a claim to Calpe for the damage to her car. 
Miss H initially  brought a complaint to our service because of amount of time Calpe was 
taking to make a decision about  her claim.  Several  months later, Calpe told Miss H that it 
wouldnt pay out her claim because it doubted the veracity of it. It had arranged for Miss H 
to be interviewed as part of its investigation into her claim. Calpe also tried to claim the cost 
of its investigation  of her claim from Miss H. 
Our investigator thought Miss Hs complaint should be upheld. She thought  Calpe hadnt  
done enough to show that Miss Hs claim was fraudulent.  She said Calpe should pay      
Miss H £13,847.57  (less any relevant excess) for damage to her car and pay an additional  
£300 to compensate her for delays and difficulties associated with the investigation of her 
claim. She also said that Calpe shouldnt ask Miss H to pay for the investigation costs of the 
claim.
Calpe had agreed to pay £200 for the delay in arranging for a forensic report  of Miss Hs 
vehicle. But it didnt  accept our investigators conclusions and requested the case  go to an 
ombudsman for a decision. So the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can see that Miss H took out comprehensive cover  with Calpe.  The policy covered her for 
accidental damage  to her car minus an excess of £3,000. However the terms and conditions  
of the policy  also say Calpe can refuse to pay a claim and recover  the costs if the claim is 
fraudulent, false or exaggerated. Its for Calpe to show that Miss H made a fraudulent, false 
or exaggerated claim and I dont think its done that. Ill explain why.
Calpe has sent us several documents to support its view that Miss Hs car accident wasnt  
genuine. Some of these had been  passed on to Calpe by the other drivers insurer.  These 
include reports from claims investigators sent to interview Miss H by the other drivers 
insurer and by Calpe.  I can see that both investigators expressed concerns about Miss Hs 
account of the accident. But there  seems  to be a lot of speculation about what might have 
happened, without any evidence to back it up. 
Ref: DRN35483332From what  Ive seen, Miss H has been fairly  consistent in her account  of what happened.  
She says she was stationary in her car on the main road outside her house when another  
vehicle went into the rear of her car. She says she hadnt noticed the front of her car coming 
into contact with a tree, but her car was close to it and was rolling back away  from it.
Miss H says that she could remember a man coming over to her door, but she felt shocked 
and didnt speak  to him. Her brother came  out of the house  and told her he would deal with 
the matter so she went back inside. 
The claims investigators who interviewed  Miss H have suggested that she wasnt  in the car 
at the time of the collision  and expressed concerns  about the involvement of her brother. But 
Calpe hasnt provided any evidence to support this. 
Miss H has explained  that she wasnt able to provide details of damage  to the vehicles 
because shed gone into the house without looking at them. She says that she was in shock 
and was concerned  about  her mental health.  I think this is plausible,  particularly as shes 
said shed been  suffering  from depression.  
I dont think theres anything unusual about a family member supporting Miss H with her 
insurance claim. I understand that Miss Hs brother was paying the insurance and car tax for 
the vehicle. But Miss H has said this was also because of her mental health. And from what 
Ive been told, Miss H was making  the payments for the finance shed taken for the vehicle 
herself. Im also not persuaded  that Miss Hs brother  couldnt have heard the impact from 
inside the house, as has been suggested.
Calpe has provided  two engineers reports from inspections  of Miss Hs car. But neither  of 
these reports shows that the vehicle couldnt  have been damaged  in the way Miss H has 
said it was. One of the reports refers to moderate impact  damage to O/S rear together  with 
front underside damage where vehicle has been shunted  forward  over soft ground before 
impacting a tree or something similar . And Calpe has also provided a picture of a tree at the 
scene of the accident which has part of its bark missing.
I appreciate that there were some  concerns  about the testimony  of the other  driver.  And I 
understand that the other drivers insurer was unable  to track down his vehicle. But I dont 
think that this shows  that Miss Hs account of the accident isnt genuine.
Having carefully considered all of the information Calpe  has provided, Ive concluded that it 
hasnt shown that Miss Hs claim is fraudulent, false or exaggerated. This means that it 
needs to pay out the claim and isnt entitled to claim back any of the costs it incurred from 
investigating it.
Our investigator thought it would be reasonable for Calpe  to pay the estimated repair costs 
of the vehicle of £13, 847.57 (less the policy excess). I agree this is fair as thats what  it 
would have needed to pay to settle  the claim and Miss Hs car has since  been sold for an 
amount that is similarly below what the market  value would have been for an undamaged 
car. Calpe should  also pay interest (at a rate of 8% simple per year) from the date her car 
was damaged until the date it makes the payment. 
I also agree  with our investigators recommendation to pay an additional £300 for the 
distress it caused to Miss H by the way it handled the claim. I appreciate that Calpe needed 
to investigate the suspicion of fraud. But I think it should have communicated  more  clearly 
and empathetically with Miss H. 
Ref: DRN35483333As Im not satisfied Calpes done enough  to show the claim was fraudulent  it should also 
remove any records of Miss Hs claim being fraudulent from any internal or external 
databases.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint and direct Calpe Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
Pay £10,847.57 (this is the estimated cost of repairs once the excess  has been taken 
off).
Add interest to the above amount at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the 
accident until the date it makes  the payment.*
Remove any records of the claim being fraudulent from any internal and external 
databases.
Pay an additional  £300 for the unnecessary distress and inconvenience it caused 
her.
*If Calpe considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Miss H how much its taken off. It should also give Miss H a certificate showing this if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
It should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Miss H has accepted  my final decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 September 2019.
Anne Muscroft
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3548333