K822xcomplaint
Mr K has complained about the amount esure Insurance Limited offered him to settle his car 
insurance claim. 
background 
In November 2018 Mr K was unfortunately involved in a car accident and made a claim on 
his motor insurance policy. 
esure looked at his claim and on the basis of an engineers report  decided  the car was a 
total loss. esure say they took the average  of three relevant trade  guides  and offered Mr K 
£5,900 as the cars market value.  
Mr K doesnt  accept this. He says his car had many additional extras  and had cost him 
£9,500 only two years earlier.  He says £5,900  is insufficient and provided adverts for similar 
cars at a higher price. 
Mr K complained to esure but as he remained dissatisfied with their response he brought  the 
matter to our service. One of our investigators used a fourth trade guide and took the 
average of all four prices. This resulted in a valuation of £6,034 and she asked esure if they 
would pay Mr K the extra £134. esure maintained it was fair to offer a value within  the range 
of the trade guide prices. But in the circumstances of this complaint they agreed  to offer the 
additional £134 to resolve matters.
Our investigator thought this was a fair result  and didnt recommend  esure  needed to do 
more. As he disagrees, Mr K has asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. So I dont think esure need to do more  
than theyve already  offered. Let me explain why. 
Mr Ks policy  says the most esure  will pay at the time of the loss is the market value of the 
car. They define this as the amount the policyholder could reasonably  have expected to sell 
their car for on the open market, immediately before the loss. They  say they base the 
valuation on motor trade guides  and not necessarily the amount  the policyholder paid for 
their car.
As our investigator explained, it isnt the role of our service to provide an exact valuation for 
a car. Instead we look at the trade guides ourselves, to see if the insurer has given a fair and 
reasonable valuation thats in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  We find the 
guides persuasive as theyre based on nationwide research of sales prices. We do consider 
other information, such as adverts,  but generally  find the guides more persuasive  as they 
take account of negotiation from advertised  prices. The guides also take account of the cars  
mileage and optional  extras.  
esure said Glasss guide  gave  a valuation of £6,810, CAP gave £5,650  and Parkers  £5,290.  
They also explained they took a rough  average of these amounts to arrive at £5,900. Our 
investigator checked these trade guides.  I can see the valuations she produced are in line 
Ref: DRN33300472with what esure have said. She also checked  a further trade  guide,  Cazana, which  gave a 
value of £6,387.
When she took into account this forth trade guide  the average increased  to £6,034 and when 
asked esure  agreed  to increase their valuation to that amount by paying a further £134.
Mr K has provided evidence of similar  cars to his advertised at higher prices than esures 
valuation. He has also said he paid £9,500  for the car only two years  earlier. Ive thought  
about this but his policy only provides cover  for the value immediately before the accident. 
And overall  Im more persuaded by the values given by the guides as theyre based on 
nationwide research  and take account  of negotiation. 
Mr K thinks  his car should  be valued at the higher end of the range of valuations given by the 
trade guides due to its full service history, mileage and optional  extras. Although I appreciate  
Mr Ks views on this, and while I dont dispute  he maintained his vehicle well, the guides do 
take account of these  factors. And so I think it is fair for esure  to offer a valuation within the 
range of the guide prices.  
Im satisfied esure fairly  valued Mr Ks car in their initial offer, as I can see they relied  on the 
trade guides to assess the market value. But they have since  offered to slightly increase  this 
amount following our investigators  involvement. I think this too is fair.
esure have  now offered  Mr K £6,034 minus his excess. Im satisfied this is a fair amount 
based on trade guide prices, so Im not going  to ask esure to further increase this amount. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that unless  theyve already done  so, 
esure Insurance Limited  must pay Mr K an additional £134 in settlement of his claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3330047