K822xcomplaint
Mr G has complained about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of his van insurance  policy.
Reference to Ageas  includes  their agents.
background 
Mr G was involved in an accident on 24 November 2017. Another  vehicle hit his van and the 
other driver later admitted  liability.
Mr G told Ageas about the accident  on 28 November. Ageas said he could use one of their 
approved repairers,  but Mr G chose to use his own garage to repair  his van. Mr G sent 
Ageas an estimate  of the cost of repair from his garage.
After initially saying the van was a total loss, on 18 December Ageas authorised  Mr Gs 
garage to carry out the repair. Mr G said that his garage had told him the repair would take 
around 10 days. They took his van at the end of December 2017, but it wasnt  ready until 
2 February. Mr G wasnt happy with how long the repair took and also that the quality of 
repair was poor.
Mr G was unhappy with various aspects  of Ageas service,  so he complained. Ageas said 
that they hadnt done anything wrong. So, Mr G brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  into it. She felt that Ageas had dealt  with the complaint fairly. 
As Mr G didnt  agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 14 January 2020. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im intending to 
uphold it in part. Ill explain  why.
Ive considered all of Mr Gs points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus on what 
I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if Ageas have dealt with Mr G in 
a fair and reasonable way.
When Mr G brought his complaint to our service, he complained about a number of 
issues. But after our adjudicator issued her view,  Mr G said that he wanted us to 
consider the two main aspects of his complaint that delayed the repair of his van  
which in turn meant he couldnt work causing  him a loss of income.  He said:  (1) he 
sent Ageas  the estimate on 4 December 2017,  but they forgot  about  it for a week; 
and (2) Ageas lies and misrepresentation of figures given whilst trying to write the 
vehicle off which  again  caused delay and loss of income.
So I will focus my comments  on these issues to see if Ageas caused  an 
unreasonable delay that led to Mr G losing income because  he was unable to use his 
van.
When Mr G first spoke  to Ageas  they told him, as is outlined in the policy, that if one 
of their approved  repairers was used no estimates  would be needed and that they 
could begin repairing the van immediately after Ageas authorised it. But Mr G 
Ref: DRN35660682preferred to use his own repairer, which he was entitled to do. In that situation  the 
policy required Mr G to send at least two detailed repair  estimates. The policy  went  
on to say: the Insurer will only be liable for the repair  costs  at a non-approved 
repairer if the Insurer has agreed  that the costs are reasonable and the Insurer  has 
issued an authorisation to the repairer. The Insurer  may need  to inspect the vehicle.  
Although Mr G obtained two estimates, Ageas told him he could send just one.
It might help if I clarify that Ageas never  told our service that Mr G sent the estimate 
to them  on 8 December,  as Mr G thinks they did. Ageas told us that Mr G sent the 
estimate to them on 4 December. And I have seen the email from Mr G to Ageas that 
confirms the estimate  was sent on 4 December,  just before 4pm. Although  Mr G told 
us that Ageas assured  him they would consider the estimate immediately, I have 
listened to the calls between Mr G and Ageas on 8 December. And during those calls 
Mr G said Ageas told him they would consider the estimate within a couple of days.
While I can understand the urgency on Mr Gs part for wanting  the estimate 
authorised as soon  as possible  so that his van could  be repaired, I dont think  its 
reasonable to expect  Ageas to do that immediately. Insurers like Ageas  deal with 
many claims. And they receive  high volumes  of emails and letters  which they have to 
process. Given the estimate  was sent to Ageas at the end of the working day on 
4 December, I wouldnt have expected  it to have been processed, considered  and for 
a decision to be made that day.
Mr G had already reported the accident circumstances and Ageas were working on 
the basis that the other driver was at fault. But, because at that stage the other  driver  
hadnt yet accepted liability, Ageas were  going  to arrange for the van to be repaired 
at their (Ageas) expense  and for them to later ask the other drivers insurer  to pay 
the cost. But Ageas,  like all insurers, have a duty to ensure that only the damage that 
was caused by the accident is repaired and that the cost is reasonable. Thats  why 
Ageas wanted  to see the estimate  so that one of their in-house  engineers  could 
assess it to see if the work  and cost proposed by Mr Gs garage was reasonable. If 
damage unrelated  to the accident is repaired,  or if damage related to the accident is 
repaired at an unreasonably high cost, the other drivers insurer  is likely  to refuse to 
pay for it. So I think it was reasonable for Ageas  to take steps to ensure that 
everything on the estimate was justified and reasonable.
At the time Mr G first called Ageas late on in the afternoon on 8 December, Ageas 
hadnt yet got one of their engineers to consider the estimate. While  Ageas 
apologised for the delay,  they didnt say they had forgotten  about  it. But, at the 
same time, they didnt  give an explanation  as to why the estimate hadnt yet been  
considered. Immediately after Mr Gs call, Ageas got one of their engineers to 
consider the estimate. That resulted in the engineer  raising some concerns. Firstly, 
that some  of the damage Mr Gs garage was proposing to repair  didnt seem related 
to the accident.  Secondly, it appeared to the engineer  that the estimated cost of 
repair (just under £6,000) meant it was uneconomical to repair  the van. Ageas 
immediately called Mr G back, but as it went to his voicemail the call handler left a 
message briefly explaining  the engineers concerns. Although Mr G called back soon 
after, the call handler dealing with the matter was no longer  available.
Ageas called Mr G the following working day, which was on Monday, 11 December. 
They discussed the damage to the van and Ageas explained they had to be satisfied 
that all the damage  to be repaired was accident  related  before  they could authorise it. 
Ref: DRN35660683Ageas said they would arrange for an independent engineer  to be sent to assess the 
van. It was then agreed that Mr G would take further photos and send them  to Ageas, 
which he did. That same  day on 11 December, Ageas instructed an independent  
engineer to carry out the assessment.
On 15 December, the independent engineer  did what is known as a desk  top 
assessment. That means he was able to assess the damage and reach a conclusion 
by looking at the photos and other  information  available without physically inspecting 
the van. He concluded  that some  of the proposed repair (front right tyre and valve) 
wasnt accident related,  but the rest of the damage was. But the independent 
engineer, like Ageas  engineer, also felt that the van was uneconomical to repair and 
that it should be declared a total loss. He said the pre-accident market  value of the 
van was £5,600 after making deductions  for some pre-existing damage and the £100 
policy excess. Mr G didnt  agree. He said the correct value of his van was more  than 
double that amount and that Ageas and the independent engineer hadnt taken into 
consideration his vans  extras and unusually low mileage.
On 18 December, Ageas agreed to authorise  the repair of Mr Gs van rather than 
maintain their decision that it was a total loss. Ageas file notes suggest  they changed 
their decision  after increasing the vans pre-accident market valuation.  They  took into 
consideration the vans extras and its unusually low mileage.  Ive seen that Ageas 
(and the independent engineers) trade  guide  valuation was based  on the van having  
153,000 miles. But Mr G said his van at the time of the accident only had 14,000  
miles. Such a large difference in miles does  tend to have a significant impact  when 
valuing a vehicle. Also, when  valuing commercial  vehicles the trade guides  deduct 
the VAT before giving the final valuation. Thats because  the guides  assume  that 
owners of commercial vehicles are VAT registered. But Mr G wasnt  registered for 
VAT, which meant the VAT had to be added to the valuation, which  significantly  
increased it. So I think Ageas decision that the van was a total loss was based on an 
inaccurate valuation.  But they corrected that on 18 December and authorised the 
repairs.
After the authorisation Mr Gs garage took the van in for repair. Mr G complained  that 
there were significant delays in repairing the van and once he got it back he said the 
quality of repair was poor.  But Ageas werent responsible for those delays or the 
quality of repair given  the garage  used wasnt one that was authorised by Ageas. 
And Ageas had explained that before  Mr G decided to use his own garage. I 
understand Mr Gs accepts that now which is why he decided  not to pursue that 
aspect of his complaint  following our adjudicators view. But Ageas did try to help 
Mr G after he told them about the problems with the garage. I understand that Ageas 
twice sent an engineer  to assess the repairs, which was reasonable. Ageas also paid 
Mr G, as a goodwill gesture, £322.55 for a replacement battery and a steering 
geometry check that he had arranged himself, which I think was reasonable.
Mr G said that because  of Ageas delay in reviewing the estimate  and their conduct  in 
initially saying his van was a total loss, his van took longer to repair. He said that 
resulted in him losing  income  as he was unable to work.  I have to decide if Ageas 
caused any unreasonable delay.  And if they did, whether or not that caused Mr G to 
lose income.
While I wouldnt  have expected Ageas  to consider the estimate Mr G sent 
immediately on the same day, the information Ive seen indicates  to me that Ageas 
Ref: DRN35660684accept they should have  considered it sooner than they did. And I think  Ageas lack 
of explanation as to why it wasnt considered  until Mr G complained on 8 December 
suggests that there was a delay and that delay was unreasonable. As I said above,  
Mr G sent Ageas the estimate just before  4pm on 4 December, so I consider that to 
be the end of the working day. And as Ive also said above, there has to be some  
allowance for the processing and administration of correspondence.  Mr G said Ageas 
had told him they would consider the estimate within a couple of days. So I think  
they should have done so by around 6 December. Without any explanation from 
Ageas, I intend to find that there was an unreasonable delay.
And for the reasons Ive explained above, I think Ageas initial  decision that the van 
was a total loss based  on its pre-accident market value was wrong.  Ageas only 
rectified that on 18 December after Mr Gs efforts when they reversed their decision 
and authorised Mr Gs garage  to repair the van. I think Ageas decision to get an 
independent engineer to assess the damage was reasonable  for the reasons Ive 
explained above. They instructed the engineer on 11 December and the assessment 
was done on 15 December. I find that to be a reasonable period of time given the 
independent engineer no doubt had other commitments. But had the engineer 
correctly valued  the van, Ageas could have authorised the repairing garage  on 
15 December. So, I think that error  caused  an unreasonable  delay of some three 
days. So, overall I think Ageas caused an unreasonable delay of around a week.
I have to consider  whether or not that unreasonable delay caused  Mr G to lose 
income during  that period. Our adjudicator had asked Mr G for evidence to prove  he 
lost income. Mr G sent us some bank statements and his tax return  for the year 
January 2016  to January  2017. But the information  he gave us doesnt  show  he lost 
income. The tax return  showed he made a loss during  the year his tax return  
covered. While Mr G kept tools in his van, he told us that he usually work[s] at the 
same workshop which suggests he is based in one place. And his policy 
documentation shows his anticipated maximum annual mileage as 2,000 miles. That 
is consistent with his van having only covered around 14,000  miles at the time of the 
accident when  the van was under eight years  old. All this information suggests  that 
Mr G hardly used his van. Our service expects  people to take steps to reduce the 
possibility of them suffering a loss. While  the information Mr G provided  to me 
suggests that he worked in a workshop and travelled very little in his van, he hasnt  
provided any convincing  information or documentary evidence showing  why he was 
unable to work without  his van. He said that one of the main reasons he chose  the 
garage he did was because they were  happy  for him to leave his tools  in his van 
while they worked on it in their garage. That suggests to me that he didnt need to 
use his tools while the van was being repaired. So, on the basis  of the information 
provided to me, while I think Ageas caused an unreasonable delay of around  a week, 
Im not satisfied that Mr G lost income as a result.
While I intend to uphold  this complaint in part because of the delay Ageas caused, 
Im not intending to ask them to do anything. Ageas paid Mr G £322.55  for a 
replacement battery and the steering  geometry  check as a gesture of goodwill. I think 
that amount  is fair compensation for the delay Ageas caused.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. Ageas agreed with my provisional  
findings. Mr G made a number of comments, as follows:
Ref: DRN35660685He has made a subject access request to Ageas to obtain all their call recordings 
relating to him. He believes that Ageas colluded with the repairing garage to do 
sub standard repairs  which in turn caused additional delays. 
He is in the process of taking the repairing garage to court  and in the garages  
statement they said they had agreed with Ageas to repair his van to a commercial 
vehicle standard . He said his van was in mint condition so he would not expect the 
repairs to be of a commercial vehicle  standard.
To evidence the fact that he lost income while he was without his van, he has 
supplied a letter from a company saying  work  was available  to him. He wants  Ageas 
to compensate him for two weeks of lost income.
Ageas  valuation of his van when they initially said it was a total loss was too low. He 
supplied three  examples of vans to show Ageas valuation was unreasonable.  And 
their suggestion that the van was uneconomical to repair  was farcical.
He had previously  believed Ageas had told us that he had sent the estimate on 8 
December because  that is what was said in our adjudicators view. So, it was our 
mistake. 
He is sure he had told Ageas it was urgent to get his van repaired, so Ageas should 
have dealt with it quicker than they did. He recalls he was told he would get a 
decision the next day.
Although he understands Ageas had to justify what  was to be repaired, their handling 
of the process  of authorising the repair was unreasonable. They  twice  asked him for 
photos and then told him an independent engineer would have to assess  the van. 
He had many telephone  conversations with Ageas and he recalls  he was told by 
them that they had forgotten about  the case. So, he suspects  Ageas have not given 
us all the calls.  
The payment  made by Ageas  wasnt a gesture of goodwill. The van was returned to 
him with a flat battery and with a steering defect that was part of the original repair.  
He accepts the bank statements and tax return he provided dont prove his loss of 
income. But we had asked him for copies  of his bank statements and tax return.  He 
wants to know why we asked for them  if they were not going to be of any use.
In response to my comment  that he Usually works in the same workshop . He said 
the workshop  isnt particularly local and he only works there  twice  a year for a short 
period during construction and then he is on site to install where  he needs his tools.  
His van is fitted with a secure  site chest in which all his tools  are locked every night. 
Without those he cannot work. At the time of the accident he had work  available at 
the workshop.  So, each day Ageas delayed the repair of his van it cost him £175  a 
day.
He was refused  a replacement van even though he was entitled to one. As he didnt 
have a replacement  van he couldnt transfer  his tools.
He was willing to forego  work  for a short period of maybe three weeks to get the 
repair carried out. But it took Ageas longer than that to even authorise the repair.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision remains  the 
same. But I will respond to Mr Gs further points  as follows:
Mr G believes  that Ageas colluded  with the repairing garage to do sub standard  
repairs which in turn caused additional delays. The garage  in question is a main 
dealer garage  of a well known, high end car brand. I dont think the garage or Ageas 
Ref: DRN35660686would have had any reason or benefit  to collude to have Mr Gs van repaired  to a 
poor standard. Any garage would know that carrying out poor repairs  to a vehicle is 
likely to lead to the owner insisting on rectification work being done; or taking action,  
both of which will cost the garage both time and money. I therefore think its unlikely 
any garage would intentionally do a poor job. But, in any event, this point has never  
been raised before and Ageas havent  had the opportunity  to respond to it. So, if this 
is something Mr G wants to pursue,  he will have to raise a new complaint with Ageas 
as its not something  I can consider in this decision.
Mr G said the repairing garage and Ageas agreed for the repair of his van to be at a 
commercial  vehicle standard. I think Mr G is suggesting this means  his van was 
repaired to a lower  standard than he expected. He feels this was unreasonable.  This 
point has never  been  raised before and Ageas havent had the opportunity to 
respond to it. So, if this is something  Mr G wants to pursue, he will have  to raise a 
new complaint with Ageas as its not something  I can consider in this decision.
Mr G has supplied me with a letter dated  15 May 2019 from a company that provides  
exhibition services.  Their website says they design, produce and construct bespoke 
stands at galleries and exhibitions, for events and businesses based in the UK and 
abroad. The letter  says:  To Whom  it may concern, This is to confirm that [Mr G]  
[Mr Gs business name] has been  a sub-contractor of [company name]  since 2010. I 
can also confirm there  were projects available to him from November 2018 at a rate 
of £875 per week up until he started  work  in mid Feburary [sic]. I think they meant 
November 2017, which is when  Mr G had the accident. I dont think this letter  is 
sufficient to demonstrate that Mr G lost income  during  the time I said Ageas caused 
an unreasonable delay in early December 2017. It doesnt say: what work was 
available; the location of where  the work  was available; or what tools, if any, Mr G 
would have needed to carry out the work. I should also say that we expect people to 
take steps to mitigate their losses. That means,  in Mr Gs case,  taking certain steps 
to try and continue working even when he was without his van. I dont have details of 
what the work involved or where  it was. But if it was nearby and required light tools, 
Mr G could have perhaps  taken public transport or a cab to do the work. Or he could 
have hired a vehicle.  But there is no evidence that he took steps to enable  him to 
continue working.
Further to the above, Mr G questioned why we asked him to provide his tax returns 
and bank statements. In February 2019, our adjudicator asked Mr G: 
Can you forward me documented  evidence regarding  your loss of earnings so 
I can consider it further (eg bank statements before and after the issue with 
the repairs, bookings  you had to cancel).
Mr G replied: 
I am self employed. I usually work  at the same workshop  and charge the 
same flat rate of £17.50.  Usually working  a minimum of 10 hours  a day 5 days  
a week, sometimes working weekends although  I cannot confirm weekends 
would have been available at this time.  I can supply invoices to show  this but I 
consider this to be a very reasonable rate.  
Our adjudicator responded:
I appreciate what you've  told me about your loss of earnings, however  as a 
service we do require  documentary evidence to support  this. You can provide 
us with documents such as:
Ref: DRN35660687 bank statements for November 2017,  December 2017 and January 2018
 tax returns for the previous year
 any invoices or cancelled bookings
If you've any questions or difficulties obtaining this information, please  let me 
know.
We asked for evidence, including invoices, which Mr G said he could supply. But 
despite saying  that he didnt provide any invoices. And whereas  he initially  told us: I 
usually work  at the same workshop he changed  that and said he only works at the 
workshop twice a year.  And as I mentioned in my provisional decision,  Mr Gs van 
averages 2,000 miles a year, which is unusually low for a self-employed person  who 
uses his van for work. So, on the available evidence, Im not satisfied that Mr G has 
demonstrated that he lost income while he was without his van.
Mr G has supplied further  evidence  and made  additional comments  to show  his van 
was worth more than the initial  valuation Ageas placed on it. But Ive already said in 
my provisional decision that Ageas initial valuation was inaccurate. And once they 
corrected their mistake they authorised the vans repair rather  than insist on settling 
the claim on the basis that it was a total loss because it was uneconomical to repair.  
So, I dont require  any further  evidence to satisfy  me that Ageas initial  valuation  was 
wrong.
Mr G explained that the only reason he said Ageas had told us that he had sent the 
estimate of repair on 8 December was because that is what our adjudicator  said in 
her view.  That was indeed our mistake  for which I apologise to both Mr G and Ageas. 
Ageas never said Mr G sent his estimate  on 8 December, they said he sent it on 4 
December.
Mr G said he told Ageas  it was urgent to get his van repaired, so Ageas should  have 
dealt with it quicker than they did. He recalls he was told he would get a decision the 
next day. As explained in my provisional  decision,  having listened to the calls 
provided to me, Mr G said Ageas had told him they would  consider the repair 
estimate within a couple of days. Not immediately  as Mr G suggested or the next 
day. But, whatever Ageas told Mr G, Ive explained  in my provisional  decision that 
Ageas caused  an unreasonable  delay of around a week.
Mr G said that although he understands Ageas had to justify  what  was to be repaired, 
their handling  of the process of authorising the repair was unreasonable and caused 
delay. They asked  him twice to send  photos  and then told him an independent 
engineer would have to assess the van. As Ive explained in my provisional  decision, 
Ageas had to ensure that the arears of repair  to Mr Gs van had to be those  areas 
that had been damaged during the accident.  And the cost of repair  had to be justified. 
So, it was reasonable for Ageas to take certain steps before authorising  the repair.  
But Ive already said Ageas caused an unreasonable delay of around a week.
Mr G said he had many telephone conversations with Ageas and he recalls  he was 
told by them that they had forgotten about  the case. So, he suspects Ageas have 
not given us all the call recordings.  But even if Ageas told Mr G that they had 
forgotten about his estimate or his claim, it wouldn't alter my decision. Ive already 
said Ageas caused an unreasonable  delay of around a week, regardless of the 
reason.
In my provisional decision,  I said that Ageas paid £322.55 for a replacement  battery  
and a geometry  check for Mr Gs van as a gesture of good will. Mr G said Ageas 
paying for those  wasnt a gesture  of goodwill, because when the van was returned to 
him it had a flat battery and a steering  defect  that was part of the original repair.  But 
as the repair  was carried out by a garage chosen  by Mr G and not one of Ageas 
Ref: DRN35660688authorised repairers,  as was explained to Mr G, any issues resulting from the repair  
were the responsibility  of the garage  and not Ageas. I dont think  Ageas had to pay 
for the new battery  or the geometry check,  but they did so as a gesture of good will.
Mr G said he was refused a replacement van even though he was entitled to one. 
And he said as he didnt have a replacement  van he couldnt transfer his tools  from 
his own van while it was being  repaired. Mr G wasnt entitled to a courtesy van from 
Ageas under  the policy. But, in any event,  I note that when Mr G emailed Ageas on 
4 December 2017, he explained why he wanted to have his van repaired by his own 
chosen repairer and not Ageas approved  repairer. One of the reasons he gave was 
that his own repairer was happy for him to leave his tools in his van while  it was 
being repaired and that they would give him a courtesy vehicle. Whereas had he 
used Ageas approved repairer  and got another van, he would have  had to empty  his 
tools from his own van while it was being repaired.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained in my provisional decision and above, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. But I dont require  Ageas Insurance Limited to do anything.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3566068