K822xcomplaint
Mr Q complains that Advantage Finance Ltd refused to let him reject a faulty  car.
background
In November 2017 Mr Q bought a second  hand  car which  cost £3,995  and which was funded 
in full by hire purchase finance provided by Advantage. The car was some 10 years  old and 
documentation from the time of sale show it had done 118,000 miles. However,  a sales  
video from the time shows that it had actually done 119,960 miles.
Within a few weeks  of purchase Mr Q identified  several faults and took the car back  to the 
dealer. It said there were no faults and Mr Q contacted Advantage which  commissioned  an 
independent report. This stated:
The vehicles overall general condition was fair and reasonable for a vehicle's age and 
reported mileage  and gave no immediate obvious  concerns, however we can confirm the 
vehicle has some underlying issues as stated in the report. The major issue  is that noxious 
gases are entering the passenger compartment render the vehicle unusable until the fault 
has been rectified, the fault as from an EGR valve and therefore  the EGR  valve should be 
removed checked  and replaced  if necessary.
It concluded:
Having inspected the vehicle we are able to confirm that the vehicle would have  been  
considered to have  been  fit for purpose  at the time of its purchase and of a satisfactory 
standard. Although there is an underlying  issue/s with the vehicle these are the result  of the 
vehicles natural wear  and tear through  general  usage, only developing into an issue that 
requires rectification after purchase.
The inspector had presumed the car had done in excess of 2,000 miles while being driven 
by Mr Q, due to the paperwork not matching  the milometer, when in fact it had only done a 
few hundred miles. Mr Q has explained that he made little use of it due to the noxious  fumes  
coming in to the cabin when the air vents  were open.
Advantage rejected Mr Qs complaint  and so he brought the matter to this service where it 
was considered by one of our investigators. She noted Mr Q had said he had contacted  the 
dealership within three  weeks  of having the car after noticing  various  faults, including:
problems with the driver side window and the rear window de-mister
the tyre sensor warning light being  on
the car radio  clock not holding time
intermittent difficulty selecting  gears
the duel mass flywheel rattling
a DPF fault resulting  in fumes filling the car
She said that, on balance,  many  of these issues could be expected on an older car which  
has travelled so many miles  and so she didnt think that meant the car wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality.
With regard to the other issue Mr Q had identified with intermittent difficulty selecting gears 
she thought that as he had been able to drive the car for 3,275 miles that these  were  unlikely 
Ref: DRN35796652to have been present at the point of sale. However, she noted a report from another  garage 
supplied by Mr Q mentioning there was a problem with the duel mass  fly wheel.  She thought 
it was reasonable  to believe that this issue would have been present  at the point  of sale
given it had been identified shortly afterwards.  So she recommended  Advantage pay for the 
repair of the flywheel.
Advantage didnt  agree  and said that it didnt think Mr Q would have put his family at risk by 
driving the car for over 3,000 miles without having  it checked. Mr Q didnt agree and 
provided the evidence which showed the car had a higher  mileage when he bought  it than
the paperwork showed, and so he had only actually driven a few hundred  miles in it. He also 
said he hadnt driven the car for the previous six months given it generated  flames  when 
started.
Our investigator issued  a second view upholding the complaint and said that Mr Q wanted 
the car repaired or failing  that he be allowed to reject  it. Advantage contacted the inspector 
who said that the fact the car had done fewer miles  than he had originally  believed  didnt 
affect his conclusion.
Mr Q said the dealer had refused to repair the car, and Advantage had had the opportunity 
to do so but hadnt. He said the car was a death-trap and he asked that he be allowed  to 
reject it. He explained he couldnt  use it and it now had no MOT.  And he had bought  a 
replacement to allow him to get to work etc.
Our investigator said that she thought  rejection was the best option. I issued a provisional 
decision as follows:
I said I had found  this a finely balanced  matter. I noted the car was quite  elderly and had 
done a significant number  of miles.  It was to be expected there would be wear  and tear, but I 
needed to be satisfied that the faults which  presented a couple  of weeks  after purchase 
werent present  at the point of sale. I noted the engineers initial report and his more recent 
comments in which he said that the faults  were all due to general  wear and tear and were  to 
be expected in a car of this age and mileage. Set against that were  Mr Qs testimony and the 
report by his garage.
I was satisfied that Mr Q encountered problems in the first few weeks  of purchase and that 
he took the car to the dealer and his concerns were not resolved. He had also notified 
Advantage not long after and it was clear  that since owning the car for some 18 months hed 
only driven a few hundred miles.  I also appreciated  his frustration that it was acknowledged 
that fumes were coming into the car shortly  after purchase and neither the dealer nor 
Advantage took responsibility for rectifying this problem. The car wasnt being  driven  and Mr 
Q was concerned that its too dangerous to drive.
I thought the fact he had made  minimal use of the car supported  his claim that it wasnt  fit for 
purpose at the material time. There had been  some dispute about  the mileage when Mr Q 
bought the car. He provided the sales video which shows  it had done  119,690 miles rather 
than the documented figure  of 118,000.  This meant  that at the time of the independent 
inspection, some three months after purchase, Mr Q had used it for only 1,585 miles and he 
has sent a recent screenshot showing a current mileage  of 121,362 which  meant he has 
only done 87 miles in the last year or so.
While I was loathe to go against an independent report, I was concerned that the initial one 
was tainted by incorrect information about the mileage covered since purchase.  I noted the 
Ref: DRN35796653inspectors more recent comments, but taken alongside the brief report  by Mr Qs mechanic I 
had some doubts as to why so many faults manifested themselves  so soon after purchase. If 
there had been  one issue which surfaced a couple  of weeks later then I might have been 
persuaded that the car was fit for purpose  at the time of sale,  but given the range of issues 
overall, I believed  that Mr Q should  be allowed  to reject the car.
I said I was aware that Mr Q has incurred additional costs due to not having  a car he could 
use and I thought these were  best accommodated in my proposed award  of £400 for trouble 
and upset.
Advantage tacitly  accepted my provisional decision as did Mr Q, but he asked that he be 
awarded additional costs. He said the car hadnt  been used since February 2018. As he 
couldnt use the car he had incurred travel costs.  He had paid for tax and insurance  and he 
had out the car into storage at a cost of £12.50 per day. He said that if he was to be put back 
into the positon he had been had the car been  satisfactory these costs should be covered.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties accept  that rejection is the best course of action I am left to consider that 
level of compensation  and costs  to be awarded. I appreciate Mr Qs points about  his costs, 
but I think the award of £400  is reasonable. I can understand his reluctance to use the car 
since last February, but it was available for use during at least part of that period. Even if that 
use was limited. 
As for his transport costs he has not had to incur the running costs  on the car and so I dont 
believe it appropriate that these be covered. As for the standing  costs such as tax and 
insurance I think a fair proportion of these can be covered by the £400 award. I understand 
that Mr Q has recently put the car into paid storage, but I dont believe it fair for Advantage to 
pay for that. He has only had to pay for three of the monthly payments to Advantage So 
while I have sympathy for Mr Q I consider the decision  I issued should stand.
Ref: DRN35796654my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Advantage Finance Ltd to:
Unwind the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Refund all payments but three  made by Mr Q and pay interest at 8% simple  on any 
payments refunded  from date to payment to the date they are repaid.
Collect the car from Mr Q at no cost to him.
Remove adverse  information placed  on Mr Qs credit file, if any.
Pay him £400 compensation for incidental costs and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3579665