K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about an equity release mortgage  Mr A took out (jointly with his now 
deceased wife) on the advice and recommendation of Key Retirement Solutions Limited. He 
believes the mortgage  which carried the potential for a substantial  early repayment change  
(ERC) if he repays it  was mis-sold. To resolve his complaint, Mr A says Key should allow 
him to switch to a lower rate (with  a different provider if need be) without incurring  the ERC.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words, and rounding the figures  involved. No discourtesys intended by that; 
its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something,  it wont 
be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
The terms of an equity  release mortgage  provide  that no monthly repayments are required.  
The mortgage is only due to be repaid if the property is sold voluntarily, or if the last 
surviving borrower goes  into full-time nursing care or after their death.  Interest on the loan is 
rolled up into the outstanding balance, and is compounded. This means that if the loan runs 
for a number of years, there can be a significant  balance to be repaid. There can also be an 
ERC if the mortgage  is paid off for reasons other  than those listed  above.
The first equity release  mortgage Key arranged for Mr A (and his late wife) was for 
£197,000, with a lender Ill refer to as M; that was in 2012. The mortgage with M was on a 
fixed rate of 7.29%. At the time of taking this mortgage, Mr and Mrs A had told the advisor 
they didnt foresee moving house  again, but in 2013,  they decided to relocate. This meant 
they had to review  their mortgage; this was again done through Key, but with a different 
advisor.
The new advisor  (whom Ill call Mr S) recommended they change provider; a lender Ill call 
P was offering a lower rate (6.90% fixed)  and there  was no ERC on the existing mortgage 
with M. The new mortgage with P started in early 2014; the amount  borrowed was just under 
£204,000. This was increased by way of a further advance  of £15,000 in early 2015,  for 
which the rate was 7.39% fixed.
Matters rested there until 2018 when Mr A (he was by now the sole borrower as Mrs A had 
sadly died) received  a letter  from Key inviting  him to contact it. The letter  explained that with 
current rates  for new equity mortgages being lower than previously,  Mr A may be able to 
save by changing  to a new deal. Mr A contacted Key, but was told that with a substantial 
ERC due if he repaid  the mortgage  with P, changing to a new deal wasnt a viable option.
The essence  of Mr As complaint is that he considers  that the letter  hed received  signed in 
the name of Keys  CEO   promised him access to a better deal on a lower  rate, but the ERC 
on the existing  mortgage with P is preventing him from getting it. On that basis,  Mr A says 
the change of mortgage provider from M to P in 2014 mortgage was bad advice (because it 
has trapped him with high rates and an ERC) and therefore a mis-sale.
Ref: DRN30898562Key rejected  the complaint, and when  Mr A referred  it to us, our investigator wasnt  
persuaded Key had done anything wrong. Mr A has asked for his compliant to be reviewed  
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes  between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts.  
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If the available evidence is incomplete  
and/or contradictory,  we reach our findings on what we consider  is most  likely to have 
happened, on the balance  of probabilities. Thats broadly the same test that the courts  use in 
civil cases.
As I said earlier,  if I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed  to 
consider it but because  I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
This complaint is more  straightforward than its been made to look; at its core, it can be 
condensed into two broad  points; specifically
whether the advice  to change providers given in late 2013 was unsuitable; and
whether the communication Key sent Mr A in 2018 created an obligation  to place him on 
a mortgage with better terms  than he has at present without him paying an ERC.
Given the distance of time between the two events, theyre separate and discrete from each 
other, and must be determined on that basis, beginning with the change  of provider. The 
starting point here is the point- of-sale  documentation from 2013.
The value of such documents is that theyre contemporaneous; so they should reflect what 
was said and agreed at the relevant time.  Theyre not fool-proof, of course; its always 
possible information might  be recorded  incorrectly. But unless weve a compelling  reason to 
think that the information isnt accurate, well generally attach some weight to it. Its typically  
more reliable than peoples individual recollections at a distance of time which,  although 
given in good faith, can sometimes  be inaccurate or contradictory. 
Having considered the circumstances as they stood in November  2013  (as I must do) Im 
satisfied the recommendation to change providers from M to P stands up to scrutiny.  Its 
important to keep  in mind  that with the cumulative  effect of interest rolling  up on a compound  
basis over a long period,  even a relative small rate reduction can have a dramatic  beneficial  
effect on long term costs. 
Ref: DRN30898563The difference between the two rates (6.9% instead of 7.29%) may look modest,  but it meant 
the deal on offer from P would  deliver  substantial long-term savings compared  with staying 
with M. Also, with no ERC to pay to M, there was nothing to offset  against  that future saving. 
Im aware that, at 7.39%,  the rate on the further advance Key arranged with P in 2015  was 
higher than the rate that had been charged  by M. But this rate was being  charged and rolled  
up on a relatively small amount of new borrowing; £15,000. When that is factored in with the 
6.90% being charged and rolled up on the main borrowing,  the aggregate rate across all of 
the borrowing  with M becomes 6.94%. Thats still significantly  lower than the 7.29% that 
would have been charged by M if Key hadnt  recommended the change of provider in late 
2013.
Of course,  the new deal with P did come  with an ERC clause if that mortgager was repaid. 
Its worth  remembering  though that the ERC clause didnt mean that an ERC  would  definitely  
be payable; the way the term is drafted allows the possibility for no ERC to be charged.  Ill 
explain how.
The ERC P applies is what is known a floating charge calculated  by reference to an 
investment index, specifically the FTSE UK Gilt 15 year Yield  Index. In simple terms, if the 
index yield  expressed as a percentage   remains the same  as or falls below a benchmark 
rate, an ERC will be payable whereas if the yield moves above the benchmark, an ERC  isnt 
payable. It all depends on the relationship between the index and the benchmark at the time 
of repaying. Unfortunately, in Mr As, the yield has fallen, and thats why he currently would 
be liable  for an ERC if he repaid his mortgage  with P
The mortgage offer showed illustrative  examples of the ERC that might  be chargeable, 
depending on how the index moved,  along with a detailed explanation of the mechanics of 
the index. I cant  know  how much of the information Mr and Mrs A assimilated. But the 
documents presented the information in a format  that was consistent  with the requirements 
set by the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) which regulates the sale of mortgages.  Also,  
Mr and Mrs A received independent legal advice from their own solicitor before entering into 
the mortgage with P.
I make  one last observation regarding the ERC. Its always difficult  to predict with any 
certainty and reliability the direction investment markets  and indices will move  from time to 
time. Here, Mr A is unlucky in that in his case the index has maintained  a downward trend. 
Key and its advisor  Mr S cant be held responsible for that. 
Im not unsympathetic  towards Mr A, but I have  to decide this part of the complaint by 
reference to the situation  as it stood at the time Key recommended changing providers. For 
the reasons Ive set out, Im not persuaded the advice to do so was unsuitable. 
That brings me to the letter from Keys CEO in 2018. Mr A has described this as a personal 
communication from the CEO to him; he rejects  the investigators opinion that it was an 
advertising mailshot. Mr A has also,  in one of his emails asking for the case to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman, referred to the letter as a mortgage offer to me as a cheaper  option. 
Ive given this a lot of though, given the weight Mr A attaches to the letter, and his strength of 
feeling on what it amounts  to. Unfortunately,  I have  to say that Mr A has somewhat mis-
directed himself.
This was very much a marketing device;  an invitation to Mr A to engage  with Key to see if it 
could find him a new deal that was better than the one he is currently  on with P, bearing in 
Ref: DRN30898564mind that in the current climate, providers are offering much  lower rates than were  available  
when the mortgage was moved to P. There is nothing about  the letter, whether in tone or 
content, that could  amount to a promise to lend. I say that not least because Key is not a 
lender.
All that the letter does offer is an opportunity  for Mr A to ask Key to find out if it would be 
beneficial to him to change  to one of the deals available  now. It doesnt guarantee Mr A a 
better deal,  and nor does  it put any obligation  on Key to find him one or change the terms of 
Mr As current contract with P. 
For Key to recommend a new deal on a lower rate, it would  have to be on the basis  that the 
new deal is in Mr As best interests. Presently, because the relationship between the index 
and the benchmark means  Mr A would have  to pay an ERC to leave P, Key has said a 
switch isnt in Mr As best interests. For all the reasons Ive set out, I cant  find that Key has 
mis-advised Mr A or treated him unfairly.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from his submissions the determination with which  Mr A has brought 
the complaint.  Its also natural to emphasise individual  statements or comments that appear 
to support a particular  view point,  whilst  at the same time paying  less attention to those that 
support the opposite  viewpoint. 
But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or anomalies in what both 
sides have said and done from time to time.  Be that as it may,  I have  to take a different 
approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively, sometimes  taking a step back 
and focussing  on the broader  picture.  Thats what Ive done. Having done so, I cant  find in 
Mr As favour, however much he thinks I should.
Mr A doesnt  have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor Key will 
be bound  by my final decision. Subject to any time limits or other restrictions  a court  might 
impose, Mr As right to take legal action  against Key over the subject matter  of this complaint 
wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3089856