K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
October 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold some of the complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Mr F has said that 
he accepts my provisional findings.  Sunny  has provided us with some  comments.  
Although I am only summarising here what Sunny  has said,  I have considered its entire 
response carefully before writing this decision.
Sunny has pointed out that Mr F repaid each of his first four loans on time and didnt tell the 
lender about any financial  problems he was facing before any of the loans he was given. It 
says that it calculated that Mr Fs disposable  income was sufficient  for him to sustainably  
make his repayments on each of the loans. 
Sunny notes that I havent concluded  that its affordability calculation was inadequate  or that 
Mr Fs declared  disposable income was insufficient to make  the repayments.  And it says that 
it did independently check the information  he was providing about his finances  by comparing 
it to credit reference agency data. It doesnt  consider that having other borrowing should 
mean that a consumer  shouldnt be given a new loan.
Sunny considers that it is artificial  to make creditworthiness  and affordability assessments  
dependent upon the number and frequency of loans that a consumer has taken.  And it says 
this argument  is supported  by the guidance that is given in CONC. And finally  Sunny doesnt  
agree that the number of loans taken by a consumer  necessarily impairs their ability  to take 
other mainstream credit.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And having  done so I am not 
persuaded that I should change my provisional  findings.
As I said in my provisional decision I dont think the checks Sunny did before agreeing to 
give loans 4 and 5 to Mr F were  sufficient. And I think that better checks would have shown 
that Mr F was borrowing from a number of other  short  term lenders.  I accept  that CONC 
doesnt explicitly say that loans shouldnt  be given to consumers who have other outstanding 
debt. But CONC does  require lenders  to ensure  that loans can be repaid sustainably.  I dont 
think that it is reasonable for a lender to conclude that a consumer with a significant  number 
of other  outstanding  short term loans  is in a position  to take on, and sustainably  repay, 
further short term borrowing.  It seems  to me very unlikely that a consumer in that position  
would be facing a one off emergency and so be an appropriate candidate for further lending 
of this type.
Ref: DRN38146002I still think it is reasonable to conclude that theres  a point at which the pattern of lending, in 
itself, indicates  that the lending isnt sustainable.  Im satisfied that point is at loan 6 in this 
case. By then, Mr F had taken out six loans in just under  a year and he had barely started to 
repay loan 5. Mr F had been indebted  to Sunny  for almost 80% of the year that he had been 
borrowing and was making no significant inroads into his outstanding debt.
I think its likely that a mainstream lender would look at the number of loans Mr F took from 
Sunny and take a negative view. So, I think its fair that all information about loan 6 is 
removed from Mr Fs credit file. 
Considering everything, I think that the findings  and redress  I set out in my provisional 
decision are fair.
putting things right
I dont think Sunny should have agreed to lend to Mr F after,  and including,  the loan that he 
took on 15 January  2018 (loan 4). So for each of those loans Sunny should;
Refund any interest and charges paid by Mr F on the loans. 
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Fs credit file in relation to loan 4 and 
loan 5.
The number of loans  taken before loan 6 means  any information recorded  about it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan 6 should  be removed from Mr Fs credit file once it has 
been fully repaid.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr F a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Mr F still owes Sunny some of the principal balance he borrowed on his last two loans, 
Sunny may deduct this from the compensation that is due to him. But, to be clear, those 
outstanding balances should be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but taking 
account of any repayments Mr F has made on those loans as though  they were applied  
against the principal sums borrowed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr Fs complaint and direct Elevate Credit  
International Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38146003
Ref: DRN38146004EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr F complains that Elevate  Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr F was given six loans by Sunny between June 2017 and May 2018. Each of the loans  was due to 
be repaid in seven monthly instalments but Mr F generally repaid the earlier loans well before the 
agreed date.  At one point Mr F had three  loans  outstanding at the same time.  Mr F successfully 
repaid his first four loans  but a balance remained outstanding  on his last two loans when he made his 
complaint. A summary  of Mr Fs borrowing  from Sunny  is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing Date Repayment  DateLoan 
Amount 
1 10/06/2017 16/10/2017 £  1,100
2 01/09/2017 31/01/2018 £     400
3 02/01/2018 31/01/2018 £     600
4 15/01/2018 31/01/2018 £     200
5 11/04/2018 - £     400
6 12/05/2018 - £     200
When Mr F first complained to Sunny it offered to refund  the interest and charges  hed paid on the 
first loan. Mr F didnt  accept that offer and brought his complaint to this Service.
Mr Fs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. Given Sunnys offer she didnt  review 
the first loan. She didnt think  Sunny  had been  wrong to give loan 2 to Mr F. But she didnt think  
Sunny should have  agreed  to lend the remaining loans. So she asked Sunny to pay Mr F some 
additional compensation.
Sunny didnt  agree with that assessment. After reviewing the complaint further it rescinded the offer it 
had made  in relation  to loan 1. But it did offer to pay the compensation  that had been suggested by 
our adjudicator in relation to loans 5 and 6. Mr F didnt accept  that offer. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman,  to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice  this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure that Mr F could repay the 
loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could  take into account a number  of different  things, 
such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income  and 
expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough 
checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN38146005But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly  and reasonably have done more  to 
establish that any lending was sustainable  for a consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish  whether  Mr F 
could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the FCAs Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the repayments.  
And it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Sunny did some checks before it lent to Mr F. It asked him for details of his income,  and his normal 
expenditure. And it checked his credit  file before agreeing  the loans. Ive seen a summary of those 
checks and I dont  think  they showed anything that should  have caused additional concerns  to Sunny.
As I mentioned earlier  each  of Mr Fs loans was repayable over a seven month period.  So the 
amounts that Mr F needed  to repay each time were smaller than if hed taken a normal payday loan. 
But of course  he was committing  to making those repayments  over a far longer  period. And at times 
Mr F had a number of loans outstanding  together. So Ive needed to consider the total amount that 
Mr F needed to repay to Sunny each month.
I currently think that the checks Sunny did before agreeing the first three loans were  proportionate.  
The amounts that Mr F needed  to repay appeared affordable  compared with the disposable income  
hed declared and what Sunny reasonably knew  about  his other credit commitments.  Given  these 
repayment amounts, what was apparent about Mr Fs circumstances at the time, and his borrowing  
history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Sunny to ask him for the 
amount of information that would be needed to show the lending was unsustainable before agreeing  
the first three  loans. 
Ref: DRN38146006I do think, by the time Mr F asked for loan 4, that Sunny  should  have realised that it couldnt safely 
rely on the information  he was providing  about his finances. This was now his fourth  request in just 
over seven months, and he was still repaying two other loans from Sunny at that time.  I think Sunny  
should have taken steps at that time to independently verify  Mr Fs true financial position. Had it done 
so Sunny would have  seen that Mr F was borrowing heavily from a number of other short term 
lenders. It should have  been  clear that it was unlikely that Mr F would be able to repay any further 
borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
And I think the same applies when Mr F asked  for his fifth loan three months later.  Although around 
two months had passed  since hed repaid his previous borrowing, I dont think  that period would  have 
been long enough  for Sunny to be comfortable that Mr Fs finances had returned to a more  stable 
footing. And in fact better checks at that time would have shown Mr F was continuing to borrow 
heavily from a number of other  short term lenders.  So I dont think Sunny should have agreed to give 
loans 4 or 5 to Mr F.  
And looking at the overall pattern of Sunnys  lending  history with Mr F I think  by loan 6 the lender 
should reasonably have seen that any further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And 
so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  provide this loan. 
This was now Mr Fs sixth loan request in just under a year. Each of the loans  Mr F had taken had 
been repayable over a period of seven months. But Mr F regularly paid those loans off far earlier than 
planned. I think that pattern  of frequent borrowing and repaying early  should  have indicated to Sunny 
that Mr F was most likely having  significant  problems  managing his money. Mr F had two loans active  
at the same time. Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr F was having  to borrow  
further to cover the hole repaying his previous  loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Fs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
I think  that this loan had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Fs indebtedness by allowing him to take 
expensive credit  intended for short-term  use over an extended  period of time. By now the sheer 
number of loans Mr F had taken  was likely to have had negative implications on his ability  to access 
mainstream credit  and so kept him in the market for these high-cost  loans.
So I dont currently think Sunny should  have  agreed to lend to Mr F from loan 4 onwards. Sunny  
needs to pay Mr F some  compensation.
Ref: DRN3814600