K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Clydesdale Bank PLC incorrectly calculated interest on his term deposit 
accounts.
background
Mr T invested in a three year term deposit  account in 2011.  At maturity he invested the 
proceeds in another term deposit  account  for forty months. When that account matured, 
Mr T didnt  receive the amount of interest hed expected.
Interest on the first account had been  calculated daily and paid at maturity.  Mr T considered 
it shouldve been  applied to the account  annually. The discrepancy  meant  interest on the 
second account wasnt as much  as Mr T thought it shouldve  been. 
Our investigator didnt  think Clydesdale  had done  anything wrong. He was satisfied that 
when Mr T opened the first account, the bank made him aware that interest would  be paid at 
maturity.
Mr T didnt  agree with the investigators conclusions, so the complaint has been passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im mindful that in the investigator reviewed the accounts AER and APR in reaching  his 
conclusions. Ive thought about  what was said about  those rates, but I think  its the account 
opening paperwork and terms  and conditions that are relevant to assessing how interest on 
the account is calculated and applied.  
Having looked  carefully at those documents, Ive noted that when Mr T opened his account  
in 2011 the application  form was headed:
Term Deposit Application  Form   Capitalisation  at Maturity
The terms and conditions  that govern the account  say:
Section 3 Product  Specific Terms and Conditions
3.1 Retail Term Deposits
..3.1.5 The rate of interest applicable on the Account will be advised to you on your 
Application Form and confirmed to you in the Certificate and will not vary 
during the Fixed  Term. Details of how the interest accrues and is credited can 
be found in Condition 3.1.6
3.1.6 Interest will accrue and be credited to the Account, depending on the type of 
Retail Term  Deposit  Account  opened. The options  are:
Retail Term  Deposit  Interest Capitalised and Paid at Maturity  Interest will be credited 
Ref: DRN39686232to the Accounton the Maturity Date or when the Account is closed, if earlier.  Interest will 
start accruing on the Deposit from the Commencement Date  and will be calculated on a 
daily basis, up to and including the last Business Day before the Maturity Date  on the full
     credit balance which has been Cleared for Use on the Account.
The deposit  certificate Mr T received also said:
Interest will only be credited to the Account  on the Maturity Date, or when the Account is 
closed, if earlier.
So from what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that the terms of the account meant interest  would only 
be applied  at maturity,  rather than annually as Mr T suggests. Im also satisfied that this was 
made clear from the information provided  by Clydesdale when the account was opened.
Mr T points  out that the terms and conditions for the second account were  the same  as the 
first. But I note that for the forty month term account he selected,  interest  was capitalised 
annually  and this was the only option for that account. So the relevant condition  that 
applied said:
3.1.6
Retail Term  Deposit  Annually Capitalised Interest   Interest  will be credited to the Account 
on each anniversary of the Commencement Date andon the Maturity  Date or when the 
Account is closed, if earlier
Again, Im satisfied that interest on the second  account was correctly  applied in line with the 
account terms. But I dont  think that means  the same method of interest calculation 
shouldve been  applied to the first account.  For the reasons Ive explained, interest for that 
account was correctly calculated on a daily basis during  the term of the account,  and applied  
at maturity.
I dont find that Clydesdale has done  anything  wrong  on this occasion,  so I wont be 
upholding Mr Ts complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3968623