K822xcomplaint
Mr S complained that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited made  the wrong decision about 
liability for an accident following his claim under his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr S was involved  in an accident  in a car park. He said his car was stationary and the other 
driver drove  into him. But the other driver disputed this. Skyfire  settled the claim as a fault 
claim against him on a without prejudice  basis. But Mr S was unhappy  because  they hadnt 
first obtained  CCTV footage from the car park. He believed that it would have shown that he 
wasnt at fault. 
He wanted them to compensate him for this. He was also unhappy that the claim would be 
recorded as fault as he felt that was an unfair  mark on his record.
Skyfire accepted that they hadnt  asked the car park owners for the CCTV film. But they said 
it wouldnt necessarily have shown  Mr Ss accident or proved him right. They  thought theyd 
settled his claim fairly. However because they hadnt  given  him good service they offered 
him £75 in compensation. When this Service became involved they offered him an additional 
£150.
The adjudicator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. She thought  that Skyfire  
had made  a mistake, but that their total offer of £225 compensation was not unfair. Mr S 
didnt agree and so his complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  who is at fault for causing an accident, as this is the role of the courts.  
Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is simply to investigate whether an insurer has 
acted fairly  and reasonably, and in line with their policys terms and conditions  when they 
made their decision as regards who was responsible.  
Ive looked at Mr Ss policy and see that it says on page 28 that:
Your insurer is entitled to:
conduct the defence  or settlement of any claim on your behalf
take legal action over any claim in your name  or the name  of any person insured on 
the policy for its own benefit
admit  negligence  for any accident or claim on your behalf
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and it allows  Skyfire  to settle any claim 
against Mr Ss policy as they see fit, whether  he agrees with it or not. Insurers are entitled to 
make a commercial decision about  whether its reasonable for them to settle a claim.  
Ref: DRN33338582Mr S said he had left a parking space but was stationary in a car park when the other drivers 
car collided with his car. There  were no witnesses. When Mr S reported the incident, he 
gave Skyfire his account of events, and told them that they could  potentially  get CCTV film of 
it from the car park owner. He gave  them  the car park owner name  and contact details. He 
also sent them images of the scene, which showed  that hed been going in the wrong  
direction, although  the markings were faint. He felt that the car park CCTV film would have 
showed that he was stationary, and that he was in the right.  But the other driver said that 
hed pulled out into their path. 
After considering the evidence from both parties,  Skyfire decided that it was more likely then 
not that Mr S was at fault. And they settled the claim without asking the car park owner  for 
the CCTV film. When Mr S complained about  this, Skyfire asked for the film, but it was no 
longer available. He wanted Skyfire to compensate him for this. He said hed had to pay his 
policy excess and his no claims discount (NCD) was affected. 
Skyfire accepted that they hadnt  got the CCTV film and by the time they asked for it, it 
wasnt available. But they said there  wouldnt necessarily have been  any footage. This was 
because the car park owners said that the CCTV cameras didnt always point in the same  
direction and they couldnt say where theyd been pointing  on the day of the accident.  
Skyfire also said that, even if there had been footage  of the accident, it wouldnt necessarily 
have shown Mr S to be in the right. Mr Ss own images showed that hed been going  in the 
wrong direction,  so they felt that this could have contributed to the accident, as if hed been  
in the right position the other car might  not have hit his. They thought  that if the other  driver  
had taken them to court, theyd have been  unable  to defend the claim.  So they felt they were  
right to settle  the claim as they did. And they said that, even if he had been shown to have 
been stationary,  theyd  probably still have settled  it, but on a split liability  basis.  And, if so, his 
NCD and his insurance record would still have been affected and hed still have had a fault 
claim hed have to declare  to other  insurers. But because of their mistake,  they offered him 
compensation of £75. Mr S said he didnt cash their cheque.  When the investigator got 
involved Skyfire offered another £150, making a total of £225.  Mr S still felt this wasnt 
enough and he wanted the compensation to reflect that hed had to pay an excess  of about 
£500 and would have future increases in his insurance premium for having  a fault claim. He 
also said that the situation had caused him stress,  and he wanted Skyfire to be punished. 
But its not our role to punish business. Instead we look to see if Skyfire have made a 
mistake and if so what how they can put it right. Its clearly unfortunate that they didnt ask 
for the CCTV footage before they settled.  But I also agree  that there might not have been 
any film of the incident, or if there had, it would not necessarily support Mr Ss account of 
events. So I dont think it would be fair to say that Skyfire should  compensate him as if that 
CCTV film had existed and would have proven him to be stationary. And even if it had shown 
him to be stationary, I dont think that it was unreasonable of Skyfire  to consider that his 
going in the wrong direction could have affected his liability. And so it wasnt  unreasonable of 
Skyfire to have decided that there would have been  at least  split liability. If so, that would 
have still affected  Mr Ss NCD and future premiums. And an excess is payable on a claim 
regardless of fault.  
I think that there is generally likely  to be some stress for the parties  involved when liability is 
disputed. But I can see thats been even more frustrating for Mr S because  he feels that 
Skyfire let him down.  
Ref: DRN33338583However I do think that the total of £225  compensation which  they offered him is not 
unreasonable and does  fairly reflect any distress and inconvenience he may have 
experienced as result  of their failing. And so, although I uphold  his complaint, I dont require 
them to pay any more  than that.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I uphold  this complaint.
I require Skyfire Insurance  Company  Limited  to pay Mr S compensation of £225 for the 
distress and inconvenience he experienced. This is to be less any amount they have already 
paid him if he has cashed  that. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Skyfire must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell them Mr S 
accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Skyfire consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr S how much they have taken off, and give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3333858