K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about the time taken by Interactive  Investor  Services Limited (Interactive) 
to transfer his portfolio to a third party.
background 
Interactive says that it received  instructions  from Mr M on 31 January 2018 to transfer his 
portfolio to a third party. At this point in time Mr Ms portfolio consisted of 1 UK holding  and 
5 US holdings (including a holding of 10,000 shares  in Bank of America Corporation  (BAC) 
and 5,254 shares  in Morgan Stanley (MS).
Interactive says that Mr M bought 4,000  shares on 5 February 2018 in BAC,  taking his 
holding in the same to 14,000.
Interactive says that it received  instructions  from Mr M on 6 February  2018  to transfer into 
his portfolio (from another portfolio) 2 UK holdings and 2 US holdings.
Interactive says that Mr Ms entire  portfolio (3 UK holdings and 7 US holdings - including 
14,000 shares  in BAC and 5,254 shares in MS) was successfully transferred to a third party  
by 16 April 2018.
Mr M says as a result of Interactives management and administration of his portfolio transfer 
he was unable to sell his 14,000 shares  in BAC and his 5,254 shares in MS when he wanted  
to. Mr M says he was looking to sell these shares in mid-March 2018 when the share  prices  
were approximately $33 and $59 respectively. 
Its my understanding that Mr M still holds these  shares and that he calculates his loss (on 
being unable  to sell in mid-March 2018)  to be approximately $79,000, this being  based on 
mid-April 2018 share prices of approximately $30 and $50 respectively.
($33 - $30 x 14,000 = $42,000)
($59 - $52 x 5,254  = $37,000)
Mr M also says that as a result of the trouble  and upset the management and administration  
of his portfolio  transfer caused him, Interactive should have to pay him a further  sum of at 
least $20,000 by way of compensation. 
Interactive initially offered  Mr M £100  for its management and administration  of his portfolio 
transfer before increasing it to £200.  However  it offered  nothing  for what Mr M says was his 
loss on being  unable to sell (when he wanted  to) his BAC and MS shares.
This complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that Interactive  
should have to pay Mr M £300  for its management  and administration of his portfolio transfer 
but nothing for what Mr M says was his loss on being unable to sell (when he wanted to) his 
BAC and MS shares.
Interactive agreed  with the investigators  conclusion but Mr M didnt. Therefore his complaint 
has been passed to me for review  and decision.
Ref: DRN35841682my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I can confirm that 
Ive come to the same  overall conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same  
reasons. There is also very little I can usefully add to what has already been  said.
Its clear Mr M has very strong feelings  about  this matter. He has provided  detailed 
submissions in support  of his complaint which I can confirm  Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mr M will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them. 
I would also point out that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory,  I 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities   that is, what  I consider  is most likely to 
have happened  given the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr M says that as a result of Interactives handling of his transfer  request he has suffered a 
loss of approximately $79,000, this being  the fall in value of his BAC and MS shares 
between mid-March and mid-April 2018.
First Im not persuaded  that Mr M was prevented  from selling his BAC and MS shares for 
this entire  period. Its my understanding that for a large proportion  of this period of time Mr M 
was in the position to sell some, if not all, of his BAC and MS shares but he elected not to do 
so. Furthermore, Im satisfied  that even had there been no issues with the transfer out of 
these two holdings  (from Interactive) there would have always been  a period of time during 
which Mr M would  have  been unable to sell them. Finally, Im also satisfied that the delay  in 
the transfer of these  two holdings isnt entirely  down to Interactive.
Notwithstanding what I say above,  in essence what Mr M is claiming here is a loss of 
opportunity. For a claim for loss of opportunity to succeed it must be substantial rather than 
speculative. Now I accept that I cant say for certain that Mr M didnt want  to sell his BAC 
and MS shares at a point  in time between  mid-March and mid-April 2018  and that he was 
prevented from doing so as a result of a failing on the part of Interactive. But taking 
everything into account Im not persuaded, on the balance of probabilities,  that this is the 
case here.
In coming to this conclusion Ive had regard, amongst  other things, to Mr Ms trading history 
before mid-March 2018 and after mid-April 2018  and what  he told Interactive, either over the 
phone or in emails,  between mid-March  and mid-April 2018.
Mr Ms trading activity doesnt suggest  to me that he is, or was, a heavy or frequent  trader  
such that he would have wanted to, on the balance of probabilities, trade in what  was a very 
small window  of approximately  one month. Furthermore, had Mr M wanted  to trade in this 
small window,  I might  have expected to have made this very clear  in his communications 
with Interactive. Now I accept that in his later communications with Interactive Mr M made  
reference to the market  moving against  him, but at no time did he say (as far as I can see) 
that he had wanted to place a particular trade on a particular day and was unable  to do so.
Ref: DRN35841683Therefore, and like the investigator,  Im not persuaded that Interactive should have to 
compensate Mr M for what  he says is his loss on being unable  to sell (when he wanted  to) 
his BAC and MS shares.
I accept that Mr M has suffered a degree of trouble and upset  for which  he should be fairly  
compensated for, including  having to make a number of phone  calls and having to send a 
number of emails. But taking everything  into account Im satisfied that £300  represents an 
appropriate sum for Interactive  to have to pay in this respect. I would also add that our 
awards for trouble and upset are designed to compensate the consumer  and not to penalise  
or fine the business.
my final decision
My final decision is that Interactive Investor Services Limited must pay Mr M, to the extent it 
hasnt already done so, £300 in full and final settlement of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M will be disappointed by my conclusions. My final decision, however, 
represents the last stage  of this services dispute  resolution procedure. Mr M doesnt have to 
accept my decision, and if he doesnt  do so, he will be free to pursue legal action against 
Interactive Investor  Services  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3584168