K820x#14complaint
Mrs H and her representative Mr H complain about  incorrect information they were given by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC.
background
In 2008 Mrs H had a credit balance on her credit card. Lloyds issued a cheque  for this as the 
credit card didnt allow positive balances but Mrs H disputes receiving it or cashing it into one 
of her accounts. On 14 April 2015 Mrs Hs representative was told on the phone by Lloyds  
that it could raise a copy of the cheque and send it to them. But it later said it couldnt  do so 
and offered Mrs H a total of £350  compensation for giving her incorrect  information.
Mrs H and her representative want Lloyds to give them  the information it agreed  to provide in 
2015 and explain  why its refused to send it to them  previously. They  also want more  
compensation.
Lloyds has said a complaint in 2015 confirmed it wasnt  possible to obtain a copy  of the 
relevant cheque as it was dealt with more than six years ago. But it told Mrs Hs 
representative in the call on 14 April 2015  that it was possible to provide a copy. This was 
incorrect. Its already paid Mrs H £250  compensation for the 2015  complaint and its offered  
a further £100 compensation  in 2018. That additional offer is still available  if Mrs H wishes  to 
accept it. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
She isnt considering the disputed cheque  and whether or not it was cashed.  But she 
is considering the phone  call Mrs Hs representative had with Lloyds  in April 2015 
and what was disclosed in that call.
Having listened  to the call its clear the advisor spoke to a number of different 
departments within Lloyds to find out if it was possible to send Mrs H a copy  of the 
relevant cheque. The advisor was told by the finance department that a copy of the 
cheque could be raised and it would be sent to Mrs H within  ten working days.  But 
despite Mrs H and her representative chasing Lloyds a copy  of the cheque couldnt  
be raised given  the time that had gone by since it was cashed. Lloyds paid Mrs H 
compensation for the service  theyd received and the incorrect information  theyd 
been given.
Mrs Hs expectations were mismanaged in the April 2015  call. The advisor  relayed 
information hed been given by the finance  team. But it wasnt unreasonable that 
Lloyds couldnt  raise a copy of the cheque seven years after itd been cashed.  Mr H 
shouldve been told this on the call rather than being  given incorrect  information and 
false hope. 
We arent the regulator  and cant comment on Lloyds process for raising copies of 
cheques.
Its unfortunate that Lloyds gave Mrs H and her representative incorrect information. 
But its offered to pay a total of £350 compensation for this which  is reasonable. And 
she wont ask Lloyds  to do any more.
Ref: DRN31442812Mrs Hs representative doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the evidence in this case is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory. So, Ive made 
my decision  based  on what I think is more likely to have happened  than not. 
Mrs Hs representative has provided detailed submissions and comments  to support this 
complaint. Ive read and considered them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably 
less detail. And they focus on what I think are the main issues.
Mr Hs representative asked to speak to me. In summary he said he didnt trust Lloyds to 
give correct or full information.  At best itd given incomplete information. He wants  to know 
exactly why it cannot supply a copy of the cheque and what its process is for handling  
cashed cheques, whether theyre  archived  and if so for how long. He wants a definitive 
answer.
I understand Mr Hs desire  to obtain a copy of the disputed 2008  cheque and to find out 
whether and, if so, where it was cashed.  And to ascertain whats  happened  to the cheque 
since then. But as the adjudicator says we cannot  consider the disputed  cheque and 
whether or not it was cashed in this complaint. All we can consider is what Mr H was told in a 
call with Lloyds on 14 April 2015.
It isnt disputed that, despite the enquiries  made  by the Lloyds  operative  with other parts  of 
the business, Mr H was incorrectly told a copy of the disputed cheque  would be sent out to 
Mrs H within  ten days. But it subsequently  became clear this wasnt possible given the time 
that had gone by since 2008. 
Mr H says he wants a definitive  answer  about  what happened to the cheque and whether its 
archived. Lloyds has confirmed to us that its policy is to retain  cheques  for six years only. 
And it says once this time has passed  any cheques  are destroyed. I realise Mr H would like 
much more detail about what  happened  to the cheque but given that its now more than ten 
years since  the cheque was cashed  I think Lloyds level of response is reasonable. 
Here the cheque was cashed in 2008 and Mr H asked for a copy in 2015 which  is more  than 
six years  later. So, based on Lloyds stated cheque retention policy  I think  its more likely it 
was destroyed  by the time of the phone conversation in April 2015, than not.
So, all that remains is for me to consider  what is a fair and reasonable award  of 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  Mrs Hs been caused  by Lloyds giving out 
this incorrect information.
Lloyds paid £250 compensation for this in 2015 and also offered an additional £100 in 2018. 
Taking everything into account,  including the levels of award  we make,  I think a total of £350  
compensation is fair in this case for the trouble and inconvenience caused to Mrs H. And I 
dont think I can reasonably require Lloyds to pay or do any more.
Ref: DRN31442813Overall, although I recognise  Mr Hs strength of feeling and frustration,  I think the 
investigators proposed  resolution of this complaint is fair and reasonable. And I dont see 
any reason to change  the proposed outcome  in this case.
I simply leave  it to Mrs H to decide  if she now wants to accept Lloyds offer to pay her an 
additional £100 compensation.
  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3144281