K822xcomplaint
Mr H has complained about short-term loans granted to him by Ferratum UK Ltd 
(Ferratum).  Mr  H says he couldnt  afford these loans and that Ferratum  didnt take 
appropriate steps to check whether he could afford them when he took them out. 
Mr H has said hes unhappy that Ferratum has not agreed to write off the outstanding 
balance. 
Hes also complained about delays in Ferratum  acknowledging  his initial  complaint.
background 
Ferratum agreed five short-term loans  and a flexible credit facility for Mr H between 
September 2017 and March 2018. The flexible  credit facility (flex credit) allowed him to draw 
down funds up to a maximum credit limit of £500. This was then followed by a further five 
loans which  ranged  from £200 to £650,  which were due to be repaid in between one and 
four monthly instalments.  Ive set out a summary  of lending below.
flex 
creditapplication credit  limitno. of monthly 
repayments duehighest monthly  
repayment  due (£)
1 27/09/2017 500 non specific 648
loan no. applicationprincipal  
amount (£)no. of monthly 
repayments duehighest monthly  
repayment  due (£)
1 18/11/2017 200 1 254
2 22/12/2017 200 1 256
3 25/01/2018 300 1 377
4 26/02/2018 350 3 178
5 14/03/2018 650 4 331
Ferratum, in its final response letter to Mr H, agreed to refund all of the interest and charges  
hed paid on the flex credit  facility and loans 1  4, and then use that refund to reduce  the 
outstanding capital balance on loan 5, having  waived any interest and charges applied to 
that loan.
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Hs complaint already and endorsed the offer 
made by Ferratum. She thought that while proportionate checks may have shown some of 
the loans to have been unaffordable for Mr H, this was not the case for all of the loans. But 
as she thought that the offer made by Ferratum was already  in excess  of what  she would 
have awarded, she endorsed the offer as fair and reasonable given the circumstances.
Since then,  Ferratum has increased  its offer, and agreed to refund not just the interest  and 
charges Mr H paid on the flexible  credit  agreement and loans 1  4, but to also pay 8% 
simple interest on those funds. And to then apply that refund to reduce the outstanding 
capital balance on loan 5, after waiving any interest and charges applied to that loan. So Ive 
considered this new offer as part of my review. 
Ref: DRN38775732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator at the time Mr H took out the above loans. 
Its regulations for lenders  are set out in its consumer credit sourcebook  (generally  referred  to 
as CONC). These regulations required lenders  to take reasonable steps to assess  the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences.  -  CONC 5.3.1(2). 
CONC 5.3.1(7) defined  sustainable as being able to make repayments  without  undue  
difficulty. And explains this means  borrowers  should  be able to make  their repayments on 
time and out of their income and savings without having to borrow  to meet  these repayments. 
In making this decision Ive considered whether or not Ferratum  did everything  it shouldve 
when assessing  Mr Hs loan applications.  And if it didnt, had it carried  out proportionate 
checks, whether  it wouldve realised  these loans may have been unaffordable for him.
Having reviewed the case, I agree  with the adjudicators findings. I think  the checks 
Ferratum carried out for some of the loans were proportionate, but that its checks  for at least  
the later loans shouldve gone  further.  But as the offer Ferratum has now made is already 
equal to what  I wouldve  awarded had I felt Ferratum was wrong in agreeing to all of Mr Hs 
loans, I dont think its offer needs to go any further in the circumstances. 
So Im upholding  Mr Hs complaint for the same reasons  as our adjudicator did and directing 
Ferratum to put things  right in the way he recommended. I appreciate this is less than Mr H 
was hoping for, but I hope my explanation will make it clear as to why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
affordability
Ferratum said it carried out proportionate  checks each time it lent to Mr H. It said that it 
approved the above loans after conducting an up to date credit check with a credit reference 
agency along with its own internal credit policy checks. And that the credit  report,  as well as 
confirming Mr Hs name, address and the presence of any adverse public data, also listed 
his payment history  on his credit commitments.
When Mr H took out his first three loans with Ferratum, I wouldnt have expected its checks 
to necessarily go as far as I may have  expected  later on in the loan chain. But once a 
customer has started to repeatedly return to a lender for further borrowing, I think the lender 
should start to become alerted to a customers potential  reliance  on short-term lending,  and 
as a result, extend its checks,  so that it can be confident in the customers  ability  to maintain 
their repayments in a sustainable manner. 
So while I may have  said that Ferratums checks on Mr Hs first three loan applications may 
have been proportionate;  by the time Mr H took out his fourth loan with Ferratum, I think its 
checks shouldve gone further. As I think by this point, he was starting to build up a pattern 
of regular borrowing, which I think shouldve prompted Ferratum to carry out further checks 
to ensure he could  continue  to repay  his loans sustainably. And I think  had Ferratum carried 
Ref: DRN38775733out proportionate checks, it may have  realised some of these loans may have been 
unaffordable for Mr H, and would not have agreed to them.
However, even if Id concluded that Ferratum shouldnt have agreed to any of the loans it 
approved for Mr H, I wouldve instructed it to refund all the interest and charges Mr H paid on 
the flex credit agreement  and loans 1  4 plus 8% simple interest, from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement. And to apply that refund against the outstanding capital balance  
remaining on loan 5, having waived any interest and charges that applied to that loan. 
Having looked  at the offer made by Ferratum, I can see that this is what its already agreed 
to do in settlement  of Mr Hs complaint. This means  the offer made  by Ferratum, is already in 
line with the maximum I would award, had I upheld Mr Hs complaint in full. So it follows,  that 
I think Ferratums most recent  offer is fair in the circumstances, and it should  therefore settle 
Mr Hs complaint about the affordability of his loans in this way, as its agreed to. 
outstanding capital balance
Mr H said hes asked Ferratum to write off the outstanding capital balance on his final loan 
(loan 5), as he is not in a position to repay this balance. But that its not agreed  to do this. 
Its useful for me to explain at this stage,  that when a complaint is brought to our service,  my 
role is to reach an outcome that is fair and reasonable. This means that where I think  a 
business has acted  unfairly, Ill try, so far as is reasonably practical,  to put the customer back 
in the position they wouldve been,  had the issue not occurred. 
In the circumstances of Mr Hs case,  this means that where  I think  the loans should  not have 
been granted, Ferratum should  refund the interest and charges Mr H paid, as he would not 
have had to pay these, had the loan not originally  been agreed.  And then it should pay 8% 
simple interest on this sum, from the date paid to the date of settlement.
But while Mr H would  not have had to repay the interest and charges that were  applied to his 
loan, he also would  not have been  in receipt of the capital funds lent to him by Ferratum, 
which he in effect,  now needs to return. So rather than Ferratum return the refunded  interest 
and charges that Mr H paid directly to him, its entitled to apply this refund against any 
remaining capital balance,  to reduce  the outstanding amount Mr H still owes.
I understand Mr H finds himself at present in financial difficulty. But to ask Ferratum  to write 
off the outstanding capital  balance, would be to put Mr H in a better position than he 
wouldve been had he not taken out the loans  in the first place. And I dont think this would be 
fair on Ferratum. So I think the offer Ferratum has already  made to Mr H is fair, and Im not 
instructing it to do any more in respect of writing  off the outstanding capital balance owed. 
If Mr H however, still finds himself in a position  where he is unable to repay  the outstanding 
balance straight away,  he should speak to Ferratum to agree a mutually agreeable payment 
plan on the outstanding amount.
delays in acknowledging Mr Hs complaint
The final complaint point Mr H has raised, is that Ferratum took more than five days  to 
acknowledge his complaint. But having looked  at the evidence Mr H himself provided, it 
shows that he complained to Ferratum on 6 August 2018, and Ferratum  acknowledged his 
complaint on the same  day, which I would consider a prompt response. So I dont think 
Ref: DRN38775734Ferratum has done anything wrong  in this regard. So I make  no award in respect of Mr Hs 
complaint about  delays.
what Ferratum should  do to put things right
For the reasons  outlined  above, I think Ferratum needs to refund all of the interest and 
charges Mr H paid on the above loans as its agreed  to.
Specifically it should:
refund the interest and charges Mr H paid for the flexible credit agreement  it approved  in 
September 2017
refund the interest and charges Mr H paid on loans  1 - 4 agreed between November 2017 
and February 2018
pay interest on these  refunds at 8% simple from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
remove any adverse  information about these  loans  from Mr Hs credit  file
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum  to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ferratum has told us Mr H still owes some  of the principal balance  he borrowed on loan 5. 
So it may deduct this from the compensation thats due to him. To be clear, that outstanding 
balance should  be recalculated to remove any interest and charges, but should take account 
of any repayments  Mr H has made on this loan, as though they were  applied against  the 
principal sum borrowed.
If Ferratum no longer owns this debt,  it needs to buy it back. If it doesnt then it isnt entitled 
to make any deductions for it from the amount it needs to pay Mr H. If, after the total 
compensation has been applied against  any principal balance outstanding, there is still a 
sum outstanding, a mutually agreeable repayment  plan should be arranged.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold Mr Hs complaint in part.
And I require  Ferratum UK Ltd to put things right as described above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Brad Mcilquham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3877573