K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  which 
Mr and Mrs H say Santander  UK Plc, trading at the time as National & Provincial (N&P),  
mis-sold to them in 1991. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this case and said it shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs H 
disagreed with this so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans  decision.
I then issued a provisional decision in January 2019 in which  I gave the parties  a further  
chance to submit any further information  or evidence to me for final consideration. But I 
agreed with our adjudicator that the MPPI hadnt  been mis-sold.
The parties will note I am now using much of the same explanations and language in this 
final decision that I used  in the provisional  version.  This is deliberate and largely because 
no new information or evidence has been  received  since  I issued the provisional decision. 
We received a reply  from Mr and Mrs H. Im very grateful to them, and Ive looked very 
carefully at what they have to say, but Im afraid theres nothing new to consider. Ive already 
considered the points  they raised.  I accept they feel strongly  about  their complaint and theyll 
be disappointed  by my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done so, my final decision is that Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive already said that I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Hs recollections are genuine.  I also noted 
that Mr and Mrs H had a similar MPPI claim upheld by the business concerned.  They still 
feel that having one pay-out for mis-sold  MPPI should mean this complaint should  be 
upheld too. But as Ive already explained,  I cant say why the business  feels  it ought to 
uphold one claim and reject another. Thats a commercial decision for it to make  and Ive 
looked specifically  at this case.
Mr and Mrs H said they were  never  told the MPPI  was optional  when they met with N&P to 
discuss their mortgage. Whilst I can accept that this is their recollection now, I take into 
account that this sale was almost 28 years ago. 
We were sent a copy of the original mortgage application and I can see they both 
completed and signed  the form. At Section 8 of the mortgage application I see there was a 
section about  MPPI.  To get a policy like this, there  was a box that needed to be ticked - 
and on their form it was. All this was contained under what I consider to be a clear heading, 
which said Redundancy, Accident and Sickness  Protection. 
So I think it follows that the MPPI was something Mr and Mrs H were interested in at the 
time and I think they would have been  able to see it was optional  cover.  There was also an 
Ref: DRN31984632option at this point on the form about  how many  of the mortgage  applicants were seeking  to 
be covered by the MPPI  and they chose the policy for only Mr H. 
Mr H told me it was the adviser who filled out the form. But whilst I dont doubt that might  
have been the case, I think theres sufficient  and clear evidence to show  he and Mrs H 
agreed to this policy by signing the application.  They would also have been  able to see they 
had a choice.
On this basis, N&P properly got their consent for the MPPI cover.
I agree  that N&P probably provided  an advised sale, so it had a duty to make  sure the 
MPPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances. I think  it was.
This is because I think Mr H was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we tend to see in these types of policy. I think the cost of the cover was 
comparable with similar products I know were marketed at that time and I dont  think  the 
monthly premiums would have been unaffordable for them.  I also note that Mr H appears to 
have been the higher earner, so it seems sensible to me that he was the one covered.
I agree  Mr H would  have had some  protection from sickness with his job. Its been implied 
he didnt need  MPPI  because  of this, but Im afraid I disagree. 
Whilst I understand the point being raised,  it doesnt necessarily mean  the policy wasnt  of 
use. I think the mortgage would have been  a significant and long term financial commitment 
for Mr and Mrs H and the MPPI policy would have paid a monthly  benefit  for up to 24 
months in the event  of something  unexpected happening. In my experience, this is a 
relatively long period  of protection. This monthly  payment  would have also been in addition  
to any other  means  they already had in place.
So I think the cover was suitable for them. 
N&P had to provide information that was clear so Mr and Mrs H could make an informed 
choice about whether  they wanted to buy this policy. I obviously cant  say that N&P told 
them everything it should have. Mr H told me he was just told where to sign by the adviser.  
But Im sure Mr and Mr H would have paid attention to the documents they were  signing 
and they would have wanted  to carefully read what they were being shown.
I was shown the Mortgage  Offer, for example. In my view, this is an important document 
when buying a home, and so I feel it would have been something Mr and Mrs H would have 
paid particular attention to. The Offer included the MPPI and how much  it cost. I was also 
sent a copy of a leaflet  that was typically given to consumers who had bought such  a policy  
at around that time. Theres no dispute the policy was sold,  so Ive got no reason to think  Mr 
and Mrs H wouldnt have had access to the information N&P provided about the policy.
Mr H told me there was no evidence the policy information documents  we were sent were 
the actual ones used at the time. However,  this was 28 years ago now and whilst they 
might not be an exact reproduction, I think the content would broadly have been the same. 
Taking all the above into account, I think that its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs H 
were provided with enough  information for them to make an informed decision about what 
they wanted to do about  mortgage protection.
Ref: DRN31984633I also note Mr H has questioned the unavailability of certain other facts and documents  
concerning the sale. But Im afraid  I dont think it would be reasonable to expect a full 
disclosure of all the documents used after this length of time. Businesses arent required to 
keep paperwork indefinitely. So weve used examples of certain  things, such  as the policy  
rules and benefits in determining  the likely benefits  of having a policy like this.
Ive now comprehensively  looked over all the issues raised. I think  the evidence shows Mr 
and Mrs H chose this cover and retained it for some  considerable  time.
The MPPI policy was not mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint or direct Santander 
UK Plc to do anything  to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3198463