K821x#15Complaint
Mr D, who is represented by his wife and niece, complains that Clydesdale  Financial 
Services Limited mis-sold him a loan to buy a kitchen.
Background
On 27 January a salesman from a kitchen  company I will call K visited Mr and Mrs D at their 
home. K had cold called them  a few days earlier to say they had been selected to receive  a 
£1,000 discount on a new kitchen.  Mrs D says the salesman stayed five hours and in the 
end they agreed  to buy a kitchen costing £10,000  to get rid of the salesman. Mrs D says 
they were not given  details on the finance aspect of the purchase and vague figures were  
mentioned such as an interest  rate of 5%.
Mrs D says she knew she could cancel the agreement which is what she did by phone the 
following day and confirmed this in writing. K called on 2 February and explained an 
improved deal could  be given if they met with a manager.
A second visit took place, this time with two representatives from K and Mrs D has explained 
that a reduced  offer was made of £8,800 and they were told a reduced rate of interest would 
be obtained, but no details were provided. She says they fell for the pressure.
I gather  from what Mrs D says, and I have seen  nothing  to show  that is not so, that 
immediately after the first visit K applied for loans  with another provider in Mrs Ds name and 
then in her husbands name, but these  were refused. Mrs D tells us it did so without 
informing them. She says it later made a loan application in Mr Ds name  to Clydesdale and 
this was approved.  Clydesdale made an offer of a personal  loan on 5 February on the basis 
that Mr D could confirm  he had an income  of £25,000. Mr D does not have such an income.  
He is in his mid 70s, lives off a modest  pension and has an outstanding mortgage. Although 
Mrs D was not party to the loan it is worth  noting she is in her 70s and is also retired.
The loan agreement  was signed by Mr D on 22 February 2018 agreeing to a loan of £8,800 
at 9.9%  interest repayable  over 10 years.  Mrs D has explained that her husband has been 
diagnosed with cognitive impairment and she normally takes responsibility for financial 
decisions. I note the invoice  for the work  was £9,500 and the additional  £700  was paid in 
cash.
I understand Mrs D was also present as was another family member who has provided  a 
witness statement that Mr D believed he was signing bill of sale.  They say he wasnt  aware 
he was signing a loan document  and neither of them was told anything  about a loan. This 
only became apparent  when paperwork from Clydesdale was discovered in mid March by 
Mrs D in a drawer along with some circulars.
I gather  Mrs D believed they would be paying  K direct in instalments. She says the salesman 
told her the interest  wasnt worth  worrying about and he would discuss that later. Mr Ds 
niece has set out how she believes the two salesmen who were  present on 22 February  
bullied and pressurised Mr and Mrs D.
Mrs D has explained that the fitting of the new kitchen was far from perfect and overall  it was 
unsatisfactory. A claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 was made, but later 
withdrawn and as such  I wont be considering  that aspect in this decision, but for the 
avoidance of doubt I am considering misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN39007562A complaint was made  to Clydesdale, but it rejected this as it considered  Mr D had signed 
the loan agreement with the full knowledge  of what he was signing which it believed was 
affordable. It referred all other aspects of the complaint to K. As far as I am aware  no 
substantive response  has been received from K.
Mr D brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. He took the view that Mr D had signed the 
form which set out the interest and monthly  repayments. He had been accompanied and the 
loan was affordable.  He believed Clydesdale had taken into account  the couples joint 
income, but he considered that was reasonable. He had checked their bank statements and 
concluded they had sufficient disposable income to cover  the repayments. Overall  he 
thought it reasonable for Clydesdale to have authorised the loan.
Mr Ds niece on behalf of Mr D didnt  agree  and submitted a raft of additional information and 
comments. I issued a provisional decision  as follows:
I said that in considering what  is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the relevant 
law and regulations,  regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and 
(where appropriate)  what I considered to have been good industry practice  at the time.
I could see that if one simply looked at the agreement in isolation it might seem  reasonable 
for the bank to have made the loan and for Mr D to have taken it on. However, if one looked 
at the wider circumstances and the context of the granting of the loan the matter was less 
straightforward and I concluded the complaint should be upheld.  I explained why.
Firstly, I said that I was satisfied that Mr D suffers from cognitive impairment and I believed a 
power of attorney had been  taken  out so his affairs can be handled by his wife.
That said I noted I was also aware that his wife was involved in the process and his niece 
became party to events later on.
For me the starting point was that Mr and Mrs D were cold called and told they qualified for a 
special offer. I was aware that K has been fined on two occasions for its cold calling 
activities. I didnt believe that Mr and Mrs D were  contemplating  a new kitchen.  I gathered 
they had lived in their house for a considerable time and although the kitchen was old it was 
sufficient for their needs. I had also been  told that Mr Ds medical condition meant he didnt  
like change  and the installation of a new kitchen was not something to be taken lightly.  
From the testimony of Mrs D and her niece it seemed  to me that Ks salesmen applied a fair 
degree of pressure on them. I didnt consider spending some  five hours on the initial  visit to 
an elderly couple one of whom has a medical  condition was reasonable. Nor did I think  it 
appropriate once  they had cancelled  the contract to return with two salesmen and push for 
them to change their minds. The whole process suggested that Ks sales team was 
determined to get a sale regardless.
The loan offer was made to Mr D and not to him and his wife. I wasnt  clear  why the offer 
was made  to Mr D when Mrs D took care of all their financial  affairs  and if they had been 
intending to apply for loan I would have expected it to be in her name. The offer dated 5 
February was made on the basis that the borrowers income  was in excess of £25,000. From 
the bank statements I had seen Mr Ds pension income falls far short  of this sum. I 
considered it was appropriate that only his income alone was taken into account when 
Ref: DRN39007563considering affordability  since  the loan was in his name. I didnt know what  information was 
provided to the bank  about his income,  but on balance, given what  I had seen I feared it may 
have been inaccurate. I had seen nothing to show that he was asked to provide bank  
statements or any other financial details.
I said if the loan had been made out to both Mr and Mrs D she would have  had to sign the 
paperwork and she may well have  picked up that a loan was being  taken out. However, as 
the loan was only in Mr Ds name this didnt happen  and it only came to light in mid March.  
Given his health  and the fact the loan wasnt due to be repaid until he was in his mid 80s I 
said I would  have expected a little more scrutiny from the bank than appeared to have 
happened. It seemed reasonable to believe that his income was unlikely to increase  in any 
significant way during  the term of the loan. I added for the avoidance of doubt that I wouldnt 
expect the bank to discriminate  on the basis of age, but I would  expect it to have carried out 
due diligence.
In the circumstances I believed it likely that that Mr and Mrs D were pressurised  into buying 
something they didnt  intend to buy and Mr D was given a loan without proper explanation of 
the terms and conditions. It seemed that the nature of the arrangements they were entering  
into were misrepresented to them and I didnt consider it was clear to them that Mr D was 
applying for a loan.
The offer document states:
It is Important that your customer understands the details, terms and conditions of the loan. 
Before they sign the Loan  Agreement, you must  talk them  through  the information  in the 
"Important information about  your loan" section of the 'Your  loan explained' document  You 
must tell the customer to consider the pre contract credit information  and loan agreement  
Give them  the opportunity  to ask questions, and remind them they can take the information  
away to consider it further was given a loan without proper explanation of the terms and 
conditions.
I was not persuaded that the required explanation  was provided. Further  I was persuaded on 
balance he was given  inaccurate information  about the nature of the agreement he was 
entering into. Mrs Ds testimony  along  with that of her niece and the contemporaneous text 
messages indicated that the financing of the kitchen was glossed over. I was satisfied that 
whole aim of the enterprise was to persuade  them to buy a kitchen  and it was highly unlikely 
that the salesmen took them through the important information about the loan.
As such I considered the loan to have  been  mis-sold and the whole deal misrepresented. 
Mr D was given a loan without proper explanation, that wasnt  affordable for something that 
he didnt want and to which  he only agreed after he and his wife were subjected to high 
pressure selling.
I said the bank  should unwind the agreement and return any payments made  by Mr D. I 
explained that normally I would suggest the bank take back  the goods, but in this case  that 
wasnt appropriate. I also suggested that all reference to the loan be removed from Mr Ds 
credit file and he be paid £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has 
suffered.
Ref: DRN39007564My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light of 
the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr Ds niece accepted  the provisional decision on his behalf, but enquired whether the cash 
payment of £700  should also be returned.  She also mentioned that Mr D didnt really  grasp  
what my provisional decision meant  as he wasnt aware a new kitchen had been fitted. 
Clydesdale accepted my findings, but suggested  the redress  should be different. It thought  
the loan should be made interest free since Mr D and his wife had the benefit of the new 
kitchen. It asked for my thoughts before I issued a final decision and I explained that I wasnt  
persuaded to change  my provisional view.  It also asked  for a discussion, but I said that it 
would be best for all concerned if it put forward its arguments in writing. It hasnt done so and 
so I have concluded there are no grounds to delay the issue  of a final decision.
Dealing with the suggestion that Mr D be repaid the £700 cash  payment he made I can 
understand why his niece raised  this point. It follows that if the kitchen  was mis-sold and the 
transaction only came about as a result  of high pressure selling that this too should be 
returned. However, as I said in my provision decision I have looked at the transaction in the 
round and taken  into account the wider  circumstances.  Although  Mr D wasnt  seeking  to 
have new kitchen fitted he does now have one, albeit  he is blissfully unaware of it and so it is 
only right that he has made  a contribution  to that cost. 
I have some sympathy with the suggestion put forward by the bank that there  is an element 
of unjust enrichment with Mr D getting a new kitchen at minimal cost. This service seeks  to 
put people back  into the positon would have been had the mis-selling not taken place. That 
normally means that the loan should be unwound and the goods returned. However, the 
return of the goods is not feasible in this case.  But I dont believe it follows that this should  
lead to the conclusion that the loan should be left in place. 
I consider that to be the tail wagging  the dog. I think the starting point is the loan should  be 
unwound regardless of what  happens  to the goods. The unusual  circumstances of this 
complaint are such that returning the goods is unreasonable  and it would be wrong  of me to 
suggest otherwise.  I believe  it is open  to the bank to speak to K if it considers that to be 
appropriate.
So while I have some sympathy for the banks position I have concluded that my provisional  
decision should stand.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Clydesdale Financial  Services 
Limited to unwind  the agreement  and return any payments made by Mr D. Normally I would 
suggest the bank take back the goods, but in this case that isnt appropriate. All reference to 
the loan should be removed from Mr Ds credit file and he be paid £250  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  he has suffered.
Ref: DRN39007565Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3900756