K820x#14complaint
Miss C complains about the sale of an income protection  policy by Countrywide Principal 
Services Limited.
background
In 2006, Miss C met with a Countrywide  adviser  when taking out a mortgage. She recalls the 
adviser telling  her she didnt need  income  protection because of her employers sick pay 
arrangements. 
In 2017, Miss C noticed shed been paying for income protection  cover  since 2006.  She 
complained about this. 
Countrywide didnt  uphold Miss Cs complaint, as it thought  she had wanted the income 
protection cover. Unhappy with this response, Miss C brought  a complaint to this service.
Our casework team manager  didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought the 
evidence from the time of sale supported  that Miss C had wanted  the policy. 
Miss C has asked for an ombudsmans decision,  so the matters been passed  to me to 
consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint and Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at the information available from the time of sale.  The adviser  recorded  that Miss 
C required a continuing  income if she couldnt  work  because of accident or sickness,  and 
that she wanted to cover  her mortgage and personal needs up to retirement. 
I see the adviser initially recommended income protection  cover  to provide a monthly benefit 
of £750 after a waiting period of 52 weeks. The monthly cost of the cover was £39.66. 
However, Miss C turned down his recommendation. The adviser made a note of this and 
recorded that Miss C wanted a lower level of cover. He therefore arranged the policy to 
provide a weekly benefit of £116 (£503 a month), but still with a waiting  period  of 52 weeks. 
The monthly cost of the cover was £27.44. 
Its therefore apparent  that the adviser was recommending income protection  cover for Miss 
C (in line with her stated  needs) and there had been some discussion between  the two of 
them about  the level of cover. The policy Miss C ended up taking out was arranged by the 
adviser after taking  into account the lower benefit  level that Miss C requested. 
Its unfortunate that Miss C apparently didnt realise  the monthly premium she was paying  
related to an income protection policy, but I cant hold Countrywide responsible for this. Im 
satisfied that the adviser did recommend Miss C take out income protection cover and that 
she was aware of this. 
Ive also looked  at the policy Miss C took out, to decide whether it was suitable for her. 
Ref: DRN38567522It was recorded  that Miss C wanted  to cover  her mortgage and personal needs. And that in 
the event of sickness, her employer would pay her full sick pay for 26 weeks,  followed by 
half pay for a further 26 weeks.
Im satisfied that Miss Cs policy was suitable  for her. Whilst the benefit amount wasnt 
enough to cover all of her outgoings, shed requested the lower  benefit level.  Nevertheless,  
this still covered her mortgage repayments  and a little extra,  and the policys  waiting period 
was set up to coincide  with the end of her employers sick pay arrangements. 
I therefore dont  find that the policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3856752