K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mr R complain  that St Andrews Insurance Plc (trading as Halifax Insurance)  
declined their home insurance  claim after the kitchen floor collapsed.
background
Mr B and Mr R contacted Halifax to make  a claim on their home insurance policy. An area of 
the kitchen was collapsing into the basement below. Mr B and Mr R believed  the damage  
was due to a leak in the washing machine  which had been repaired in 2017. They arranged 
for a builder  to visit and assess the damage. Halifax sent its own assessor, but he didnt go 
into the basement as hed seen the builders report. 
Mr B and Mr R said the builder disagreed with Halifaxs view that water had entered through 
a damaged windowsill. The builder said the joists  were wet in the middle  underneath  the 
washing machine  but they hadnt rotted at the end. Mr B and Mr R want Halifax  to admit  their 
mistake and accept their claim.
Halifax said a surveyor had visited the property. He said there were no visible leaks in the 
kitchen but the wall under the units was wet. Halifax said the damage  hadnt been caused by 
an insurance peril covered by Mr B and Mr Rs home insurance policy. It had happened 
gradually over a period of time. The damage  was due to wet rot which  was excluded  on the 
policy. Halifax said its report showed  severe signs of rot in the kitchen window. And it felt the 
water was entering through the rotten  window  and tracking down the wall. Over time that had 
caused the floor joist to become damaged. And unfortunately damage  of this nature wasnt  
covered by the insurance policy. 
Mr B and Mr R werent satisfied with Halifaxs response.  So they contacted  our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She said the builder had noted that the joists and 
floor boarding were  affected by wet rot. Halifaxs surveyor had reached  the same  conclusion. 
But the insurance policy stated that Halifax wouldnt cover  any loss or damage caused by 
wet and dry rot unless it was directly  caused  by an insured  event. And our investigator  
couldnt say it was. The policy wouldnt cover damage caused by the movement of solid 
floors. And accidental  damage only covered services to underground  cables, pipes, drains, 
tanks and their covers. 
Our investigator was satisfied the damage  was caused by water entering through  a rotted 
windowsill over the previous year or so. The damage wasnt the result of either accidental  
damage or subsidence  - it was the result of wet rot. And she couldnt ask Halifax  to overturn 
its decision.
Mr B and Mr R didnt  agree. Their  builder disputed Halifaxs  findings.  So theyve asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how upsetting  this has been  for Mr B and Mr R. The water  damage has impacted 
considerably on their kitchen area. So Ive looked at everything thats happened to see if 
Halifax has made a mistake. And if so what it needs  to do to put things right.
Ref: DRN36122802Its clear from the photographs and estimates for repairs  that parts of the kitchen have 
suffered fairly substantial  damage. Ive looked at the various photographs and I can see the 
kitchen windowsill is severely  rotted and unlikely to be providing much protection  from the 
weather. And the work surface below the window has dropped considerably as the floor 
underneath has given  way.
Both Mr B and Mr Rs builder and Halifaxs surveyor agree the damage to the floor joists  is 
the result  of wet rot. Mr B and Mr R said a leak from the washing machine  occurred  in 2017. 
They noticed  the leak and a plumber  repaired  the problem. But they believe the sinking floor 
is a result of the leak. The builder  believes  sufficient  water might have escaped  during the 
leak to cause the damage to the joists.  He acknowledged the window sill had been  really 
badly neglected  over a substantial period of time.  But the builder felt the leak was still the 
more likely cause of the wet rot.
I can see the builder has also responded to Halifaxs decision. He still feels  the damage  was 
more likely caused when  the washing machine leak occurred in 2017.  He doesnt believe the 
pattern of damage  is consistent with water  entering through the rotted windowsill.
Halifaxs surveyor has responded that the window wall and floor were  showing readings for 
damp which suggested water was still coming  in somewhere. If the damage had happened 
during the leak a couple of years  earlier then the wall and floor would now be dry. Water 
must still be entering the kitchen from elsewhere. 
For wet rot to have  occurred the damage  would require a water source. Halifax  argues it is 
more likely to have  been a badly maintained window area. Mr B and Mr R argue it was the 
leaking pipe in 2017. In either event the builder  notes that wet rot would require a minimum 
of around six months to affect the joists and bearing  brickwork. And additional time would be 
needed before parts  of the kitchen area began to drop.
We have two conflicting sources for the wet rot but in any event it seems  to have occurred 
over a period  of time.  And the home insurance  policy excludes damage  due to wet rot unless  
it was directly caused by an event  insured  by the policy. 
If the damage occurred  gradually I cant say it was unreasonable for Halifax to decline the 
claim, based on the terms of the home insurance  policy. But I also need  to consider if Mr B 
and Mr R shouldve been aware of the damage occurring over a period of time - and if they 
made the claim or took reasonable  action  as soon as they became aware.
Although the leaking  pipe was noticed in 2017  and repaired by a plumber, the windowsill 
area has clearly been neglected for a very long period of time and that shouldve  been 
evident to Mr B and Mr R.
I understand Mr B and Mr R have  confirmed the damage to the kitchen units  had been  
happening gradually over a period  of about a year. And the photos  of the damage and 
sinking kitchen work surfaces  suggest Mr B and Mr R were  aware  there was a problem for a 
considerable period of time before the home insurance claim was registered with Halifax.
I do appreciate how distressing this experience has been for Mr B and Mr R. They  are loyal 
paying customers and they feel let down  by Halifax. And I know  they will be disappointed  
with this outcome.  But based on everything  Ive seen  I cant say Halifax  has acted  
unreasonably in declining their claim. Ive not seen anything to suggest the damage was 
caused by an insured  event. And I cant ask Halifax to overturn  its decision.
Ref: DRN36122803my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 July 2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3612280