K820x#14complaint
Ms L has complained  about Automobile Association Insurance  Services Limiteds (AA) 
handling of her car insurance policies.
background
AA, acting as broker,  arranged Ms Ls car insurance which started  on 25 May 2016. The 
policy was underwritten by another business,  the insurer  (Z). AA work with a number of 
insurance companies, referred to as their panel. Each year when a policyholders cover is 
due to renew, AA look to their panel to see which insurer can provide the cheapest policy.
Z recorded  two incidents against Ms Ls policy that were said to have occurred  during  the 
policy year in April and May 2017.  Ms L said they were both fraudulent claims. Z also 
recorded the two claims  on a shared  insurance  database which insurers  have access to.
When Ms Ls policy came to an end on 25 May 2017, AA arranged  her new policy with a 
different insurer (A), as I understand  it was cheaper  than the previous years policy with Z. 
But within days of the new policy starting,  Z informed AA of the two recent claims against 
Ms Ls policy.  And once  AA told A about  the claims,  A cancelled the policy  as they felt the 
risk of insuring Ms L was too high.  AA then arranged a new policy  with Z which started on 1 
June 2017.
The premium for the new 2017 policy with Z was almost double the cost of the premium for 
the 2016 policy year. Z, after investigating, removed the two claims from Ms Ls policy and 
from the shared  database. As a result of removing  the claims,  Z said they refunded  Ms L 
around £260 (Ms L said it was around  £200). But Ms L wasnt  happy because, despite the 
refund, her new policy was almost  £400  higher than the previous policy year.
AA said that recording  the two claims  against Ms Ls policy and on the shared insurance 
database; calculating  the 2017 premium; and calculating the premium refund were all the 
responsibility of Z and not AA.
Ms L didn't think that she had been treated fairly,  so she brought  her complaint to us. One of 
our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She felt that AA hadnt done anything  wrong  as 
the issues complained of were the responsibility  of Z. As Ms L didnt agree with our 
adjudicator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Ms L, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
The decision  to record the two claims against Ms Ls policy and on the shared insurance 
database was made  by Z, not AA. AA cannot  therefore be held responsible for that. 
Likewise, the calculation of the premium and refund were done by Z and not AA. So AA cant  
be held responsible for Zs actions. Ms L has also complained about Z. That complaint has 
been dealt with under a separate case reference.
Ref: DRN39856332my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.   
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3985633