K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr W says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr W says the PPI wasnt discussed  when he took out his credit card and he was 
unaware it had been  added to his account. Lloyds  had given  me a copy of the signed 
credit agreement  from the time of the sale.  This had a separate  section titled optional 
features that included  a tick box for PPI. I can see Mr W ticked the box indicating that he 
wanted to take out the PPI. And in my opinion, I think it was clear  he couldve left it blank  
if he didnt want the cover.  On balance, I think Lloyds made it clear that Mr W didnt have 
to take out the PPI and he chose  to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  
now remember this.
Lloyds no longer has a record of whether or not it recommended  the PPI to Mr W. To be 
fair to Mr W, it has treated  the sale as if a recommendation was given. Because of this, 
Lloyds had to check that the PPI was right for Mr W  and based on what Ive seen  of his 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he seems  to have had a need  for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. 
Mr W has said he had somewhere  between six and twelve  months  of sick pay and that 
he had a good redundancy package. But the policy couldve covered  his repayments for 
up to 12 months per claim if he was too ill to work, had an accident or was made  
redundant. And that wouldve been  in addition to his sick pay and redundancy pay from 
his employer. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  
the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June  2019.
Rebecca Norris
Ref: DRN32290262ombudsman
Ref: DRN3229026