K820x#14complaint
Mrs N makes a claim under section 75 Consumer  Credit Act (1974) (s75). She says 
cookware she bought  using credit provided  by Secure Trust Bank Plc, trading as 
V12 Retail Finance  (V12) was faulty.  Shed like the goods repaired or replaced.
background
In March 2017 Mrs N bought  cookware from a company Ill call K. She paid the £2,793 for 
the goods through a fixed sum loan she took out with V12. The goods comprised of several  
items but Mrs N was disappointed  that the electric skillet that formed part of the set was 
using too much electricity  and was burning her food. She made  a s75 claim to V12 in 
April 2018. She said that, as the finance  provider, they were  equally responsible  for the 
issue. She also complained that she didnt receive all of the items  shed expected.  
V12 eventually arranged for a replacement probe to be sent to Mrs N; although a couple  
were sent as the first one went  missing  when it was sent to a friend. They offered Mrs N £50 
to compensate her for the delay in processing  this but they didnt  think theyd done anything  
else wrong.
Mrs N referred  her complaint to this service as she was still dissatisfied. Our investigator 
considered the evidence.  She explained  that it was clear that V12 had now sent a new probe 
out to fix Mrs Ns skillet and she thought it was reasonable to give them a chance to rectify 
the fault Mrs N complained of. She understood  that the service  from K hadnt been perfect 
but she noted V12 had offered £30 to compensate Mrs N for the inconvenience shed 
experienced and she thought this was sufficient.  She therefore  didnt  think  they needed to 
take any further action and she explained that because of the lifetime  guarantee, Mrs N 
would be able to raise any further  claims  for damage  to K.
She went on to consider  if thered been  any misrepresentation by K. She understood that 
Mrs N had hoped to receive additional cookware but she explained that her finance 
application for these  additional items  had been rejected and Mrs N had therefore  been 
provided with the slightly  smaller presentation set not the professional set shed initially  
wanted. So, as K had sent what was being financed,  she couldnt  agree that theyd 
misrepresented the deal  Mrs N had received what shed  ordered and paid for.
But Mrs N was still dissatisfied. She thought if there  wasnt any misrepresentation then the 
business should pay her £1,000 for the trouble and upset shed experienced. She thought it 
had taken far too long to get the problem resolved and she asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mrs N but I think V12 have dealt with this claim correctly  and I wont  
be asking them to take any further  action.  Please  let me explain.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN33128112board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with credit, it 
might be possible to recover the money paid through  a section 75 claim.  This section of the 
Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances,  a finance provider can be 
responsible for a breach  of contract  or a misrepresentation made by the supplier. 
s75 Consumer Credit  Act (1974)
Section 75 is a little technical. It was established  as it was understood that the legal right a 
consumer has against a merchant may not be enough protection for them.  So s75 
established a liability on the provider of credit as it was believed  they would have more  
leverage over the merchant to resolve  the issue and would, in any case, be less inhibited by 
the expense of suing the merchant.
was there  a breach of contract?
Mrs Ns electric skillet didnt work properly and I can see that it took some  time to replace the 
probe so it did work. But Mrs N asked  for the damaged goods to be repaired or replaced and 
they have been so I think K, and therefore V12, have done what  they needed to. 
I think it would be disproportionate to expect them to replace all the items.  Its not what 
Mrs N asked for: she asked for the damage to be repaired.
Its clear there were  some  delays in K providing  the replacement  probe but I can see V12 
has offered £50 compensation and, in the circumstances,  that seems reasonable.
was there  a misrepresentation
Its clear that the items that Mrs N received were the items  she financed  so I cant  say 
theres any evidence  she was mis-sold the goods  or told something  that was untrue.
So for these reasons I think V12 have handled  this claim satisfactorily and I dont think  they 
need to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3312811