K820x#14complaint
Mrs S, who is represented by her husband,  complains that that Ald Automotive Limited 
overcharged her for damage to a hire purchase car when she returned  it.
background
Mrs S hire period came to an end and her car was collected by an agent  acting  for Ald. He 
carried out an inspection  and a more detailed  one was undertaken  at the de-fleet base. As a 
result Ald charged Mrs S £175 for a lack of service history and £615.99 for a new 
windscreen.
Mr S complained and said the car had been serviced and the chip on the windscreen could 
be repaired  without the need for a new windscreen. Ald rejected her complaint  and said even 
if he were to provide  the service history  it was too late as the car had been  sold without one. 
It explained that the chip was too big to repair and so a new windscreen  was required.
Mr S brought his wifes complaint to this service where it was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He said the agreement signed by Mrs S 
required her to maintain  the car at her own expense and Ald had the right to charge for 
damage that went beyond fair wear and tear. 
He explained  that the British Vehicle Rental Leasing Associations  (BVRLA) guidelines set 
out what is regarded  as fair wear and tear. He reviewed the photographs of the damaged 
windscreen and concluded Ald was entitled to charge for a new one. Mr S had said that 
when the car left his house the damage was only a chip and any worsening of it must have 
been caused later. Ald provide photographs of it when the car was picked up and later when 
it was at the de-fleet centre. Both were virtually identical.
As for the service history  he said the evidence he had seen showed  the service  history 
section of the service  book wasnt completed. He concluded Ald was entitled to charge for 
that too.
Mr S didnt agree and sent in a copy of an invoice for the service  and said a paper  copy  had 
been given to the collection  agent.  He also said there were other discrepancies in the 
collections agents report which cast doubt on its validity. Ald said the car had been collected 
on 3 April and sold on 27 April. Mrs S would have been aware  the report noted no service  
history and the invoice  for the charges was posted  on 13 April which  was two weeks  before  it 
had been sold.  If Mrs S had supplied the service history before the sale then no charge 
would have been made. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I can understand Mr Ss disappointment  at the invoice sent to his wife I dont believe it 
was unreasonable. Mrs S was responsible for handing the car back  in good  repair  as per the 
agreement she signed. The chip on the windscreen is significant and I see that it was 
referred to windscreen  repair specialists  who said it was beyond  repair. I can only conclude  
that this damage  went beyond fair wear and tear and so Ald was entitled to bill Mrs S for the 
cost.
Ref: DRN33227272I would add that I have reviewed  the two photographs taken of the windscreen, one when 
the car was collected and the other  when it was subjected  to a more  detailed inspection. I 
am satisfied  the damage didnt occur after it was picked up.
It is unfortunate the service history records werent  up to date, but the effect was that the car 
was sold without a full service history  and so its value was diminished. It was open  to Mrs S 
to have let Ald have  details of the last service before it was sold,  but this didnt  happen and I 
am satisfied  that it was entitled to make  the charge it did.
Mrs S agreed to pay for damage  which went beyond fair wear and tear and this is what she 
has been charged for and so I am unable to uphold her complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or reject my decision before 
19 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3322727