K820x#14complaint
Miss L complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) with a credit card in 2002. 
background
I can see Capital One has already  paid Miss L back some of the money it received from the 
commission it got from selling her the PPI. But one of our adjudicators  has said her 
complaint about  the actual mis-sale shouldnt be upheld. 
Miss L still thinks the PPI was mis-sold  in the first place and shes asked  for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ls mis-sale complaint.
Miss L says she has no memory  of agreeing  to buy the PPI and it was added  without her 
consent. However, Ive seen the postal application  form Miss L used and theres  a question 
on it asking her to choose whether she wants this type of policy. Miss L ticked the yes box 
and so in my view this document does clearly  demonstrate that Miss L must have wanted  
the policy at the time. And because she specifically selected the cover, its clear to me that 
she consented to the PPI.
Because this was a postal application, it wasnt  an advised sale. But Capital One still had a 
responsibility to provide  information that was clear, fair and not mis-leading. 
My experience of these  Capital One postal  sales, from that time period, is that the 
application form was accompanied by some information about the terms and conditions. And 
I note Miss L was prompted  on the form to read through these. As she most probably filled in 
the form in her own time without any input from Capital One, I think she probably had 
enough information and time in which to make  her own informed  choice. 
I can certainly see how Capital One couldve made improvements to the application form to 
make it clearer.  But Im afraid this doesnt  change how I view the case  and I still think she 
would have gone on to buy the PPI policy.
This is because the evidence  points to her wanting  the cover. I also think Miss L was eligible  
for the cover and not caught by any of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types of 
policy. The cost of the PPI was 73p for every  £100 of balance  outstanding on her credit card 
and I dont think this would have been  unaffordable for her.
Miss L told us she already  benefitted  from sick pay with her job. But as Ive already  said,  this 
wasnt an advised sale, so the choice about having  PPI was for her to make.  In the event  of 
a successful claim, the policy  wouldve  paid off 10% of her outstanding  balance for up to a 
Ref: DRN35398582year and I think this is most  likely why she specifically chose to have PPI when she filled out 
her application  form.  
Taking all these things  into account,  I can see how the cover was of use to her.
As Ive said,  Capital One has already  paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss L 
because when the policy was sold, it expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium). It should have told her about that. To put that 
right, it has agreed to pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint or direct Capital  One (Europe) plc to pay any compensation. 
Capital One (Europe) plc has already agreed  to pay the amount of commission it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3539858