K822xcomplaint
Ms W and Mr W complain that Santander UK Plc delayed an international CHAPS  payment, 
causing them to lose nearly £20,000 due to a change in the exchange rate.
background 
Ms W and Mr W have a joint account  with Santander; Mr W is represented in this complaint  
by Ms W. In late 2018 they were moving  abroad, to a country where  Santander does not 
have a presence. In November of that year, while in that country, Ms W instructed Santander 
to transfer £990,000 from the joint account to another sterling  account;  after that was done, 
she intended to change the money  into the currency of the other country. She gave this 
instruction in a phone call. Due to the large amount of the transaction, she was told that 
Santander would have to call her back and confirm  her instructions before the transfer could 
be completed. This was part of Santanders security procedures. Santander made  several 
attempts to call her, but failed to get through to her  there was always  an engaged tone. So 
the transfer could not be processed in the normal way. Ms W says that other banks, and 
even Santanders  own credit card department, had been able to contact her on the same  
phone while she was in the other country,  so she does not accept that as an excuse.
Ms W had another phone, on which she was able to call Santander. But she had only 
registered that new phone number with Santander that same day, and Santanders  policy is 
not to accept instructions about  such large  transactions from a phone  number which  has 
been registered to the account for less than 30 days, even  though it had verified her identity. 
(This is apparently to enable Santander to carry out checks  on the new phone number.)
After several attempts to reach Ms W on her old phone,  Santander realised it would need to 
follow its exception process,  or the transfer would not be carried out. Santander told Ms W 
(on her new phone) to email it her instructions, with some proof of her identity  and proof she 
was the account holder. She was reluctant to do that, because  she was afraid for the 
security of her personal and financial information,  and part of her complaint is that this was a 
breach of data protection laws. But she eventually agreed to do it. All of the events described 
above happened on a Friday.
However, Santander had misinformed her. The correct  process  was actually to ask for this 
information to be sent by fax, not by email. Santander told her on Monday. She sent the fax, 
but later that day Santander asked her to fax some other documents it had not asked for 
originally. This was done, and on the same  day she asked to increase  the transfer to 
£1,150,000. The transfer of the new amount was carried out the next day. But the exchange  
rate had changed by Tuesday, and Ms W says this cost her £19,800.
Ms W complained. Santander did not accept that the delay was its fault,  because  it didnt 
know why it had been unable to reach Ms W on her old phone. It also pointed  out that it had 
not been converting currencies: it had transferred money from a sterling account to another 
sterling account. It also said the timescale  for its exception process is 48 working hours, 
and the transfer  had been carried out within this time. So for all of those reasons, Santander 
did not accept  responsibility for the money lost due to the changing exchange rate. But it 
paid Ms W £250 for misinforming her about the exception process, and for the time she had 
spent on the phone (several calls).  (This included  a refund of the £25 transfer fee.)
Ms W brought this complaint to our Service, with Mr Ws consent. Our adjudicator  did not 
uphold it. He said that Santander had made  several attempts to call Ms W, and the bank  had 
been entitled to insist  on following its security  procedures  and not calling her on her new 
Ref: DRN30506202phone. He thought  Santander had been  entitled to refuse to complete the transfer until its 
exception process had been  followed.  The payment had been made within the banks usual 
timescale, and so he didnt think the bank could be liable for the subsequent currency 
exchange being delayed. He said £250  was fair compensation for the misinformation and 
poor customer service. He didnt agree that Santander had breached data protection law, as 
the email address Ms W had been  asked to send her information to was a secure  one which 
could only be accessed by Santanders  fraud department.
Ms W did not accept that opinion. She provided  a photograph of her mobile phone,  showing 
that it had received three international phone calls from the UK during the relevant period. 
She said she had received text messages (one time passcodes) from Santander during the 
same period.  She maintained that being  given incorrect information about  the exception  
process had caused  her financial loss. She said that Santander  had spoken to her on her 
new phone  number, and so the bank  could have used that number to complete the transfer 
after all. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows. (One paragraph  has been edited to 
preserve the complainants  anonymity.)
my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is not in dispute  that Santander spoke to Ms W on her new phone; that is the phone she 
used to initiate  the transfer,  and to discuss the exception  process,  and the problems with her 
old phone. But it does not follow that Santander  could complete the transfer by speaking  to 
her on that phone. Its security procedure was only to do that on a phone  that had been  
registered to the account  for 30 days. I think the bank was entitled to insist  on that.
Santander has provided call logs to show that it made at least  ten unsuccessful  calls to 
Ms Ws old phone. It may have made  more,  but I think ten is plenty. Each  time Santander 
called, it just heard an engaged tone. I dont know why. It could be because the phone  was 
engaged, or it could  have been  a technical problem; I think the latter is more likely. But 
I have no reason to believe that this was Santanders fault. There  is no evidence to suggest 
that.
I accept that Ms W did receive  at least three  phone  calls from the UK on that phone during 
the relevant period  effective calls, not missed  calls. None of the calls she showed us 
evidence of appear to have  come from a Santander  number,  however, and Santander  says it 
has searched its records and it cannot  find any trace of a successful call to Ms Ws old 
phone. It says it only spoke to her on her new phone. But even  if that is wrong, and another 
department of Santander did speak  to Ms W as she says  its credit card department  that 
does not change the fact that the people who needed to speak to her about  the CHAPS  
payment could not get through to her.
However, I think this issue is a red herring,  because even if Santander had been able to 
reach Ms W on that number,  its still very unlikely that they would have been able to 
complete the transfer process.  That is because  of what Ms W told Santander during her 
initial call, which I have  listened to. She said that her old phone was a UK phone, and her 
service provider had put a cap on how long she could use it for, to limit the data roaming  
charges. She said They  can try and call back on it, but its likely to die very quickly.
Ref: DRN30506203Santander replied:
The only thing is, if they cant complete a callback on that number that weve got registered, 
then they will not be able to process the payments.  They  will try a few times before they 
actually give up.
It was at this point that Ms W gave Santander her new phone number, which  was added to 
her account.  But Santander explained  that it could not accept instructions about CHAPS  
payments on that number  for another 30 days. The conversation then turned back  to the old 
phone number. Ms W said The UK mobile  will only work for probably about,  I dunno,  less 
than 30 seconds,  maybe  a minute. She explained  about the data roaming cap. The 
conversation continued  as follows:
Santander: Right, the whole process of the callback itself,  because  theyre gonna have to do 
a little bit of security on the callback,  and theyll have to confirm the details and get back to 
you, confirm the amount  back to you and everything else included, youre talking at least a 
minimum call of about two and a half minutes, to about three minutes.
Ms W: Now you see my problem is that Ill be stuck and, so theyll get half way through, 
theyll use up the cap, the roaming cap  were gonna run into this thing every  single phone  
call. Which I cant get round.
Santanders call handler said it would not be possible to complete the callback in less than 
two minutes, and asked  her if she could set up her phone to accept  longer  calls. Ms W said 
she could not. She said Im at a loss to know what to do. She would not be back  in the UK 
until June. The call handler  said he would speak  to the security  team  and try to find a 
solution. The call recording ends there and so I dont  know what  the call handler was told, 
but since Santander made numerous fruitless attempts to call Ms W on that number, I infer 
that no alternative solution  was found.
I think that is poor service,  because  Santander  should have discussed its exception process 
on that initial call. Repeatedly trying to call Ms W on her UK number was a waste  of time, 
because she had told them that it would not work,  even if the call did get through  to her. So 
there was no point in trying. The exception process should have been explained to her 
immediately.
That caused  some  avoidable delay, and further  delay was caused by telling Ms W the wrong 
exception process later that same day  that is, by telling her to send an email  instead of a 
fax. A day was wasted.  Then on Monday, when she was first told to send a fax, more time 
was lost because  she had to send a second  fax with the information Santander had forgotten  
to ask her for the first time.
The payment was made on Tuesday,  which is still within  48 working hours  of Friday, when it 
all started.  So I cant say that it was late. But if there had been  no delay  if Santander had 
told Ms W to send  all the information  it needed on Friday  then the payment might have 
been completed on Monday, especially if Santander had told her in the very first call. On the 
balance of probability, I think it would have been,  because once Ms W had faxed Santander 
everything it had asked for, the payment was completed the next day.
Santander was not carrying out a currency exchange. It was sending  money  from one 
sterling account to another. But Ms W had told it that this money was intended to be used for 
Ref: DRN30506204a currency exchange  to be carried out by a third party,  and so the consequences  of any 
delay would have  been foreseeable.
Before finally  upholding  this complaint,  I would  need to see evidence that this currency  
exchange took place, when it took place, and what exchange rate was used. (I will need to 
share that evidence with Santander.) But in principle,  and subject to any further 
representations made  by the parties,  I am minded to award Ms W her consequential loss.
I dont think the exchange  rate on Friday is relevant because I dont believe the payment  
would have been completed  on the same day, so I have compared the rates  on Monday and 
Tuesday. If the exception  process had been followed correctly on the Friday, then the sum 
transferred would have  been £990,000,  not the higher sum which was actually transferred 
instead. So I have  checked the historical  rates on xe.com, based on that lower figure, and 
the difference in value between 26 and 27 November 2018 comes to £5,207.60.
I can deal with the rest of this complaint very briefly. I dont think that Santanders exception 
process  either the correct one or the wrong  one  breached data protection  laws. And 
I think £250 is fair compensation for the poor customer service and misinformation.
So my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint and order  Santander UK 
Plc to pay Ms W £5,207.60.
responses to my provisional  findings
Santander accepted my provisional decision,  subject  to seeing evidence  of the currency  
transfer. Ms W has provided such evidence, and I will arrange  for this to be sent to 
Santander with this decision.
Ms W also argued that I should compare the exchange rates  between  Friday and Tuesday, 
instead of Monday and Tuesday, because she has previously carried  out currency transfers  
which took place  the same  day, often within a couple of hours of the callback confirmation. 
She provided evidence  of a recent  transaction  (in late 2019). So she invited me to conclude  
that, had nothing gone wrong, the transfer  would have happened  on the Friday.
my findings
I have considered all the new evidence and arguments to decide what  is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied by Ms Ws evidence  of the currency transfer, and so I uphold her complaint, in 
line with my provisional findings. I confirm those findings here.
The evidence Ms W sent us of another currency transfer in 2019 does not actually show  that 
it was carried out the same day, but on the next working day. So that does not change my 
mind. But even if that was just an oversight  and she does have evidence of other  transfers 
which were completed on the same  day, that doesnt mean that would necessarily have  
happened on Friday  23 November 2018. Since Santanders exception  process  can take up 
to 48 hours,  it cannot be guaranteed that it will all happen the same day, and Santander is 
not obliged to do it more quickly than it actually  did once it received Ms Ws last fax. So 
I have not revised  the compensation figure.
Ref: DRN30506205my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to pay Ms W £5,207.60,  
in addition to the £250 it has paid her already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 April 2020  (but Ms W may reply  for them  both).
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3050620