K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that The Equitable Life Assurance Society (ELAS) failed to provide him 
with appropriate  advice when he took out a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) pension policy in 1993.  He also makes similar complaints about the transfer  in 
1997 to ELAS of pension savings from a previous FSAVC plan held with another provider, 
and the opening of a new FSAVC plan with ELAS in 1999. He says that he would have  been  
better off making Additional Voluntary  Contributions (AVCs) to his occupational pension  
schemes instead.
background
Mr H had started a FSAVC plan with another provider  in 1992. The following year he started  
making contributions  to a FSAVC with ELAS instead. And in 1997 he transferred the historic  
pension savings from the original FSAVC plan to his plan with ELAS. After leaving his 
employer and so ceasing his FSAVC  contributions,  Mr H advised  ELAS  that he wished  to 
restart them  when he begun work  with a new employer. ELAS set up a new FSAVC policy  
for Mr H. But Mr H left his new employer within two years of joining, so he wasnt entitled to 
any benefits from the occupational pension scheme, and as a result  ELAS  was required to 
refund to Mr H the FSAVC contributions  hed made.  Mr H transferred his remaining FSAVC  
pension savings to a new provider in 2002.
Mr H says that ELAS provided  him with advice, or a recommendation, before each of the 
three decisions Ive noted  above. 
The contributions that Mr H made to the FSAVC  plan he opened in 1999  were  fully refunded 
to him. Given his length of employment,  Mr H wouldnt have been entitled to either  FSAVC  
or AVC benefits. So he clearly hasnt suffered any loss due to the actions he took in 1999. 
So, like our investigator, I dont intend  to consider that part of his complaint any further.
The remainder of Mr Hs complaint has been  assessed by one of our investigators. She 
didnt think ELAS had done  enough, in 1993,  to make Mr H aware that he could make 
contributions to the AVC scheme instead. And she thought that if hed received  that 
information Mr H would  have most  likely decided to not take the FSAVC plan. So she asked 
ELAS to pay Mr H some compensation in line with the regulators FSAVC review guidance.
ELAS didnt  agree with that assessment. It thought that Mr Hs decision to use a FSAVC 
plan had been made before he opened his plan with ELAS. Whilst it wasnt  aware of the 
reasons behind Mr Hs decision the previous year it thought they must have been of greater 
importance to Mr H than any difference in charges between the two schemes. And it noted  
that in 1997 it had simply implemented Mr Hs instructions  without providing any advice.
 
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process. If Mr H accepts my decision it is 
legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN37566702In deciding this complaint  Ive taken into account  the law, any relevant regulatory rules  and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr H and by ELAS. Where the evidence  is unclear,  or there  are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based  on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked  at what evidence we do have,  and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely  to, or should,  have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
Ive thought carefully about the basis of Mr Hs decision in 1993 to start a FSAVC plan with 
ELAS. From ELASs own contact notes  at the time it is clear that it had some initial 
discussions with Mr H about  the FSAVC plan in 1992  but after he had started his original 
plan with the other provider. Those  notes  suggest  that ELAS provided Mr H with advice 
about the levels of contribution he would need to make to achieve an income of £10,000 at 
retirement. And it agreed  that it would  get back in touch with Mr H to set up a new FSAVC at 
the start of the 1993-94 tax year.
I think from that information that it is reasonable to conclude that ELAS  provided  Mr H with 
advice, or a recommendation, about  taking the FSAVC. But ultimately I dont think  the basis 
of the sale, even if I thought only information had been provided, would materially alter the 
decision I have reached.
At that time sales such as these were  regulated  by the Life Assurance and Unit Trust 
Regulatory Organisation  (LAUTRO). It expected advisors to give the consumer all 
information relevant  to their dealings with the representative in question.  And in the case of a 
sale such as this I would expect that information  to include a comparison of the relative 
benefits of an AVC and a FSAVC plan.
Like ELAS, I dont know why Mr H decided  to commence  a FSAVC plan with the other 
provider in 1992. It might be that advice he was given at that time was deficient.  Or, it might  
be that there were  compelling reasons to persuade him that the FSAVC  route  was more 
suitable for his circumstances.  But I dont think it was reasonable for ELAS to simply accept 
that decision from the previous year and not explore it in more detail in 1993. It might be that 
Mr Hs circumstances had materially changed.  Or, as Ive alluded  to above, it might  be that 
he received poor advice  from the original provider.
I havent seen  anything about Mr Hs circumstances that makes me think  the FSAVC plan 
would have been more beneficial for him. Generally,  as ELAS  has noted, the charges that 
would be paid on an AVC plan would be much lower. And although it might have offered, in 
some circumstances, a less flexible solution to retirement planning, I havent seen anything  
to make me think that was the case here.  So I think if ELAS had provided Mr H with 
sufficient information  to compare, or at the very least suggested he should compare, the 
relative costs and benefits between the FSAVC  and AVC options, Mr H would not have 
taken the FSAVC plan.
Ref: DRN37566703Some occupational  pension schemes offered an alternative to AVCs known as added years, 
where additional contributions could be used to purchase additional years of service  in the 
occupational scheme.  I havent seen anything conclusive to show  whether that option was 
available in Mr Hs occupational scheme.  Nor have I seen anything  that makes  me safely  
conclude that option would have  been  the most  beneficial for Mr H. So I am not considering 
that alternative any further here.
It appears from the evidence I have  seen that ELAS didnt provide  Mr H with any advice 
before he transferred the value of his previous FSAVC pension  plan to ELAS in 1997. But, 
he did so on the basis of the incomplete  information hed been given in 1993. I think  if Mr H 
had been told then about the AVC scheme,  and as Ive said above started to make 
contributions, hed have moved his FSAVC savings  to the occupational scheme rather  than 
ELAS. So the compensation I am recommending below should take account of the transfer 
of those monies in 1997.
putting things right
I think that if ELAS had provided sufficient information to Mr H in 1993 hed have most likely 
started making contributions to his employers AVC scheme rather than taking a FSAVC  
plan. 
ELAS should undertake a redress calculation in accordance with the regulators FSAVC 
review guidance,  incorporating the amendment below to take into account that data for the 
CAPS mixed with property index isnt available for periods after 1 January 2005.
The FSAVC  review guidance wasnt intended  to compensate consumers for losses arising 
solely from poor investment returns in the FSAVC funds, which is why a benchmark  index is 
used to calculate the difference  in charges and (if applicable)  any loss of employer matching 
contributions or subsidised benefits.
In our view the FTSE UK Private  Investor Growth Total Return Index provides the closest 
correlation to the CAPS mixed with property index.  So where  the calculation  requires 
ongoing charges in an investment-based FSAVC and AVC to be compared  after 1 January 
2005, ELAS should use the CAPS mixed with property  index up to 1 January 2005 and the 
FTSE UK Private  Investor  Growth Total Return Index thereafter.
If the calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation amount should  if possible be paid 
into Mr Hs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr H as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid in retirement. 25% of the loss would be tax-
free and 75% would  have been taxed according  to his likely income tax rate in retirement  
presumed to be 20%.  So making a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss 
adequately reflects  this."
Ref: DRN37566704my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct The Equitable Life Assurance 
Society to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3756670