K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains about poor service  and delays by Kensington  Mortgage Company Limited. 
He says he incurred  additional interest  costs as the result of the delays.  Mr M asks for 
compensation.
background 
Mr M owned the leasehold for three flats. Mr M also owned the property freehold.  He wanted 
to re-mortgage  the flats and to do this he needed to extend the leases.  Mr M couldnt grant 
the new leases  while he was both freeholder and leaseholder. So he decided to add his wife, 
who Ill refer to as Mrs M, to the freehold  title. 
Mr M had a buy to let mortgage with KMC secured on one of the flats (which Ill call flat A). 
KMC also had a charge  on the freehold. So Mr M needed KMCs consent  to make 
alterations to the freehold title and to extend  the leases for all three flats. Mr M says he first 
contacted KMC  in July 2017.  He says KMC caused  delays  which  meant he didnt re-
mortgage any of the flats until January 2018. He says he paid about  £3,500 in additional  
interest as a result of the delays.
The investigator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. She said KMC 
hadnt caused unreasonable delays with the changes to the freehold title. But its 
communication had been poor and it hadnt  always called Mr M when it said it would. The 
investigator recommended KMC pay compensation of £150, which  it agreed  to do. 
Mr M didnt  agree. He said the problems changing  the freehold  title were only part of the 
complaint. He said hed also complained about  KMCs  poor service. And that KMC didnt tell 
him at the outset  what it needed him to provide regarding  the lease extensions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
delays in KMC consenting to changes to the freehold title
Mr M says he contacted KMC about adding Mrs M to the freehold title in mid or late July 
2017. KMC doesnt have a record of this. Mr M called KMC several times in early August. In 
mid August 2017 KMC asked that Mr Ms solicitor contact it directly with a formal request for 
the changes to the freehold title.
KMC told Mr M it had approved his request on 8 September 2017. It sent a letter  out the next 
working day setting out what  it needed to receive before giving its written  consent to the 
changes to the freehold title. Mr M provided the documents and KMC gave its formal 
consent before the end of September 2017. 
KMC was concerned about Mrs M being added to the freehold  title  on which  it had a 
charge  when  she wasnt  a party  to the mortgage.  It says it doesnt usually allow transfers  
of equity in properties where  it has a buy to let mortgage. It says its legal team and others  
Ref: DRN37179392were involved  in finding a solution.  KMC took about  a month to decide to give its consent to 
Mrs M being  added  to the freehold title. 
Mr M says matters  would  have moved  more quickly if KMCs legal  team had spoken directly  
to him, his solicitor or the new lender.  But I dont  think  KMC had to do this. I understand 
there were time pressures and Mr M wanted  a faster response. But his request was outside  
KMCs usual processes and it couldnt give Mr M a clear timeframe for when it would 
respond. Overall,  given  the nature of the request, I dont  think the time taken by KMC to give 
its formal consent  was unreasonable.
delays to KMC consenting to the lease extensions
KMC wrote  to Mr Ms solicitors on 10 November 2017 with a list of requirements for the 
lease extension. This included copies of the old and new leases, a valuation  report  and a 
copy of the title at the Land  Registry.  Mr M says KMC  should  have provided this list sooner. 
He says not doing so caused  further delays. 
KMC says it received a letter from Mr Ms solicitor  in late August 2017 requesting consent to 
the lease extensions. I agree that KMC could have provided its list of requirements  for the 
lease extensions sooner than it did. But Im not sure that it would have made  much  
difference. The leases couldnt be extended  until the changes to the freehold title were 
completed. From the notes provided by KMC and the timeline provided by Mr M, it seems 
that the Land Registry updated the freehold title about 27 November 2017. From what  Mr M 
says in his complaint letter, the lease extensions were filed with the Land Registry in 
December 2017.  So its not clear there was a significant  delay due to KMC providing its list 
of requirements in November 2017.
KMCs poor communication
Mr M wanted to change the freehold  title and extend the leases and re-mortgage  three  
properties. This took longer than hed hoped. Mr M says matters  would have moved  more  
quickly if KMC had been more flexible about how it communicated. But KMC had to assess  
how its security  would be affected by the changes Mr M requested. KMC is entitled to make 
decisions about the process it follows  when  asked to consider  such requests. In the 
circumstances I dont  think  its unreasonable for KMC to ask that Mr M and his solicitors 
follow this process.
It seems  some  of the letters sent by KMC werent received and had to be re-sent. But based 
on the available evidence I cant reasonably find that letters went  astray  due to errors  by 
KMC. 
Mr M says he couldnt re-mortgage his two other  flats until January 2018  and incurred 
additional interest costs.  He says the interest rate for the mortgages  on his other  flats 
increased from September  2017. I do understand he wanted to re-mortgage before this. But 
I dont think KMC caused unreasonable delays in giving its consent  to the change to the 
freehold title. While it could have provided its list of requirements for the lease extensions  
sooner, for the reasons Ive given I dont  think this made a material  difference  to the date the 
lease extensions completed. 
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require KMC to pay 
compensation for the additional  interest  Mr M says he incurred.
Ref: DRN37179393KMC accepts its communication  with Mr M was poor at times. It agreed to pay compensation 
of £150 for this. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited should pay £150  to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3717939