K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy by 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL).
background
Mrs S took out a storecard in 1998. Three years later in October  2001  Mrs S was sold a PPI 
policy to protect the repayments on her card if she couldnt  work due to an accident,  
sickness or unemployment. 
Mrs S says she didnt know she had PPI on the card.
The adjudicator thought  that Mrs Ss complaint shouldnt be upheld.  Mrs S disagrees, so her 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs S says she doesnt remember taking PPI when she took out the card. This is 
understandable, as the PPI wasnt added until about three years later during a telephone 
call. 
There isnt a copy of the call recording available but this service has seen call scripts  from 
around the time of sale which indicate that it would have obtained the consumers consent to 
add the policy.  And I think Mrs S wouldve understood it was optional, given shed had the 
card for about three years before the sale of the PPI.
So, on the limited  information I have, I think its likely Mrs S agreed to buy the policy  knowing 
she had a choice  about it.
FICL didnt  give Mrs S a personal recommendation about the PPI, so it didnt have  to check 
it was right for her. But it did have to provide  enough  information so Mrs S could make an 
informed decision.
Its possible that FICL didnt provide all the information Mrs S wouldve needed. For 
example, I dont think its likely FICL  explained  the cost properly  that the cost of the 
premiums would be added to her account and attract interest  payments, or that shed still 
have to pay the premiums  while she was making a claim. But this doesnt  mean  I should  
automatically uphold  Mrs Ss complaint. I need to think about what Mrs S wouldve done  had 
she been given  all the information she needed. In Mrs Ss case I dont think it wouldve made 
a difference to her decision to buy the PPI. I say this because:
Mrs S was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have  been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, such as 
those related to existing medical conditions or self-employment;
Ref: DRN30389762Mrs S says she wouldve  got some sick pay from her employer if she was too ill to 
work. But shes understandably struggled to remember her exact role and the 
amount of her sick pay at the time of sale. Mrs S worked in the retail industry, so I 
dont think her sick pay wouldve  been  as generous as the maximum she has 
suggested. The PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs S received and 
wouldve potentially cleared her balance in a relatively short  space of time. And it 
looks like Mrs S wanted this type of cover;
Mrs S wouldve  likely received some redundancy pay. Again, the PPI wouldve paid 
out in addition to this and would paid off her outstanding balance within a few 
months, and it looks like Mrs S wanted  this type of cover;
Mrs S has provided evidence of savings  she had around the same time. I can see 
confirmed balances  amounting to about  £700, and theres another  balance from 
some months before for a significantly greater amount. But I dont know that this 
balance was the same at the time of sale, and it seemed to have decreased 
significantly over the course of a year or so prior to the final balance  provided. So I 
dont think her savings  mean  she didnt  have a need  for the PPI. And Mrs S also had 
several other store cards  which  shed  have still needed to make payments on if she 
was out of work, as well as her usual living expenses;
The cost of the PPI was more than other policies on the market around the same  
time. But it paid a greater benefit and also included life cover  and purchase and price 
protection too. It was flexible, because it could  be cancelled  at any time without a 
financial penalty.
So, on balance, I dont  think Mrs S wouldve acted differently if shed been given all the 
information she ideally shouldve had. And I dont think Mrs S lost out as a result of anything  
FICL mightve done wrong. I appreciate that Mrs S will be disappointed  with my decision, but 
she may be comforted by the knowledge that she only paid £27.16  in total premiums  for the 
PPI.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ss complaint, so it follows  that Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3038976