K821x#15Complaint
Mr W says Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading  as Sunny)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about a high-cost short-term credit  open-ended credit  facility  that Sunny 
provided to Mr W. Sunny  provided the facility  in August 2014. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ws complaint and thought he shouldnt have been provided with 
any further credit after the nineteenth drawdown  on the facility  in November 2014. Sunny 
agreed with our adjudicators assessment. Mr W doesnt dispute the assessment but thinks  
that the outstanding balance on his account hasnt been calculated  correctly. So the 
complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. We also explain how we generally  expect a lender to put 
things right in the event  we find that it shouldnt  have provided credit  to a consumer. 
Ive started by looking at when Sunny  ought to have realised Mr Ws open-ended credit 
facility had become  unsustainable for him. Having looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys  
lending history with Mr W, I think that Sunny should reasonably have  seen that Mr W was 
unlikely to have  been able to make his payments in a sustainable manner by the time it 
provided the nineteenth  drawdown  on the facility in September 2014. 
I say this because  by this stage, it ought to have  been  apparent to Sunny  that use of his 
facility suggested  that there was no reasonable prospect of him clearing the balance within a 
reasonable period of time.  And it also ought to have been apparent  from his repayment 
history, which Sunny  ought to have  been monitoring that Mr W may well have been relying 
on the facility  and borrowing further  to make his payments.  
So overall Im satisfied that Sunnys  decision to refund the interest and fees charged  for the 
credit provided from the nineteenth drawdown  is fair and reasonable given the 
circumstances of this case.
I now turn to Sunnys calculation of how much  Mr W now owes.  Mr W disputes that he still 
owes Sunny  £397.36.  I can understand why Mr W might be disappointed  to learn that he still 
owes as much as hes been  told. But as our adjudicator explained weve  not told Sunny that 
it needs to refund all of the interest  it charged on Mr Ws facility. It only needs  to refund or 
remove the interest charged on the additional £275  it lent from 21 November 2014.  And as I 
dont think that Sunny treated Mr W unfairly before  this date, or unfairly  provided  the credit  it 
did, I dont think he should have a refund of the interest and charged owed on the funds 
provided.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that Mr W owes £397.36 as this amount reflects  the 
payments Mr W has evidenced making,  the interest Sunny is entitled to charge  on the credit 
it didnt unfairly provide  and the interest and charges it removed on the £275 in credit it 
unfairly provided from 21 November 2014  onwards. 
Ref: DRN38456612As this is the case, Im satisfied that what Sunny has already agreed to do to put things right 
for Mr W is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this case. So Im not going to ask 
it to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Elevate Credit International Limited 
has agreed to put things  right for Mr W in a way thats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.  So Im not requiring it to do anything  further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3845661