K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 2003 alongside  a mortgage. Mr and Mrs A say Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as 
Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
The PPI was part of a package of insurance  called a Total  Mortgage  Protection Plan which  
included PPI and life cover. An offer was made  on this complaint in relation to the life cover 
after our adjudicator said the recommendation wasnt suitable  for Mr and Mrs A. Mr and   
Mrs A accepted the offer in relation to the life cover but remained unhappy with the mis-sale 
of the PPI. Because of this, Ive only assessed the sale of the PPI in this decision.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
As the PPI sale happened over 15 years ago, Halifax  doesnt now have all of the documents  
that Mr and Mrs A wouldve seen at the time.  I do have copies of both the mortgage offer 
and the signed declaration. The PPI was taken  out during  a meeting. I dont know what  
wouldve been discussed. But from what we know of how Halifax  sold these policies in its 
branches around this time and the documents weve seen  in the past,  its likely the 
paperwork Mr and Mrs A will have signed  wouldve made it clear enough that the PPI was 
optional. So I think its likely that Halifax made Mr and Mrs A aware that they had a choice 
about buying the PPI and that they chose to take it.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs A have said they didnt claim on the policy when they were  out of 
work, so feel this shows they were unaware  of the policy. But I dont think this makes  it more  
likely the policy was mis-sold. As explained above, I think  its more likely Mr and Mrs A were 
given a choice  when they took the policy. And them not claiming on the policy  at a later date 
doesnt negate this. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and 
they seem  to have  had a need for the cover.   
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  
Mr A had 6 months of sick pay and Mrs A wouldve received  6 months at full pay followed 6 
months at half pay if she was sick. And they had some savings available to them. But the 
policy couldve covered  them  for up to 24 months  per claim if they were  too ill to work, had 
an accident or were  made redundant. And that wouldve  been  in addition  to their sick pay. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN30687712This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs A paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs A back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs A now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3068771