K821x#15complaint
Mrs N has complained to Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) saying that she was 
misled when sold solar panels  for her home which she paid for using finance.
background
In 2015 Mrs N was sold a solar panel system  by a company called Project Solar  who also 
arranged the finance for Mrs N to pay for the system in the form of a loan with Shawbrook.
Mrs N says the salesperson from Project Solar told her the panels could be transferred to 
another property  if she moved home, and that she would be able to continue receiving feed-
in-tariff (FIT) payments.  But she later found out that if the panels  are moved, she wouldnt 
be able to continue  receiving FIT payments.
Had she been given  the correct information,  Mrs N says she would never have purchased  
the solar panels  or taken the loan from Shawbrook.
Mrs N has since  rented out her property  and moved  home, but says shes been unable to 
sell her property as intended, because she cant sell it for the price that will enable her to 
clear the loan with Shawbrook.
As the solar panel system  was paid for using credit, Shawbrook is responsible for dealing 
with Mrs Ns concerns in some circumstances,  as set out in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
(CCA).  
Section 75 of the CCA states a finance provider can be liable for a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation, and to the same extent  as the supplier of the goods or services (Project 
Solar in this case).
Section 56 of the CCA sets out that a finance  provider (Shawbrook in this case)  is liable  for 
what it says, and what is said by the credit  broker or supplier before a consumer takes out 
the credit  agreement.   
One of our investigators  looked into things and recommend the complaint be upheld.  In 
summary, he concluded Mrs N had been  told she could move  the solar  panels and still 
qualify to receive FIT payments.  He  said that was a misrepresentation, and had she been  
given the correct information,  Mrs N wouldnt have entered  into the finance agreement with 
Shawbrook.
To compensate Mrs N, the investigator  set out that Shawbrook  should restructure the loan to 
make it self-funding based upon  the energy  savings  and FIT payments received from the 
solar panels.   He explained that when Mrs N sells her property and stops receiving FIT 
payments, Shawbrook should then cancel the loan and refund any overpayments made.
Mrs N accepted the investigators assessment.   Shawbrook did not and asked for an 
ombudsman to carry out a fresh review.  It  also made a number of comments  which I have 
taken account  of in full, and in summary  it said:
Its unlikely that Mrs N was told she could move the panels and continue to receive  
the FIT payments.
Ref: DRN38178142If Mrs N had been planning to move  in the near future, why would she go to the 
trouble of having solar panels  installed,  only to have to move them soon  after.
The panels were  installed following  a survey of Mrs Ns home, and its unlikely  they 
would perform in the same way if moved to a new property.
Mrs N says she was planning  on selling her home in 2016 but didnt  complain about  
problems moving  the solar panels until later 2017.
The documents that Mrs N completed  to sign up for her FIT payments set out that the 
payments would cease if she moved home.
Its unlikely the solar panels would deter  anyone from purchasing Mrs Ns property.
Mrs N knew  the solar  panels would not cover the full costs of the loan, and so its 
inappropriate to recommend restructuring the loan to make  the system self-funding.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has now been passed to me to review and 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusions as the investigator,  and for broadly  the same  reasons.
The first issue for me to decide is whether I believe Mrs N was told by the salesperson  from 
Project Solar that the panels could  be moved to another property, and she would still be 
entitled to receive  FIT payments.
Theres no record of the specifics discussed  between Mrs N and the sale representative  
from Project Solar, and so I must decide  what I consider to be most likely  on balance.  I 
understand the further comments made by Shawbrook, and consider they are credible 
points.  But  overall,  Im persuaded its likely Mrs N was told she could take the panels  and 
system benefits with her if she moved  home.
At the time Mrs N agreed to purchase  the system and sign up to the loan, she was expecting  
another child and says it was clear her home would become too small for her growing family 
and working needs.   Given  that was the situation  and she did in fact market the property 
soon after,  I consider that likely to be true.  So, the fact Mrs N proceeded with the purchase 
and installation, suggests to me that she reasonably believed the system could be moved  to 
a new property and continue to provide the same  benefits.
I cant be certain exactly what  was said, but naturally  it would have been  in the sales  
persons interest  to assure Mrs N the system  met her needs and make the sale.
So having  concluded the system was misrepresented to Mrs N and that the complaint should 
be upheld, I must decide whats a fair and reasonable way for Shawbrook to put things right.
The investigator who initially reviewed  the complaint proposed  redress  based on making the 
solar panel  system self-funding so that Mrs N is not required to pay for the loan taken  to fund 
the purchase.  Shawbrook has expressed  concerns about being able to restructure the loan 
for an indefinite time period until Mrs N has sold the property, and also pointed out that Mrs 
N had never  expected the loan to be self-funding.
Shawbrook also requested that if the complaint be upheld, it be able to try and agree  
compensation with Mrs N directly, and if that is not possible, for the matter to be referred 
Ref: DRN38178143back to this Service t that time.  Given that Mrs N has had to wait a considerable time for her 
complaint to be assessed, and the level of distress shes experienced, I consider it 
appropriate to bring  finality  to matters.
Mrs N has said that having  the solar  panels installed has affected her ability to sell the 
house, and Shawbrook disagrees the system makes the house less saleable.   Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the property is not saleable or has a lower value resulting from the 
installation. But I think Mrs N seems to be saying  that she cannot  obtain an appropriate sale 
price which would include sufficient funds to pay-off  the outstanding  loan used to pay for the 
panels.
Ive taken account of this in deciding what fair compensation should be.
fair compensation
Ive concluded  Shawbrook is responsible for compensating Mrs N for the mis-sale of the 
solar panels  and loan, but deciding how to remedy that is not an exact science, and so Ive 
set out what I consider  to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Had Mrs N been given  the correct information  at the time of sale, I dont think she would 
have gone ahead with the purchase or entered into the finance agreement.  
I understand the comments Shawbrook has made  about Mrs N being told the savings from 
the system (and FIT payments received) would leave a shortfall  in paying for the loan.  But  
the issue here is that if she hadnt  gone  ahead with the purchase of the solar panels, she 
would not be paying anything.
So, Ive considered whether the right thing to do would be for Shawbrook to unwind the loan 
and arrange for the solar panels  to be removed.  But I dont think thats necessary given that 
the system does work but problems have only arisen from the point Mrs N wanted to move 
home. However, I do think that overall the fairest thing would therefore be to re-work 
everything as though  the panels are self-funding (and then they wont  have cost Mrs N 
anything).
So, to put things right Shawbrook  should  do the following:
1)Carry out a loss calculation and restructure  the loan on the basis that the solar  
panels were self-funding from the date of installation until the date she sells the 
property.
2)Mrs N should inform  Shawbrook when her house is sold, and the property transfer 
completed.  Shawbrook should then cancel the loan and any outstanding debt from 
that date  and ensure Mrs Ns credit file is adjusted appropriately.
3)If, at the point the loan is cancelled as at point 2 above, Mrs N has still overpaid  in 
comparison to the self-funding calculation, she should receive a refund of any 
overpayment plus 8% simple interest  per annum from the date the overpayments 
were made.
4)Pay £500 to Mrs N in recognition of the trouble and upset shes experienced.  I 
consider this an appropriate sum in these  circumstances, given that it has impacted 
her ability  to sell the property and meet her financial commitments.
Ref: DRN38178144I recognise part of the challenge with adopting this approach is trying to restructure the loan 
to make it self-funding based on an indeterminate  end date  as we dont know  when Mrs N 
will sell the property.  So, I think its reasonable for Shawbrook base its calculation at point 1 
above on the assumption that Mrs N will sell the property within  6 months  from the date of 
this decision.  I think  this is a reasonable assumption as Mrs N has previously  had some  
interest in the property,  and that time period is a little longer than would be a usual average 
to allow  for the impact  of the current  pandemic.
This will enable Mrs N to market her property for sale at a price  which  doesnt  require  her to 
include an amount  necessary  to repay  the loan.
Shawbrook should  also assume that Mrs N is retaining the benefit of receiving FIT payments 
for the property but has not benefited  from energy savings  since  moving out of the property  
and renting it out.
As I explained above, there are a few ways that things could be put right and would be fair 
and reasonable,  but overall,  Im persuaded this is the most appropriate without making the 
calculations more complicated than they need to be.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ns complaint against Shawbrook  Bank Limited,  and I 
direct it to put things  right by carrying out the fair compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 July 2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3817814