K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about the service he received from Somerset Bridge Insurance 
Services Limited when  he took out a motor policy with it.
background
Mr F bought  his policy through an online aggregator service in May 2018. On the application 
form, he said he had 10 years no claims discount (NCD). This meant his premium was 
calculated on this basis. 
When Somerset Bridge received the proof of Mr Fs NCD  from his previous insurer  it say he 
had nine years. So Somerset  Bridge inputted that number instead and it generated an extra 
premium, which  was added to his monthly premium instalments including a further admin 
charge. 
Mr F didnt  agreed with this. He ultimately  cancelled this policy,  but this was outside the 
initial 14-day  limit. So Somerset  Bridge said he had to pay it £389.85. After Mr F complained 
about this amount, Somerset Bridge said it was wrong and should have been £319.69. It 
also realised it hadnt calculated the right amount for his windscreen cover so it adjusted that 
and waived a £50 admin fee, saying Mr F now owed  it £238.02.
Mr F didnt  think  this was fair, since his time on cover was only around 25 days, so he 
brought his complaint to us. The investigator  was of the view that Somerset  Bridge hadnt  
done anything  wrong. Mr F disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
now explain  why.
There are two main issues to decide  in this complaint, the first being Mr Fs NCD and the 
second being the charges  and service issues he received from Eldon.
Dealing with Mr Fs NCD  first  Mr F said he had 10 years NCD, which wasnt confirmed by 
his previous insurer. His previous insurer confirmed he had 9 years  NCD. In reality, Mr F 
had more years without a claim than that, but his previous insurers  maximum NCD was 
9 years.  Insurers are permitted to cap NCD as Mr Fs previous insurers  did. Further, such  a 
cap has nothing to do with Somerset  Bridge. Also brokers and insurers are then entitled to 
rely on the information the previous insurers give about the number  of years of NCD for 
obvious reasons.  As whilst its certainly  clear  Mr F has been claim free for longer, than many 
other applicants might  not be so honest.  Therefore, its perfectly correct an insurer only relies 
on the NCD confirmed  by the previous insurer in calculating the premium.
 
So here, if Mr F continues to feel this is wrong or his previous insurer didnt explain that it 
capped NCD in this way, he should  raise  that with his previous insurer.  
However theres no duty on Somerset Bridge to ignore what his previous insurer  said about  
Mr Fs NCD  as that wouldnt treating all its consumers fairly and simply it isnt permitted by 
the regulations,  under  which all brokers and insurers operate  to do so. 
Ref: DRN39251272So Somerset Bridge  properly inputted the information Mr F gave it which wasnt what  his 
previous insurers said.  When  it then imputed the right number of years NCD, as confirmed 
by Mr Fs previous insurers, that then generated a small  additional premium. And since that 
changed the original quote  it provided to Mr F, Somerset Bridge applied  its service charge to 
this. I dont consider  Somerset Bridge did anything wrong in increasing the amount of 
premium Mr F had to pay because of this. 
Whilst as Mr F notes  this all happened  outside the 14-day limit which he had to cancel his 
policy, I dont hold Somerset Bridge responsible for this. It acted on the information Mr F first 
gave it which  then didnt  correlate to what Mr Fs previous  insurers  said about his NCD. That 
isnt Somerset Bridges fault.  
Ill deal with the admin charge attached to this and the charges Somerset Bridge  imposed  
when Mr F cancelled his policy next.
Mr F has complained he didnt receive  the key facts  of his policy.  But I dont think the key 
facts document  is all that relevant to Mr Fs issues as regards the administration fees and 
other charges he was asked to pay when he cancelled his policy. The welcome  letter 
Somerset Bridge sent Mr F in May 2018  when he had just taken out his policy, provided links 
to its terms of business, which includes details of its fees and charges  for various  
eventualities. Also it asked Mr F to read his policy. 
Somerset Bridge has also shown us that when Mr F applied for his policy  online a link to the 
key facts document was available for Mr F to read at that time. Therefore, I consider Mr F 
was able to read the key facts at the time of his application.
Turning to the terms of business, which details the fees and charges applicable in various  
situations, as I said,  these were also available when  Mr F applied for his policy  and received 
his welcome letter. Like the investigator, I consider these to be clearly  laid out and 
comprehensible. And further Mr F agreed to these in taking out this policy. The direct debit 
fee, the amendment fee for correcting  the NCD and the cancellation fees, all which  Mr F 
complained about are all detailed  clearly  in these terms.  Further  I dont consider any of them  
to be excessive as theyre  pretty standard fees charged across the market. So I dont 
consider Somerset  Bridge  was unreasonable in charging any of them.
Mr F complained that he shouldnt have had to contact the DVLA  to get his licence summary  
as since Somerset Bridge applied admin  charges, it should have done that itself. But the 
terms and conditions to which  Mr F agreed to when taking out his policy clearly details that 
this is a requirement for the policyholder to do if requested. It explained how to do it via a 
link. I consider this is reasonable. If its not the licence holder who does this, the DVLA rightly  
requires added layers  of proof of consent  and authority, which in turn puts the licence holder 
to even further trouble. Its capable of being done  via a link and its simple and easy to use. 
Its not an unusual  requirement by insurers  either across the market.
When Mr F complained, Somerset Bridge realised it hadnt given him the correct refund  as 
regards his add on windscreen cover. So it amended that. Mr F complained  his breakdown  
policy which  he required as an add on cover  when he applied, was then cancelled  when he 
cancelled his policy. But the terms of business clearly  stated  all add on cover would be 
cancelled if the policy was cancelled. So I dont consider Somerset Bridge did anything  
wrong here.  
Ref: DRN39251273As Mr F was unhappy he cancelled his policy, but he cancelled it outside  the initial 14-day 
limit. That imposed fees and charges beyond the time he was on risk. Those  charges were  
however clearly laid out in the terms of business.  So I dont think Somerset Bridge did 
anything wrong  in charging  them  given  Mr Fs cancellation request was received outside the 
standard 14-day limit for cancelling insurance policies. Mr Fs reason for cancelling the policy  
was primarily  his issue with his NCD and his previous  insurers  capping it at nine years.  That 
has got nothing  to do with Somerset  Bridge though, so I dont consider it was Somerset 
Bridges fault Mr F cancelled his policy outside  this 14-day limit. 
Somerset Bridge didnt respond  as quick as it ought to have  done  to Mr Fs queries, its 
acknowledged that, and waived a £50 fee. I consider thats reasonable recompense. 
Therefore I dont think Somerset Bridge needs  to do anything  more.
my final decision
So for these reasons, it my final decision that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3925127