K821x#15complaint
Mr C says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to him.
background
Uncle Buck  gave Mr C four payday loans between June and August 2014. He repaid the first 
three loans.  But loan 4 wasnt paid and the debt collection agency  that took on this loan 
obtained a court judgement against  Mr C.
Heres a table showing  details of these loans:
Loan Date Taken Date
Repaid Instalments
Amount Repayment
1 12/06/2014 30/06/2014 1 £100.00 £134.95
2 30/06/2014 31/07/2014 1 £250.00 £337.38
3 31/07/2014 29/08/2014 1 £500.00 £674.75
4 29/08/2014 debt sold 1 £525.00 £708.49
Mr C complained that Uncle Buck shouldnt have given him loans that werent affordable.  He 
told us hed taken  out new loans to pay existing loans and that his finances  were in a poor 
state. Hes been  very worried about his financial situation, especially the court  judgment and 
says this has been affecting his health.  
Our adjudicator thought that Uncle Buck shouldnt have  provided any of the above  loans to 
Mr C. He gave some detailed instructions about the way he thought  Uncle Buck  should  settle  
the complaint.   
Uncle Buck  said it didnt accept our adjudicators  view. But it also said it understood that 
being in a position of financial  difficulty wasnt easy and it showed concern that Mr C had 
complained about being  physically ill with worry. 
To settle  the case, Uncle Buck offered to work with the debt collection agency it sold the 
debt to with a view to getting the court judgment  set aside.  Uncle  Buck said it wasnt 
prepared to refund any charges over and above the initial amount lent as these werent 
within its control and Mr C had already had an opportunity to respond to efforts  to agree a 
repayment plan before the debt was sold.
Mr C didnt feel that Uncle Bucks  offer to settle  his complaint went far enough. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ref: DRN36139692Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Uncle Buck  may even  come a point  where  the lending  history and pattern of lending  itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Uncle Buck  was required to establish whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Loan payments  being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the  relevant  regulations define sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Cs complaint.
Ive taken into account that Uncle  Buck says its a short term, high risk lender and a 
customer having defaults on their credit  file would not result  in the application  being  
immediately declined. And I recognise that many of its customers  apply for short term credit 
as they are unable to obtain other forms of traditional credit.
Ive also looked  at what it appears  Mr C had told Uncle Buck  about  his financial 
circumstances and the information it obtained  about his finances. Uncle Buck made  a 
number of checks before it lent to Mr C. It asked  him for details  of his income and 
expenditure. Mr C told Uncle Buck that his net monthly income  was £2000 and that he was 
living with his parents.  He said his monthly  expenditure  was around £250  leaving him with 
£1750 to spend on all the things he had to pay for. 
Ref: DRN36139693Uncle Buck  also checked Mr Cs credit file before  agreeing to the loans and it has provided  
us with copies  of its checks.  
Bearing in mind the information Uncle Buck could see about  Mr C, I dont think it was 
reasonable to think that the lending it provided to Mr C when he applied  for loan 1 was likely 
to be sustainable.
I accept that the loan amount looked  like it shouldve been comfortably affordable for Mr C 
given his income and his very modest outgoings. But looking  at the credit checks  Uncle Buck 
has provided, I think that Uncle Buck wouldve been  aware that Mr C was already facing 
problems managing his finances.
Bearing in mind Mr Cs declared income  and expenditure,  and the fact he was living at home 
with his parents,  I think the evidence it could see of other short  term lending  should have 
rung alarm bells for Uncle Buck. I agree with our adjudicator that the number and extent of 
his other  credit commitments, and particularly his active debt with other payday lenders 
when he asked Uncle Buck for loan 1, shouldve  made Uncle  Buck realise that he was 
having money problems and his actual financial circumstances were at odds with what  hed 
told Uncle Buck about his situation. 
I think it shouldve been apparent to Uncle Buck that Mr C probably wasnt asking it for a 
loan just to provide a short term fix for his cash flow problems or to cover an unexpected  
expense. Instead, to my mind the information  Uncle Buck  had available suggested that Mr C 
was reliant on taking out expensive credit  and he likely wanted this loan to be able to pay 
for his borrowing elsewhere. So it was unlikely  that Mr C was going  to be able to repay loan 
1, or any of the loans that followed in a sustainable  way.
And I think its fair to say this is borne out by what happened after Uncle Buck  provided 
loan 1 to Mr C. He took out each new loan the same day he repaid  the previous loan and the 
amounts he asked to borrow  kept on going up. Uncle Buck told us hed asked to borrow 
more than it was prepared to lend when  he applied for loans 3 and 4. Despite this, within just 
a couple of months, by loan 4, Mr C was borrowing more than five times the amount hed 
first asked Uncle Buck for. 
So for these reasons Im planning  to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Ive taken into account that although  Uncle Buck has offered to liaise  with the third party  debt 
collection agency to get the court judgment set aside, it may not be possible to achieve this. 
And this complaint is about Uncle Buck  the debt collection  agency that has obtained the 
judgement against  Mr C isnt the subject of this complaint. So I wont  be able to tell the debt 
collection agency what it should do when deciding what  needs  to be done to put things right 
for Mr C. And as it isnt a party in this complaint it isnt bound  by any decision, if accepted by 
Mr C, that I make.
 
Im only able to look at the actions of Uncle Buck  and tell Uncle Buck  what to do. So heres 
what I think Uncle Buck needs  to do  and can do - in order  to put things right for Mr C.
I understand from Mr C that the judgement was fully paid on 28 August 2018.
Ref: DRN36139694what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Both parties  have confirmed theyve received my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision (save  for acknowledging safe receipt)  I still think  its fair to uphold  this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision.  
putting things right  what the lender should  do
Loans 1,2 and 3
Uncle Buck  should  rework Mr Cs loan accounts  as follows:
refund  all interest, fees and charges Mr C paid on loans 1,2, and 3 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
pay this money to Mr C
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Cs credit file in relation to loans 1,2 
and 3
Loan 4
I think a fair way to try and put Mr C, as far as possible, in the position he wouldve been had 
Uncle Buck  not unfairly provided loan 4 to him, is to make sure that Mr C repays no more  
than the principal sum he borrowed for loan 4, taking  into account any repayments he may 
have made  to the debt collection agency and the court  and to ensure his credit file doesnt 
show adverse information  as a result of whats happened.
So I think its reasonable that Uncle Buck should ensure that Mr C isnt out of pocket as a 
result of any court costs incurred (including  any costs setting aside the judgement) and any 
charges or fees added to the debt or otherwise passed on to Mr C by the debt collection 
agency. 
Ref: DRN36139695To achieve this outcome, Uncle Buck should:  
rework Mr Cs loan account to remove any outstanding  interest and charges from 
loan 4 and treat any and all repayments made by Mr C for loan 4 as payments 
towards the capital.  This would include any fees and charges paid to the debt 
collection agency and any payments  made to the court  in respect  of this loan
normally Id say that when Uncle Buck works out what  it owes Mr C, it could  first 
apply this towards offsetting the outstanding capital balance Mr C owes  on loan 4. 
But thats not helpful here because Uncle Buck sold the debt on  and I understand 
the judgement  is now settled
so instead,  Uncle  Buck  should first liaise with the third party  debt collection agency  to 
try and get the court judgment set aside  (I think Uncle Buck was right to offer to do 
this  so it should  now do this if it hasnt  already)
Uncle Buck should ensure Mr C doesnt  have  to pay anything over and above the 
amount of the capital balance he owes on his reworked loan 4 account  if necessary 
covering any shortfall itself that it cant agree with the debt collection agency to 
achieve the overall objective of reducing  Mr Cs debt to just the amount of unpaid 
capital balance on loan 4 
if there is a surplus after reworking  Mr Cs loan 4 account then Uncle Buck  should  
return this to Mr C plus 8% simple a year from the date his account wouldve been 
paid if all his payments had been  applied towards the capital  balance  to the date of 
settlement
when the court judgment is set aside,  liaise with the debt collection agency  to remove 
any adverse information about loan 4 it may have  put on Mr Cs credit  file
Uncle Buck should remove any adverse information about loan 4 it put on Mr Cs 
credit file. 
Otherwise, if Uncle Buck isnt able to successfully get the judgement  set aside, then 
it should pay Mr C an amount that covers him for the full amount he paid to settle the 
judgement debt less the unpaid capital balance Mr C owed on loan 4 
to be clear, the payment Uncle Buck needs  to make will include unpaid interest and 
charges, court fees and any charges the debt collection  agency added on to the debt
this will mean that Mr C will have been responsible only for paying  to the court  the 
capital balance he owed   and hes had the benefit of loan 4 so its fair that he should 
repay that part of the debt. 
as above,  Uncle  Buck should liaise with the debt collection agency to remove  any 
adverse information  about loan 4 it put on Mr Cs credit file
Uncle Buck should remove any adverse information about loan 4 it put on Mr Cs 
credit file 
Ref: DRN36139696if the record of the court judgment remains on Mr Cs credit file (and I have no power  
to say this mustnt  happen) then Mr C can put a notice of correction on his credit  file 
to explain that the judgment was obtained  by a third party in respect of a loan that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service found afterwards was unfair and shouldnt have been 
provided  and creditors should  take this information into account when he makes 
any credit  application.
Ive thought about whether these  steps are sufficient to compensate  Mr C for whats 
happened  bearing  in mind that hes had the worry of court  proceedings. Ive taken 
into account that Mr C told us he made no repayments towards the principal sum. So 
I think in those circumstances  that the steps Ive set out are fair and reasonable 
overall. And Im not awarding any further  payment over and above the amount Ive 
told Uncle Buck to pay above.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Uncle Buck Finance LLP to pay Mr C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3613969