K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  made her account  dormant  
without notification.
background
Mrs S says Halifax  made her account dormant without any notification. And it now requires 
her to attend a branch with certain  documents to restore the account which  she says is 
unfair. She says the account shouldnt  have been  made dormant and the account terms and 
conditions do not contain details about this issue. Mrs S would like an apology  and says 
there was a recent credit in 2017 into the account.
Halifax says it hasnt  made an error or mistake  and has acted within regulatory requirements 
about accounts not being used. It says the account  had a balance of about £12 and over the 
last three  years the only transactions were automated credits for small  amounts.  Halifax  
says it wrote to Mrs S telling  her what it was doing and what  evidence it needed to reactivate 
the account.
Mrs S brought her complaint to us but our adjudicator thought Halifax had dealt fairly with the 
complaint. She thought Halifax had followed its policy  on dormant accounts and as the 
account had a balance under £25 then it wasnt obliged under that policy  to give an account  
holder notice. The adjudicator also thought  Halifax had provided reasonable alternatives to 
Mrs S attending a branch if she was unable to do so.
Mrs S doesnt accept that view and says the account was active and that Halifax has acted 
against Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) rules  on fairness. She also says the letter  Halifax  
sent her was in response to her complaint  and Halifax has followed internal policies not 
available to her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator.  I realise  Mrs S will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that this account hadnt  been  used for  over three years,  apart from small 
automated credits,  resulting  in a balance of just over £12. Its not clear if those credits  were 
dividend payments as Mrs S says or interest being applied  as Halifax  says. But I dont think  
it matters as Im satisfied this was an account that meet the dormancy criteria.
I appreciate that Mrs S says she didnt have any notice of Halifaxs decision and it will cause 
her inconvenience  and difficulty in attending a branch or providing the required information. 
But Ive looked  at Halifaxs dormancy policy and Im satisfied that, as this was a small 
balance under £25, it wasnt required under that policy to provide notice. Im also satisfied 
that banks and building societies are under regulatory  obligations  to review accounts not 
being used.
Im satisfied that Halifax has fairly explained  what evidence it requires from Mrs S to either 
reactivate the account or close it. Im also satisfied its provided alternatives to her in order to 
avoid her attending a branch in person. I appreciate Mrs S says these policies  were  hidden 
from her. But I wouldnt  expect a business  to include details of every  potential issue in its 
account terms and conditions or expect it to allow an account to remain  open when its 
Ref: DRN30672592clearly not being  used  as intended.  And Im satisfied the important  point is that Mrs Ss 
money is still available to her if she wishes to access it.
For the reason  Ive set out, Im satisfied overall  Halifax has dealt with this complaint fairly  
and reasonably. And I make it clear we are not the regulator of banks and building  societies- 
that is the role of the FCA. I also dont think Halifaxs actions have had a significant  impact 
on Mrs S taking  into account the size of the balance. And that no withdrawals  have been  
made for some significant time.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3067259