K820x#14Complaint
Mr A has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) unfairly  continued applying  charges to 
his overdraft when  he was experiencing financial difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Lloyds should  have  
exercised forbearance from November 2018 and so it needed to refund  all the interest, fees 
and charges it added to Mr As overdraft from this point. Lloyds didnt  respond  and as Mr A 
didnt accept the adjudicators assessment either  the case was passed to an ombudsman for 
review.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Lloyds will be familiar  with all the rules, regulations and good  industry  practice we consider  
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think Lloyds acted  unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees after it renewed Mr As overdraft in 
November 2018.  By this point, Lloyds had already been told that Mr A was struggling 
financially as a result  of having been out of work  in early 2018. 
In these circumstances, Lloyds should  have  treated  Mr A with forbearance rather than add 
even more interest, fees and charges to an overdraft it had already been  told Mr A was 
having difficulty repaying. Lloyds did reduce and suspend the fees for a period. But I dont 
think that this went  far enough as it started charging  Mr A again without establishing that    
Mr As position had improved and that he was able to manage.
I think that by this stage  Lloyds should have stopped providing the overdraft  on the same 
terms and treated Mr A with forbearance rather than adding  even more fees and charges on 
the overdraft. All of this means that Lloyds should have realised Mr A was experiencing 
financial difficulty, wasnt using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt  have continued 
offering it on the same  terms.  As Lloyds  didnt react to Mr As overdraft usage and instead  
continued charging in the same way, I think it failed  to act fairly and reasonably. 
In reaching this conclusion, Ive thought  about  what Mr A has said about using his overdraft 
more over the years because he was overcharged on his insurance premiums. But hes 
already had a final decision on this matter  and this decision will have considered what  loss, if 
any, he suffered.  As Mr As complaint about  his insurance premiums  has already been 
looked at, Im satisfied  that it has no bearing  on this complaint. Especially as I havent  seen 
anything to suggest that Lloyds ought to have  realised that he might  have  been  struggling 
earlier than he said this was the case.  
Mr A did end up paying additional interest,  fees and charges on his overdraft at a time when 
he told Lloyds he was already experiencing difficulty. So I think that Mr A lost out because  of 
what Lloyds did wrong and that it should  put things  right.
Ref: DRN38094952Fair compensation  what  Lloyds  needs to do to put things  right for Mr A.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr As complaint for Lloyds  to put things right by:
Reworking Mr As current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and charges 
applied to it from November 2018 onwards are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Lloyds  should contact Mr A to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr As credit 
file, it should backdate  this to November 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr A along with 8% simple  interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information  from Mr As credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr A a certificate  showing  how much tax it has taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Mr As complaint. Lloyds Bank  PLC to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3809495