K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complained  because TSB Bank  plc wouldnt lend them  the amount they 
wanted for their new mortgage. They said the banks adviser led them to believe theyd be 
able to borrow what they wanted.  When it didnt,  Mr and Mrs L had to pay an Early  
Repayment Charge  (ERC). 
Mr and Mrs L want TSB to refund the ERC and pay them compensation for the emotional  
stress.  
background
Mr and Mrs L had an existing mortgage with TSB. They planned to relocate to a different 
part of the country.  The property they wanted to buy meant theyd need  to borrow  more.
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage appointment with TSB in January 2018. Theres a 
disagreement about exactly what happened  at that meeting. 
Mr and Mrs Ls version is that they provided TSB with a copy of Mrs Ls employment contract 
for the new location,  which  was a one year fixed term contract. They  say that two weeks 
later, the adviser rang to say that because Mrs Ls employment was a contract, the 
application would have to go to underwriters, but she didnt see it would  be a problem.
TSBs advisers version  is that Mrs L had already  accepted the job and was due to start in 
February. The adviser said she was adamant that Mr and Mrs L had at no point said Mrs Ls 
employment was temporary. She hadnt  found  out until she received the employers 
reference, at which  point shed phoned  Mr and Mrs L to tell them it would have to be referred 
to the underwriters.
Mrs L started work at her new job in the new location.  Mr and Mrs L accepted an offer on 
their existing property and put in an offer on a property at their new location. This would 
mean theyd  need  £25,000 more than their current TSB mortgage, but they said this was 
within the limits theyd discussed  with the adviser. They also instructed their solicitor and 
started the legal work.
But TSBs underwriters wouldnt agree to the extra borrowing. If said this was because of 
Mrs Ls employment, which was on a one year fixed term contract. 
Mr and Mrs L said this was devastating,  and complained. They pointed out that they had a 
history of sensible financial decisions, including overpaying their mortgage,  and reducing the 
term. They said they wouldnt have  made  such a life-changing  decision without assurances 
from TSBs  mortgage adviser. They wanted the bank  to waive  the ERC theyd have to pay 
when they paid off their TSB mortgage  and moved to another lender.
TSB partly upheld Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. It recognised that Mr and Mrs L, and the 
adviser, had different versions of what had been  said. It said it couldnt  evidence what had 
happened, so it paid Mr and Mrs L £100.  But TSB pointed out that it had only given  Mr and 
Mrs L a mortgage  promise, which was an indication of what  the bank could  be able to lend. 
It wasnt a mortgage  offer. And Mr and Mrs L had chosen to sell their existing property and 
relocate before getting a mortgage offer. It pointed out that it was willing  to let them transfer  
(port) their existing  mortgage. So TSB wasnt willing to refund the ERC,  which  would be 
around £7,500.
Ref: DRN33215962Mr and Mrs L werent satisfied and complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  uphold their complaint. He said this was because  Mr and Mrs L had 
sold their property and were going through the legal process of purchasing their new one, 
before a mortgage offer had been  issued.
The investigator explained that a mortgage offer is legally binding.  So, if TSB had given Mr 
and Mrs L an offer, hed have said that TSB should  cover their losses.  But Mr and Mrs L had 
taken the risk, knowing the application hadnt  been  accepted. He appreciated that theyd 
said the mortgage adviser had told them it wouldnt be a problem but this wasnt  the same  
as being formally offered  the mortgage.
The investigator accepted that TSBs  mortgage  adviser should  have  seen that Mrs L was on 
a fixed term contract when she received a copy of the contract, but he didnt think  this was 
enough to say TSB was responsible for everything that happened. He believed that the £100 
compensation TSB had paid was fair.
Mr and Mrs L werent satisfied.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr and Mrs L are very frustrated and upset at the prospect of having to pay 
an ERC of around  £7,500 to continue  with their new purchase. I recognise  that they believe 
they were misled by TSBs mortgage adviser.
Its not possible for me to say with certainty what was said when Mr and Mrs L had their 
mortgage appointment with the TSB adviser. I wasnt present, and such appointments arent 
recorded. Where evidence conflicts, I make my decision on the basis  of what  I consider is 
more likely than not to have happened.
Here, Mr and Mrs L have  told us that they took Mrs Ls fixed term contract to the meeting, 
and the adviser  scanned  and attached  it to their records the same  day. TSB has told us that 
it doesnt have  full records of the application, because of a recent system migration. As this 
evidence hasnt been made  available,  I accept Mr and Mrs Ls version  that they did provide 
the contract  at that appointment, and that the bank  scanned it in. 
So I consider its more likely than not that TSBs adviser should  have realised  at the 
appointment that Mrs Ls employment would mean that the application would have to be 
referred to underwriters and might  not be straightforward. I consider TSB should pay 
compensation for this, and I find that £100 is fair and reasonable.
I recognise that what Mr and Mrs L really want is for the ERC to be waived or refunded.  
But the problem  is that TSB never  gave  Mr and Mrs L a mortgage offer for the amount they 
wanted. The initial figures discussed  were  only a guide to what the bank might  lend, and 
there are very many things could affect this before a mortgage offer. 
Its the mortgage offer which is the all-important  document. If TSB had given Mr and Mrs L a 
mortgage offer for the full amount they wanted, it would be a completely different situation. 
Ref: DRN33215963And then Id have  been able to compensate Mr and Mrs L for their losses,  including the 
ERC.
I dont have evidence  about exactly when Mr and Mrs L exchanged  contracts  on the sale of 
their existing property. But it appears that they did so at some point  and that was certainly 
before a mortgage offer from TSB,  because TSB never did give them  the mortgage offer 
they wanted. TSB was willing to let them port their existing mortgage, but not borrow  more.  I 
have read the underwriters notes, and its clear this was because of the situation with Mrs 
Ls work.
Mr and Mrs L took a huge  risk when going ahead without the backing of a legally binding 
mortgage offer. The bank  was under no legal obligation to lend as it hadnt issued a 
mortgage offer. So I find that TSB wasnt  obliged  to waive or refund the ERC when Mr and 
Mrs L chose to sell their existing property and pay off their existing  mortgage.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3321596