K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that an online course he enrolled  on was misrepresented  to him by the 
supplier, a company that I will call T. And the course was financed  in the main by way of a 
fixed sum loan (loan)  from Omni  Capital Retail Finance  Limited (Omni).
 
background
In January 2017 Mr L enrolled on a course  provided by T. He said he enrolled  with T, rather  
than another company, because of a number of representations that were made to him by it 
over the telephone. This included the provision of up to three  years  dedicated  career  support 
from T which  included,  amongst other things:
CV writing
interview training
guaranteed  interviews with one or more of its corporate  partners
The course cost £3,295.  Mr L paid T a £70 deposit  and financed  the balance  of £3,225 by 
way of a loan with Omni.  Under  the terms of the loan Mr L was required to make 1 monthly 
payment of £89.70 followed by 35 monthly  payments of £89.58  total repayable  £3,225.
In June 2017 Mr L contacted T to start making use of its dedicated career  support package.
Between June  2017 and November 2017  there  were  substantial email exchanges between  
Mr L and T. This included  a complaint from Mr L that he had received very little, if anything, 
by way of dedicated career support. 
In October  2017 T issued Mr L with a final response  letter (FRL) in which  it said it wasnt  
upholding his complaint about  the lack of dedicated career support.
In November 2017 Mr L emailed T to reiterate he had received very little, if anything, by way 
of dedicated career  support  and that he had now been able to secure an interview and a job 
himself.
In October  2018 Mr L raised a complaint with our service.
In November 2018 Omni issued Mr L with a FRL in which  it said it wasnt upholding his 
complaint.
In November 2018 Mr L contacted T to say that he had received very little, if anything, by 
way of dedicated career support since he had been  able to secure  a job in November  2017.
Between November  2018 and September 2019 there were substantial  email exchanges 
between Mr L and T.
In January 2020 the dedicated career  support  package came  to an end.
In February 2020  Mr L confirmed to our service  that T had failed to arrange a single  
interview for him with one or more of its corporate  partners.
Ref: DRN36159302Mr Ls complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it 
should be upheld.  In summary she said she was satisfied  that Mr L was induced into 
enrolling on the course provided by T on the strength of a number of representations made 
by T that it failed to honour.  
And by way of compensation Omni should reduce  Mr Ls loan by £1,874.33 and if this 
reduction created  a credit balance on the loan then this credit balance  should be refunded to 
Mr L together with interest. 
Mr L responded to say he accepted the investigators view.
Omni responded to say that it didnt accept the investigators view but it was prepared to 
reduce Mr Ls loan by £250.
The investigator considered Omni response to her view, and subsequent submissions made  
by both Mr L and Omni,  but she wasnt persuaded to change  her mind. Therefore  Mr Ls 
complaint was passed to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in July 2020. In summary  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I can confirm 
that like the investigator  I think  Mr Ls complaint should be upheld.
Its clear that both parties have very strong  feelings  about this complaint. They have 
provided detailed  submissions in support of their respective views which  I can 
confirm Ive read and considered in their entirety.  However, I trust that the parties  will 
not take the fact that my findings  focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as a discourtesy. The 
purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  point raised. The purpose of my 
decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
When someone buys goods or services using the type of credit Omni has provided in 
this case, they can make  a claim against  the lender for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation made by the supplier  of the goods or services,  so long as certain 
conditions are met. 
This consumer protection is provided by Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. More generally,  where credit of this type is sold by a credit broker then the 
lender is responsible for incorrect information  given by the broker  about the credit  
and the underlying purchase.  This is because, due to Section 56 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974, the broker is treated as acting as the lenders agent.  What this 
means in this case, is that Mr L can complain to Omni if T failed to honour the terms 
of its agreement with him or gave him incorrect information (or made incorrect 
statements) about  the course or the financial arrangements.
Ref: DRN36159303Having considered what all the parties  have said and submitted, including Ts 
brochure titled infrastructure  technician Im satisfied,  on the balance of probabilities,  
that Mr L was told that he would  have  access to, and T would provide, up to three 
years of dedicated career support which included, amongst other things:
CV writing
interview training
guaranteed  interviews with one or more of its corporate  partners
And this representation  was critical in Mr Ls decision to enrol with T rather than 
another company.
First what I need to decide is what part of the course fee of £3,295 could be said to 
be in respect of study materials (and associated services)  and what  could be said to 
be in respect of Ts dedicated career support package.
As all the parties  are aware the investigator was able to establish  that Mr L could 
have secured the study materials (and associated services) through  another  
company at a cost of £1,420.67. So Im satisfied that its entirely  reasonable to 
conclude that the cost to Mr L of Ts dedicated  career support package  was 
£1,874.33 (£3,295 - £1,420.67).
So having  concluded that Mr L was persuaded to enrol with T on the strength of its 
dedicated career support package and that the cost of this package  was £1,874.33, 
what I now need to decide is whether this package was provided (in full or in part) 
and if it wasnt what Omni  should  have to do to fairly compensate  Mr L.
CV writing
Based on what both parties  have said and submitted Im satisfied that T provided  
very little, if anything,  by way of a CV writing  service and therefore  I dont think its fair 
or reasonable that Mr L should have to pay anything in this respect.
interview training
Based on what both parties  have said and submitted Im satisfied that all Mr L 
received from T in respect of interview training was a 6 page  brochure  in pdf format 
and, to use Ts own words, this was a brochure that [hadnt]  been signed off by [the 
relevant department]. Therefore I dont think its fair or reasonable that Mr L should 
have to pay anything  in this respect.
guaranteed interviews with one or more of Ts corporate partners
Ts dedicated career support package is advertised in its brochure titled  
infrastructure technician as being available  for up to three years.  But in my view 
most people  would get only a maximum of two to two and half years support. I say 
this because:
the three year period  ends three  years after enrolment (not three years after 
qualification)
support isnt provided until the student has hit the last leg of the course
Ref: DRN36159304completion of the course and becoming qualified generally appears to take 
between six to twelve months
So with the above in mind  Ive gone  on to consider how long T was aware that Mr L 
wanted an interview with one or more of its corporate partners.
Now based on what Ive seen (in particular the email exchanges between Mr L and 
T) Im satisfied that T accepts it was aware that Mr L was looking for an interview  with 
one or more of its corporate partners between July 2017 and October 2017 
(4 months) and December 2018 and December 2019 (13 months)  and during this 
17 month period  it failed  to secure  a single interview for Mr L.
I will now turn to the period November 2017 (when Mr L confirmed to T that he had 
secured a job) and November 2018 (when  Mr L contacted T to chase up the lack of 
support he had received from it since November 2017)  13 months. 
Now Omni  says its entirely reasonable that there  would have been no contact from T 
during this period because in November  2017  Mr L had confirmed to T he had 
secured a job and he didnt  get back in contact with T until November 2018.  But I 
disagree. 
Ive looked very carefully at everything the parties  have said and submitted and Ive 
seen very little, if anything, that would  lead me to conclude  that T explained that its 
dedicated career support package ends  (permanently or temporarily) on a student 
securing a job, or that this was Mr Ls understanding of the position. And in my view 
its entirely reasonable for a student  who has secured a job to still be interested in 
securing an alternative  job if one was to become available.
So given what I say above I think its reasonable to conclude that at best T failed to 
secure a single interview for Mr L with one or more  of its corporate partners during a 
17 month window  (out of a possible 30) and at worse it failed to secure  a single 
interview for Mr L with one or more  of its corporate  partners during a 30 month 
window (out of a possible 30). And because of this I dont  think its fair or reasonable 
that Mr L should have to pay anything  in this respect.
other services provided by T under its dedicated  career support package
Ive considered whether T provided Mr L with any other services that could 
reasonably be classed as dedicated career support.  But Im not persuaded that it did. 
It certainly didnt provide  anything in my view that would warrant  Mr L having to pay a 
fee for.
So in summary I dont think Mr L should have  to pay anything for Ts dedicated 
career support package,  a package Ive concluded can be reasonably costed at 
£1,874.33.
Mr L responded to say he accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add.
Omni confirmed receipt of my provisional decision  but didnt provide any further submissions 
or evidence  in response to it, despite being given more than one extension  to do so.
Ref: DRN36159305my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr L responded to my provisional  decision to say that he accepted  it. And given 
that Omni,  despite  being given more  than one extension, didnt respond to my provisional  
decision with any further submissions or evidence for my consideration, I see no reason to 
depart form my provisional findings  and I now confirm them as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Omni Capital Retail  Finance Limited 
must, for the reasons  Ive given:
reconstruct Mr Ls loan as if he had been advanced £1,350.67 rather  than £3,225  a 
reduction of £1,874.33
its my understanding that this reconstruction will result in a credit balance of £82.73  
accruing on the loan after 16 payments (1 x £89.70 and 15 x £89.58)
this credit balance of £82.73 should  be refunded to Mr L together  with yearly interest 
of 8% simple from the date payment 16 was made  to the date of settlement *
any other payments  made (payment 17 onwards) should  be refunded to Mr L 
together with yearly  interest of 8% simple from the date each payment was made to 
the date of settlement *
amend Mr Ls credit  file to reflect the above  and remove, if registered, any adverse 
information recorded
**HM Revenue & Customs requires Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited  to take tax off this 
interest. Omni Capital  Retail Finance Limited must  give Mr L a certificate showing how much  
tax its taken off, if Mr L asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3615930