K820x#14complaint
Mr T, Miss V and Mr H complain, as co-directors of D a management company and co-
insureds of a policy  that covers properties  they own, that Allianz Insurance Plc has unfairly 
declined part of their claim  for damage caused  by an escape of oil to their properties insured 
under a block property  owners insurance policy. Ill refer to them collectively as D.
background
The policy covers a development of a small block of apartments and houses.  In July 2017  
following a torrential downpour several  oil tanks  supplying heating oil were flooded.  This led 
to a considerable quantity of oil escaping and causing damage to the surrounding area. A 
property management  company from whom D bought in services, employed  an 
environmental consultant to assess the damage. At the same  time a claim was made  to 
Allianz under the block policy. Some emergency  works were carried  out to clear up the 
immediate danger  to residents and to the buildings. 
Allianz agreed to pay for the emergency work, the cost for landscaping and a payment 
towards the minimisation of loss capped at £5,000,  being the policy limit for this. It said it 
would pay the cost of repairs  to the underground services, the cost of which  has been 
estimated at £34,000,  subject to further investigation of the extent of the contamination. It 
wouldnt pay for the wider  contamination of the surrounding land. This is because it said it 
wasnt covered under  the policy. It advised that damage caused by escape of oil was 
restricted to buildings  only in accordance  with the definition in the policy. This included  
landscaping and fuel tanks but not the land.
D said they were misled by Allianz before renewing  the policy through  a broker, that escape 
of oil was covered as it failed to explain the limitations. It also was assured environmental 
clean-up costs were covered which Allianz  now disputes. It also was unhappy with the way 
the claim was handled, particularly  concerning the lines of communication  between  them,  
the loss adjuster and the environmental consultant. It was further  concerned about the lack 
of progress in the claim.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Allianz  had acted reasonably. 
Mr T replied on behalf of D. I will deal with the responses in my findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must first of all make the point that we are an alternative dispute resolution service. Our 
role is to resolve complaints informally. In my provisional decision I dealt with the main  
issues in this case. I dont intend to go through the numerous complaints  one by one, but to 
consider the complaints overall.  I further  note that D has quoted various rules of conduct 
concerning the brokers, Allianz and the loss adjusters. Whilst I have taken  those rules  into 
account, as far as they relate to the insurers and its loss adjusters,  where  relevant, its not 
part of my remit to make  findings  of any alleged breach of those rules.  Further  I can consider 
the way that Allianz dealt with the claim.  But its handling of Ds complaint  isnt a regulated 
activity so I cant look further at that.
Ref: DRN33732562In my provisional decision I said:
interpretation of the policy  term
Allianz says that the liability for the damage caused  by the oil spill is limited to the buildings 
(or contents) only. It relies on the policy term, which says that:
 If the Property Insured  or any part of such Property at the Premises  ;suffers damage during 
the Period of Insurance the insurer will pay the insured for Damage to Property Insured or 
any part of such Property by the following  Events:
14 Escape of Oil from any fixed heating installation
In the policy  property  Insured is defined as (my emphasis):  Buildings,  Contents, and other  
property belonging  to the Insured or for which the Insured are responsible, as shown and or 
described in the Schedule. 
There is a further definition of Buildings which includes, among other things, landscaping 
and fuel tanks  but doesnt  mention grounds  or subsoil.  
Ds broker accepts that it wouldnt be normal industry practice for escape of oil cover to 
include the grounds and/or subsoil but argues  that the underlined words  above must apply to 
other property as shown  or described in the schedule. This is, it says, because the 
schedule describes the property as premises and postcode and describes the premises 
occupation as residential flats. And the Property  insured is further said to be Premises 1: 
Buildings Declared value £x. It also lists Premises  Specifics (which  describes the building 
type and construction. It further sets out the premises premium summary. This is important, 
it says because premises, as defined  in the policy, includes grounds  (unlike  buildings). 
I dont think that merely  referring to premises in the schedule means it falls to be considered 
under the phrase other property. The schedule specifically says that the cover for 
premises 1 is for buildings and premises isnt listed or specified as other property.  I dont 
think the intention  was to include premises in the definition  of buildings, nor do I think  it was 
impliedly included.  So I dont think that the cover for escape of oil extends to the grounds of 
the property except where it is necessary  to clean it up to prevent damage  to the buildings.
The broker  argues as an alternative  that there is cover for the grounds under the 
inadvertent omission  to insure term in the policy. This covers a situation where the insured 
person(s) inadvertently  failed to insure  a property (the policy covers more than one 
property). However its argument  is that the grounds  are covered so there was no inadvertent  
omission. As Allianz  has said there  was never  any intention to insure  the grounds under the 
escape of oil cover so they werent inadvertently omitted from cover.
The broker  further  argued that there is no exclusion for subsoil under the escape of oil cover,  
when there  are other  exclusions. These are in summary:
1 For unoccupied buildings
2 Damage unless  caused by a sudden identifiable  unintended and unexpected incident.
3 The value  of the oil lost
4 The excess.
I dont think it was necessary to set out as exclusions all parts  which arent covered. The 
cover for escape of oil is set out in the main term and the parts it covered are defined  in the 
policy. The exclusions  listed relate  to cover which might apply, but for the exclusions.
Ref: DRN33732563misleading policy term
D says the policy term is unclear and that Allianz is responsible for its and the brokers  
failure to ensure that the buildings and land were  covered. In my view the broker acted 
independently, and if there  was any failure on the brokers  part that is a different matter  for 
which a separate  complaint has been set up. 
Further, in this case D specifically asked about cover for escape  of oil before taking out the 
policy. The broker contacted Allianz and set out specific concerns.  Those  concerns and 
Allianzs replies were  that:
Concern: the definition of buildings in the policy does  not extend  to the underground 
tanks.
Response: Fuel tanks are covered in the definition. Escape  of oil is an insured  peril  
[refers to the section  in the policy].
Concern: that pollution from the tanks  is excluded unless caused by a sudden and 
identifiable event.
Response: Tanks should be checked and maintained to avoid any gradual  leakage.
Concern: that they werent  covered for the cost of locating the source of a leak 
Response: See Basis  of Settlement Adjustments  [page in policy]. Trace  and Access 
[on page in policy].
Concern: that theyre not covered  for statutory environmental clean-up costs
Response: Indemnity is provided  if the incident  is sudden identifiable unintended and 
unexpected as per the policy terms and conditions, this could include statutory 
environmental clean-up costs but will depend  on the specific circumstances.
D believes they were  misled into buying  the insurance by those  replies as they didnt make  it 
clear that the cost of cleaning up the land wouldnt be covered. And that the damage was 
environmental but isnt being paid for.
I dont think the responses  were  misleading. Allianz  specifically  referred  to the definitions  in 
the policy. As cover for the grounds wouldnt normally  be included, and I doubt  that any 
normal residential policy would include  it, I cant see that it was necessary for Allianz  to draw 
attention to it. Statutory  environmental costs refer to the wider  public liability for 
environmental damage eg pollution of the water table or rivers. As the reply  said it depended  
on the circumstances again I cant say this was misleading.
I should make it clear that at the time I thought that Ds enquiries  related to the buying of a 
new policy. In fact they were asking  about an existing policy,  but as the answers  may have 
helped them to decide whether to renew there was a still a question of whether they were 
misled. And at the time D had bought  in the services of a service company and the answers 
were relayed  to that company.
Ds comments relate to both these points  so Ill deal with them  together. They  say that 
treating customers fairly requires a clear enough explanation of the limits of cover under the 
policy, not an expectation that customers will know "industry norms", constraints on normal 
language usage (eg landscape) or the ambit  of "statutory environmental clean-up costs".
They further say that Allianz could have taken the opportunities  they were  given  in the spring  
of 2016 to say for example, "the client should be made aware that "landscape" in this policy 
means plants, not the ground  from which they grow and to which they are attached".,  
Ref: DRN33732564or..."the client should be made aware  that although contamination of the water  table or 
rivers,  potentially rendering the client liable to legal proceedings by a public authority may 
be covered in certain circumstances,  the cost of removing contaminated soil is not.
Ds comments are made with the benefit of hindsight. Of course  if Allianz had anticipated 
such a large scale oil leakage, it could have expanded on what  it said. But I still think the 
answers were appropriate to the questions posed  at the time and in the context it was asked. 
As the questions were  asked by the broker and answers given to him, they might have been 
different if given directly  to a consumer. I have to bear in mind  that although the 
policyholders are residential property owners, they were acting as a management company 
who at the time were  using a service  company  to act for them.  So I havent changed my 
view, I think that the policy didnt cover  the owners  for the wider  oil spillage except where it is 
necessary to clean  it up to prevent  damage  to the buildings (as defined  in the policy).
failure to confirm lines of authority
In my provisional decision I said:
D says that the environmental consultant  was initially appointed by a company providing 
management services  to it. But it believes that this instruction was unambiguously 
terminated by them at a meeting in July 2017. And that following this the consultant  sought 
and obtained instructions  from the loss adjuster. It reported to the loss adjusters and asked 
for their consent to the report  being  disclosed to D. And it says the investigator didnt 
consider whether the loss adjuster, as Allianzs  agent, should have made rights,  roles and 
responsibilities and channels of communication  clear at the outset and confirmed this in 
writing and whether  D was disadvantaged  as a result of a failure to do so.
Essentially Allianz  says that the consultant  did report  to it and the loss adjuster but was 
employed by D. That employment wasnt terminated. It doesnt think  there was any reason 
for the loss adjuster to explain lines of communication further.
It appears that the consultant was initially employed  on behalf of D. And that Allianz 
accepted their expertise in advising on the claim.  Clearly the consultant should have 
reported to D as well as Allianz and shouldnt have had to ask for permission to release  their 
report. And whilst I can see that there may have been some  confusion,  I havent  seen  
evidence that it adversely  affected the claim,  nor that Allianz or its loss adjuster instructed 
the consultant to the exclusion of D.
D said that the loss adjuster was Allianzs  intermediary. At no stage did he visit the site, 
explain his role, explain the process or clarify rights and responsibilities.  A simple standard 
letter or information sheet could have  been provided. This was not accurate,  straightforward 
and understandable  communication; it was a failure  by the insurance companys 
representative to meet reasonable  professional  standards. In consequence D was left 
bewildered about process,  rights and responsibilities  and unaware  that it could appoint  its 
own environmental consultant.
If the loss adjuster didnt make a site visit I assume this would have been because  the 
environmental consultant carried out the report on the damage. I do note that the loss 
adjuster was involved in conference calls and email exchanges. There  were several parties 
involved:
The service company instructed by D
Ref: DRN33732565The environmental consultant instructed initially by the service company
The directors of D
The brokers
The loss adjusters
Allianzs claims handlers
Communications from the loss adjuster were sent to the broker  and copied to D. This was a 
complex case and I can understand if D had difficulty in understanding  lines of 
communication. But D appeared to be represented  by the broker and in the early  stages  by a 
service company. This wasnt an ordinary consumer claim,  so the level of information the 
loss adjuster was expected to give would be different.
I agree  that the environmental  consultant caused confusion. Allianz said the consultant  was 
employed by or on behalf of D and that it had simply said it had no objection  to him 
continuing to act. But the consultant interpreted that as being instructed by the loss 
adjusters, and said so in his report.  The loss adjusters  pointed  this out to him.
I appreciate that D see this differently,  and they say they withdrew their instructions but as 
the consultant wasnt  instructed by Allianz and it appears he misunderstood  tht, I cant hold 
Allianz responsible  for D being misled  by the situation.
failure to progress/ amount of the claim
In my provisional decision I said:
I can see that theres been some confusion about  the amount of the claim;  I have  obtained 
further details  from Allianz about  this:
Emergency work has been paid for.
Landscaping  is covered; it isnt limited  to £5,000. This hasnt been paid yet.
The limit of £5,000 refers to the minimisation  of loss provision in the policy. I 
understand this has been agreed.
Costs of £34,000 have been  put forward for the repairs/remediation of underground 
services. I understand that this has yet to be agreed by Allianz.
Essentially D complains that Allianz  hasnt progressed the claim and wont do so pending  my 
decision. As that decision could potentially increase the claim by a lot and change  the whole 
basis of settlement, I cant say thats  unreasonable. If D has incurred  costs  which  are 
payable under the claim then Allianz may have to consider whether it should  pay interest. 
But I dont propose  to require it to progress  the claim when it has held off doing so for the 
specific reason put forward.
D dont agree with my view  in particular they say that theres  no reason why Allianz 
shouldnt pay the landscaping  costs. They have set out a number of directions they would 
like me to make to progress the claim.
I maintain my view that Allianz reasonably didnt want to progress the claim whilst  awaiting 
my decision,  as that could change the whole nature of it, including  landscaping. It will now be 
able to progress  it.
Ref: DRN33732566As to the directions  D want me to make regrettably I cant  do that. I havent been asked to 
consider the claim  itself and any payments under it, and Allianz  hasnt had the opportunity  to 
comment on specific aspects of the claim (except those set out in this decision).
All I would say is that Allianz will now deal with any payments or repair work needed for the 
claim. If any disputes arise over that D will be free to complain  to Allianz,  and if not settled 
ultimately to this service.
overall
Overall I dont think the policy provides cover for the grounds outside of the damage to the 
buildings. I dont think Allianz misled D over the policy  coverage. Also any confusion over 
lines of communication  was because of the complex arrangements  as to who D were 
represented by and by the environmental consultant misinterpreting his instructions,
In respect of my provisional decision as I have quoted  above,  I confirm that it now forms part 
of this final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T, Miss V and 
Mr H to accept  or reject  my decision before  23 January 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3373256