K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) should have made a refund payment 
directly to himself rather than pay it to a third party. He wants  Barclays  to make  that payment 
to him and pay him compensation for the upset it caused. 
background
Mr D held a credit card with Barclays and during the course of operating that account, 
charges interest  and fees (charges) were added when his account was in arrears. Barclays  
accept that Mr D didnt  receive the appropriate  standard of service  when  his account was in 
arrears and calculated  he was due a refund of £127.29.
However, prior to identifying Mr D hadnt  received the correct  level of service, Barclays sold 
the debt to a third party company (PRA). Nevertheless, Barclays applied the refund to Mr Ds 
account reducing the balance owed, rather than sending him a cheque for the refund 
amount.
Mr D objected to that and felt Barclays ought to have paid the refund directly to him. 
Barclays disagreed.  They  said they had not paid the money directly to him because there 
was still an outstanding balance on the account. But they did however pay Mr D £75 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
Mr D was unhappy with Barclays  response and so an investigator from this service  looked 
into the complaint  but didnt think they had done  anything wrong.  Mr D disagreed with our 
investigators view and so the matter  has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decisions  are based on the available evidence and where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
The agreed facts  are that the charges were wrongly applied to his credit  card account. 
Barclays accept that. Mr Ds account was subsequently credited with the amount he was 
wrongly charged.
The issue  is whether having sold the account to PRA, Barclays  should have paid the 
£127.29 direct to Mr D or restored his account with that sum, as they did. 
What I need to decide is whether Barclays acted  fairly and reasonably  in how it dealt with 
Mr D. 
Barclays identified that the charges which they added onto his account  ought not to have 
been. Consequently, they have then gone on to remove them.  That has placed Mr D back  
into the position he was before those charges were added to his account. That in my view is 
fair and logical. 
Ref: DRN34609952I can accept that had Mr D cleared the balance on his account then he would have paid for 
those charges and he would  be entitled to receive a refund of those charges directly to 
himself. But he did not and Barclays have simply corrected their earlier error.
I can readily appreciate  why Mr D would  have preferred the £127.29 to be repaid directly  to 
him. When Mr D spoke  with our investigator he confirmed  that had the refund been paid to 
him directly he would not have used it to reduce the balance on his account. But, Mr D has in 
fact had the benefit of the refund since it has reduced the balance  on the account, and as I 
say it has placed  him back into the position  he was before  the charges were added. 
I also note that Mr D has received £75 as a goodwill payment from Barclays,  which  he 
accepted. I am please to see that Barclays made  such  a payment in the spirit of good 
customer relations, but it is not an award  I would  have necessarily ordered them to make.
So overall, in deciding whether Barclays have acted fairly and reasonably,  I have come to 
the same  conclusion as the investigator, that they have, and for similar reasons. I know Mr D 
will be disappointed with my decision but Im not satisfied that Barclays have treated him 
unfairly, so Im not going  to ask it to do anything further and Im not upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3460995