K820x#14complaint
Ms A says MEM Consumer Finance Limited (trading as Payday UK) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan Payday UK provided to Ms A in June 2013. Ms As 
lending history is as follows:
Loan 1 June 2013 for £200 (£259.60  with interest). A balance  remains  outstanding.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms As complaint. Ms A disagreed as she said she had other  
short term loans at the time that should  be considered. And so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Payday UK needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms A 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Payday UK should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Payday UK was required to establish 
whether Ms A could sustainably repay her loan  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN35526282Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms As complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for Ms As loan would most likely have 
shown that Ms A had sufficient disposable income to repay her loan sustainably.  Ms A had 
told Payday UK that she earned £2,333  a month  and her monthly expenditure was £579. 
This left her with £1,754 to repay  £259.60.
I think Payday UK could  reasonably rely on the accuracy of the information  Ms A provided as 
this was her first loan and it saw no signs that she was in financial difficulties. Payday UK 
said it checked Ms As credit report but it hasnt  provided us with the results of this. However, 
Ive looked at the credit report Ms A provided us. I cant  see that there would  have been  
anything untoward  that should have prompted Payday UK to make  further  checks. 
Ms A told us that she had other debts at the time and her financial position was very poor. 
But given the loan amount, what was apparent about Ms As circumstances at the time and 
her history  with Payday UK, I dont  think it wouldve been proportionate to ask her for the 
amount of information  needed to show the lending was unsustainable.  
There wasnt anything in the information Ms A provided or the information Payday UK 
shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying what 
Ms A was saying. 
Ms A said she had other  loans at the time.  I accept  that Ms As actual circumstances werent 
reflected either in the information she provided, or the other information Payday UK 
obtained. And Ms As actual financial position  might well have been apparent if further 
information  such as bank statements  had been obtained. 
But Payday  UK could  only make its decision based on the information it had available  at the 
time. And as it was in the early stages of a lending relationship with Ms A, I dont think it had 
reached the stage  where there  was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Ms A. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Payday UK needed to take further  steps to verify  the 
information provided. 
Equally Im only able to uphold a complaint where  I can safely say that a lender has done  
something wrong. And, in this case, I think Payday UK carried out reasonable checks, even 
though it looks  like the information  it was provided wasnt reflective of Ms As actual financial 
position. 
Payday UK relied on the information it was provided with and given the amount of the 
repayment involved, together with Ms As declared  income and Ms A only taking one loan, I 
think that this wasnt  unreasonable.  As this is the case, Im not upholding Ms As complaint. 
Ref: DRN35526283my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3552628