K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way Allianz  Insurance Plc has dealt with a claim under  a 
home insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs W are represented in this complaint.
background
I sent the parties my initial thoughts on what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances in 
a provisional decision.  For completeness I have attached a copy  to this decision.
I said I was persuaded  Allianz had made a fair offer to repair  the damaged  drainage and 
carry out a period of monitoring to establish if further repairs/underpinning is necessary.
Mr W was unhappy with my provisional decision saying his house has deteriorated. He 
doesnt think further monitoring will resolve the problem. And he says the professional 
opinion hes already provided  is more  up-to-date  and more  relevant. He also presented  a 
number of photographs showing evidence of subsidence.
We shared the photographs with Allianz  and it says these are not new and ones it already 
had. It said the damage looks the same as when  the claim was first received and so shows 
the house has stability
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, together with the parties  replies, 
to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im still persuaded  by all the information  that Allianz made  a fair offer to repair  the damaged 
drainage and carry out a period of monitoring to establish if further  repairs  and/or 
underpinning is necessary. For clarity;
Allianz should deal with damaged drainage by;
oCarrying out the repairs if not done  or pay cash in lieu of repair (in line with 
the policy)
oPaying for the repairs if already done by Mr W and on receipt of proof of 
payment and works carried  out
Allianz should conduct a period of monitoring (in line with industry good practice)  to 
establish if further repairs beyond the damaged  drainage are required, starting;
owithin 28 days of the date that we tell it Mr W accepts this final decision, or
oif not already  repaired, within 28 days of the repairs to the drainage being 
repaired (which should done in a reasonable period of time and Allianz 
notified).
Ref: DRN38113642my final decision
Im satisfied that Allianz Insurance  Plc has already made a fair offer (in line with the points 
Ive clarified earlier in my findings).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38113643provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain about the way Allianz Insurance Plc has dealt with a claim under  a home  
insurance policy.
background
The parties  are aware of the details behind the claim Mr and Mrs W submitted in early 2016. In 
summary, a drain collapsed and the dispute  is about whether or not Allianz needs to carry  out 
underpinning works to make an effective repair. Mr and Mrs W (represented by a loss assessor) say 
Allianz must whereas  Allianz (through its loss adjuster)  says the drain needs to be fully repaired and a 
further period of monitoring (circa  6 months) needs to take place to establish  whether  movement in Mr 
and Mrs Ws home  has ceased.  The outcome of the monitoring would  determine  if underpinning 
works are required. Notwithstanding  all this, Mr and Mrs W are unhappy  that it has taken  over two 
years to reach this stage.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into the complaint and noted the conflict  in opinions from the loss 
adjuster (for Allianz) and the loss assessor (for Mr and Mrs W). So the adjudicator said they should 
agree the appointment  of an independent loss adjuster to carry out a further report. Allianz would  be 
liable for the cost and the parties should agree on the report findings as a final conclusion.
Both parties replied but were  still in disagreement; Allianz  remained satisfied monitoring was the right 
thing to do and didnt deny  that underpinning might be required. But the monitoring would determine  
that issue. Mr and Mrs Ws view was that no monitoring was required and things had gone on long 
enough already. 
The adjudicator remained satisfied that an independent report was the only way to fairly move things 
on. So she said Allianz should;
Appoint and pay for a structural engineer who must be a member  of ICE or IStructE
Mr and Mrs W can source  their own engineer and send details to Allianz, or
Allianz can select three engineers for Mr and Mrs W who should  pick one.
The adjudicator made other suggestions to do with the appointment including that both parties could 
make comment  on the independent  report but both would  be bound by the findings of that engineer.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
There are a number of reports and commentaries from both sides, which Ive considered. And I bear 
in mind Allianzs duty to handle claims  promptly and fairly.
The main report commissioned by Allianz through its appointed loss adjuster  is clear about the 
damage that has occurred to Mr and Mrs Ws property. There is no dispute that the underground 
drains as identified  in the report need to be repaired and Allianz is contractually bound  to do that. 
Allianz has already offered  to make the repairs  or pay a cash sum.  
Under the policy, like every other buildings insurance  policy Ive seen, Allianz will decide  whether  to 
pay to reinstate, repair, replace or pay a cash value.  And where an offer to repair has been made, but 
the policyholder prefers a cash value, Allianz will only pay the amount it would have cost it to carry  out 
the repairs.  
Im satisfied that Allianz investigated the issues raised  by Mr and Mrs W in their claim promptly. 
Allianz had reports commissioned in the first half of 2016  and a plan was detailed as to the next steps 
Ref: DRN38113644of repair and monitoring by May 2016. And its here that essentially things began to falter. Having 
read all the information weve been provided Im not persuaded  that Allianzs original  plan to repair the 
drains and then move  into a phase of monitoring was unfair, unreasonable or clearly inadequate. 
The report commissioned by Mr and Mrs W (Revised October 2017) comments  on an indication of 
very loose sub strata. But this was already identified  as early as April 2016.  The report  doesnt explain 
in any persuasive way why repairing the drainage  and a period of monitoring is an unreasonable  
proposal to put things  right.  I do note that the original monitoring period was scheduled  to have been 
completed in November  2016. But this has been delayed because of the impasse between Allianz  
and Mr and Mrs Ws loss assessor. Im not persuaded that this delay is Allianzs responsibility.
Theres also a commentary on the above report (and others in this case) from January  2018,  again  
advanced in favour of Mr and Mrs W. Unsurprisingly it too comments on the drainage problem but 
also says that suggested remedial works, which  include underpinning, seem  reasonable.  
Im more persuaded by the evidence available  to me that repairing  the drains  and then monitoring for 
a period to establish if movement has ceased is reasonable in the circumstances. And had this been 
accepted initially both parties  would  be vastly progressed by now. While  evidence for Mr and Mrs W 
suggests underpinning is reasonable  Im not persuaded that its required  to achieve an effective and 
lasting repair at this point in time.  Allianz  hasnt ruled out underpinning if required after a monitoring 
period and Im satisfied that a monitoring period is appropriate to establish  the extent of what needs to 
be done to put things right.
So, Im not directing Allianz to commission a further report.
my provisional  decision
Im not currently intending  to uphold this complaint.  Allianz Insurance Plc has made a fair offer to 
repair the damaged drainage and carry out a period of monitoring to establish  if further 
repairs/underpinning is necessary.
Ref: DRN3811364