K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about the way Amtrust Europe  Limited handled a claim on his legal 
expenses insurance  policy  and the amount of costs it agreed to pay.
Where I refer to Amtrust  Europe Limited this includes  its agents and claims handlers.
background
Mr C was prosecuted for a driving offence. He instructed solicitors to represent  him and they 
submitted a claim on his motor legal expenses policy on his behalf.  After some 
correspondence with the solicitors Amtrust agreed to cover the claim and the solicitors  
signed Amtrusts terms of appointment.
A little while  later, and before the proceedings had concluded, Amtrust withdrew cover.  It 
said Mr C no longer  had a reasonable chance  of defending the proceedings.  The solicitors 
complained on behalf of Mr C about  the decision to withdraw cover. They also put in a claim 
for costs incurred while cover was in place.
Amtrust issued a response  to the complaint, saying  it was entitled to withdraw  cover  and had 
relied on advice  from a barrister in relation  to this. It paid some of the costs  claimed  but not 
all of them.  After further correspondence the solicitors  raised  further complaints about the 
delay dealing with the claim and the amount of costs paid. Amtrust issued a further 
response, saying  it wasnt responsible for delays, and the costs  it had agreed  to pay were  
reasonable.
Mr Cs solicitors then brought  the complaint to this service. Our investigator  said we couldnt  
consider the complaint about cover being withdrawn, because it had been brought  to us too 
late. He considered the other complaint issues  but didnt think  they should be upheld.  Mr Cs 
solicitors disagreed and requested an ombudsmans decision.
As it wasnt agreed whether we could investigate  all the issues  raised I considered  this point 
first and issued a decision on this in December  2018. I explained that Amtrust had issued 
two final responses.  The first was issued in September 2017 and concerned the decision to 
withdraw cover. The second was issued in May 2018 and concerned issues  relating to delay 
handling the claim, and the amount of costs  paid. I concluded that we could not investigate 
the complaint  about withdrawing  cover  addressed  in the final response sent in September 
2017, as that complaint was made out of time.  But I said we could investigate  the complaint 
addressed in the final response from May 2018. So I have gone  on to consider  that 
complaint and will address those  issues  in this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for Mr Cs reasonable legal costs  of defending the prosecution  
against him, provided there are reasonable prospects of successfully defending the case  
meaning its more likely than not they will be successful. This is generally  taken to mean at 
least a 51% chance  of success. Terms like this are common in legal expenses  policies. They  
mean insurers dont  have to meet costs for a case where the customer is unlikely to be 
successful. 
Ref: DRN31867972Costs payable under the policy are defined as The reasonable  and proportionate  but 
irrecoverable costs incurred by the Solicitor on a standard basis which an Insured Person 
has to pay 
Mr Cs solicitors say the costs Amtrust has agreed  to pay only cover a small proportion  of the 
actual costs incurred.  And they dispute the period when  cover was in place saying,  amongst  
other things,  that Amtrust delayed dealing with the claim and was obstructive. 
Ive considered how Amtrust dealt with the claim,  taking into account  the policy terms and 
the general duty an insurer has to deal with a claim  promptly  and fairly.
There were some delays in the handling of this case, but I dont think  these  were  all due to 
Amtrusts actions. For example, when Amtrust initially asked the solicitors  to confirm the 
prospects of success,  they simply said at the moment, from what our client  has told us, he 
has good prospects  of success . And when asked  again, they said we note your request to 
express prospects  of success  as a percentage. This is almost impossible due to the many 
human variables in any criminal trial.
I think its reasonable to expect solicitors to be able to explain their view on the chances of 
success. As Ive explained, most  legal expenses policies include  this requirement and its 
standard to ask solicitors to give their view on this. 
Ive also taken into account Mr Cs obligations under the policy  terms to co-operate at all 
times, forward  any communications  relating to the case without delay and supply any 
information Amtrust requires. Terms  like this are not unusual and I think its reasonable for 
Amtrust to expect to receive information it needs to assess a claim. His solicitors  had 
documents relating to the case and, given the importance of these documents, Amtrust 
would have wanted to see these. 
I know there was also some delay by Amtrust   the solicitors werent initially sent a claim 
form to complete. But in the first instance, its for the insured to prove their claim. I dont think 
the information provided initially was enough to do this, so it was reasonable for Amtrust to 
request more details.  Looking  at the sequence  of events and the timescales involved, I dont 
think the claim was unreasonably  delayed as a result of Amtrusts actions.
As Ive explained, Im not able to consider the decision to withdraw cover. So Ive only 
looked at the costs  paid for the period when cover was in place.  Amtrust  has only paid a 
small proportion  of those  costs. The hourly rate was set out in the terms of appointment and 
agreed by the solicitors.  The dispute  arises because  some  of the items claimed for havent 
been agreed by Amtrust.
The policy provides cover for reasonable and proportionate costs. Its not my role to review  a 
solicitors bill of costs  in detail and decide  whether  each  item claimed for is payable. But in 
my judgment, in the first instance its for Mr C to show the costs being claimed are 
reasonable and Ive considered whether he has done this. 
I note that Amtrust has explained why it wouldnt pay all of the costs  presented  - for 
example, it has declined to cover  costs charged  where there are no notes  of the work in 
question on file, for attempted phone calls and duplicate items. An insurer  is entitled to check 
how costs have been incurred, to decide  if they are reasonable. If theres  no record  of the 
work done, I dont think its fair to expect an insurer to pay for it; if Amtrust has no information 
Ref: DRN31867973about the work being claimed for, its difficult to see how it could assess  whether those costs 
are reasonable.
Amtrust also hasnt paid for costs of correspondence between it and the solicitors. Thats not 
unusual  the policy provides cover for the costs  of the legal action, not for administrative 
steps between  the insurers and solicitors.  
Taking all of this into account,  my view is that Mr C hasnt  done enough to prove the claim 
for costs and Amtrusts decision on what to pay was reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3186797