K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that TM Advances Limited (TMA)  lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mr B was given a single  loan by TMA in April 2017. He borrowed £3,000  and agreed to 
repay the loan in monthly instalments over the following five years. Mr B has at times found  it 
difficult to meet his contracted repayments.  In 2019 TMA identified that some of the arrears  
letters it had sent to Mr B didnt comply with the relevant legislation. So it has reduced the 
remaining balance of Mr Bs loan to remove the interest that was charged during the period 
the incorrect letters had been issued to him.
Mr Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He thought  the checks  TMA 
had done before agreeing  the loan had been  proportionate. But he thought  the results  of 
those checks should have led to TMA  declining Mr Bs loan application  he though they 
clearly showed that Mr B was facing problems managing his money. So he asked TMA to 
pay Mr B some  compensation.
TMA didnt agree with that assessment. It thought that Mr Bs problems in repaying  the loan 
had arisen because of lending  that hed taken after the loan had been  agreed, and because 
of a change in his domestic  circumstances. It thought that its checks had showed that Mr B 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.  If Mr B accepts my decision  it is legally binding on both parties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr Bs complaint. 
The rules  and regulations at the time TMA gave this loan to Mr B required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so TMA had to think  about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this 
meant that TMA had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr B undue 
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for TMA to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
Ref: DRN37664262In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  
higher repayments  from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether TMA did what  it needed to before agreeing  to lend 
to Mr B.
TMA gathered some information from Mr B before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details 
of his income, and his normal expenditure. And it checked his credit file to assess how much 
he was repaying  to other creditors.
The credit check highlighted that Mr B had borrowed heavily in the past, and still had a 
number of loans  outstanding. He had taken two other loans,  of a similar size to what  he was 
now asking TMA to lend, within the previous  six months. And he had taken  several payday 
loans in the previous month. I accept  that he had said the loan he was asking for was to be 
used, in part, to consolidate some of his other debts. But the size of his outstanding debt 
was significantly greater  than the loan TMA  agreed to give him. I think those other debts 
might have caused TMA to have serious concerns  that Mr B was finding  it difficult  to manage  
his money.
Our adjudicator concluded that the problems Mr B was having managing his money, that 
were shown by the credit  check, should  in themselves have been a reason to decline the 
loan application.  I dont think that is an unreasonable conclusion. But even if I were to give 
the benefit of the doubt to TMA, I think that information should have led the lender, at the 
very least,  to undertake some more detailed investigations.
Mr B was entering into a significant commitment with TMA. He would need  to make monthly 
repayments for a period of five years. So, given what I have said above, I would expect that 
TMA would want to gather, and independently check, some detailed  information about 
Mr Bs financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I dont therefore think  that the 
checks it did were  enough. I think it would have been proportionate for TMA to independently 
check the true state of Mr Bs finances before agreeing the loan. 
But although  I dont  think the checks TMA did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, Id 
also want to be persuaded that what I consider to be proportionate checks would have 
shown TMA that Mr B couldnt sustainably afford the repayments.  So Ive looked at Mr Bs 
bank statements, and what  hes told us about his financial  situation,  to see what better 
checks would have  shown  TMA.
Ref: DRN37664263At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check  that TMA 
should have carried  out. I do think TMA  needed evidence to corroborate what  Mr B said was 
happening with his finances.  And looking at his bank  statements is one way of achieving  that 
although there are of course many  other  ways that level of detail could be established. But 
I think that by looking  at Mr Bs bank  statements  I can get a good  idea of what  better checks  
might have shown.
Mr Bs bank  statements  show  clear  evidence that he was facing problems  managing his 
expenditure. In the month before the loan was agreed I can see that Mr B spent  over half his 
normal income on what appear to be online gambling transactions. He regularly supported 
his expenditure  by taking short term loans from other lenders  loans that TMA had already 
identified from its credit check. I havent  seen anything that suggests this sort of spending 
was a one-off  or likely to reduce in the future. So I dont think  it would  be reasonable for a 
responsible lender, having seen that information, to conclude  that Mr B would be able to 
afford his repayments  in a sustainable manner.
So in summary,  I dont think the checks  TMA did before agreeing this loan were sufficient. 
And I think better checks would have  identified Mr Bs gambling  expenditure that would have 
led a responsible lender to decline his loan application. So I dont  think  TMA should have 
given this loan to Mr B and needs  to put things right.
putting things right
I dont think TMA should have agreed  to lend to Mr B in April 2017. So TMA should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on the loan and treat all the 
payments Mr B made towards  this loan as payments towards the capital
if reworking Mr Bs loan account as Ive directed results in Mr B effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed, then TMA should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date of settlement. 
If reworking Mr Bs loan account leaves an amount  of capital still to be paid, then 
I remind TMA that it should  take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr B
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Bs credit file in relation to the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TMA to take off tax from this interest. TMA  must  give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct  TM Advances  Limited  to put 
things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3766426