K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in August 
2001 alongside a mortgage.  Mr P says Hinckley and Rugby Building Society (H&R) mis-sold 
him the PPI. 
Background
Mr P says he bought  the PPI because it was strongly recommended to him, both on the 
phone and by post. He also says he didnt need  the cover and H&R didnt check whether the 
PPI was suitable for him. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. 
Because Mr P disagrees, his complaint has come to me for an ombudsmans  decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
The policy provided  free cover for the first 6 months. Mr P says he took the PPI given that it 
was free initially but because of H&Rs strong  recommendation he felt pressured to 
continue paying  for it when  the free period ended.  
From what  Ive seen it looks like Mr P decided to take out the PPI by way of a postal 
application, after hed applied for his mortgage  over the phone.  Ive seen  that Mr P says the 
H&R representative recommended he take out the PPI cover when he spoke to them  on the 
phone. Ive not seen  evidence to support that the sale happened  by phone, but Ive also kept 
in mind that it happened some time ago. It is of course possible that the representative  from 
H&R mentioned taking  out PPI over the phone. But given that Mr P applied  for the policy  by 
filling out an application form in his own time, I think its more likely that this was that the PPI 
was sold to him on a non-advised  basis. That means that whilst H&R didnt need to check  if 
the PPI was suitable for Mr Ps circumstances, it still needed  to give him enough information  
to enable him to make  an informed choice about the policy  before  he bought it. 
Mr P says H&Rs  sale paperwork  put him under pressure  to buy the policy. Hes quoted from 
the paperwork saying  H&R strongly  recommended that he take out the cover.  He says 
because of that he extended the initial 6 month period to continue paying for the cover. He 
also says it wasnt possible for him to opt out of having the cover.  
Unfortunately, I dont agree that Mr P was put in a positon where he had to buy the PPI, or 
that he was put under  pressure to buy it. 
H&R required that Mr P filled out an application  form to get the first 6 months of PPI cover.  
H&R has provided us with a copy of the PPI application form which  was completed and 
Ref: DRN30463732signed by Mr P. This was sent in around  two weeks after hed put in his mortgage 
application. Ive seen that the form only provided  for the cover  continuing after the first 
6 months if Mr P ticked  a box requesting  it, which he did. 
I can also see that Mr P wanted  to take out cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment. 
He answered several questions on the PPI application form to help establish  he was eligible 
for the policy and wouldnt  be disadvantaged  by the main policy exclusions. He also put in 
the amount of cover he needed and monthly  premium, taken from the information  hed been  
given about the policy. Finally, I see Mr P provided  his bank details  so that the monthly PPI 
payments  which would be taken separately  to his mortgage payments   could be deducted 
from his bank account. 
I think being told that its a good  idea to have PPI  which is what I think H&Rs 
recommendation amounts to  is quite  different from being told that you have to or must take 
out PPI. I know Mr P considers this to be evidence of pressure being  put  on him to take out 
cover, but given  that hed still have  obtained  his mortgage even if he declined to take it out, it 
is difficult to see this as a pressure situation.  And whilst  Mr P chose to take the PPI for the 
free 6 month period,  it was always open to him P to choose not to continue  with the PPI after 
the free period had expired. 
All of this is enough  for me to think that Mr P made a definite decision to buy the PPI cover 
and thought about the type and level of cover hed need.  
Based on what Ive seen  about his circumstances at the time  and what he told H&R when 
he applied  for the policy  - it doesnt  look like he would  have  been  adversely affected by the 
main policy terms  and exclusions. So it would have been useful for them  if something went 
wrong. 
Mr P says he was entitled to some sick pay at the time  of between 6 and 12 months  - and 
had some savings in place. However, the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months and in 
addition to any sick pay and savings. Mr P also told us that he had access  to a significant 
level of savings due to being  left a family legacy. But, assuming he could access these, it 
would be up to him to decide how he intended to use those savings and its certainly 
possible that he would have wished to use them for a designated purpose at some point and 
possibly before a situation arose  where he needed  extra funds. The PPI would have  paid out 
alongside the savings, or his work benefits.  So I still think  he would have regarded the policy  
as being useful for him, avoiding the necessity of depleting his legacy or funding mortgage 
payments from other sources of income.   
I can see its possible there  may have been some shortcomings in the way this policy  was 
sold but, having looked at the sale carefully, I think Mr P would still have decided  to buy the 
policy even if hed received more information about  the policy.  And I havent  seen anything  
to make me think that the policy premiums  were too expensive for him. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr P paid on their PPI  and whether H&R treated  
them unfairly. 
H&R has told us that the commission for Mr Ps PPI was less than half of what  they paid for 
each premium. Weve looked at how H&R has been  working this out and based  on what 
weve seen it looks like its right. Mr Ps commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. 
As thats  the case, H&R  it doesnt need to pay Mr P back any of the commission they paid 
for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN30463733My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3046373