K821x#15complaint
T, a limited company, complains that The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc stopped sending it 
original copies of its cheques with its statements without notice resulting in potential  loss.
background
T says it had a written  agreement with RBS to receive the originals of its cheques back with 
its statements. It needed these to comply with regulatory and audit requirements in its 
industry. T complained to RBS when  it stopped  sending all the cheques with its statements  
for October  2017.  It was unhappy  to be told that RBS had no record of the arrangement. 
RBS issued a final response letter agreeing with its complaint and paid £5.40 to reimburse 
the costs of calls and £20 compensation. T remained dissatisfied as it had not been  notified 
of any change or termination  of  its agreement, still wanted original copies of the cheques 
and, if it didnt get them, for RBS to indemnify it against any losses. RBS said it would be 
sticking to its decision  and T referred  the complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. The information provided 
from RBS showed  that a voucher service  charge ceased  to be applied  to Ts account after 
3 March 2014. But he was satisfied that the service  continued. RBS told him that all 
customers that received  this service would have been told that it was being removed from 
6 October 2017 in either August or September 2017.  And that this was in line with industry 
wide changes.  He decided on balance that although  RBS could not provide a copy of any 
notice to T it had most  likely  sent this and that it had likely been lost in the post  something 
which RBS was not responsible for.
T did not agree  and wanted  its complaint to be reviewed. It told the investigator it had more 
evidence if necessary. It said that all agreements were ongoing  until changed. It wanted to 
see the evidence  that our investigator relied  on as it thought that the summary of the 
complaint and details given  by our investigator  were incorrect and he had shown bias to 
RBS.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 April 2020. I set out below the key 
elements of what I said.
Before my assessment  I asked the investigator  to contact T and explain that I needed it to 
provide all the evidence and comments it wanted me to see. I asked him to explain that I 
wouldnt be entering into the dialogue about the complaint that T indicated  it wanted as that 
is not our process.  T said that it would  look to my fresh review of the complaint.
I also asked the investigator to contact RBS and ask it whether it was prepared to agree  to 
pay T £150  in compensation for the inconvenience caused. I based  this on my assessment 
that T most likely  did not receive notification  of the change in the processes around cheque  
clearance and to the service provided. RBS did not agree  and said that there  was no 
evidence that T was receiving the cheques; there  was no evidence  of any special 
agreement; it was not part of its terms and conditions to do so; and that as there was no 
agreement and no charge we would not have written. It said it did not understand my logic 
for saying  it had made a mistake.
Ref: DRN33000792I said I found that response  difficult to follow given the earlier  position  RBS had taken on the 
complaint. With that in mind I said I was going  to make my own assessment taking into 
account the evidence and comments Ive been  provided with and now having  to start with 
some very basic points that seem to be in dispute  - the substance of which I knew have 
cause the officers  of T some frustration. I needed  to make clear that this service  provides 
informal dispute resolution and I was going  to be making findings based  on what I think is 
most likely.
was there  an arrangement to provide cheques to T?
T has provided documents showing it had an agreement to receive its cheques from RBS.  It 
explained why this was important as far back as 2000. RBS accepts that the arrangement to 
provide copies of cheques  stopped for all customers on 6 October 2017. That is exactly the 
point T said it stopped  receiving the cheques. RBS accepted it had made a mistake in the 
final response letter when  it had told T there was no record of a requirement to receive 
cheques. I was clear  based on what Id seen that T was receiving cheques.  
was T being  charged for the service?
T had shown  that it initially paid an annual  service charge for this service. And that this then 
changed to a charge of £5 per statement. That charge  ceased  to be shown on its statements 
from March 2014.  RBS says that T has not been  charged since. The investigator asked T to 
substantiate that it was being charged  after that. T said in September 2019 that given the 
changes we are unable  to identify if (or when)  the charge for the Service ceased to be 
levied after April 2018[4?]We  repeat if [RBS] unilaterally ceased raising charges for the 
Service, such is an irrelevance.  And it had earlier said in August 2019  that this was a 
minimal aspect of its complaint. The reason I had been considering this is to establish 
whether or not T was being charged  after October 2017 for a service it was not being 
provided with. I thought  it most likely that it was not being charged after March  2014. 
was T given  notice of a change to the service?
Internal records provided by RBS state  that all registered customers  will receive  a letter  in 
August/ September 2017 to advise them of the change. RBS has not been able to provide a 
copy of a template  of this letter or any audit  to show that T was sent this. It has provided a 
copy of a general information leaflet about changes to the cheque  clearing system. I 
suggested to RBS that T may not have received any letter because its agreement  was not 
standard  T says it was receiving originals of cheques while  RBS had stated other  
customers were  only receiving copies. And that the non standard nature of the agreement 
meant that T may not have been  notified.  As set out above RBS most  recently  said T would 
not have received a letter  as there was no agreement. So I was now unclear whether RBS 
position is that it did or did not sent T a letter.
Given that, my finding above that T was receiving its cheques  and the absence  of evidence  
from RBS I found it most likely that it did not send this letter to T. I took into account that in 
my view T has been consistent in what it had said about the complaint and that its officers  
have shown a close attention to detail. Although it is possible a letter  was lost in the post I 
didnt think thats  the most  likely explanation  here.
does RBS need to continue to provide the service as T requests?
Ref: DRN33000793The answer to this in my view was no. RBS can withdraw any service with any required 
notice  which Ill come  to below. Here  its shown that industry changes mean that actual 
cheques will no longer  be sent to the paying  bank as a result of cheque imaging and will be 
destroyed after a few days. There are ways  in which customers  can access these cheque 
images on line. And RBS says that this is a legally  acceptable copy of the cheques. 
my overall assessment
I was satisfied that RBS did not give T advance notification of the change to this service. 
Even if this was a bespoke agreement I still thought it reasonable for it to provide two 
months notice which  I understood is generally  in line with that for other changes  to its 
services and charges.  T was effectively given notice of the change  when it stopped  
receiving the cheques.  It had to follow this up and was then told of other ways of obtaining 
the copies. It did not have  the opportunity to mitigate the impact in advance.  Its not 
demonstrated that it made any actual financial loss in the period of two months after 
November 2017  as a result  of not receiving  notice. And as RBS said in the final response it 
could contact its business support team for copies  to help mitigate any impact. As I indicated 
above RBS cannot fairly  be responsible for the consequences of agreed industry wide 
changes and deciding  as a result that it was not able to provide the voucher service any 
longer.
After due notice  T was fairly liable for any costs of say needing in future to pay a fee to 
access a different system  to view images  of the cheques. And it would be reasonable to 
expect such an arrangement to have been put in place. But I did think it was caused 
inconvenience. Thats why I asked RBS if it would agree  to my recommendation with a view 
to informally resolving this complaint with T. Thats not proved to be possible as I explained 
above but I remained of the view that a further £150  in compensation is reasonable to reflect 
this inconvenience.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS did not agree and said that it must have been sending  cheques until 2014 but there  
was no evidence that it did so after that. As far as it was aware it said that T had not 
provided evidence  of this and had refused to do so which it thought was odd. It certainly 
hadnt paid anything for the service beyond  2014.  It was concerned  that T has no evidence 
to support its claim and it did not understand what the £150 in compensation was for.
T did not accept my provisional decision.  It made  detailed comments  about what Id said 
which Im going to address under the following main areas:
process and approach
T has referred to its officers experience  in dispute resolution and what it says are our 
arbitrary deadlines.  It remained unhappy with the approach our investigator has followed and 
offered to provide transcripts of its calls with him if I wanted. It said that it is most unhappy 
with my reaching findings on a basis of what is most likely and not on a balance of 
probabilities. It wanted to know  if the suggested compensation Id put to RBS gave any 
Ref: DRN33000794impression that T had endorsed this. It said that the outcome of the provisional  decision was 
perverse especially as it did not think I could rely on anything RBS had said.
As I mentioned, we provide  informal  dispute resolution. My review is independent of that of 
the investigator but I have looked at and summarised his view.  We tend to use informal 
terms too and I can confirm that I am looking at things on the basis  of what  is most  likely  on 
a balance of probabilities  the civil standard. I have  not suggested to RBS any form of 
compensation might be acceptable to T. And Ive dealt with any conflicts in evidence  in 
explaining my reasoning.  Im considering the merits of the complaint  here  not the service 
provided by our investigator- including what T says about its papers previously being lost. 
understanding the complaint.
T wanted  to emphasise  that it does not ever believe its had notice of the change  or 
termination of an agreement with RBS. It wants its costs covered which to date are £2,000. T 
said its potential liability for not having  the cheques could be a loss of several hundred 
thousand pounds. The alternative means to obtain  the information  have  not been 
researched and statutory  changes have not yet been made that apply to its industry  and will 
in any event never be retro-active.
merits of the complaint
There are a number of areas where T agrees  with what  Ive found. Im going to focus  most  
on the differences. T says it is not possible to say whether  or not RBS has been  charging it 
since 2014 for the service. And it says that even  if it hasnt  then that was a matter for RBS.  
The reason  for me looking at this area was not to help establish whether or not there was an 
ongoing arrangement and which might  have been  ad hoc. But to determine  as I said whether 
T was paying for something after October 2017  that parties agree it was not then receiving. I 
need to determine that based on the evidence and submissions and I remain of the view that 
there have  not been continuing  charges after 2017.
T agrees  with my finding that RBS did not send it any advance notice. But T considers that it 
has never had notice of the arrangement coming  to an end. It now says that its taken my 
provisional decision as indirect notice. It now intends to move  its accounts to a different 
financial business and states that its claim will not expand  after it has done so.
I am clear that T fairly knew by November 2017  that it would no longer  be getting cheques  in 
this way. And Ive said in my provisional decision that RBS could decide to no longer provide 
such a service and was not liable for the future consequences. I stand by that and Im afraid 
that any regulatory difficulties that resulted for T were  not the responsibility of NatWest to 
address. Im also not considering potential  losses  even relating to the narrow  issue of the 
period of appropriate notice at the time - and none  of which  from the evidence Ive seen 
have crystallised. 
I remain of the view that the issue  here is compensation to T for the inconvenience  of not 
getting advance  notification of the change.  And I wont be awarding any costs  for T in 
bringing this complaint. We dont typically do so and even where  we do look at units  of time 
spent wed only recognise a modest rate. The compensation I am awarding  relates  to what 
happened in 2017 and as I say Im looking at the merits  of the complaint. I find that £150 
remains appropriate.
Ref: DRN33000795In conclusion Ive explained what this compensation is for. Ive set out why Ive made my 
findings based on the evidence available to me. And Ive taken into account what Id be told 
and what I thought about the credibility  of that. I still have no explanation for the significant  
differences in the account of what happened by RBS given now compared to what  it said in 
2017 as I set out above. I note that it said in its final response letter and its business 
submission to this service that we agreed with [the] complaint and it had provided copies of 
cheques not sent in October 2017. And so taking  everything into account I stand by my 
findings here.
If T does not accept  this outcome  that it can still pursue this matter  in court subject to any 
relevant time limits.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require The Royal  Bank of Scotland  
Plc to pay T a further £150.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3300079