K821x#15complaint
Mr K is unhappy about Omni Capital Retail Finance Limiteds decision on his complaint 
following a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) for some mis-
sold solar panels.
background
The parties are aware of the background to this complaint. So, I dont intend to set it out here 
in detail. Mr K is represented by his wife, Mrs K. Mr K bought  some  solar panels from a 
supplier, acting through its sales agent. The panels were financed  by a seven-year  loan from 
Omni for about £9,000.  The total amount payable over the term of the loan, including 
interest, was just over £12,000.
Mrs K has told us that the sales agent  said, among other things, that the loan would be self-
financing. That is, there would, in effect,  be nothing payable by Mr K and the family would 
benefit from free electricity during daylight  hours and make a profit  each month. These 
verbal statements  were untrue and do not appear  in the contractual  documentation that Mr K 
signed. Mrs K says that some of the pages of the documentation were  changed  after Mr K 
had signed them. Mrs K also says that she was promised referral payments for 
recommending the supplier to her friends  and neighbours. She was expecting £7,500. But 
has only received  £2,500.
Mrs K says that the whole  situation has caused  her sleepless nights, severe stress and has 
made the health conditions from which she suffers much worse. Shed like the solar  panels 
removed, their roof restored, all of the money  that Mr K has paid refunded  and payment of 
the balance of the referral money  that she was promised.
Our investigator found that there had been a misrepresentation  and that Mr K should be 
compensated. He didnt  think it was fair to require Omni to remove the panels  and repay  all 
the loan repayments. But instead  he thought  that Omni should re-calculate the loan 
repayments to make  the system self-funding over a 10-year period - being the length of time 
in this case over which it was fair to assume  that the panels should  pay for themselves.
Omni accepted the investigators recommendation, but Mr and Mrs K didnt. So, the matter 
has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr and Mrs K will be disappointed  to hear 
that I agree with the compensation suggested  by our investigator. Ill explain why.
I was really sorry to hear about the difficult time that Mr and Mrs K have had with their solar 
panels and the stress  and health problems that Mrs K has experienced. This cannot  have  
been easy.
Like our investigator,  Ive found that there  was more likely than not a misrepresentation by 
the sales agent. It seems  that the individual  involved  has done  this on a number of 
occasions and was ultimately  dismissed from his employment by the supplier. The evidence  
from Mrs K is persuasive. And the evidence indicates that Mr K was promised a greater 
return than what the contractual documentation  provided for.
Ref: DRN37755182I appreciate that Mrs K has said that the contractual documentation was amended  after Mr K 
signed it. Unfortunately, theres no evidence, other than Mr and Mrs Ks recollection,  of the 
exact terms that the sales agent promised. And the documentation of course doesnt include 
the details that were  discussed.
Mrs K thinks  that Omni should be responsible for the commission payments that she 
believes they are due. But these didnt form a term of the contract  that Omni financed. That 
contract was for the solar  panels themselves, not any referral fee arrangement between the 
supplier and Mr or Mrs K. Section 75 of the Act makes  Omni equally liable with the supplier 
for any breach  of contract  or misrepresentation relating to the financed  contract.  So, I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to hold Omni responsible for any misrepresentation about  the 
commission payments.
Mr and Mrs K would prefer  that the panels  are removed and that theyre refunded all the 
payments theyve made. But I have to consider what is fair compensation. And that doesnt 
mean making the misrepresentations true. Instead, I must consider what  loss Mr K has 
suffered as a result  of those misrepresentations. Which means  I need  to take into account  
what Mr and Mrs K should have expected when entering into this contract. Compared to 
what they actually  got.
Mr and Mrs K will have known that they had a seven-year contract and that the finance 
payments meant they would be paying interest over that period. They of course thought,  and 
I agree  they were  more likely than not told, that the monthly payments would be met through  
the electricity generated and the feed in tariff (FIT) payments received from the government.
But that was untrue, as these solar panel  systems  would  never  have generated sufficient 
electricity to pay for themselves over that time period. Theres  no evidence to indicate 
whether or not Mr and Mrs K were  shown any calculations about  how these savings would 
be achieved. They may well have  been shown some  figures on a laptop. But theres  
unfortunately no evidence of the calculations in the paperwork  available  to us now.  There is 
some sales  documentation though.  And this indicates that the panels will pay for themselves 
over a 20-year period  and return an attractive  profit over that time.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs K were  told that the returns would be over a shorter  period than 20 
years. And Id normally  consider  that a system of this type should effectively pay for itself 
over a 10-year period.  Thats  the period our investigator has used to calculate  what  an 
appropriate amount  of compensation should  be. And I agree thats fair. Our calculation 
includes an estimate of the electricity  that will be generated and fed back  into the electricity 
grid over a 10-year period, the FIT payments to be received and the electricity  savings  that 
Mr and Mrs K could  expect over that time.  The amount comes to £9,717,  which is then taken 
off the full amount payable for the loan over its seven-year term (£12,000 odd). And to that is 
added interest on any over-payments that Mr K has made so far to compensate him for 
being without  that money  over the relevant period.
I consider this to be fair compensation in the circumstances  of Mr Ks complaint. The panels  
are working fine and continue to generate  electricity.  Mr and Mrs K are benefitting from the 
ongoing government  FIT payments and the savings on their electricity  bills. And they should  
continue to do so for many years to come, even after the 10-year  period  over which  the 
panels should effectively pay for themselves. So, there should  ultimately  be a profit to them 
from the panels as they were promised in the initial sales documentation.
Ref: DRN37755183If the panels were  to be removed now and Mr K was repaid the money hed paid to date, 
then the benefits Ive set out above  would be lost. And I would have to deduct any benefits 
accrued to date from any amount to be refunded. I also dont think  its fair in this case  to 
require that Omni remove a functioning  system that complies with the contract that Mr K 
entered into, but for the misrepresented  benefits.
Mr K knew  that he was signing a long-term contract and he has got what he was promised in 
terms of a functioning solar panel system.  Its just that without the compensation Im 
awarding, this wouldnt  effectively have paid for itself until much  further  down the line. So, I 
do think that the financial compensation that Ive set out below is fair for the 
misrepresentations made by the sales agent.  And this compensates Mr K for the financial 
loss he would otherwise suffer.
I understand that Mrs K has been  through  a very difficult time. I was really  sorry to hear that. 
However, the finance agreement in this case is in Mr Ks name  and I can only compensate 
him for the trouble and upset he was caused and not that which Mrs K suffered. I appreciate  
how difficult this must  all have been for them both. But I agree with our investigator that £100 
compensation is a fair amount for Omnis part in this. The supplier and the sales agent were 
the parties actually  responsible for most  of the upset. But as far as Omni is concerned, Ive 
looked at how it added  to that upset in the way it dealt with the Section 75 claim, when 
determining what I think is a fair amount of compensation for it to pay.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint against Omni Capital Retail  Finance  Limited.  I 
require that it do the following:
recalculate Mr Ks loan so he doesnt pay any more than the amount of benefit he will 
receive from the panels over a 10-year period - £9,717.00 (the self-funding loan);
where hes paid more each month on the original  loan than he would have done  for 
the self-funding  loan,  add 8% simple interest  a year to the over-payments  from the 
date they were paid until the date that theyre  effectively refunded; 
Upon Mr K deciding  which of the following  options he wants to use to benefit  from the 
extra hes paid each  month on his original loan (and any interest), make the 
necessary arrangements  to amend the loan or pay Mr K as appropriate:
 
a)the overpayments and interest  are used to reduce  the outstanding balance  of 
the loan and he continues to make  his current monthly payment resulting in 
the loan finishing  early,
b)the overpayments and interest  are used to reduce  the outstanding balance  of 
the loan and he pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c)the overpayments and interest  are returned  to Mr K and he continues to make 
his current monthly  payment resulting  in the loan finishing early, or
d)the overpayments and interest  are returned  to Mr K and he pays a new 
monthly payment  until the end of the loan term; and
pay Mr K £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ref: DRN37755184Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2021.
James Kennard
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3775518