K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about the settlement offer Advantage Insurance  Company  Limited  made 
after his car was written  off.
background
Mr G insured his car with a motor insurance  policy underwritten  by Advantage. After an 
accident, Mr G made a claim under his policy but due to the cost of repair it was deemed a 
write-off. Advantage  offered to pay him the market value of his car before the accident.
Mr G wasnt happy with the offer, and said cars like his were  only advertised at much higher 
prices. He complained.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Gs complaint but thought Advantage had handled 
his claim fairly. She noted the valuation Advantage had placed  on Mr Gs car reflected the 
prices used in the standard industry  guides, and she thought that was a reasonable way for 
Advantage to have  arrived  at a figure.
Mr G disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter.  He said we hadnt given 
enough weight  to the rarity of his car, or the particular  model  type and history of the vehicle. 
He said all these things  meant the industry guides gave a lower  figure than what  his car was 
really worth.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs complaint is about the valuation Advantage placed on his car. Valuing  a car isnt an 
exact science,  and in general we would give significant weight to the evidence  of the major 
industry guides. These give estimated  valuations  based on a large volume  of nationwide  car 
adverts and sales. They  reflect  actual selling prices rather than just the price cars are 
advertised for (which  may not be achieved)  and arent restricted to a snapshot of whats 
available at a particular point in time.
The offer Advantage made  for Mr Gs car represented  a value within  the range of valuations  
suggested by the guides, and close to the highest. I think  that was a reasonable way for it to 
have decided what to pay him for his car.
Mr Gs argued  that he cant find a similar car to his advertised for that price.  Hes specifically 
said he doesnt think the valuation accounts for the condition  of his car, that it had only had 
one owner, and the particular type, or sub-model,  of car it was.
The guides  give valuations  for the particular model  of car Mr G owned.  They  give an 
estimate for what a car of that model,  age and mileage in good condition would sell for. 
While I know it will be disappointing  to Mr G, I find that evidence  persuasive, and havent 
seen anything to suggest the guides give an unfair reflection of what his car was worth.
Im not persuaded Mr Gs car was so rare or unusual, or is sold sufficiently infrequently,  that 
the guides valuations  wouldnt  be able to provide a reasonable representation  of its value. 
And while Ive considered  the adverts  Mr G has referred  to in his submissions, I note that 
Ref: DRN30219012they represent just one website, and were for cars that were  newer than Mr Gs and with 
lower mileage. I dont  think these  adverts  demonstrate that, on balance,  the valuation  in the 
trade guides is unreasonably low.
Overall Im satisfied Advantage fairly arrived at the valuation of Mr Gs car which it used in 
settling his insurance claim. So I dont think it needs to pay him anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3021901