K822xcomplaint
Ms C complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to follow her instruction to close  her 
savings accounts  and send her the money.  
background 
Ms C moved abroad several years ago and on 10 December 2018  asked Nationwide  to 
close her accounts and send her the funds by cheque. Nationwide  didnt follow Ms Cs 
instruction and her accounts remained open. 
In February 2018  Ms C checked her accounts online and went  on to contact Nationwide as 
she noticed they hadnt been closed. Nationwide said it couldnt send funds to a temporary  
address and that it had been trying  to contact Ms C using the details it had available. 
Ms C complained and Nationwide later offered to send the funds via a SWIFT  payment. 
Nationwide went on to send Ms C a cheque for the balance  of the funds she had saved. 
On 8 March 2019 Nationwide responded to Ms Cs complaint and agreed it had handled her 
requests poorly.  Nationwide offered  £200  to resolve  the complaint and sent Ms C a cheque. 
Ms C referred her complaint to our service and an investigator looked at what had 
happened. Ms C says she lost out because  of the delays as she wasnt able to accept an 
offer on a property she was selling. Ms C says shes subsequently had to accept a lower  
offer. The investigator  asked Nationwide to increase the settlement to a total of £350 
because he didnt think £200 fairly  reflected the impact of its errors. Nationwide  accepted but 
Ms C asked to appeal. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case all parties  agree that Nationwide took too long to send Ms C her money. 
Nationwide should  have either  proceeded in line with Ms Cs requests in December 2018 or 
explained why it needed more information.  As a result, Ms C wasted several weeks  waiting 
for her funds to be sent when Nationwide hadnt  taken the step of closing her accounts. 
I agree  Nationwide provided  poor service and should have acted more quickly. 
Ms C says she wasnt able to sell a property because of the delay from Nationwide.  
She says thats  cost a substantial amount as she then had to accept a lower  offer.  Whilst I 
understand a property  sale falling through is extremely  stressful and that Ms C had to accept 
another offer, I have  to take into account  that there are lots of reasons a property sale can 
fall through. Whilst  Ms C may have  received  an offer, there was no obligation on either  party 
to proceed at that point. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms C but I cant fairly conclude  that the delay with Nationwide  was the 
sole reason Ms Cs property sale fell through. 
Ive listened to the calls available and agree  that the service provided to Ms C should  have 
been better.  Its clear how frustrated Ms C was and Im pleased she now has access  to her 
savings. Nationwide  has agreed to pay a total of £350 to apologise for the delays in closing 
Ms Cs accounts and sending her the money. Ive taken into consideration everything Ms C 
Ref: DRN39908802has told us about  the impact  of Nationwides errors. Having  done so, I think the £350  its 
agreed to pay does fairly take into account  the nature  of Nationwides  mistakes  and the 
impact of them on Ms C. As Im satisfied the settlement Nationwide has agreed to pay is fair, 
Im not telling it to increase its offer further. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Nationwide Building Society to pay 
Ms C a total of £350 (less any compensation already paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3990880