K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains about how U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has handled a claim under her 
travel insurance policy. 
background
Mrs R holds a travel insurance policy as a benefit of her bank account. The policy is 
underwritten by UKI. 
Mrs R was on holiday in a remote location when, unfortunately, she became  ill. She was 
unable to go to the next planned destination  on her trip and the group she was travelling with 
moved on without her. 
Mrs R contacted UKI and cut short (curtailed) her holiday. On her return  home  she made a 
claim under her travel insurance policy.
Mrs R complained to UKI after experiencing difficulties with the claims process. In late April 
2018 UKI said theyd  cover the claim but would need some further documentation from 
Mrs R. 
When Mrs R hadnt received any payment by July 2018 she complained  to UKI again.
UKI sent Mrs R a detailed  final response letter offering to pay her £175 compensation for the 
overall level of service provided. The letter  outlined  what had happened with the claim  up to 
that point and said UKI would consider Mrs Rs claim for taxi fares and a meal even though 
she didnt have any invoices. 
Mrs R complained to this service in August  2018. UKI told us theyd offered to settle part of 
Mrs Rs claim earlier  that month. They said theyd cover;
unused internal flights;
flight change fee;
medical bills; and
taxi fares.
But UKI said they needed invoices before agreeing  to cover the following; 
money paid for unused  accommodation, jeep travel,  guide  fees 
     and  activities; and 
the cost of an unused workshop and evening meal. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Rs complaint and recommended that UKI should accept 
the remainder of her claim. He also recommended that UKI should pay a further £100 
compensation to Mrs R, in addition to the £175 already offered. 
UKI didnt  agree with our investigators opinion, so the case has been passed to me to 
decide. Mrs R has since sent further  comments for my attention. 
Ref: DRN39280782my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R was on holiday in a remote location on a unique, bespoke  trip with a small group. The 
trip wasnt booked through a tour operator but was organised  between  a group of friends.  
The accommodation arranged  was a combination of home-stays with local families  and local 
guesthouses and hotels. The trip also involved presentations and participating in workshops 
with locals. 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Rs policy provide cover for unused travel  and 
accommodation expenses  and the additional  costs of returning  to the UK if a holiday is cut 
short in certain  circumstances.
Its a condition of the policy that a doctor needs  to confirm in writing that curtailment is 
medically necessary.  I think  its clear  from Mrs Rs medical report that she would have been 
too ill to travel on with the rest of her group. And I dont  think  it would have been reasonable 
to expect Mrs R to remain where  she was alone.  So, I think UKI made a fair decision by 
agreeing to accept  the claim without evidence that curtailment was medically necessary. 
Mrs Rs policy also says the policyholder must provide UKI with all documentation  
reasonably necessary to support their claim. So although UKI agreed to accept the claim 
without further  medical evidence,  Mrs R also needs to satisfy this policy condition. Mrs R 
hasnt been able to provide invoices for the outstanding  costs  claimed for. So, under a strict 
application of the policy terms, UKI are entitled to refuse to pay for these. 
But I dont think its fair or reasonable  for UKI to do this in the specific  circumstances  of 
Mrs Rs case. 
Mrs R was on an unusual trip and she has explained  in detail how this trip was arranged and 
paid for. Mrs R has provided a medical  report and confirmation of her early return  to the UK, 
as well as information  about unused internal flights.  
She has provided bank  statements showing payments to the person who arranged  the 
accommodation, transport  and activities for the group (Ms H), as well as a statement from 
Ms H confirming the amount of Mrs Rs loss. 
UKI has seen an email chain between  Mrs R and Ms H which outlines the difficulties  of 
obtaining any paperwork in this situation.  The correspondence explains Ms H was dealing  
with personal friends, home-stay families and small communities when making the 
arrangements for the group and many of these people dont speak or write  in English. I can 
see from UKIs call notes  that they also had a conversation with Ms H directly, during which 
she confirmed this again.  
Ive considered the comments UKI has made about the outstanding money  claimed for. UKI 
says theres no evidence to show the payments made to Ms H were solely  payments  
towards this trip. But I think  Mrs R has provided  evidence of this in the form of her email 
chain with Ms H and the statement from Ms H. And UKI has also had the opportunity to 
confirm this directly with Ms H. 
Ref: DRN39280783Ms Hs statement confirms  the costs were  non-refundable and that no refunds  were given to 
the group.  
UKI has also said there must have been some  paper trail for the group to show  when they 
arrived at various locations. But Mrs R would clearly have had to incur  costs to stay 
somewhere while she was on this trip and Ms H has, in my view,  given  a plausible  
description of the clearly  informal way in which the trip was arranged with local people  to 
include home-stays. Given the uniqueness  of the activities and the location of the holiday, I 
dont think its unreasonable or unusual that Ms H has been unable to provide any further 
paperwork for Mrs R to give to UKI.   
Im satisfied Mrs R has provided all of the documentation she can in support of her claim 
together with what I think are detailed and persuasive explanations of why she is unable  to 
provide anything further. 
Overall, having considered everything, I think Mrs R has provided  reasonable evidence to 
demonstrate she paid money for a trip, which she hasnt been  able to recover  from any other 
source. So I think it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to accept the outstanding part of 
her claim in the circumstances. 
Turning to Mrs Rs complaint points about how UKI dealt with her claim,  I dont  think  UKI 
updated or responded to Mrs R as regularly  as they could have. 
UKI didnt  have one specific  case handler dealing with Mrs Rs claim but I think  this couldve 
been made clear  to Mrs R at an earlier point so she wasnt continually and unnecessarily 
chasing specific case handlers for updates.  I think its apparent  from UKIs  call notes that the 
situation was stressful and frustrating for Mrs R. 
UKI repeatedly requested information from Mrs R when shed already explained she couldnt  
provide anything more.  And, again, I think its clear  from some of Mrs Rs email responses  to 
UKI that this was having an impact on her. 
Overall, I think the claims process took longer than it should have in this case. And I think  
this is in part because  of UKIs  failure to take into account what  Mrs R was telling them about 
her inability to provide  any more information. 
I think the way the claims process was handled caused Mrs R stress and worry. So, I think  it 
would be fair for UKI to pay her £100  compensation, in addition to the amount already 
offered.  
As a final point, our investigator mentioned a specific incident when UKI told Mrs R theyd 
get back to her by 7 August  2018, but didnt do this until 17 August 2018. Mrs R says she 
didnt receive anything from UKI on this date. It appears from UKIs call notes that they left 
Mrs R a voicemail message on 17 August 2018. 
Ref: DRN39280784my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. 
U K Insurance Limited must accept the remainder of Mrs Rs claim, subject to the policy limit 
and any applicable excess. Interest at 8% simple per year should be added, from the date of 
the claim until the date settlement is paid1.
U K Insurance Limited should also pay Mrs R £100  compensation, in addition to the £175  
previously offered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
1 If U K Insurance  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs R how much it has taken  off. It should also give Mrs R a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3928078