K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained that Indigo  Michael  Limited, trading as Safety Net Credit, gave him a 
Safety Net facility  without carrying out proper  creditworthiness and affordability checks.
background and findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 4 March 2020 giving both parties time to think about what 
I said. Both parties have  replied and have agreed  with it. So I have  attached that provisional 
decision to this final decision  and for the same reasoning I come to the same  conclusion.
My final decision is that Indigo  Michaels assessment of Mr Ms disposable income  was 
miscalculated in December 2016 and as such, the test to be able to repay this type of credit 
within a reasonable period (CONC  5.2.1 as it was at the time) was not made out as Mr M 
was not in a position  to repay the credit sustainably.  I uphold Mr Ms complaint from 
20 December 2016.  
putting things right
To put things right for Mr M, Indigo Michael  should:
refund  all interest and charges on the new drawdowns from 20 December 2016;  
add 8% interest per year simple on the above  interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*
remove any adverse payment information  recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of 
not stopping the facility  from 1 January 2017.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Indigo  Michael  to take off tax from this interest. It must  give Mr M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and Indigo Michael Limited does  as 
I have set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to 
ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30621572my provisional decision  dated 4 March 2020
background
The credit  Indigo Michael offered was a running  account credit facility  where a consumer could either  
request funds up to their credit limit, or funds could be deposited  into their nominated  bank account  
once their account balance fell below the safety net amount of the customers choosing.
There was the option for the customer  to make manual  withdrawals. The expectation for customers  
was that they have to repay at least a minimum amount  each month. A feature of the credit facility  
was that if the consumers bank account balance dropped below a pre-set amount then Indigo 
Michael would effectively  transfer money into that account to keep it above a certain  balance.  This 
was a feature  often used to avoid  straying into an unauthorised overdraft.  Or if the pre-set limit was 
set to avoid going beyond the limit for an authorised overdraft then the net effect  was the same  
avoidance of unauthorised overdraft fees and charges.
I want  to be clear that what Indigo Michael  provided  Mr M was not a payday loan.
Mr M was given a facility with a £400 credit limit in August 2016. The table below  uses  information  
from Indigo  Michael  and shows the credit limit increases  and their corresponding dates.
date of limit or increasecredit limit or
increased limit
4 August 2016 £400
5 November 2016 £520
20 December 2016 £670
6 January 2017 £820
10 February 2017 £970
Indigo Michael says we take into account the 90 days of bank transactions  before his account  was 
approved, as well as our credit reference agency checks, in conjunction with an assessment of his 
disposable income.  These checks go over and above similar credit products on the market, as these  
give us real-time and accurate data.
One of our adjudicators  looked  at the complaint  and thought that Indigo Michael  did not need to put 
things right for Mr M. His reason was that Mr Ms income, less his outgoings, even taking into account  
his other credit commitments, left him with enough disposable income  to be able to afford  the facility  
and at least pay the minimum  amount each month. 
Mr M disagreed. He has sent us many submissions and explanations and I do not plan to summarise 
all of them here, but some  are:
- the account  Indigo Michael had access to and used to assess Mr Ms income and outgoings  was a 
joint account  with his wife and so the credits included  her monthly salary  which ought  not to have 
been included in the assessments;
- the benefit credits for his children ought not to have been included; 
- Mr M said I did not receive prior notification  of when  and how much SNC  were expecting  to be 
repaid by debit card. Transactions were often debited at the start of the day based on the start of day 
balance. This often led me to have to 'borrow back' the same  amount in order to meet  that days  
commitments.
Once the complaint  was passed to me, I asked for additional information from Mr M and he confirmed 
his wifes  salary, explained  some larger  transfers into the joint account and gave me some 
background. Mr M has confirmed that he has repaid the outstanding balance on the Indigo Michael 
account.  Ive been asked to make a decision.  
Ref: DRN30621573my provisional  findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. I have taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory  rules 
and good industry practice at the time the credit account was offered.
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) regulated the provision of credit of this kind at the time Mr M 
applied. And the relevant  regulatory rules in place  at the time were  set out in the Consumer Credit  
Sourcebook (CONC)  section  of the FCA Handbook  of rules and guidance.
CONC 5.2 also includes  some guidance on the sorts of things a lender needed  to bear in mind when  
considering its obligations under CONC 5.2.1. Section 5.2.4(2)  says a firm should consider what  is 
appropriate in any particular circumstances dependent on, for example,  the type and amount of credit 
being sought and the potential risks to the customer. The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge for credit relative  to the customers 
financial situation.
And CONC 5.3 contains  further guidance on what a lender should  bear in mind  when thinking  about  
affordability. CONC 5.3.1(1)  says In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment 
required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), a firm should take into account more than assessing the customers 
ability to repay  the credit ..
CONC 5.3.1(2)  then says The creditworthiness assessment  and the assessment required  by CONC 
5.2.2R (1) should include  the firm taking reasonable  steps to assess the customers ability  to meet 
repayments under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable manner  without the customer  
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences..
 
In practice all of this meant that a lender should gather enough information for it to be able to make an 
informed decision on the credit limit being offered. Although the guidance and rules  themselves did 
not set out compulsory  checks, they did list a number  of things a lender  could take into account before  
agreeing to lend. The key element was that any checks needed to be proportionate and had to take 
into account  a number of different things, including how much was being  advanced. Mr M was given  
an open-ended  credit  facility. The checks Indigo  Michael carried out had to provide enough for it to be 
able to understand whether  Mr M would be able to both service and then repay  this facility within a 
reasonable period of time.
I do think that Indigo  Michael likely  included some credits as Mr Ms income which ought  not to have 
been included, such as his wifes salary.  And I have  done some calculations stripping out all the other 
income in or around  August  2016, so that I looked at just Mr Ms income,  less his regular  outgoings, 
and factored in the other outstanding short-term loans (STLs)  he may have had at that time. I factored 
in the repayments for any of those STLs outstanding. As its a joint account, I have information  on the 
household bills and expenses.  So, I have roughly apportioned these as between  Mr M and his wife, 
making the apportionment similar to their respective salaries.
Having done all this and using just the salary for Mr M as the income being considered, I do think  its 
likely that Mr M was able to repay a credit  facility with a limit of £400 as was approved in August  2016.  
So, I am planning  not to uphold Mr Ms complaint in relation to that initial approval. 
monitoring the account 
Indigo Michael, having  approved the initial credit facility and one credit limit increase, after about four 
months I think that it ought to have had time to appreciate the manner in which  Mr M was running the 
account. It still had access to Mr Ms bank  account  and has told us that it continued to review those  
bank transactions.  
Ref: DRN30621574I do not think  that Indigo  Michael  ought to have approved a further limit increase in December  2016.  
And the unique access it had to the joint account ought to have alerted  Indigo Michael to the fact that 
Mr M was obtaining additional credit from STL providers. From the information Indigo Michael has 
sent to me I can see that in October  2016 Mr M had obtained two large loans amounting  to £900 and 
his total repayments for earlier loans taken amounted to about  £680 that month. In November 2016 
he took £1,150 with two different lenders and was repaying about £760. 
I think  that if Indigo Michael had carried out the creditworthiness assessment I think  it ought to have 
carried out before increasing Mr Ms credit limit in December 2016, it would  have considered a 
different outcome. For a customer to be taking, regularly, about £1,000 a month high-cost credit loans 
had to have been significant.  
I am aware  that a minimum payment was the contractual amount due to Indigo Michael each month,  
and so to address this point  I refer to this provision  in CONC which was in place at the time:
CONC 5.3.1  (8) For a regulated credit  agreement for running-account credit the firm, in making  its 
creditworthiness assessment
(a)should  consider the customer's ability to repay the maximum amount of credit available  
(equivalent to the credit  limit) under the agreement within a reasonable  period;
(b)[omitted here];
(c)should  not use the assumption of the amount necessary to make only the minimum  
repayment each month.
My provisional  view is that Indigo Michaels assessment of Mr Ms disposable income  was 
miscalculated in December 2016  and as such then the test to be able to repay this type of credit 
within a reasonable period  (CONC 5.2.1 as it was at the time) was not made out as Mr M was not in 
a position to repay  the credit sustainably.   
I am planning  to uphold Mr Ms complaint from 20 December 2016.  
End of the provisional  decision
Ref: DRN3062157