K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained Metro Bank Plc closed his accounts and placed a fraud marker on his 
record.
background
On 5 January  2018 Metro Bank gave Mr E seven  days notice of their intention to close  his 
accounts. Theyd been told by another bank that a payment of £999.99 paid into his account 
on 4 January was sent fraudulently. Metro felt all the evidence  pointed to Mr E being  party  to 
this fraud.  Hed transferred this amount and other funds  received into his account to another  
of his accounts and then paid £2,000  to a beneficiary set up on his account. Metro  also 
placed a fraud industry marker  a CIFAS marker   against Mr Es name  as hed received 
fraudulent funds.
As Metro wouldnt change their mind,  Mr E brought his complaint to the ombudsman  service. 
Our adjudicator reviewed  the evidence; including  what Mr E said had happened. He said 
hed been called by a man pretending to be from Metro. Hed given away  some  of his 
account details.  He felt this was how his accounts had been used fraudulently.
But our adjudicator didnt agree with Mr Es analysis. The beneficiary that had received the 
disputed £2,000 had been set up on Mr Es account  on 27 December 2017. He didnt uphold  
Mr Es complaint.
Mr E was unhappy with this outcome  and asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 11 November 2019. Overall I agreed  with our 
adjudicator but let Mr E know I was prepared to consider further evidence.
Mr E called us to tell us what  had really happened. He was approached by two older lads 
who attended the same school  when he was just 16. They asked him for his card, PIN and 
online banking details,  which he gave. He was told not to access  the account for at least 
three weeks. He told us hed felt intimidated by them.
He has stressed to us that he was young and silly. I asked Metro whether in light of this 
information, theyd  agree to remove the CIFAS marker. They declined as they felt Mr E only 
entered into this arrangement because he thought he would financially benefit.
I now have all the information I need to complete my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a different 
conclusion to my provisional decision. Ive already given Metro  the options to offer their 
comments on this.
There are a few different  threads  to this complaint and Ive considered  all of these.
Ref: DRN33641532disputed transactions
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply but nothing  
that would  be specific to this type of case. So when  we look at whether a bank has acted 
fairly in closing an account because of fraud, one of the things we consider is whether the 
customer made the transactions themselves or allowed them  to be made. If they did, then 
we generally wouldnt  ask the bank  to do anything different.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions  
themselves, including the IP address information shared by Metro.  Ive also considered what 
Mr E has now confirmed.  This explains what happened and how unknown  third parties got 
hold of the details they needed  to use Mr Es account.
Ive also looked  at the general usage of these accounts by Mr E. His accounts  ran very low 
balances and only small transfers were ever made.
Mr E told us that none of the transactions  after 2 January had been made by him. That 
suggests that up to that time he had been  managing his accounts  and didnt  dispute  any 
use. Metros evidence showed the beneficiary  who received £2,000   was set up on 
27 December. Three very small payments were then sent to that beneficiary from more  than 
one account. Four days later a further  four beneficiaries were also set up. Two further  
payments were then sent to two of those beneficiaries.  All these transactions  setting up the 
beneficiaries and making the payments  were  made using the same IP address. 
The IP address  used  for the transactions made  on 4 January was different. This was after 
two payments of £999.99 were received into one of Mr Es accounts. The transactions 
included a transfer of £2,000 to one of Mr Es accounts and then sending that £2,000 to the 
beneficiary set up on 27 December. 
Based on the evidence  we now have, I accept that the transactions  made after the 
fraudulent money  was paid into Mr Es account were made by someone other  than Mr E. 
And the details that Mr E gave  away  helped  the third party  make  those transactions. 
So having  considered all the evidence  I think Mr E authorised these payments.
account closure
So that means as soon  as Metro were told money  that Mr E had received had been sent 
fraudulently, they felt the evidence showed he knew what had happened. They therefore 
closed his accounts as their terms and conditions allow them to do if someone  has misused 
their account. I dont think they did anything wrong  by doing this.
CIFAS marker
I know the aspect  concerning Mr E most is the CIFAS marker placed against his name  on 
the fraud industry  database. This marker  will stay for six years and means that he will find it 
difficult to get another account  allowing more than the most  basic  activity.
So Ive looked  at whether  Metro applied this fairly and in accordance with the best practice  
around applying  these markers.  A business cant apply  a CIFAS marker because  it simply 
suspects fraud. Metro needs to have sufficient evidence to back  up what its alleging with 
Ref: DRN33641533there being an identifiable criminal offence.  This means, if needs be, Metro could have 
presented clear, relevant and rigorous evidence  to report Mr E to the police.
Ive seen the evidence Metro has retained  on this case. Ive also considered what Mr E has 
most recently told us. 
Its certainly true that itd have helped if Mr E had given us the information  he gave after 
getting the provisional decision  much  earlier. But knowing what hes said, I find Mr Es 
evidence credible. And of course,  it follows  a pattern we regularly see in similar cases.
Its true that Mr E initially thought he was getting  money in exchange for his card and PIN but 
Ive seen nothing  which suggests he knew what was really  going on or that he was a willing  
participant. The key for me is the use of implicit use of force and threat. He was instructed by 
the lads responsible on what to say and not to disclose  the truth  he followed their 
instructions because he didnt want his mum to know  what  really  happened 
I dont believe the test for lodging a CIFAS marker  covers when someone is duped and is 
not a willing  participant. Therefore taking everything  into account I think  its fair to ask Metro  
to remove the marker from Mr Es record.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Metro  Bank  Plc to remove  the 
CIFAS marker  from Mr Es record.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3364153