K820x#14complaint
This complaint about the service Mrs and Mr D received from Connells Limited when  they 
tried to get a new mortgage deal with a shorter term. As a result  of Connells shortcomings, 
theyve ended up staying  with their existing lender on a new rate but still the original term.
background
Mrs and Mr D had a mortgage  with lender Ill call B. Theyd initially  taken it with a 22-year 
term to make it affordable  whilst Mrs D was pregnant. In the spring of 2018, with the initial  
fixed rate due to expire on 30 June, they asked Connells to get them  a new deal on a shorter  
term.
Connells arranged an application to a lender Ill call P; it had a competitive fixed rate, came  
with £250 cashback, and a shorter term. Mrs and Mr D thought  everything  was going 
through fine but then P cancelled the application  because Mrs D couldnt provide acceptable 
proof of identity. The main  problem  was that she didnt have a current passport. 
To avoid  them paying  standard variable  rate from 1 July 2018,  Connells arranged for them to 
take a new rate with B. There was no cashback  with this, and the term remained unaltered.  
Thats because B only considers term reductions that are requested directly by the borrower.
When Mrs and Mr D complained, Connells offered them £200 compensation for their time 
and trouble. Our investigator thought this was fair. He explained to Mrs and Mr D that they 
hadnt lost out on the deal with P, because without Mrs D being able to meet  the identity 
requirements, they hadnt been eligible for it in the first place. Connells mistake was in 
raising their expectations by letting them think they were eligible for the mortgage with P.
Mrs and Mr D have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see from their submissions how 
upset Mrs and Mr D are at not being  able to get the deal from P; I can also understand  why 
they feel so strongly  that theyve lost out. After all, it seemed to offer everything they wanted; 
a low interest rate, a reduced term, and £250  cashback.
The problem however, is that they werent  able to meet Ps requirements for proof of identity. 
With Mrs D not having  a passport, P wasnt  going to lend to them.  What  that means is that 
Connells mistake wasnt to deny  Mrs and Mr D a mortgage deal they could  have had; rather, 
it was to let them think they could have  a mortgage  deal when they couldnt. Thats a loss of 
expectation, not a financial loss.
Mrs D says that she could  have applied for a passport, but Connells advisor told her at the 
outset that she didnt need  to. Even  if thats true, it occurs to me that Mrs D could have made  
a fast-tracked passport  application once the difficulty  with P came to light.  It would have 
come with a fee, and probably have put her to some trouble, but if it meant that she and 
Mr D might have  had a chance  of meeting  Ps requirements, it seems  to me it might have 
been worth  the time and expense on her part.
Ref: DRN31383392As thing  stand, Mrs and Mr D have stayed with B on a new deal, but with the original  
mortgage term. But my understanding is that B will consider a request from them for a 
shorter term, if they ask it directly. I cant say what the outcome would be if they did ask; but 
if Mrs and Mr D werent  happy with the outcome,  they could bring a fresh complaint about 
how B had treated their request for a term reduction.
As far as the complaint before me is concerned, its reasonable that Connells compensate 
Mrs and Mr D for having wrongly  raised their expectations. It has offered them  £200, and in 
all the circumstances,  I find that to be fair. Ill leave it to Mrs and Mr D to decide whether, of 
further reflection,  they want to contact Connells directly to accept it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3138339