K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complained about two high-cost short-term credit instalment loans he took out with 
Nextcredit Limited (Next Credit).  He says Next Credit shouldnt have lent to him as he 
couldnt afford to repay his loans.
background
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and Next Credit  had told us. And she thought  
that the checks Next Credit carried out before giving Mr R his loans were proportionate. So 
she didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. Mr R disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to look at 
his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  short  term lending on our website. And Ive used this approach to help me 
decide Mr Rs complaint. 
Mr R was provided with high-interest loans, intended  for short-term use. So Next Credit 
needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. In practice, what  this means is 
that Next Credit needed to carry out proportionate  checks to be able to understand whether 
any lending  was sustainable for Mr R before providing it.
Our website  sets out what we typically think about  when deciding  whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what  it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the 
amount lent was high.  And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater  the risk of 
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect 
a lender to be able to show that it didnt  continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im not upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
Mr R took out a first loan for £360  in May 2016.  The loan was to be repaid over a period of 
around three  months.  Mr R repaid  this loan and then returned  for a second loan in 
December 2016.  This loan was due to be repaid over a seven-month  term. 
Next Credit says it agreed to Mr Rs application after hed provided details of his monthly 
income and expenditure. It says the information Mr R provided on his income  and 
expenditure couple with other  checks it carried out showed that hed be able to comfortably 
make the repayments  he was committing to. And in these circumstances it was reasonable 
to lend. 
Ive carefully thought  about what Mr R and Next Credit have said. The first thing for me to 
say is that these loans were Mr Rs first loans with Next Credit.  Mr R did take a second loan 
after his first one. But I dont think that there was any established pattern in Mr Rs borrowing 
needs at this stage.  The information  provided does suggest that Mr R was asked to provide 
Ref: DRN38432372details of his income  and expenditure. Bearing  in mind the amount of the monthly 
repayment, the questions Next Credit  asked Mr R and these  were  Mr Rs first loans, I dont 
think it was unreasonable for Next Credit to rely on the information Mr R was providing.
I accept that Mr Rs actual circumstances may not have been reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the other information Next Credit  obtained.  And Im sorry to hear 
that Mr R has been  unable to repay loan two. But Next Credit could only make its decision 
based on the information it had available at the time.  And, at this stage of the lending 
relationship, I dont think proportionate checks wouldve extended into Next Credit  asking    
Mr R to evidence what he was declaring.  
Equally I can uphold a complaint where I can safely say a lender did something wrong.  And, 
in this case, I dont  think that Next Credit did anything wrong in deciding  to lend to Mr R - it 
carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like the information it mightve been 
provided with was inaccurate. Next Credit  reasonably relied  on the information provided with 
and given the amount of the repayments involved and the overall  circumstances of Mr Rs 
loan history,  I dont  think it was unreasonable for Next Credit  to lend.
I understand that Mr R may be having  difficulty paying back  loan two. So Id remind  Next 
Credit of its obligation to treat Mr R positively and sympathetically should it be the case  that 
he is experiencing financial difficulty.
Ive also seen Mr Rs comments about the information he was provided with. But having 
reviewed all the evidence,  Im satisfied he was provided with enough to understand what he 
was agreeing to. 
Overall and having considered everything, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate  
this will be very disappointing for Mr R. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my 
decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3843237