K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with what  Aviva  Insurance Limited (Aviva) did after he made  a claim on his 
motor insurance policy.  
All references to Aviva  include its claims handlers.  
background
In September  2017 Mr C says he was involved in a robbery  which  resulted in damage to his 
van and the loss of a significant sum of money. He also says his keys were stolen. He 
reported the claim to Aviva in December and it investigated. But there were then difficulties 
in contacting Mr C to arrange  an appointment to inspect his van and the claim  was closed. 
Mr C got back in touch  with Aviva in September 2018 and was unhappy the claim had been 
closed. However, he no longer had the van as this had now been scrapped. Aviva reviewed 
photographs taken  as part of the initial  investigation  and noted  these didnt  show any 
damage to the van. And it said the claim for replacement  keys wasnt  covered.  So it said it 
wouldnt be proceeding with the claim.  It accepted it could have told Mr C that earlier and 
offered to pay £250 in recognition of this. 
Our investigator agreed the photographs  didnt show any damage to the van and the claim 
for replacement keys wasnt covered. And she thought  the £250 Aviva  had offered for poor 
customer service  was fair. Mr C then raised  concerns about Aviva not paying out for the 
money that had been stolen. The investigator noted  that hadnt formed  part of his original 
claim to Aviva but in any case didnt  appear to be something his policy covered. 
Mr C asked for an ombudsman to review matters  so I need to reach  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has told us how upsetting he found the robbery and how shaken he was by it. I know  
this must have been a really distressing experience for him. But what  I need to consider is 
whether Aviva did anything wrong when considering the claim he subsequently made on his 
insurance policy. 
Ive looked first at the terms of his policy which say if his vehicle is lost, stolen or damaged 
the insurer will pay for it to be repaired or replaced or will pay a cash amount  equal to the 
loss or damage. 
In this case it does  appear  there were difficulties in arranging an inspection to assess  
damage to the van. But Ive looked at Avivas case notes which suggest it made reasonable 
efforts to get in touch with Mr C about this. And as he no longer has the van its not possible 
to do that now. That means the key evidence to indicate  its condition after the robbery had 
taken place are the photographs taken as part of Avivas initial  investigation. 
Ive looked at those and theres no obvious  sign of damage in the areas where Mr C reported 
this as having taken place. And Mr C said no repair work had been carried out. So I dont 
think Aviva  did anything  wrong in saying there wasnt a claim here it could take forward.  
Ref: DRN39157252Mr C is also unhappy a claim  for the costs of replacement keys wasnt paid. But while  this is 
something his policy  might provide cover for it says it will only do so where  it can be 
established to our reasonable satisfaction  that the identity or garaging address of your 
vehicle is known to any person who may have stolen or found  your ignition keys. 
Looking at what Mr C says about  what happened  in this case and the other evidence I dont 
think Aviva  acted unreasonably in concluding this didnt apply here. In particular Mr C told 
Aviva the reason he was keeping money in the van was because  he was of no fixed abode.  
So although  Mr C says one of the people  involved  in the robbery was known to him it seems 
unlikely that individual would have been able to subsequently identify  the location of his van 
(assuming that person  had the keys in any case). 
I agree  Avivas customer service should  have been  better (and in particular it should  have 
told Mr C earlier about the decision on his claim) But I think the £250  its offered does 
enough to recognise the impact of this on him. 
Mr C is understandably  concerned about the significant sum of money  that was stolen from 
him but that isnt something  hes raised  with Aviva  as part of this claim. And while  hes free 
to do so his policy does specifically exclude money from the personal belongings section of 
cover. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because  I think Aviva Insurance  Limited has 
already done enough  to put things right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3915725