K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) taken out in 1991  and 2004.  The 
PPI was taken out to protect a mortgage and further  advance. Mr O and Ms H say Bank of 
Scotland plc (BoS), Leeds Permanent Building Society at the time, mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr O and Ms H took out their joint mortgage with BoS in 1986  but they didnt take PPI out at 
this time. In 1991  the policy was taken  out in Mr Os name only.  This policy  covered him for 
accident, sickness and unemployment. 
Then in 2004  Mr O and Ms H took out a further advance  and at this time they took out 
another policy. The policy was part of a packaged  protection policy  called a Total  Mortgage  
Protection Plan (TMPP). A TMPP can be made up of three different elements  a PPI policy,  
life cover and critical illness cover. The individual elements of the cover can be added  or 
taken out as the consumer wishes. 
The TMPP policy Mr O and Ms H took out included all three elements and was taken out in 
joint names. Mr O and Ms H have complained about  the PPI cover  only,  so my decision 
does not address the life or critical illness elements. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr O and Ms Hs case.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold  and Ill explain why. 
Mr O and Ms H have  made a number  of complaints about how the PPI was sold to them.  
Theyve said PPI was added to their accounts  without their knowledge  and consent. But 
theyve also said that it wasnt made  clear  the PPI was optional and they thought  it was a 
compulsory part of the mortgage agreement. In relation specifically to the sale that took 
place in 1991  Mr O and Ms H have said that this must have taken place over the phone 
and Mr O never entertained any telesales calls or agreed to take things out over the phone. 
Unfortunately due to the length of time thats passed  there is very little evidence of what 
happened in 1991 and in 2004. Neither party can tell me how the PPI was sold in 1991. BoS 
say that in the absence of any evidence its considered this as a branch sale.  Mr O and Ms H 
say that it must have  been a phone  sale as the policy  was taken out on its own.  But in any 
event I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint - for the reasons  I 
will explain   so Ive not made a finding on this point. 
There is no evidence available from 1991 to show how the PPI was sold or what  happened  
at the time. So Ive had to consider what both parties have said in order to come  to a 
decision on what I think is more likely to have happened. BoS say it wouldve presented the 
PPI as optional  and wouldve obtained Mr Os consent to add the PPI to their account. Ive 
considered that the policy was taken out several  years after the mortgage had been agreed,  
so I think Mr O and Ms H wouldve  known this wasnt a condition  of the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN30810452Ive also seen a copy of a further advance application that was made in 1997. In this there is 
a section for PPI where Mr O and Ms H were  asked if they currently  had a mortgage 
repayment insurance policy  and its been  completed to say they did. They  were  also asked 
if they wished  to increase the amount of benefit  to reflect  the additional borrowing they were 
taking at that time - and this option  was declined. While  this isnt evidence  that they agreed 
to the PPI in 1991, it does show that they were aware that they had the policy in 1997. And 
while I dont have any evidence from 1991,  Im not persuaded that Mr O and Ms H didnt 
have a choice  about the policy  or that they didnt  consent to taking it out - so I cant fairly and 
reasonable uphold the complaint  on this point.  
The policy taken out in joint names  in 2004 was taken out with a further  advance, and from 
the evidence Ive seen I think this was taken out in a branch. But again there are no 
documents now available from the sale. While  I dont doubt what  Mr O and Ms H have said 
are their honest recollections of the sale,  its difficult for me to rely just on what theyve  said 
to conclude that something  untoward happened  at the time.   
So overall, and without any stronger evidence to the contrary, I think its more  likely than not 
that BoS made it clear that Mr O and Ms H didnt have to take out the PPI in 1991 and in 
2004. And that they chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why they cant  
remember this.
Due to the lack of evidence  from the time neither  party  can confirm whether the policy sold in 
1991 was sold on an advised basis. So as things stand, there  isnt enough information to 
determine this point. But being  able to do so isnt crucial to the outcome because, had BoS 
recommended the policy, I think it wouldve been  a suitable recommendation to have made  
for the reasons I set out below. As a result, Ive considered the sale in 1991 to have been an 
advised sale. 
BoS say that the policy sold in 2004  was sold in a meeting so it wouldve advised  Mr O and 
Ms H to take it out  and I think thats likely.  So Ive also considered  this to have been an 
advised sale.  
As advised sales BoS had to check that the PPI was right for Mr O and Ms H  and based 
on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example I havent 
seen any evidence that they wouldve been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr O and Ms H say they didnt need  the PPI because they had some savings and wouldve 
been entitled to sick pay from their employers. Theyve also said that the mortgage was a 
low financial  commitment for them.  But I dont  think their sick pay meant the PPI policies 
they were sold in 1991 and 2004  was unsuitable  for them. I say this because the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to and for longer than either of their sick pay wouldve lasted. 
So their sick pay couldve been  used for other expenses. And I think  having  the policy in 
place provided  them with some additional security. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr O and Ms H about the PPI policies wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But for the same reasons the PPI was suitable  for them,  I think  it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put them off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN30810453my final decision
So overall, based on all the reasons outlined above,  Im not persuaded that either of these 
PPI policies were mis-sold.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3081045