K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank Plc mis-sold  Ms B a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
Ms B took out a loan in 2002  and at the same  time a single premium PPI policy  was set up 
to protect  the loan payments. The cost of the policy was added to the loan and interest 
charged.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Ms B disagreed and so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  the complaint. These  are my reasons:
 The PPI was taken  out several  years ago and because of this theres little information 
available from the time.  So I cant be sure how the policy was presented during any 
discussions. But, on balance, I think its likely  that Lloyds Bank made  Ms B aware the 
PPI was optional  and that Ms B chose to take it out. I say this because  the loan 
document shows the PPI as optional. And I think its likely that Lloyds Bank presented  
the PPI as a choice  during discussions  and probably advised  that PPI would be a 
good idea for someone in Ms Bs circumstances. 
 It seems  that Lloyds Bank advised Ms B to have PPI, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based  on what Ive seen of Ms Bs circumstances at the time. The policy 
offered a benefit if Ms B was made  redundant. And, although  Ms B would have 
received some  employer  pay, the accident  and sickness  benefit  provided by the policy 
would still have been  useful. This is because it would  pay out on top of employer sick 
pay and potentially it would continue after that sick pay ended. It would  have put off the 
time that Ms B would  need  to fall back on any savings  or other means of support. Also, 
Ms B appears to have been eligible  for the policy; and it seems also wouldnt have 
been affected by any significant exclusions within  the policy.
 Ms B would have  received only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if the policy  had 
been cancelled  early. This can be an issue  where a customer might pay the loan off 
early  for example by taking out a replacement loan. But Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
that this was likely at the time of sale. So that feature of the policy didnt make it 
unsuitable for Ms B. 
 I think the costs of the policy could have been  made clearer  the interest  on the 
premiums wasnt  made as clear as it could have  been.  But I dont think  the actual 
interest on the PPI was so much that it wouldve put Ms B off taking it. Also the policy 
seems to have been affordable for Ms B.
Ref: DRN36955862 Its possible that Lloyds Bank  didnt clearly point out what  the PPI wouldnt cover  but I 
cant see that Ms B would  have been significantly affected by this. 
On balance, I think Ms B wasnt mis-sold PPI by Lloyds  Bank.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 July 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3695586