K822xcomplaint
Ms Q complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) had previously  sent her 
monthly statements  for her account  but then,  without notice, switched to sending  them  to her 
quarterly. Although she was assured statements would revert  to being sent monthly they 
stopped again, and this caused Ms Q distress.
background 
Ms Q queried why her bank statements were switched to being  sent to her quarterly rather  
than monthly as they had previously been.  NatWest said they had made a decision to switch 
all their customers to quarterly  statements  and had therefore written  to all their customers  to 
explain that if they wished to continue  receiving monthly statements they should get in touch. 
Ms Q disputed that she had received such a letter. NatWest did however assure Ms Q that 
thereafter her statements  would revert to being  sent out monthly.
Ms Q said she did initially  receive  monthly  statements  but then in October and November 
2018 she didnt  receive any. NatWest said Ms Qs account had been changed in June 2018  
to provide for monthly statements which were produced automatically on the 16th of each 
month. They confirmed  that the statements had been sent to her, and as she hadnt received  
them that they must have become lost in the post.  Ms Q disputed  that since she had not 
experienced any other problems with her mail. 
An Adjudicator from this service looked into Ms Qs complaint and noted that her address 
was correctly recorded on NatWests system, and that her post code matched with the 
Royal Mail Post Code checker.  She also reviewed  the statement  frequency  NatWest held for 
her account,  noting  that her statements were being  issued monthly on the 16th of the month 
by second class post to the correct  address.  She also noted  that her statements had been 
produced and sent out monthly  between July and December 2018.
During the course of the adjudicators investigation  NatWest acknowledged that in fact Ms Q 
ought not to have been part of their project  for changing customers  statement frequency 
from monthly to quarterly. As a result they said that she wouldnt therefore  have been 
notified of the change. So they offered her £50 in compensation, which  Ms Q rejected.
Beyond that initial error in failing to notify  Ms Q that her statement frequency  would be 
changing, our adjudicator  did not think NatWest had done anything wrong since they had 
issued statements monthly  when asked to. Ms Q disagreed with our adjudicators view and 
so the matter has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decisions  are based on the available evidence and where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is more likely to have  happened in light of that evidence and the 
wider circumstances.  
I will not repeat our adjudicators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
Ref: DRN31700832mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
NatWest have produced  evidence  to this service which shows that statements had been 
produced monthly  from June 2018  and thereafter  Ms Qs account  details had not been 
changed to produce quarterly  statements. I accept  Ms Qs statement that she did not receive  
the statements  for October  and November, since I have no reason to doubt her, but I equally 
accept that NatWest sent them to her since that is what the evidence  shows.  Why Ms Q did 
not receive those  statements I cannot  definitively say, but on a balance of probabilities, in my 
view it is likely they must have gone  astray in the post.
NatWest have conceded that they did not notify  Ms Q that her statement frequency  would be 
changing and have offered her £50 to reflect  the degree of inconvenience and distress  
caused to her, by that failure. But Ms Q believes that £200 would be a reasonable level of 
compensation. I can readily accept that Ms Q would have been  inconvenienced  to some 
degree, but of course when her first anticipated monthly statement did not appear it was 
open to her to make  an enquiry  of NatWest at that point in time, and obtain  a copy. So, 
taking that into account, I do think that the offer of £50 was in fact reasonable and I do not 
think NatWest should  do any more.
I know Ms Q will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  
my final decision
NatWest has already made an offer to pay £50 to settle the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that National Westminster Bank  Plc should  pay Ms Q £50.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3170083