K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr W says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr W applied  for his credit card by post. The application form he signed had a separate Card 
Payment Protection  section. It had a box and said: For cover just tick this box The box 
on Mr Ws form is ticked. And I think he wouldve  known the box didnt have to be ticked if he 
didnt want the cover. So what I have makes me think its likely RBS made it clear Mr W 
didnt have to take the PPI and he chose to take it.
The application form said RBS strongly recommended Mr W take the cover. But this was a 
postal sale. I dont  think RBS led Mr W to think it had taken his circumstances into account  
when making this recommendation. So I dont think RBS gave Mr W personalised advice on 
the PPI and I think RBS left it to Mr W to decide  if the PPI was right for him. But RBS still had 
to make sure Mr W got the information he needed  to decide if the PPI was right for him.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But I think RBS gave him a choice about  the PPI, and he chose to take it. So I think  
Mr W wanted this type of cover. And based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time, Mr W wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. So the 
cover would have  been  useful for him if he needed to claim.
Also the PPI wouldve paid on top of any work redundancy pay or sick pay Mr W received. 
For a successful claim it would pay out for up to twelve months  which is longer than Mr W 
says his work sick pay wouldve lasted. And the rental income  hes told us about wouldnt 
have made  up all of the difference. Mr W also had shares he could sell. But shares are 
generally long term investments.  The PPI made  it less likely Mr W would  have to sell his 
shares earlier than planned if something went wrong. Taking into account everything I have, 
and with what Ive said above in mind,  Im not persuaded Mr Ws other means of paying his 
credit card were enough for better information about the PPI to have changed  his decision to 
take out the cover.
What Ive said above means RBS doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr W. But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  RBS didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN31029442Ive thought about all Mr Ws points, including what hes said about being in a secure  job and 
not needing the PPI. But I think Mr W couldve suffered an unexpected loss of income due to 
redundancy or sickness that the PPI couldve helped him with. Ive also thought about what 
Mr W has said about it being wrong  for RBS to strongly recommend a policy  without knowing 
Mr Ws circumstances, and wrong  to recommend the policy  to anyone completing the form. 
But bearing in mind all Ive said above, and for the reasons Ive already given, these points 
dont change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr W any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3102944