K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold  him a mortgage payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1998. 
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Bradford & Bingley disagreed with 
the adjudicators  opinion  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Bradford & Bingley  has said but Ive still decided to uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. This is because I dont think Bradford & Bingley  gave Mr S clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because there was a restriction  on claims related to 
already existing medical conditions. There was a leaflet about  the PPI and, in that, this 
restriction was not mentioned  until the fifth page, and as the sixth bullet point of a section 
called Is this insurance suitable for me. Mr S says he didnt see that leaflet  at the time. But 
even if he had, I dont  think  it was enough to fairly  draw his attention to the issue.  
I think this would have  mattered to Mr S because he had suffered from a long-term recurring  
illness for many years. It looks as though, for periods,  it was under control  from medication,  
but there were times when it appears to have flared up. And Mr S says he was off work with 
the condition just shortly  before the PPI started   and his record of medications appears  to 
back this up. 
Bradford and Bingley said the application form asked about illnesses: Has anyone  who will 
be named on the policy  ever had a serious  illness or currently  suffering with a medical  
condition? And it says Mr S ticked no. Mr S says that it wasnt him who ticked the box and 
that the form isnt in his writing. He says the adviser just told him to sign the final box. 
Ive thought about this, and whether it makes a difference even if Mr S did himself tick the 
no box but has now forgotten. I dont think it does in this case. For a start, its not clear 
whether the illness  flared up after he signed the application form, as there  was a gap of 
about 6 weeks  until the mortgage  and policy started. So the illness might not have been in 
his mind, at the time he made the application   though a clearer  warning about  the restriction 
might have prompted him to think about it. And even if he had been thinking about  his illness  
and ticked no, it could  be he didnt think of it as particularly serious  and saw it as one hed 
lived with adequately. But again, a proper warning about the restrictions  in the policy  might 
have made  him realise he would face potential problems if he needed to claim. 
And the mere presence of those questions  in the application form wouldnt tell someone that 
the issue was likely  to lead to problems in claiming.  There should have been a clear warning. 
Ref: DRN35292062I dont think Mr S would  have bought the policy if hed had enough  information  about the 
policy. So, I think Mr S has lost out because of what  the business did wrong.  
fair compensation
Bradford & Bingley  should put Mr S in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Bradford & Bingley 
should:
Pay Mr S the amount  he paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year. 
If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Bradford & Bingley can take off 
what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
If Mr S has already received refunds and interest in relation  to commission  on this PPI 
policy, Bradford and Bingley can take that off the amount it owes Mr S. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Bradford & Bingley  Plc to take off tax from this 
interest. Bradford  & Bingley must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.  
I require Bradford & Bingley  Plc to pay Mr S compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.  
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3529206