K821x#15complaint
Miss M is unhappy that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  cancelled  her car insurance.  
Shes also unhappy with the service she received.
background
Miss M took out car insurance with Advantage in December 2017. The total cost of cover  
was £3,318.62 and was to be paid for by monthly instalments. There  was another  driver 
named on the policy too. (He was initially a co-complainant; but has now been removed from 
the complaint  because  hes not an eligible complainant under our rules in relation to the 
acts or omissions complained of. This administrative change  is purely a jurisdiction 
technicality and makes no practical  difference to the ultimate outcome.)
Advantage wrote to Miss M in a letter dated 28 February 2018. It said it needed some 
information from her: her annual mileage and planned use; copies of the front and back  of 
her driving licence and that of the named  driver; her unique licence codes and vehicle  
registration form. The letter also said the policy would  be changed or cancelled on 7 March  
2018 if Advantage hadnt heard from her. 
Advantage sent Miss M a further letter dated 14 March 2018. This reiterated that it needed  
information and said the policy would be changed or cancelled  on 21 March 2018 if it hadnt  
heard from her. 
Miss M told us that she didnt receive  these  letters  until 22 and 25 March  2018 respectively. 
As Advantage hadnt heard from Miss M, it cancelled  her policy  on 22 March  2018.
Miss M was stopped  by the police on 25 March 2018 as she was driving  without insurance. 
Her car was impounded; she was fined £300; and six points were added to her licence. 
Because of this, she had her licence revoked under the Road Traffic (New Drivers)  Act 1995 
and she also had to go to court.
Miss M contacted Advantage on 26 March 2018. During this call, it was found that 
Advantage held an incorrect telephone number for her. Miss M raised a complaint. This was 
upheld in part as Advantage  recognised  there had been some service  failings such  as 
delays in calling Miss M back; a delay in providing  a copy  of the sales  call; and because  it 
didnt ask for her correct  telephone number  during  the sales  call. It offered compensation of 
£75 for what went wrong. But Miss M wasnt happy with this  so came  to us.
Our investigator considered this complaint. She said that Miss M had admitted to receiving 
one of the letters prior to driving the car, so couldve done more  to check that it had been 
sent in error, as shed thought was the case. But the investigator  felt that the letters were 
ambiguous and didnt make  the consequences of not providing information on time clear 
enough. She thought an award  of £750 was fair in the circumstances. Miss M agreed with 
this.
Advantage said it would be willing to increase its offer of compensation to £175, and later to 
£275, but didnt think that £750 was warranted. It said it gave  clear  notice of what  could  
happen if the consumer didnt contact  it by the date given. So the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider.
Ref: DRN36309122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint  
and Ill explain why.
I can see that things  went  wrong on both sides  when  the car insurance was set up. Miss M 
made Advantage aware that the mobile  number it held for her was an old number and 
seemingly wasnt given  the opportunity to change this. But this meant  that Miss M knew 
Advantage didnt  have  her current mobile  number.  The statement of insurance that was sent 
to her showed a mobile number, which was presumably her old one. So I think  there  was 
some onus on her to reiterate to Advantage that this information was out of date. Indeed, the 
documentation asks the policyholder to get in contact immediately if any of the details are 
incorrect or have changed.  And, if Miss M hadnt received a policy schedule or other  
documentation relating to her insurance  policy, I think  it wouldve been  reasonable to expect 
her to have  contacted Advantage to establish the whereabouts  of her documentary  proof  of 
her being  legal to drive.  Unlike  most  types  of insurance, its mandatory to hold at least  third-
party motor  insurance.  And I think most people are aware of this.  
Having the correct telephone number on file may have meant that Advantage couldve called 
Miss M and made her aware  of the severity  of the consequences of not providing 
information. But I think there was fault on both sides in relation to an incorrect telephone 
number being  on file. I cant safely say that having  the correct  number  on file would have led 
to a different  overall outcome. I note that Advantage made an offer on compensation for 
what went wrong here.
I think the crux of this complaint  relates more to the letters and the resulting cancellation  of 
Miss Ms policy.  Advantage said it sent the letters on 28 February  and 14 March 2018. They 
were correctly addressed  and I havent  seen sufficient information to think there was an 
issue with the postal system. But, looking  at the information Advantage was requesting, I 
cant see why Miss M wouldve had a problem  sending  this. Advantage asked for information 
such as her expected  mileage for the year and documentation any driver would hold or be 
able to obtain. So I cant see a good  reason  why Miss M wouldve opted not to send the 
requested information  had she received the letters and understood the consequences  of not 
doing so. 
Ultimately, I cant  say when the letters were  received. While I cant  see a good  reason for 
Miss M not to send the information, its possible that she received the letters  around  the time 
one would generally expect her to have done and chosen not to respond.  But its also 
possible that she received them when she said she did and believed there to have been an 
error so didnt get in touch with Advantage. But, in my opinion,  whether they were received 
around the time one would generally expect, or when Miss M says she received them  
doesnt make a difference to the compensation that I think is due in this case. Ill explain my 
reasons for this below.
In the letter  dated 28 February, Advantage asked for information. It said that if Miss M didnt 
provide it by 7 March,  her policy would either be changed or cancelled.  Seemingly, Miss Ms 
payment was taken  on 5 March and nothing happened on or around 7 March,  despite the 
information not being provided. So the promised  consequences didnt happen. 
Ref: DRN36309123Instead, a second letter  dated  14 March was sent asking  for the information  again. And it 
said that if the information wasnt  received by 21 March, the policy  would be either  changed 
or cancelled.  The next contact is a letter dated 23 March which  said the insurance had been 
cancelled. The terms and conditions  of the policy say we may give you seven days notice 
of cancellation which sounds as though  its an option Advantage has that it may or may not 
take. It then follows with We and your insurer can cancel your Policy at any time by sending 
the Primary Policyholder seven days written notice to the last postal or email  address on our 
system. This statement  sounds far less optional and makes  it sound as though a consumer 
would be given this notice ahead of cancellation. It then immediately follows with stating 
why the Policy has been cancelled. This would suggest that by the time the notice  has been 
received, its too late to do anything to stop the cancellation as it has been cancelled.  I 
would think that giving  notice would mean giving advance warning, before the event, to allow 
for preparations to be made. So I find the policy terms and correspondence to be confusing 
and contradictory.
I think Miss M has lost out as a result of unclear  and ambiguous communications which, 
given the potential implications, should have been  drafted  plainly and intelligibly (in line with 
consumer-protection laws and regulations,  e.g. Consumer Rights Act 2015 and its 
predecessor statutory instruments). Had Advantage written, in its letter of 14 March, to say 
that it hadnt been sent the requested  information  so her policy would be cancelled  if the 
information wasnt received by 21 March,  Id be minded to think  differently. There would  be 
no ambiguity here and no indication of a less draconian outcome such as the policy  just 
being amended.  This would also correspond with the policy terms and conditions,  as Miss M 
wouldve been given  a period of seven days notice before  her insurance policy  was 
cancelled. And this notice wouldve allowed her to take steps to prevent the cancellation 
from happening  (or obtain alternative cover  elsewhere or not drive  uninsured). 
Miss M has explained that she received  one of the letters before making the journey that led 
to her licence being revoked. So there was more she could reasonably have done here to 
prevent or mitigate her losses. She said she believed an error  had been made as shed 
made a payment and hadnt  received a call from Advantage. I suspect there  was also some  
confusion around  the fact that 7 March   the date the letter  said her policy would either  be 
changed or cancelled  had passed without consequence. But she ultimately chose to drive  
without checking,  despite there being  a strong indication she should  do so. And this means  
that she drove without  insurance, which is an offence of strict liability  (i.e. the act alone  is 
enough to convict  with no need for intent or recklessness)  and an offence which is 
commonly known to be serious, so one shouldnt  drive without the requisite certificate  of 
insurance as proof of cover.  And its because Miss Ms own acts or omissions contributed  to 
the situation that Ive opted  to award  £750  rather than more. 
As a consequence of everything thats happened, Miss M had her car impounded, lost her 
driving licence, was fined £300 and had to go to court. The situation  may cost her 
significantly in the long-term through increased  premiums, reapplying for a driving licence, 
etc. Miss M is not blameness, as indicated  above. But I think  the ambiguity of Advantages 
letters was the proximate cause of her losses, hence the need for a more  than modest  
award. 
Ref: DRN36309124my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Miss Ms complaint against Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited  and require it to pay her £750, less any compensation its already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2019.
Melanie Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3630912