K820x#14Complaint
Miss S husband, on behalf of her estate, says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
Background
Miss S took out a Barclays  credit  card in 1982.  In 2000, Barclays  sold her PPI over the 
phone to protect her card repayments  if she couldnt work due to disability or unemployment.  
It also included life cover. 
Our adjudicator ultimately didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. The estate didnt agree, so 
the case was passed  to me to review  afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
this case. 
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The estate  says Miss S was pressured  into buying the PPI. Unsurprisingly, given how long 
ago the sale took place,  Barclays  doesnt  hold a recording of the sales  call and theres  no 
call script  that might  have  been followed. But, given Miss S already had the credit card it was 
to be attached to for many years  by the time of the sale,  I dont  find it likely that she was 
pressured to take the PPI. And theres no other evidence to show  she was put under undue 
pressure.
Barclays needed to make it clear to Miss S that she had a choice about taking out PPI and 
get her agreement before adding it. Its difficult to say for sure what was discussed. But Im 
mindful that the PPI was sold long after the credit card account  had already been  set up. 
This might have indicated  to Miss S that she didnt have to take out PPI. 
Overall, I havent seen anything to make me think  Barclays didnt make it clear to Miss S that 
she had a choice  about taking out PPI. I think it just as likely the PPI was presented  as 
optional to her, and that Miss S then chose  to take it. 
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons  why I should uphold Miss S complaint but 
I dont think there are. Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Miss S. That favours her 
estate because it meant Barclays, among other  things, should have looked  into whether it 
was right for her. 
I cant say for sure what  checks Barclays made. But, from what  I know of Miss S 
circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for her. I say that because:
It seems  Miss S would have been  eligible for the cover. And there  was nothing to 
suggest she was significantly affected  by the main exclusions to, or limits on, the 
policy. Ive thought carefully about  her pre-existing medical condition, but none of the 
evidence Ive seen  about that indicates this would have been a major concern for 
Ref: DRN37573442her. For example,  her husband  says she took medication but otherwise lived a 
normal life and didnt  need time off work. 
While  Miss S was entitled to enhanced  sick pay and redundancy pay, the PPI 
benefits would have paid out on top of that and for up to 12 months per claim.  The 
benefits could  well have allowed  her to put her employers pay towards covering her 
other daily living costs  if she was off work. So, I think the PPI provided Miss S with 
useful additional  protection. 
 
The PPI appears  to have been  affordable for Miss S. And it was flexible in that she 
could have cancelled  it at any time,  and at no extra cost,  if she decided  she no longer 
wanted it.
As well as checking if the PPI was right for her, Barclays also should have given Miss S 
clear information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about buying it. I 
dont know what steps Barclays took to do this. And its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they should have been. But, as Ive said, I think its likely Miss S 
agreed to the cover  and it looks to me as if it was right for her and was affordable. So, I dont  
think better information would have affected  her decision to buy it.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI. But Barclays will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI. Thats  because:  
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Miss S about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Miss S, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has offered  to pay back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  thats fair in this case.
What the business needs  to do
Barclays has to pay back any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of 
the relevant PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. Barclays should also pay back any 
extra interest Miss S paid because of that.
Barclays should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  the difference  between what 
the estate owes  and what it would have owed  if the commission and profit share it got hadnt  
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Barclays should also pay 8%* simple interest if Miss S 
paid off her credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss S estate can claim  back  the tax if it isnt payable.
My final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost 
of the PPI.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss S estate any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium,  if it hasnt already done so. 
Ref: DRN37573443Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S estate to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3757344