K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Sainsburys Bank  Plc (Sainsburys) rejected a claim he made to them 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (section 75).
background
Mr L has been represented by his wife Mrs L. For ease  I will refer to Mr L throughout this 
decision.
Mr L booked a holiday through  a travel company Ill call T. He paid £716 extra for an 
upgrade to a superior  sea view room. Most of the money was paid using  his Sainsburys 
credit card.
Mr L was disappointed that on arrival the room  didnt have a sea view. He complained  to the 
hotel but an alternative  could  not be found as the hotel was fully booked.
So Mr L made a claim to Sainsburys under section 75 as he said this gave him the right to 
make a like claim  against the provider  of credit as against the provider of the holiday. 
Sainsburys rejected  his claim. They  said Mr L had received what he paid for and Ts terms 
had explained  that views  may be obstructed.
But Mr L disagreed  and he therefore referred  his complaint to this service and our 
investigator provided an opinion. He reviewed  the photographs that had been  provided and 
he agreed that the room didnt provide a sea view. He said that trees and buildings blocked  
the view and he could  not see the sea at all. In those circumstances he thought Sainsburys 
should refund the £716 upgrade fee Mr L had paid and that they should add interest to this 
payment.
Sainsburys looked at the evidence again and they agreed that a sea view hadnt been 
provided. But they said the upgrade was to allow Mr L to benefit from a bigger room as well 
as a sea view.  They  tried to quantify how much the bigger room was worth but they noted  
there was no equivalent  superior room  without a sea view.  So instead  they confirmed the 
price of a suite with and without a view and noted  the difference was £408.31. They  
suggested this was how much they should  refund. But Mr L disagreed and he therefore 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Sainsburys so please let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN31490732board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr L made a claim through  them  for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Mr L booked a superior  sea view room.  I cant see the sea in the photographs hes provided 
and I accept there was no sea view and that theres  been a breach of contract. Mr L clearly  
didnt receive the upgrade he asked for.
I think its most likely  that Mr L upgraded so that he could have a sea view and not because 
of the additional space  the room promised. I say that as I note hes disabled and I have 
found his testimony  - that he likes to sit in his wheelchair on the balcony, understandable 
and persuasive. There  was no option to simply take a superior room without the view so I 
dont accept Sainsburys suggestion that there should be some form of reduction  for the 
room size. That wasnt available here.
I note that Mr L also complained that he was picked  up in a minibus and not the taxi he says 
he was promised for his airport transfer.  I dont think Ive seen sufficient evidence  that T 
could not provide a minibus instead and Sainsburys have explained that the holiday 
companys terms allow them to do so. So, Im not asking Sainsburys to make any additional  
payments with regard  to the taxi but I am asking them to refund the room  upgrade.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Sainsburys Bank Plc 
to refund the £716 Mr L paid for his sea view upgrade and add 8% simple  interest  from the 
point of purchase to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3149073