K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  (Advantage) mishandled his 
motor insurance claim and have failed  to provide him with adequate compensation. 
background
Mr R made  a claim on his motor insurance policy on 25 July 2018 after sustaining damage  to 
the bodywork  of his car, so Advantage told him to take the vehicle to a repair centre  where 
the extent of the damage could be assessed.  Mr R says he subsequently did not hear 
anything from either  the garage or the insurer until September  2018,  of which he was without  
a car for the entire period.  
Advantage eventually contacted Mr R on 3 September 2018 to inform him that his vehicle 
had been deemed a total loss and was, therefore,  uneconomical  to repair. Mr R says he was 
told to expect an amount  in settlement  of the car, but was later contacted by Advantage on 
11 September 2018, when they informed him that this was in fact a mistake and that the 
vehicle was indeed  repairable. 
Mr R was unhappy because after being told his car was uneconomical to repair, hed spent 
time finding a replacement vehicle and had already put down a £200 deposit  with another 
dealership for a new car. He told Advantage that, upon cancelling the recent agreement,  his 
deposit would now be lost, and he was also concerned  that the dealership would  pursue  him 
for the full value  of the new car. Mr R was also unhappy that he had, at that point, been  
without a car for 52 days.
Advantage upheld Mr Rs complaint and acknowledged theyd made a significant  error, so 
they offered  the following compensation in order to try and put things right:
£100 for the initial delay in processing the claim;
£200 reimbursement of the deposit  Mr R had paid to the dealership for the new car;
£347.50 excess waived (half of the overall  excess payable);
£670 in recognition of the distress  and inconvenience caused, including  the loss of 
enjoyment of his vehicle for the 52 days he had been without it up until that point;
Use of a hire car until his vehicle was fully repaired; and
Legal support  in the event of the dealership issuing legal proceedings for the full 
amount of the new car.
Mr R remained  unhappy with Advantages proposed resolution,  however, as he felt they 
should also pay £250 worth of loan repayments  hed made on the vehicle since the claim 
was made,  and for a new MOT to be carried out on his car, along with the reimbursement of 
any travel  costs hed incurred while he was without a car.
Advantage declined to cover Mr Rs loan repayments and MOT  costs,  but said theyd be 
willing to consider reimbursing his travel expenses if he was able to provide reasonable 
evidence of this. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Rs complaint. She considered the total compensation 
offered to be fair, and didnt feel it would be reasonable to ask Advantage  to pay anything  
further. Mr R disagreed, so the complaint had been  passed to me.
Ref: DRN34771572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I consider the 
compensation and resolution offered in Mr Rs case to be fair in the circumstances. Ill 
explain why.
Mr R doesnt feel that the compensation offered is adequate, and argues that he should  
receive a further  amount in the form of his loan repayments for the car, MOT costs and travel 
expenses for the time he was without his vehicle. Considering first Mr Rs loan repayments, 
this is a contractual obligation, and is something he wouldve had to pay regardless of 
Advantages mistake. So I dont think it would be fair to ask them  to cover this cost on top of 
what theyve offered already. Likewise, an MOT test certificate is a legal requirement of the 
vehicle owner in which Mr R wouldve always been required to comply.  I appreciate  that it 
became due while his car was in for repair, but this does  not then make Advantage liable to 
arrange the MOT  or to cover the cost of having  a test completed   as this is not a 
consequence or out-of-pocket expense that can be fairly attributed to the error theyve 
made. 
In terms of the travel expenses claimed, I can see that Advantage have  said theyd be willing 
to consider reimbursing  Mr R if he is able to provide  reasonable evidence of the costs  he 
incurred. I think its reasonable that Advantage would want  to see evidence  of what travel 
costs were actually paid, in order to properly assess what  compensation would potentially be 
due. I also havent  seen enough  evidence  to show what losses  Mr R sustained  on travel  
costs during the time he was without  a car, so I wont be asking Advantage to compensate 
him for this based on the weight of current evidence.
I can see that Advantage have also looked  to cover any costs and expenses incurred by 
Mr R as a result of their mistake, such as the deposit he paid to the dealership, as well as 
the use of a hire car until his car was repaired. I think this is fair, as Advantage have  sought  
to ensure that Mr R has not been  financially disadvantaged as a result of their error or 
delays. And with regards  to being  pursued  for the full cost of the new car by the dealership, 
Advantage have  also offered to cover  any legal costs in the event that proceedings are 
brought against Mr R, although it appears  that no such action has materialised  in any event. 
This leaves  the matter  of whether the compensation offered  in recognition  of distress and 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable. Advantage have offered a total of £770 compensation, 
as well as offering to waive half of Mr Rs excess of £347.50.
Ive considered the service Mr R received  after submitting  his claim, and its clear that hes 
been left frustrated and inconvenienced by the error,  delays and misinformation provided by 
Advantage, which isnt disputed  in this case. I can see, for example, that he was left waiting 
a significant amount of time before being  given any information about  the proposed course 
of action with his vehicle, and when  he was updated, he was given the wrong information. 
But I have to consider  whether, in the circumstances, the compensation awarded so far is 
proportionate to the distress and inconvenience suffered.
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order  to 
award further compensation to Mr R, I would have  to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of 
Ref: DRN34771573Advantage have  had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I 
cant say it has in these  circumstances,  particularly given that Advantage have also sought  
to remedy any loss actually sustained by Mr R as well. 
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  entirely frustrating for Mr R, but I dont consider 
the actions of Advantage to warrant any further compensation at a higher level.  So for the 
times when  their service  did fall below standard, I consider £770  along with all the other 
forms of compensation  outlined  above  to be fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
Advantage Insurance Company Limited have made  an offer of £770. I conclude  that such  an 
offer is fair compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is that Advantage should  pay 
Mr R, if they havent done  so already,  within 28 days of receiving his acceptance of this 
decision.
Mr R should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt  be able to take legal action over this matter  for additional  
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between Mr R and Advantage as to whether the £770 offer still 
remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror  after 
rejection of it has been communicated.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3477157