K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  declined his private medical insurance claim.
Mr M will see that my decision  is about  a business with a slightly different  name  than weve 
referred to in our previous  correspondence. Aviva Insurance Limited is the correct  business 
for my decision to be about. The change of business hasnt made  any difference to the 
outcome of my decision.
background
Mr Ms a member  of an employer group private  medical insurance  policy  which is 
underwritten on a moratorium basis. The policy was taken out through  a broker, the insurer  
is Aviva. The policy  started on 24 September 2018.
On 28 September  2018 Mr M saw his optician and was told he had cataracts in both eyes. 
Mr M called Aviva on 17 October 2018  to make a claim  for treatment of the cataracts. During  
the call Aviva asked Mr M how long he thought his eyesight had been getting worse. He told 
it his eyesight  had got rapidly worse recently but it hadnt happened just in the last four days,  
when the policy started. He told Aviva he hadnt been aware he had cataracts.
Aviva declined the claim. It said Mr M had symptoms of the cataracts in the five years before  
the policy was taken out so under the terms of the policy there was no cover.  
Mr M complained to us. In summary  his main points are:
Aviva  wasnt  fair to rely on what he told it on during the claim call as he isnt 
medically qualified  to give informed information about his symptoms
he thought  his worsening eyesight would mean he needed new glasses not an 
operation for cataracts.  He just had general  symptoms of worsening  eyesight
the information that a medical condition  could be pre-existing whether or not the 
condition has been diagnosed before the policy is at the end of the policy  and not 
with the policy terms about the moratorium, which is misleading  
there was a delay  in him getting the policy documentation 
his entry  to the NHS system was postponed while  Aviva  asked him for more 
information about his claim. He said as the policy seems  to be a sudden  event  
accident cover only policy  Aviva should have told him to  join the NHS  queue earlier
he took medical insurance to get quick treatment  and the policy hadnt delivered what  
he understood it would.
In addition to us deciding whether Aviva had fairly  declined the claim Mr M said he wanted 
us to decide:
if the policy only gave  cover for sudden event accidents and if so whether Aviva had 
misrepresented the cover  in the policy documentation
whether Aviva should pay him compensation due as his entry into the NHS system 
being delayed  while it he complained to it and it asked for further  information
whether Aviva should pay him compensation as his cataract problems will now be 
excluded from cover and his treatment will be subject to NHS  delays and criteria  
whether Aviva should refund the policy premium due to any misrepresentation or its 
decision, which he thought would impact  on all members of the policy.
Ref: DRN35282422Mr M said if we did uphold  his complaint he would like Aviva  to pay the cost of both cataracts 
being treated  even  if the treatment went over the policy term.
Our investigator explained why she thought Aviva had acted fairly in declining  the claim. She 
also thought Aviva hadnt mispresented the policy cover, it hadnt delayed  in sending the 
policy to the broker  and it didnt need to pay any compensation.
Mr M disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. He sent us detailed comments  
including on the claim call he had with Aviva and its claim notes. He also sent notes of his 
research into causes  of cataracts, information on our website and his comments  on 
decisions made by ombudsman on other  complaints  which  Mr M says are relevant  to his 
complaint.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M has referred to decisions by ombudsman about other private heath  insurance 
complaints. But importantly we look at each  complaint on its own individual circumstances. 
I have read all the comments Mr Ms sent us but Im not going to address  every point hes 
made as I dont need to do so to come  to a decision on the main  issues  hes raised.  
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that Aviva has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  It should communicate information consumers in a way which is 
clear, fair and not misleading. It shouldnt reject  a claim  unreasonably.  
I dont uphold this complaint.  I think Avivas decline of Mr Ms claim was reasonable and the 
information it gave  Mr M was clear, fair and not misleading. Ill explain why.
the claim
The moratorium terms of Mr Ms policy says Aviva  doesnt cover:
treatment of any pre-existing condition,  or any related condition, if the member had:
symptoms of
medication for
diagnostic tests for
treatment for, or
advice about
that condition  in the five years before they joined the policy.
However, (Aviva) will cover a pre-existing condition if the member does not have:
medication for
diagnostic tests for
treatment for, or
advice about
that condition  during  a continuous  two year period after they join the policy.
The policy defines  pre-existing condition as:
Ref: DRN35282423Any disease, illness  or injury for which:
the member has received medication,  advice,  diagnostic  tests or treatment; or
the member has experienced symptoms;
whether the condition has been diagnosed or not before the member joined the 
policy.
Ive listened to the claim call Mr M made to Aviva. Aviva acted reasonably in asking Mr M 
whether Mr M thought  something was wrong  with his eyes  and how long his eyesight  had 
been deteriorating. Mr M told Aviva:
that at this previous  eye test his optician  said they would  give him a new prescription 
but its hardly any difference but I thought that actually this is more, its worse but 
thats why I went back  in and fortunately they didnt just give me new glasses sort of 
thing,
and that his 
eyesight probably, possibly got worse  for longer than just recently but Ive noticed, 
rapidly recently, but if youre looking for the start date of the policy  I dont think  that it 
has happened in the last four days so it was probably before the start of the policy 
but I wasnt aware of this condition.
I dont think Mr M knew he had cataracts  when his eyesight was deteriorating. But he did 
know something was wrong with his eyes and that his eyesight was deteriorating rapidly  
recently. From what he told Aviva Im satisfied that Aviva could reasonably understand Mr M 
had those symptoms  before  he joined  the policy and within  the five years before the policy  
started. 
Also, I think Mr M was considering making a claim on the policy  about  the symptoms,  even if 
he didnt know his diagnosis and the treatment  required.  He also told Aviva:  
wed just set up the policy not long before  that and I was waiting for the documents  
to come through so thats why, theyve still not come so I rang the broker and said is 
there another way we can get this sight dealt with.
Mr M says Aviva  has unfairly relied on what he said in that call as he isnt medically  qualified  
to say his symptoms were  related to his cataracts. But cataract isnt generally a condition 
which happens suddenly.  Mr Ms cataracts were  diagnosed four days  after the policy  started. 
Theres no medical evidence from Mr Ms optician that his symptoms were  due to any other 
reason. So I think  Aviva  can reasonably understand its more likely than not that Mr Ms 
symptoms were due to his cataracts.
Aviva fairly declined the claim.
compensation
Theres no basis for me to say Aviva must pay Mr M any compensation for the two issues 
hes raised. 
Ref: DRN35282424Aviva told Mr M in his claim call that it declined the claim so there was no unreasonable  
delay in making its decision.  When  Mr M raised concerns about its claim decision it 
reasonably asked for more information.  Aviva  didnt need to tell him to get an NHS  referral 
for his cataract treatment while it was looking into his concerns. There  was nothing to stop 
Mr M asking  for a NHS referral during that period.  Aviva isnt responsible for any delay in 
Mr M getting into the NHS system.
This claim  for Mr Ms cataracts will be excluded  from cover  under  the policy. But Aviva  fairly 
said his claim  was excluded so theres  no basis  for it to pay him compensation even if its 
decline means he will have NHS treatment.
policy information and policy  sale 
The policy is clear about the cover  it gives. The policy  doesnt  just give sudden  event 
accident cover, as Mr M suggests, and the policy is clear about  that.
Like all insurance policies  cover is subject to the policy terms, conditions and exclusions. Ive 
seen no evidence that the level of cover is misrepresented in the policy documentation.
The pre-existing condition definition is under the definitions  section of the policy. The term 
isnt defined with the moratorium details of the policy but the reference  to pre-existing 
condition in the moratorium section is in bold type. The first page  of the policy  says:
Throughout this booklet certain words are shown  in bold type. These  are defined 
terms and have specific meanings when used in this booklet. The meanings are set 
out in the glossary section which can be found  in the back pages
So the policy  documents are clear that pre-existing condition has a specific  meaning and 
where thats detailed  in the policy. The moratorium terms  and pre-existing  condition 
definition in the policy are the same or very similar  to most, if not all, private health insurance 
moratorium terms policies.
Mr M says the policy hasnt delivered what he thought it would. As Ive said, Im satisfied  the 
policy documentation  is clear about  cover. I dont know what  Mr M was told about  the policy 
cover when it was sold. But Aviva wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy.  Its told us 
that an independent broker sold the policy. So if Mr M has any concerns about  how the 
policy was sold he will need to complain  to the business that sold the policy.
Aviva isnt responsible  for any delay in Mr M receiving  the policy documentation. It sent the 
documentation to the broker on 27 September 2018,  shortly after the policy was taken out.
premium refund and effect of decision on other members
Theres no basis for me to say Aviva should refund  the policy premium. It hasnt 
mispresented the policy cover.  Its provided  cover subject to the policy  terms.
Mr M says Avivas  decision on his claim will impact  on all members of the policy.  But Avivas  
decision on his claim is made on the circumstances of his claim.  It should assess any claim 
on its own individual circumstances and if the person making the claim  is unhappy with 
Avivas decision they can make a complaint.
Ref: DRN35282425my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3528242