K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says she went into a branch of Nationwide Building Society in 2012  prepared to put 
around £5,000  in a five-year savings product but was misled  into also taking  out a separate  
Over 55s insurance policy.
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 14 November  2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Nationwide did not agree with my provisional decision, and said:
It didnt accept that Mrs B was unaware that the fixed-rate bond  and the Over 55s 
product were separate  products
The product  providers were different, had separate  terms and conditions  and 
separate application forms. This was all clear from the Welcome Packs which  were  
written in clear and non-misleading language
This was a non-advised sale and it was Mrs Bs decision to purchase this plan and 
therefore to consider  whether it was appropriate for her
She, like all customers,  has a responsibility to read the product literature which  was 
sufficient for her to make a fully informed  choice
It doesnt accept  that the handwritten note constituted advice instead it was merely 
an attempt to help her understand of what shed committed to. It is unfair  to describe 
a sellers attempt  to assist  a customer by concluding this was advice
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, based on Mrs B and her daughter-in-laws evidence,  I am satisfied that Mrs B thought 
this Over 50s plan was an integral part of the five-year savings bond. I dont believe 
Nationwide has produced any persuasive  evidence  to contradict this. The crucial issue,  in 
my view, is whether Nationwide  was  on balance - responsible for this misunderstanding:  
whether its sales representative  gave her the impression that the two products were linked, 
the Over  50s product in effect being part of the savings plan.
For the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision, I am satisfied that it is more likely than 
not that the sales representative did give her this false impression, based on Mrs Bs 
evidence and the handwritten note. While this note is clearly open  to interpretation, I am 
satisfied that it was likely to have misled  Mrs B - even though that may well have not been its 
intention.
Similarly, while the sales person may have simply been trying to be helpful  - while sticking to 
a strictly  non-advised  role - I think the evidence suggests she overstepped this mark and 
unintentionally made a link between the two products where none existed.
Ref: DRN38670602There is no evidence to suggest Mrs B was looking  for life cover or an Over 50s plan and 
had existing life insurance so I think  it unlikely she would  have  chosen  to take out this plan 
unless she had been given the impression it was part of the savings bond.
I accept that the documentation would have made clear  there  was no link, and that Mrs B, 
like all customers, had a responsibility to read it. But where a customer  has been  advised 
about the suitability of a policy, they often accept  this on trust without doing so. This does not 
absolve a business of responsibility for any such advice  or any misleading  impressions.
In this case while I accept  that formal advice was not provided, I think the sales  persons 
handwritten note suggests  they did stray beyond pure information  giving  into offering implicit 
advice. I therefore  think Mrs B would understandably have acted on this rather  than checking 
the detailed paperwork. 
I also dont think the fact that the two policies  were supplied  by different providers would 
have automatically  led Mrs B to realise  they were  not linked or tied. When  a bank or building  
society makes  life insurance a condition  of a mortgage the two recommended  products may 
come from different providers or even the same business but under  the different brand 
names of their mortgage and insurance divisions.  So, from what  Ive read of Mrs Bs 
circumstances I dont  think  the fact that these plans had different provider names  indicates  
she should have  realised there was no link between  them.
I therefore instruct Nationwide to refund the premiums Mrs B has paid on this policy, adding  
8% simple  interest per annum to each payment to compensate her for the lack of use of this 
money in the interim.  If this policy is still active Mrs B will need to surrender it without value 
as a condition  of this settlement.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Nationwide  Building Society to compensate Mrs B as 
outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38670603provisional decision
complaint
Mrs B complains that when she went into a branch of Nationwide Building Society in 2012, she was 
prepared to put around £5,000 in a savings  product but was misled into paying  for a separate  Over  
55s life insurance policy.
background
Mrs B said she was told that this cover was an integral  part of the bond and that the interest would 
pay for it.
Nationwide said Mrs B had not received any advice but has simply been provided with information  
about various  products.  She had completed the application after discussion with a member  of staff but 
that the documentation made clear  it was a stand-alone insurance policy and was being  purchased 
without advice. 
Given this, an adjudicator at this service didnt feel there was enough evidence to uphold the 
complaint.
Mrs B did not agree, and said:
She did not initiate any meeting but was regularly  pestered to go in and discuss investing the 
money she had in her savings account
She was willing for the idea of the interest  on the bond paying for cover to help with funeral 
costs, but she did not want an additional insurance  policy;  she already had enough  life cover
She was clearly advised to take this out
Mrs Bs daughter-in-law  said Mrs B was in her late 70s in 2012 and only had a basic grasp of financial 
matters, would have accepted the advice at face value, would not have understood this was a 
separate policy or have wanted  one. She has kept copies  of the paperwork she was given, and the 
advisors written  notes demonstrate that he implied the life cover was part of the bond.
Mrs B owned her own flat and had no need for a funeral expenses policy, there being more  than 
enough equity to pay for this. Given  shed only ever had modest amounts of money  she took great  
care with it and would  never have agreed  to pay for something she didnt believe was necessary.
She also said that a branch  advisor had admitted to her that Mrs B had been mis-sold this policy and 
encouraged her to make  a complaint. She also said Nationwide had not, as it claimed,  carried out a 
full investigation into the matter. Nor had it tried to contact  Mrs B as it claimed, there being  no record 
of missed phone calls, messages or letters. Mrs B was a vulnerable customer  and should  have been 
treated as such.
Nationwide said the advisor in question denied  having told Mrs B she had been mis-sold  this product 
or that she should make a complaint. Instead, he had merely explained how she could complain.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I accept that the Nationwide staff member did not provide formal advice, considering Mrs Bs 
circumstances and objectives, providing  a written record of his recommendations etc. Also,  that Mrs B 
Ref: DRN38670604signed a form stating  she had not received advice. However, while  I will always  take account  of such 
signed statements, they do not necessarily convey the whole story. 
In my experience as an ombudsman I have seen many occasions in which  a customer has signed in 
agreement of something  where the broader evidence  strongly  suggests  they had not agreed to 
various statements contained within an advisors  report. So, one must always  weigh up the evidential 
value of a signed confirmation against the other relevant  evidence.
In this case I am not persuaded that Mrs B fully understood what  without advice  meant and would  
have agreed  to sign this statement if its meaning had been fully explained.
Further, there  are occasions where  staff do go beyond a strict execution-only sales pitch  and, in 
effect, encourage and recommend a product  as being  suitable  for a customer. Staff are also required 
(in a non-advised sale) to provide clear and fair information about products.
In considering these two issues I am satisfied,  on the balance of probabilities, that Mrs B was, 
consciously or not, misled about this product  and that the staff member did not make sufficiently 
clear that this was a separate product from the bond, and not a condition of it.
Crucially, I found Mrs Bs personal  evidence  persuasive  both about  how the meeting  came about  and 
what was said at it. I have no doubt that she was only looking for a better  return  on her savings  and 
was not intending to purchase  further life insurance, based  on what she and her daughter-in-law said.
However, the staff/sales rep was still entitled to bring  up the Over 55s plan and give her information  
about it. But, given she had not been seeking this, he needed to be very clear that this was a 
completely unrelated product from the bond she was happy to invest  in. From  everything I have read I 
am not convinced he did this.
I share Mrs Bs daughter-in-laws concerns  about what he wrote on the ISA statement. In my view it 
does indicate that the staff member  strayed beyond mere  information into advice, explaining that the 
interest on her bond  will pay for the Over 55s policy. As these are two completely separate  products, I 
can see no justifiable reason for two statements  unless  he had actively suggested a link between 
them. These are:
Today we invested £5000 into a fixed rate ISA paying you (sic) monthly interest to pay for the Over  
55s life cover plan of £11 a month.
Your monthly interest is paid into your flexi account,  then the direct debit of £11 is debited for the life 
cover plan.
I think,  on balance, these statements would have given Mrs B a misleading impression about the life 
insurance and prevented her from taking a fully informed  decision about whether she wanted this 
separate policy.
I recognise that this is a finely balanced case, but I am satisfied that my decision is based  on a fair 
and reasonable assessment  of the overall  evidence.
I therefore  intend  to instruct Nationwide to refund  the premiums Mrs B has paid on this policy, adding 
8% simple interest per annum to each payment to compensate her for the lack of use of this money  in 
the interim.
If this policy  is still active Mrs B will need to surrender it without  value as a condition of this settlement.  
Ref: DRN38670605my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Nationwide to compensate Mrs B as outlined 
above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3867060