K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about Scottish  Equitable Plc (Aegon).  Hes unhappy  about  the way  
Aegon has administered his pension.
background
Mr M has a Group Personal  Pension  plan (GPP) with Aegon. In 2017 Aegon wrote  to him 
with a proposal that his GPP pension should be moved into a Self Investment Personal 
Pension (SIPP). The SIPP was a new product  known as RetireReady.
Mr M opted out and decided to stay in the GPP. But Aegon went ahead  with the switch and 
confirmed this to Mr M. When Mr M raised  his concern, Aegon  agreed to cancel the switch 
so that Mr M was placed back  into the GPP. Unfortunately, some time after it said the switch  
was cancelled, Aegon sent Mr M a statement for the SIPP.
Mr M complained to Aegon and it upheld the complaint. It explained that the switch  had 
taken place in error  in September 2017  but when Mr M raised his concerns this was 
reversed in October 2017 and his GPP was restored to its original status. There was no loss 
to Mr M. It said that statement for the SIPP was issued in error and apologised. It paid Mr M 
£200 for any distress  and inconvenience it had caused.
Mr M didnt  agree and he referred his complaint to this service. He said that hed received 
the SIPP statement  in July 2018  and this said his pension value was nil. This was very 
worrying to him and he hadnt been given any clear evidence that the transaction had been 
corrected as Aegon said it had.
The complaint was considered by an investigator. He thought that Aegon had handled the 
complaint fairly. He wasnt satisfied that the correction to the GPP was carried out 
incorrectly. He felt the offer was fair.
Mr M didnt  accept that view. He said that his main  concern was the lack of evidence that his 
fund value wasnt altered by the switch and the subsequent cancellation.
Aegon were  asked  for a full breakdown of the transactions that took place when the switch 
was made  and then cancelled.  But it explained  that this wasnt possible, this was because  
the switch had been cancelled which meant  that it was deleted and didnt show on any 
transaction history. It also explained  that it didnt have a recording of a call Mr M had 
requested from July 2018.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive summarised what has been  said by both parties but Ive read everything. Having done 
that, Ive reached  the same conclusion as the investigator and for essentially the same 
reasons. I dont uphold  this complaint  as I think the offer Aegon has made is fair in all the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN30927002Its clear that Aegon has made errors  in its handling of Mr Ms GPP. It switched the GPP to 
its new SIPP product  when it shouldnt have done.  It also sent a statement apparently 
relating to the SIPP product after it had told Mr M the switch had been cancelled.  I can 
understand that receiving that statement must have been unnerving  for Mr M as it gave a nil 
value for his pension.  But that wasnt true as his GPP was actually still in place with its value.
I can understand Mr Ms insistence that Aegon provide  evidence  of the transactions  which 
took place at the time of the switch and when  switch was reversed. Aegon hasnt been able 
to provide evidence  which  satisfies Mr M. It has provided a transaction list which  doesnt  
include any reference to a switch in September 2017 or any subsequent cancellation of that 
switch. It has explained  this is because when the switch was reversed it was cancelled  and 
deleted. It says, in effect, that the evidence that there was no negative  impact from the 
erroneous switch is that it no longer appears  on the GPP transactions. It is the same as if it 
had never  taken place.
I cant insist that Aegon produce  something  that has, in effect, been deleted. But based  on 
the evidence that is available Im not satisfied that Mr M has suffered any loss to his GPP as 
a result of the switch  and cancellation. I say this because the proposed  switch  out of the 
GPP was not intended to involve any change in his investments. The same investments 
were to be held but held in a different pension arrangement.  Mr M held the same 
investments during the relevant period, there  were  no sales or purchases. Changing the way 
the investments  were  held, from GPP to SIPP  wouldnt  immediately impact  on the value of 
the investments  themselves. Any change in value at that time would just reflect  any 
fluctuation in value of those underlying  investments. 
Aegon has provided evidence that nothing changed  in Mr Ms GPP,  and Im satisfied that is 
enough to demonstrate that there was in all probability no loss to the GPP  due to the switch 
that was made in error and then cancelled.
Apart from one statement  which  was sent in error,  Mr M has subsequently been sent his 
usual pension statements. These make clear  that his funds have remained in the GPP.
I should add that Ive noted that there  has been  some reference to a fund valuation in the 
transaction list from December 2018.  This gave  a value of just over £103,000 for 
investments within  the GPP. I dont think this valuation has any bearing on the switch  and 
subsequent cancellation as these  events had taken place in September  and October 2017.
I dont uphold this complaint.  I understand Mr Ms concerns about an apparent lack of 
evidence of the switch and subsequent cancellation.  But I have undertaken an independent  
review of the evidence  and Im satisfied that Aegons errors  did not impact on the value of 
his GPP.  
Ref: DRN30927003my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I consider  that the offer of £200 is fair in all the circumstances. I 
understand that this sum has already been paid to Mr M.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3092700