K822xcomplaint
Ms T complains that after being declined for a card transaction Santander UK Plc blocked 
access to her account. She also complains that she had difficulties with online banking 
because it failed to update her phone number for the purposes of onetime  passcodes  (OTP).
background 
In early January  2019, Ms T tried to pay for a store purchase using her Santander debit card 
but her card was declined. A block was also placed on her card  until  the transaction was 
verified as genuine.  It was was unblocked  on 8 January.  
In mid January  Ms T failed OTP security for the account. But when she visited a branch  to 
sort this out Santander only updated  the mobile number on her contact  details but not for the 
OTP. She was also having difficulty with her password for online banking  as Santander was 
asking for a longer password than she believed existed.
Ms T complained to Santander  In early February it responded, saying that her password was 
as long as Santander had said it was. But it upheld her complaint  in relation to the OTP as it 
shouldve updated  the phone number  for her OTP when  she visited  the branch. It apologised 
to Ms T, but didnt offer any compensation. 
Ms T brought her complaint to us. She said shed been blocked out of the account and had 
no money for a month after her card had been declined. And she wasnt  able to use internet 
banking because she couldnt recall the phone number shed used as an identity check in 
2012. When she went into branch to change the number, Santander didnt  change  it for the 
OTP. She wanted compensation.
 Our adjudicator thought that Santander should pay Ms T £50 compensation for failing to 
update the mobile number used for the OTP. She didnt think  an apology  was sufficient. But 
she didnt agree that Ms T hadnt had access to her money for a month. Our adjudicator 
could see that the account had been  used  from 8 January onwards when the block was 
lifted. And she couldnt hold Santander responsible because Ms T was unable to recall the 
phone number shed  used in 2012.  
Ms T wasnt happy with the amount of compensation. So the complaint has come to me for 
decision from an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its clear that Ms T is frustrated by the 
difficulty she had accessing her account in early 2018. Thats  understandable. She thinks 
Santander should pay her compensation of more than £50. 
But Im afraid Im going  to have to disappoint  her, as I think  £50 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused by Santander  is fair, Ill explain why. 
In early January,  Ms Ts card access was blocked after her card was declined.  I appreciate  
this inconvenienced Ms T. But it was a security measure that banks frequently take. I dont 
think it was unreasonable. The block was lifted on 8 January after the transactions were 
confirmed as genuine. Ive looked  at the movements  on Ms Ms account and I can see she 
was making card payments after that date,  so I cant agree  she had no money for a month.  
Ref: DRN35291872Santander and our adjudicator both thought that the bank shouldve  updated the phone  
number used for the OTP when she went into branch in mid-January  2018  and I agree. 
Santander thought an apology was sufficient for this customer service failing, but our 
adjudicator thought Santander should  pay £50 compensation.  Ms T thought she should  
receive more compensation. 
Ive no reason to think that Ms T suffered any financial  loss because  Santander  didnt update 
her number for the OTP.  So I need to consider what, if any, compensation I should ask 
Santander to pay for her inconvenience. We all experience inconvenience  in our day-to-day  
dealings with businesses.  But here I think a modest amount of compensation is justified, as 
Ms T had difficulty accessing  her online banking because of the poor customer  service. 
when shed gone to the trouble  of going to the branch. So I think  £50 is fair and reasonable 
compensation in all the circumstances. I appreciate Ms T will be disappointed with this, but 
as I cant say that she has experienced major inconvenience, I dont think a greater amount 
would be reasonable. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc must  pay Ms T £50 for her inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3529187