K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that TSB Bank plc wont refund him for spending made using his debit card,  
which he says he didnt  make.
background
Mr M travelled abroad with a group of friends.  He says his plane arrived around midday  and 
that evening (day 1) his wallet and mobile phone were either lost or stolen. His TSB debit 
card was in his wallet, with another bank  card  from Bank 2  and his driving licence.
Later that evening and in the early  hours  of the next day (day 2), Mr Ms debit card was used 
to spend close  to £2,000  at a club. TSB says its records show all that spending was done 
using Mr Ms genuine  card and the correct PIN was entered  each time at the first attempt.
Mr M says he hadnt realised his wallet and phone were missing. He was using cash and 
didnt need to use his phone. It wasnt until a day later (day 3) that the local police returned 
his phone after it had been found.  The police  had been able to unlock  Mr Ms phone and 
contact his family, who in turn got in touch with one of the friends travelling with him.
When Mr M discovered what  had happened he contacted TSB. But it said it wouldnt refund 
the spending because Mr M couldnt  explain how the person using the card had known the 
PIN. Hed confirmed the PIN was known only to him  and there was no obvious point where 
that other  person could have seen  it.
The last time Mr M had used the card was on the plane and he hadnt been sitting  with any 
of his friends. So it would mean a person unknown to Mr M would have had to follow him for 
around six hours and then either  pick up  or steal  his wallet (and mobile phone). This 
didnt seem very likely.
Mr M wasnt happy with TSBs  response  particularly as the bank had blocked later 
attempts to use his card at the club. So he complained to us.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr M. But he didnt  think it was right to ask TSB to 
refund the money. He agreed it was most likely  Mr M had authorised the spending. There  
wasnt any obvious point  where Mr Ms PIN could have become known to somebody he 
didnt know.
And in concluding that Mr M had most likely  authorised the spending,  the investigator had 
considered the requirements of the Payment Services Regulation (PSRs)  as these  set out 
whats needed for a bank  to hold a customer liable for spending in circumstances like this.
The investigator did consider the possibility that one of Mr Ms friends might have used his 
card (knowing Mr Ms PIN from an earlier occasion). But Mr M says this isnt the case.  He 
was aware of what was happening that night and would have realised if something was 
wrong.
The investigators research indicated the club in question might have a reputation  for tricking  
customers into spending more than they expected. So he accepted it was possible  Mr M had 
been in the club and not realised the amount that was actually being spent using his card.  
Ref: DRN32816682Having contacted Bank 2, the investigator  established an attempt was made to use Mr Ms 
other debit  card at the club. But that had been declined by Bank  2 because it was a chip and 
PIN one and the person  using it had tried to do so without entering the PIN. This did add 
weight to Mr Ms argument he hadnt  used his TSB card. But  overall   the investigator  
thought it was most likely  Mr M had authorised  the spending.
Mr M didnt  agree with the investigators conclusion.  He was also concerned that when hed 
first contacted TSB the spending was pending.  Mr M thought  that at that point the bank 
should have stopped the money going  out of his account. The investigator explained that 
TSB wasnt necessarily able to do so  given the spending had been  made  using Mr Ms 
genuine card and the PIN, which was known  only to him.
As Mr M still didnt agree with the investigator, his complaints been  passed to an 
ombudsman to review  and make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M feels very strongly about whats happened here. Thats  clear  from what hes 
said to TSB and to our investigator. And thats  not surprising. After  all, a large amount of 
money has been spent.  So Mr M is bound to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Mr M that I agree with the investigator.  Indeed, there isnt a great  
deal I can add to what hes already  said. I think the investigators set out in some  detail  the 
various things hed had to consider.
That said,  its important I reassure Mr M that Ive considered his complaint afresh and 
independently of what the investigator  has done.
Ive looked at TSBs records.  And they show Mr Ms genuine card was used   and the PIN 
was entered correctly at the first attempt. Given that Mr M has said the PIN is known only to 
him, its difficult  to see how somebody  else could  have  spent the money.
Mr M has reasonably said that its highly  unlikely any of the friends he was travelling with 
would have used  his card, even though its by no means certain  they might have 
remembered his PIN from an earlier occasion (in the UK). Mr M says he wasnt  sitting  near 
his friends on the plane. But, like the investigator, I think its very unlikely somebody who 
was sitting close to him and saw his PIN would  follow Mr M for around six hours on the off 
chance of being able to get hold of his card(s)  and other items.
Ive no reason to disbelieve Mr M when he says his phone was also lost or stolen. But there  
isnt any explanation as to how the police were able to unlock  it so they could  contact Mr Ms 
family, once  the phone had been  handed into them.
I do understand Mr Ms frustration at the spending  still being allowed to go through when it 
was pending at the time he first contacted the bank. And, similarly,  hes concerned TSBs 
systems blocked later use of the card at the club  but not the earlier  spending.
Ref: DRN32816683While we live in an age where things happen almost  instantaneously,  some aspects of the 
banking system do take time to work their way fully through the (what are known as 
settlement) processes involved. Thats  particularly  true of transactions made abroad,  
involving currency exchange  and the addition of fees.  But to help make  sure customers dont 
overspend, transactions are marked as pending until the full process  is completed.
That looks  to be whats happened here. The only reason a bank might not let a pending  
transaction complete would be if it wasnt made by their customer. And here that looks 
unlikely. Mr Ms genuine  card was used  and the correct PIN. Mr M has a responsibility to 
look after both his card and make sure his PIN doesnt become known to anybody  else.
In terms of the later attempts to use Mr Ms card, its down  to TSB to decide  what factors  and 
systems it uses  when processing spending  on a customers account. We cant tell a bank 
how it should operate. While this wont  be of any great comfort  to Mr M, it is reassuring  to 
see that later use of the card was stopped, reducing  the amount  taken  from his account.
Ive considered carefully the requirements  of the PSRs, and the guidance of the Financial  
Conduct Authority,  around  authorisation of spending. And, on this occasion, Im satisfied 
TSB can hold Mr M responsible for it.
All of the available evidence points to it being  most  likely that Mr M spent the money  himself.  
I realise thats a difficult message to give. But hes understandably fairly clear none  of his 
friends would  do so  and there  isnt really  any point at which  an unknown person would 
have been able to get his card and know  (or guess) his PIN.
It seems  likely Mr M visited the club in question. But I accept its quite possible members of 
the clubs staff might  have  tricked  him into spending  more than he thought he was  despite  
Mr M saying  that he was fully aware of what was happening throughout the evening/night  
concerned. It seems clubs like this take advantage  of people  like Mr M (and his friends) all 
too often.
I realise Mr M will be disappointed with my decision. But it brings  to an end what  we, in trying  
to resolve his dispute with TSB informally, can do for him. Im sorry we cant help Mr M any 
further on this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3281668