K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1999 
alongside a mortgage. Mrs J says Santander UK PLC, Abbey National at the time, mis-sold 
her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mrs J first told us that she couldnt remember what was discussed  at the time but she went  
along with the PPI assuming it was necessary.  More  recently  she has complained that it was 
usual for PPI to be included and she thought  she had to have  it as part of the mortgage  
application. Ive thought  carefully about what Mrs J has said but Ive also considered  that the 
policy was taken out around 20 years  ago  which is something  I have  to keep in mind when 
deciding what I think is more likely to have  happened.  
Santander says that PPI wasnt a condition of the mortgage and that it wouldve  had Mrs Js 
consent to add the policy to her account.  But due to the length  of time thats passed there is 
limited evidence available from the time of sale. I have seen a copy  of a welcome letter that 
was sent to Mrs J just after the policy  had been  arranged. This included a PPI schedule  and 
clearly said Thanks you for choosing Paymentcare to protect your mortgage  payments.  
Even though  this document came after the sale I think this wouldve alerted Mrs J to the fact 
that she had a choice about  the policy. And I think she wouldve complained  to Santander  at 
the time if she didnt  know it was optional when the PPI was first discussed. So without  any 
stronger evidence to support  what  Mrs J has said, I think  its more  likely than not that 
Santander wouldve  made it clear that Mrs J didnt have to take out the PPI and that she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember  this.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mrs J so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mrs J says the policy wasnt suitable for her as she was entitled to sick pay from her 
employer and had some savings she couldve relied on. But the PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of her other means, and for longer. So these  funds couldve  been used for other expenses.  
And as Mrs J was solely responsible for the mortgage repayments  I think she wouldve 
benefited from having some extra security in place  especially considering the 
consequences of not been  able to keep up with her repayments. So I still think  the cover was 
suitable for her. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mrs J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
Ref: DRN38634852it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.  
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3863485