K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains that Oakam Ltd lent to her irresponsibly.
Background
Using the information from Oakam here is a brief summary of the loans. For Loan 3 it has 
said  The closing  balance  on 01 August 2019 is £3,926.78. 
Loan Approved Amount TermRepayment 
(rounded)Repaid  date * 
means  repaid early
1 18 August 2015£1,100 plus £100 
fees and charges18 
months£189 first month  and 
£139  each month18 December 
2015*
2 22 December  2015 £1,50012 
months£80 first week and 
£56 each week19 March 2016*
3 19 April 2016 £3,00136 
months£197 first month then 
£153  each month
Mrs J applied for a £5,000  loan in December 2015  but Oakam approved her for £1,500  
which was Loan  2. 
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and thought that Oakam  should  put things 
right for Mrs J in relation to Loan 3. Oakam did not respond for a while and then it did reply 
and said that it accepted  that resolution.  But Oakam was not clear on exactly what  it was 
agreeing to in respect of the redress. So, the complaint remains unresolved  in part and was 
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all the relevant rules,  guidance  
and good industry  practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs J 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include: 
where a customers income  is particularly  low; where the repayments are particularly high;  
and/or where  the frequency of the loans and the length of time over which  a customer  has 
been given loans need to be looked  at: repeated refinancing could signal that the borrowing 
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable.
I have reviewed the information provided and considered  the responses to our adjudicators 
view from both parties. Mrs J has not disagreed with the adjudicators recommendations on 
Loans 1 and 2, and so I make no findings on those as they appear not to be in dispute. 
Ref: DRN32637102Oakam has agreed  to uphold Loan  3 and having looked at it all that seems  a fair and 
reasonable outcome and one I endorse. So, all that remains is the matter of redress  which 
I set out here. 
To put things right for Mrs J, Oakham  should:
refund all the interest and charges applied as a result  of loan 3; and
add interest at 8% per year simple  interest* on the above refunded sums from the date 
they were paid, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse payment information recorded on Mrs Js credit  file as a result of 
the interest and charges on these loans;
Oakam is entitled to set off any monies arising from the redress  against any monies Mrs J 
may owe it, but to be clear this should  only be in respect of the principal sum borrowed. Any 
unpaid charges and interest would need  to be removed first and any payments made to 
Loan 3 treated as if Mrs J had paid down the principal.
If a third party still owns any debt then in order to do the set off, I have outlined  above, 
Oakam will need to repurchase that debt. If it does not do that then it cannot do the set off 
and the full amount due will be repayable to Mrs J directly. And in those circumstances the 
third party will need to be directed by Oakam to correct  any adverse entries on Mrs Js credit 
file, so far as it is able to do so. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to take off tax from this interest.  It must give Mrs J 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. If Oakam intends to apply 
the refund  to reduce  any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am upholding Mrs Js complaint in part. Oakam  Ltd should do 
as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 May 2020.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3263710