K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) regarding it requiring 
agreement to a particular term when applying for an account. He thinks  that this requirement  
is discriminatory against investors  who have joined since 1997 and feels  that it is a breach  of 
equalities legislation. He wants  to be allowed to open that account on the same basis  as 
members who have  been members since before 1997. 
background
Mr B holds accounts with Nationwide and has been  a member of the society for around 10 
years. 
In 2016, Mr B applied  for a new account. He completed an application form and signed and 
dated this. 
Immediately above  his signature on the application form is a declaration box which sets out 
a number of terms to confirm. 
One of these terms indicates that the applicant understands that if the account is opened 
then the customer  will be bound by our charitable assignment scheme.
This term sets out that this will be the case unless the applicant has been  a member of 
Nationwide continuously  since 2 November 1997,  or unless the applicant  falls into a special 
group to which the scheme does not apply. The form provides  detail  of where further  
information can be found. 
Mr B complained to Nationwide around  the end of 2018. He set out that he felt that investors 
joining the Society since 1997  were  being treated differently to those who joined before 1997 
and that he felt this was discriminatory. 
Nationwide sent him its final response in January 2019. It rejected that the requirement  was 
discriminatory and explained  it was based on legal advice. Nationwide set out that Mr B had 
signed his acceptance of the terms when applying for the account and so it rejected his 
complaint of unfair treatment.  
Mr B was not happy with this and contacted us. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint and set out her view to the Parties. 
She explained the difference  in function  between  our service and financial business 
regulator, the Financial  Conduct Authority, and she explained that considering the lawfulness 
of a term applied  to all customers in a particular group was outside  of our remit. She did not 
consider that Mr B had been treated unfairly  by Nationwide and did not recommend  that 
Nationwide do anything  further in respect of this complaint. 
Mr B did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. He was, in particular, 
concerned that he did not think the Equality Act 2010 has been  considered  fully. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31814422I repeat  my colleagues comments about  the differences in the remit of our service  and that 
of the regulator.  Whilst the regulator  may look at the appropriateness of broad policies, rules 
and processes which affect groups  of customers,  our role is to look at individual situations 
and decide whether the individual consumer has been treated fairly and reasonably by the 
financial business.
I understand Mr B has placed considerable onus on whether the requirement of post 1997 
investors to agree to different terms to pre 1997  investors is in breach of the Equality Act 
2010. Whilst this is clearly a concern for Mr B, this is outside of the scope of our service and 
I cannot comment on the lawfulness of the particular requirement as it applies to a group. 
In respect of his particular  situation, however, I can see that Mr B elected to apply for an 
account and completed the application form. Businesses are entitled  to set the terms for 
accounts and services they offer,  and consumers are equally entitled to accept  these, by 
applying, or reject the terms  and take their business elsewhere. 
In this instance Mr B has accepted the terms which were  being put forward by Nationwide.  
These were  clear and unambiguous, and gave  additional detail about where further 
information could  be found. 
I am satisfied that Nationwide has not treated Mr B differently  to others  who applied for that 
type of account  at that time, and it has remained consistent in its position since Mr B applied  
for and opened  the account. I therefore agree with the adjudicators view that there  is no 
evidence Mr B has been treated unfairly by Nationwide.  
I appreciate that this will be disappointing  to Mr B, but for these reasons I do not uphold his 
complaint and do not ask nationwide  Building  Society to do anything  further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and do not ask Nationwide  
Building Society to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3181442