K820x#14complaint
Ms H and Mr H have  complained that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax 
(Bank of Scotland)  mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy 
when they were applying for a mortgage in 1998. The policy was set up to cover Ms H only.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Ms H and Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this.
Ive reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what  I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  surrounding  
circumstances.
First of all, there were rules  about who could qualify for the policy and based on the 
information thats been provided to us, it looks like Ms H met those rules. 
Next, Ive looked at whether Bank of Scotland made it sufficiently clear to Ms H and Mr H 
that the policy optional. The MPPI was sold in branch.  Ms H and Mr H told us that they didnt 
really need the cover  but they were pressured into taking it out. 
Weve been sent copies  of the paperwork from the time of the sale.  These documents  show  
that there  was a separate  MPPI  application  form. This was filled in with the level of benefit 
needed and Ms H was named as the sole policyholder. Theres  nothing in the paperwork 
which suggests that Bank of Scotland presented the MPPI  as compulsory. Given  that they 
were entering into a major  financial commitment, I think its most likely that Ms H and Mr H 
would have read the documents  carefully.  And I think that having  read them, its most likely 
that Ms H and Mr H would have understood that they could decline the policy  if they wanted 
to. 
I cant be sure what was said during  the meeting when  the policy was sold.  I accept its 
possible the adviser may have said something  to make Ms H and Mr H think they needed  to 
take the policy and thats why they signed the paperwork. But I think its more likely  that as 
the policy was recommended  to them, they were  told it was something it would be good to 
have to protect the repayments  rather than they had to have it. 
Next, Bank  of Scotland  recommended  the policy to Ms H and Mr H, so it had to ensure that it 
was suitable. Ive checked the main exclusions and restrictions of the policy  and given her 
circumstances, it doesnt look like Ms H would have been caught out by any of them.
Ref: DRN34401562Ms H and Mr H told us they didnt need the MPPI cover, particularly  because  Ms H had a 
secure job with good benefits. They also had savings. But I dont think  this is enough for me 
to say the MPPI wasnt suitable. Policies like this are there to reduce the pressure of meeting 
payments in financially difficult times. If Ms H was too ill to work  or was made unemployed, 
the policy would have covered their mortgage  repayment. This would have given them  
peace of mind and security.  The consequences  of missing payments on their home would  
have been serious.  The MPPI would have allowed Ms H and Mr H to use any sick pay or 
redundancy monies for other necessary household  expenses.  It also would have allowed 
them to protect their savings.
Ms H and Mr H also complained that the recommendation was unsuitable because only 
Ms H was covered. But Ms H earned the higher income, and its not unusual for the primary 
earner to be covered  by MPPI. So overall,  having considered all these factors, I think  that 
the recommendation was suitable  for them and the MPPI would have provided them  with a 
useful benefit  which was affordable for them. 
Finally, Bank of Scotland  had to give Ms H and Mr H information that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so they could  make the decision for themselves about whether or not to take the 
MPPI. 
Ive considered the possibility that Bank of Scotland didnt give Ms H and Mr H clear enough 
information about the cost, benefits, main  exclusions  and restrictions of the policy.  But the 
cost was comparable  to the cost of other, similar policies available at the time. And its 
possible Bank of Scotland didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But for the 
reasons Ive explained above Ms H wouldnt have been affected by any of those things. On 
balance, I dont think having better  information would have dissuaded Ms H and Mr H from 
buying the MPPI. So overall, in this case I dont think this policy was mis-sold  and I dont 
require Bank  of Scotland to put things right.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms H and Mr H but for the reasons set out above, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3440156