K822xcomplaint
Mrs L and the estate of the late Mr L complain that they were  overcharged by St Andrews 
Insurance Plc for the 42 years their home  insurance  policy was in place. 
 
background 
Mr and Mrs L took out their home insurance policy  through their mortgage lender when they 
bought their home in 1974.  The policy renewed  each  year until 2016.  When  Mr and Mrs L 
received their 2016 renewal documents they noticed that for the first time certain  information  
was included about them and their home. They also noticed that some of the information 
was wrong. In particular  the renewal documents said their home was an end of terrace 
property of non-standard construction. Actually  their home was mid-terrace made of 
conventional brick  construction with a tiled roof. The documents  also stated that Mr and   
Mrs L had criminal convictions.  This caused them the most upset because  it wasnt true. 
Mrs L contacted St Andrews and asked them to put right the errors. The information was 
updated. At this point  Mr and Mrs L were given a refund  on their premiums  by St Andrews of 
£901.03. Mr and Mrs L declined the renewal invitation because the premium was too high 
(£590.14). Mr and Mrs M got an alternative quote  from St Andrews for a different product 
which had a premium  of £131.30  but in the end they took a policy  with a different insurer for 
£105.54.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to St Andrews. They said theyd  been defamed and that theyd 
been overcharged since 1974 because their premium had been calculated based  on 
incorrect information. They said that when the bought their property the mortgage lender 
sent out a surveyor  so St Andrews knew what type of property they had from the outset. Mr 
and Mrs L explained  that Mr L was terminally ill and that the whole situation had caused him 
a great  deal of trouble and upset  at a very difficult time. 
St Andrews  looked  into Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. It explained that there was a defect in its 
system affecting a particular category  of its policies of which theirs was one. It explained that 
this meant  the documentation produced  showed policyholders as having criminal convictions  
when they didnt. St Andrews said it was only the documentation that contained the error  not 
its system. It confirmed the incorrect information  hadnt been shared with anyone else.  It 
sent Mr and Mrs L a cheque for £50 for the distress the error had caused them. 
St Andrews  went onto say that Mr and Mrs L had also contacted them in 2013 to discuss the 
cost of their policy. During that call it was discovered some of the default data their policy  
contained was wrong.  When  the default  data was corrected  it caused the premium to 
increase that year by £89.43  an increase on the previous  year of 18.3%. St Andrews said 
that when Mrs L had called them recently  and they corrected the rest of the default data it 
led to a 19.1% decrease in premium. St Andrews said, on this basis, if the premium had 
been based on the correct  information  then it wouldve  meant a 0.8% difference  in premium 
in Mr and Mrs Ls favour.  
St Andrews  rounded this up to 1% and corrected Mr and Mrs L premiums each year from 
2001 onwards  by that amount. It calculated that the incorrect default data had caused Mr 
and Mrs L to overpay  a total of £56.07 between 2001 and 2015. 
Ref: DRN33714912It said the £901.03 had been refunded  in error  as it should only have been  £56.07.  St 
Andrews said that as a gesture of goodwill it wouldnt be requesting Mr and Mrs L repay the 
difference. 
With regard to the cost of their policy over the years, St Andrews said it had correctly 
calculated their premiums based  on the comprehensive level of cover  provided. It said new 
policies invariably contained introductory discounts so it was likely the product they took out 
in 2016 benefitted from one. It also said Mr and Mrs L had been under no obligation  to 
accept the renewal invite each year and that it was stated on their renewal documents  that 
they offered  other policies which may be more suitable. 
Unhappy with the outcome of St Andrews investigation, Mr and Mrs L complained to this 
service. Our adjudicator investigated their complaint  and, following her involvement, St 
Andrews said it would  make Mrs L and the estate  of the late Mr L a financial offer in order to 
settle it. St Andrews offered to refund  the difference between  what Mr and Mr L had paid in 
2006 and the amount they paid every year after that until 2013. This came  to £837.11. St 
Andrews offered to pay simple interest on this amount at 8% a year from the date each 
premium was paid to the date it made  the refund. It also said it would pay £200 as 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  theyd been  caused. Our adjudicator 
thought the offer  taking  into account thered been  a refund of premiums for £901.03  and a 
compensation payment of £50 - was a fair offer in all the circumstances. 
Mrs L and the estate of the late Mr L didnt think St Andrews  offer was fair. Mrs L said she 
wanted the premiums  since 1974 to be taken into account. She asked for the complaint to be 
referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within this complaint  I can only look at what happened  with Mr and Mrs Ls policy since  
2001, as that is the point at which St Andrews became the insurer/underwriter.  I appreciate 
that the policy brand hasnt changed throughout the lifetime of Mr and Mrs Ls policy. But as 
its the insurer/underwriter  that sets the premium, I can only look here at those premiums set 
by St Andrews. Before  2001, another insurer was responsible for underwriting  the policy  and 
setting the premiums so I cant reasonably look into what it did within the context of this 
complaint. 
Its not for me to tell St Andrews what price  it needed  to charge Mr and Mrs L for their home 
insurance. Thats for it to decide, based in part on the risk of them needing to make a claim 
and its wider commercial requirements. But I can intervene if I think  St Andrews has treated 
Mr and Mrs L unfairly in the way its priced  their policy. 
Following our adjudicators investigation  of the complaint, St Andrews offered to pay Mrs L 
and the estate of the late Mr L £837.11. This amount represents a partial  refund  of their 
premiums from 2007 until 2013.  St Andrews took the premium offered at the 2006  renewal 
(£314.74) and refunded the difference between that amount and the premiums paid in each  
of the subsequent years up to and including 2013. 
St Andrews  only offered  to refund up to 2013 (and not until the policy  was finally  cancelled  
in 2016) because  in 2013 Mr and Mrs L contacted it and discussed their premiums. Policy  
Ref: DRN33714913details were checked and updated and cover was adjusted.  During the conversation  St 
Andrews offered to give them a quote for a new policy which  wouldve worked out cheaper 
for them but which Mr and Mrs L declined. As Mr and Mrs L couldve benefitted  from a 
cheaper policy and chose not to, I dont think its unreasonable  in the circumstances that St 
Andrews decided not to include the 2014  and 2015  policy years within the refund its now 
offered them.  
St Andrews  has offered  to pay interest on each annual payment from the date Mr and Mrs L 
paid their premiums to the date it pays them the compensation offered. And its offered them 
a further £200 as an apology for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
In deciding what fair compensation should  be, Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ls 
premium history, their personal circumstances and our approach  to these  types of cases  
more generally. Having carefully considered  the offer made, I think  that it represents fair 
compensation in all the circumstances. Its difficult to work out what saving a consumer 
wouldve made over the years. Just because a consumer has recently identified a much  
cheaper policy, doesnt mean thats  the price they wouldve  paid over the intervening period. 
Insurers are entitled to reassess the risks they are presented  with at renewal each year and 
set the price accordingly.  
I know that Mrs L and the estate of the late Mr L think they should receive a larger  refund  
and that the whole policy term (back  to 1974) should be included  in the refund. Im unable to 
agree. Ive already explained  why I can only look here at what happened since St Andrews 
took over as insurer in 2001. And whilst their policy premium was historically based on 
(incorrect) default data,  St Andrews has acknowledged this and worked out what  their 
premium wouldve been since it took over if the correct information  had been  used. St 
Andrews calculated Mr and Mrs L had overpaid £56.07 since  2001 as a result of it holding 
incorrect data. But I cant fairly ignore that St Andrews  refunded  (in error) over £900 to Mr 
and Mrs L when they were only actually entitled  to £56.07. St Andrews also paid them 
compensation of £50 for the distress and inconvenience theyd been caused when their 
renewal documents  said they had criminal convictions. 
And Mr and Mrs Ls policy was on risk for 42 years during which  time they had the benefit of 
comprehensive cover  and if theyd have needed  to claim, then St Andrews wouldve had to 
consider their loss. 
So whilst I appreciate  that Mrs L and the estate of the late Mr L think  their policy  was 
expensive, as Ive said above, we dont  generally  tell insurers what  to charge their 
customers. Its a competitive market and one insurers view of the risk involved and how 
much they need  to charge  for it is often very different to anothers. 
For the reasons  given,  I cant agree  with Mrs L and the estate of the late Mr L that to put 
things right, they should receive a larger payment than that offered by St Andrews. Theres 
no fixed price  for insurance and its not possible to know  what price they couldve obtained 
elsewhere and what,  if any, savings they wouldve  made.  
Insurance prices  have  come down considerably in recent years in some  sectors and insurers  
often give customers uneconomic new customer discounts to entice them to join. But those 
discounts are generally removed over time. So the price that some new customers can get 
doesnt necessarily  reflect the true cost of providing the insurance or allow the businesses  
involved to make a profit.  It wouldnt be fair for me to say in this case  therefore that Mrs L 
Ref: DRN33714914and the late Mr L should be compensated for the cheapest  price  they may have been able to 
obtain from another provider.
my final decision
St Andrews  has already  made an offer to resolve  this complaint and I think this offer is fair in 
all the circumstances.  
So my decision is that St Andrews Insurance Plc should pay Mrs L and the estate of the late 
Mr L £837.11 in settlement  of their complaint together with the interest*  at this services  
usual rate of 8% simple each year from the date they paid each premium to the date St 
Andrews pays Mrs L and the estate of the late Mr L. It should  also pay them  compensation 
of £200 for the trouble and upset caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L and the 
estate of the late Mr L to accept or reject  my decision before 10 November 2019.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
*If St Andrews Insurance Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs L and the estate of late Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN3371491