K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about his dealings with R. Raphael & Sons  Plc (trading  as Raphaels Bank), 
and referred to from hereon as Raphael & Sons  in respect of a hire purchase agreement  he 
entered into for a car.
background
I issued my provisional decision in December 2018  (copied below).  I explained I had 
carefully considered  all of the available evidence and arguments  from the outset, in order to 
decide what was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I had also taken  into account 
relevant regulatory  rules  as well as the law and good industry  practice.
Having done so, I explained  I intended to uphold the complaint and to make a number of 
instructions to Raphael  & Sons to put things  right.  
Both parties  have accepted my provisional decision, and neither has provided any further 
evidence to consider.  The deadline for further submissions has now passed.
my findings
Having reconsidered  the complaint again in its entirety, I have reached the same decision as 
before, and for the same  reasons. It follows  that I uphold this complaint, and instruct 
Raphael & Sons to put things right as set out below.
my final decision
I instruct R. Raphael & Sons Plc to take the following actions:
Cancel the hire purchase agreement at no further cost to Mr B.
Pay Mr B £357.45  to reflect three months  of monthly premiums paid under the hire 
purchase agreement.
Pay Mr B £250 to reflect the trouble and inconvenience  hes experienced.
Remove any adverse  information relating to matter from Mr Bs credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019..
Clair Bantin
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains about his dealings with R. Raphael  & Sons Plc (trading as Raphaels  Bank,  and 
referred to from hereon as Raphael & Sons) in respect of a hire purchase agreement  he entered into 
for a car.
background
In May 2017  Mr B bought a second hand car via a hire purchase agreement with Raphael & Sons.  
The car was just under  10 years old, and I understand it had done just over 65,000 miles. The price of 
Ref: DRN39091642the car was £4,000, although the total amount  payable  under the agreement  was £7,199,  spread  over 
60 months.
Mr B expressed concerns  about the car at an early stage, and it was returned to the dealer for repairs  
in July 2017. This was followed by two further repair attempts, but the fault was not resolved.  As such, 
in October 2017 Mr B decided he wanted to reject the car on the basis it wasnt of satisfactory  quality.
An independent inspection in October found that the fault was most likely present when Mr B first got 
the car in May 2017.  The dealer wanted to attempt  a fourth repair, and pointed out that Mr B had 
driven over 5,000 miles  in the car. However,  following an intervention from the broker,  the dealer gave 
the view that the agreement could be ended, subject to certain  conditions.  Specifically, the dealer 
thought that a charge for Mr Bs usage  of the car up to that point should be applied. After some 
disagreement about the mileage costs,  Raphael  & Sons said they would cover this charge.
Its worth clarifying  at this point that the ending  of the finance agreement  is not a matter for the dealer,  
but rather  for the finance provider   Raphael & Sons. Given the sequence  of events  described  above, 
it seems there was confusion on this point. However, it also seems clear that there was general  
acceptance by all parties  involved that Mr B was entitled to give the car back  (in an acceptable  
condition) and exit the finance agreement with no outstanding charges. It is also worth noting that at 
this time Mr B was still making monthly payments for the car and continued to do so until the end of 
2017.
After some reluctance on the part of the dealer, I understand that the car was collected  by a vehicle 
transportation company on 18 December  2017, as arranged by the broker.  The car was delivered to 
the dealer along with a collection report  although the content of this report is a point of dispute 
between the parties. The dealer passed on this information to the broker and said they were unwilling 
to accept the car due to severe damage. The broker passed this message onto Raphael & Sons.
As a result, Raphael  & Sons then contacted to Mr B to inform him of this, and later also confirmed  the 
dealerships decision  to decline the rejection in a final response  letter. Mr B strongly  denied the 
reported damage. Raphael & Sons put a settlement figure to Mr B, which included the offer of a 
£535.15 contribution from the finance provider  and the same from the broker to reduce  the 
outstanding sum. Mr B rejected this and stopped making payments towards the hire purchase 
agreement.
In February 2018 it appears the car was sold at auction for £1,100 (£890 net). Prior to the sale, the 
auctioneer completed  an inspection and estimated that the total cost of repairs would be £1,776 
(including VAT). Shortly after the sale, Raphael & Sons wrote to Mr B to say he was liable for the 
outstanding sum of £6,364.98, although this would be reduced to £4,157.37 if it was paid within  30 
days. In March 2018  Raphael & Sons wrote to Mr B again,  saying that £5,382.50 was outstanding.
Mr B brought  his complaint  to us in May 2018.  After  an unsuccessful mediation attempt, our 
Investigator made the following findings:
That,  had there been no damage to the car, Mr B wouldve been entitled to reject it based on 
the fault that was likely present  at the point of sale, as confirmed in the independent  
inspection.
That the damage  most likely occurred while the car was in Mr Bs possession (and prior to the 
independent inspection).
That the total cost of repairs set out by the auctioneer  was likely  to be greater than sum for 
which Mr B was liable. This was because the auctioneers  report  most likely included costs for 
repairs of the initial fault and general  wear and tear, in addition to the damage that occurred 
while the car was in Mr Bs possession.
That,  given the above point, the total sum for which Mr B should  be held liable in relation  to 
any damages was £961, which  reflects 8 of the 16 instances of damage identified.
That,  as Mr B had already paid Raphael  & Sons £834.05, this left an outstanding  sum of 
£126.65 for Mr B to pay to settle the agreement.
Ref: DRN39091643That Raphael & Sons should pay Mr B £126.65 to compensate him for the inconvenience he 
had experienced  since trying  to reject  the car 11 months previously, which should  be offset 
against the outstanding settlement figure  effectively  leaving nothing to pay on either side.
Mr B accepted our Investigators findings, but requested clarity on a further point.  Specifically, he 
asked for his credit file to be amended to remove any references  to late or missed  payments in 
relation to the hire purchase agreement. Raphael & Sons  didnt accept  the Investigators 
recommendations. The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
As mentioned  above, it seems that some confusion has occurred around the difference parties remits  
in relation to the ending of the finance agreement. So it may be helpful  to state the position clearly 
here. Although  the car was supplied by the dealer  and in Mr Bs possession,  the owner of the car was 
Raphael & Sons.  Mr B was hiring it from the finance provider, as per the agreement. As such, 
Raphael & Sons  had a duty to provide a car of satisfactory quality.
I accept the findings of the independent inspection that the fault was most  likely present in May 2017  
when Mr B first got the car. And several unsuccessful attempts were made to repair the fault before  
Mr B decided to reject  the car in October 2017. So I think Mr B was entitled to reject the car and ask 
Raphael & Sons  to end the finance agreement. But this shouldve taken place between Mr B and 
Raphael & Sons  only. If Raphael & Sons wanted to undertake separate negotiations with the dealer 
regarding the return the car and the recovery of funds, this is a separate matter.
Raphael & Sons  accepted  the dealers  report  in December that severe  damage was present,  and 
assumed it had happened  in the period between the independent inspection in October  and the car 
collection in December  i.e. during the time the car was in Mr Bs possession.  The next step 
shouldve been to confirm  this point (which remains in dispute), and then to determine  the cost of 
repairing any damage for which Mr B was liable (this would exclude the cost of repairing the original 
fault, and any damage resulting from fair wear and tear).  The finance agreement  couldve then ended,  
taking account of this cost. 
Unfortunately, what actually  happened  was the dealer refused to accept the car back and so Raphael 
& Sons  refused to end the finance agreement on this basis.  The car was then sold at auction, and 
Raphael & Sons  pursued Mr B for the outstanding balance.
In order  to resolve this complaint it is necessary to determine if any damage occurred during the time 
the car was in Mr Bs possession and, if so, to what extent. I have thought  carefully about all the 
evidence available.
Mr B has told us that the vehicle was involved in a minor collision in a carpark, during which  one 
headlight and the surrounding plastic bezel were  broken and the car received minor scratches.  Mr B 
has also told us that he bought a replacement headlight and fitted it himself. Mr B signed a declaration 
to this effect in early  October 2017,  and has also provided  a receipt for the new headlight from around 
the same date.
We also know  that an independent  inspection  took place  shortly  afterwards, which determined  that 
the ongoing fault with the car was most likely present in May 2017. This report  didnt comment  on any 
damage. The mileage recorded on the report was 70,792.
The copy of the 18 December collection report provided by the dealer records a dent on the front 
bumper and light area,  that the bonnet wouldnt  open  properly,  and that the front tyres were  bald. The 
mileage was recorded  as 70,798.  Photographs have also been provided which  appear to show 
damage to the front bumper,  lights and damage to the front left wheel alloy. 
Ref: DRN39091644Mr B denies that this damage was present when the car was collected  and says that the notes were 
added to the report after he signed the document. He says he was verbally told the car was fine, and 
that he was asked  to sign paperwork solely to confirm the handing over of the car. He has provided 
his own copy of the same  collection document that appears to support this, as it has been signed  by 
both parties,  but no notes  about damage have yet been  added (attached).
The auctioneers report dated January 2018 sets out 16 different instances of damage, including 
various dents  and scratches, damage to the front bumper and lights,  bonnet,  and front tyres. The total 
repair cost is given  as £1776 including  VAT. However, this report was intended as a thorough list of 
repair works for potential buyers, and so wouldnt have made any distinction between  damage or 
faults already present when Mr B got the car, fair wear and tear, and damage for which Mr B was 
liable.
The car has now been  sold, so no further assessment  of the damage can be undertaken.  As I see it, 
there are three possible explanations for what happened.
Firstly, its possible that the severe  damage described by the dealer and set out in the photographs 
occurred as a result of the carpark collision in October, and that the minor  scratches and breakages 
Mr B reported  didnt reflect  the full extent of the damage incurred at the time.  However, I think  this is 
unlikely. The independent inspection that took place after the collision  made no mention of severe 
damage. Give the dealer has described  being unable  to open the bonnet due to the severe  damage to 
the front end of the car, I think this is unlikely  to have been missed  in any inspection.
Secondly, its possible  that further damage occurred between the independent  inspection in October  
and the car being collected in December   during the time that the car was in Mr Bs care. Mr B has 
told us that he didnt drive the car much during this time and the mileage figures  seem to support this. 
The auction  inspection report in January 2018  gives the cars mileage  as 70,798, which  shows the car 
had barely  been driven since the independent inspection  in October 2017.  Mr B has also told us that 
the car was parked under a carport on his driveway  during this period,  so it seems unlikely that there 
was an opportunity for any further damage to occur.
Lastly, its possible that the damage  occurred  after the car was collected  and that notes about this 
damage were added to the collection report after Mr B signed it. I make no finding  on how this 
mightve occurred.  But Mr B has produced a document which clearly shows no damage was recorded 
on the collection report when he relinquished possession  of the car. As such, I dont  think  Mr B should  
be held liable  for any repair costs. 
Mr B has already made payments of £834.05  in monthly premiums under the hire purchase 
agreement. This reflects seven monthly payments of £119.15  up to and including December 2017. 
Due to various  problems  with the car, Mr B didnt drive  it for two of those months (mid-October to mid-
December), and he was also unable to drive it for the periods of time it was in the garage for repairs. 
In addition to this, his enjoyment of the car was curtailed somewhat by the fault that was present 
during the time he was able to drive it. So I think that it is fair to return  three months payment to Mr B. 
As he did have usage of the car during the remaining period and covered over 5,000  miles  in it, I think 
its fair for Raphael & Sons to keep the remainder of the payments hes made.
Mr B has also told us that his credit file has been  adversely impacted by this matter.  As I understand 
it, Mr B continued  making payments up until the point Raphael & Sons incorrectly rejected his request 
to reject the vehicle and end the agreement. Had things gone as they shouldve  done, I dont think  Mr 
B wouldve been placed  in that position, and his credit history wouldve  remained unimpaired.  As 
such, I think Raphael & Sons should  take steps to put this right.
In addition, I think  Mr B has suffered trouble and upset  as a result of the faulty car, the confusion that 
ensued, and the associated  inconvenience. As such, Im minded to award him £250 to reflect the 
impact this has had on him.
Ref: DRN39091645Finally, Raphael  & Sons have said we should take into account their cost in collecting and inspecting 
the car, but it was their car, so any costs incurred here are theirs. Raphael  & Sons have also pointed  
out that some of the time taken to reach a resolution on this case  is due to when  Mr B submitted it to 
this service, and the time it has taken for us to investigate it. However, had the matter been 
addressed correctly to start with, a referral to this service  wouldnt have been necessary.
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to uphold the complaint and to instruct  R. Raphael & Sons Plc to take the following 
actions:
Cancel the hire purchase agreement at no further cost to Mr B.
Pay Mr B £357.45 to reflect three months of monthly premiums paid under  the hire purchase 
agreement.
Pay Mr B £250 to reflect  the trouble  and inconvenience hes experienced.
Remove any adverse information relating to matter from Mr Bs credit  file.
If either party has anything further to add, they should do so by the date specified above. I will then 
reconsider the complaint before reaching  a final decision.
Clair Bantin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3909164