K822xcomplaint
Mrs R complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited failed to inform her of the maturity  of 
an investment in 2008. 
background 
The investment was started  in 1992  for Mrs Rs daughter. Annual premiums of £480 were 
paid up until the investments maturity in November 2008, with a value being  attained  of just 
over £11,000. 
Aviva says it wrote to Mrs R in October 2008  as the maturity was approaching, enclosing  
forms that needed to be completed  for a claim to be made. Mrs R says she didnt receive 
this letter.  And unfortunately no further attempts  were made to contact Mrs R so the 
investment lay unclaimed until 2018  when Mrs Rs husband contacted  Aviva. 
New documentation was sent so a claim could  be made. But Mrs R was unhappy with 
Avivas handling  of the matter and made a complaint. Aviva acknowledged that it shouldve 
done more to contact Mrs R and offered a payment of £125  for the trouble  and upset caused  
and to add interest  to the maturity value  equivalent to Bank of England base rate plus 1% 
from the date of maturity  to the date of claim.  
Mrs R wasnt satisfied with this offer, so referred  the matter to this service.  Our investigator 
concluded that the offer was a fair one, noting that Mrs R would have interacted  with the 
investment and Aviva up until 2008  by way of cheque payments of the annual  premiums and 
receipt of annual statements. So it was reasonable to expect her, even without Avivas letter 
of October  2008, to have had some awareness that the investment  had matured. 
Mrs R didnt accept this. In brief, she questioned  what would have happened if her husband 
had not called Aviva and the investment had remained unclaimed.  She also questioned why 
interest had not been added or offered until a complaint had been made. And challenged the 
fairness of holding her responsible for not remembering  the investment and also queried the 
calculation of the maturity value. 
As the investigator  wasnt persuaded  to change his opinion, the matters been  referred  to me 
to review.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva has acknowledged  that it acted incorrectly and shouldve  made  a greater effort  to 
contact Mrs R. So it only really remains for me to decide what represents fair compensation 
for the error.  
I note all of Mrs Rs concerns about  the matter and I understand why shes  questioned, for 
instance, what wouldve  happened if a pro-active approach to Aviva  hadnt been made in 
2018? Would the money have  sat indefinitely in an Aviva account  earning no interest?
But this is a hypothetical question and I have  to consider the facts  as they stand. And doing  
so leads me to conclude  that what Aviva has offered is fair in the circumstances. It has made 
Ref: DRN31048632an offer of compensation for the error and also offered to pay interest at a rate that I think 
reasonably reflects  what mightve been  achieved had the money  been  held elsewhere in a 
savings account  or investment. Indeed, the rate offered   Bank  of England  base rate plus 
1% - is a rate that this service has used in the past to compensate for investment loss. 
I know Mrs R was disappointed that there was no indication  that interest would be added  to 
the 2008 maturity value  when the claim forms were  provided in 2018. But this has now been 
resolved with Avivas  offer. And I also understand that she feels  its unfair to suggest  that 
she should in effect shoulder some responsibility  for not claiming  the value sooner. But in 
any event, regardless of how responsibility  might be apportioned, I think  the offer Aviva has 
made is a fair one and equivalent to what I would have directed  had the offer not already  
have been made.
I note also the point about the calculation of the maturity value but Ive seen nothing that 
leads me to think this would be incorrect.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint as I consider 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limiteds offer to be fair in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3104863