K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains Bank of Scotland plc trading as Lloyds Bank  (Lloyds)  wrongly  defaulted his 
loan account and recorded  this on his credit record.
background
Mr J brought his concerns to us as he was unhappy  with the response  hed received form 
Lloyds to his concerns  about their ending  and defaulting the loan agreement on 6 February 
2019.
In their Final  Response Letter (FRL) Lloyds told Mr J they werent able to uphold  his 
complaint as the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) stated they must  apply  a default 
when the arrears on an account  build to 3 -6 months. They  said their records showed no 
payments were received to the loan between August 2018 and November 2018. And 
although their records  showed that when they spoke  to Mr J on 5 December 2018 hed 
agreed to repay the arrears and restart his monthly  direct debit this didnt happen. The 
payment they received for December 2018 was returned unpaid in January 2019.
Lloyds said theyd issued  a notice of default on 21 December 2018 and as the arrears  
werent repaid  by 6 February 2019  they followed  the process outlined in the letter and 
defaulted the account.
In both of the views she issued our investigator  didnt uphold  this complaint.
Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision. He said the period 
of time from when hed last paid towards  the loan and it then defaulting  was so quick.  He 
also told us he found it strange  that sometimes his current  account  let him go over his 
overdraft to make payments and sometimes they didnt. And Mr J said hed used that current 
account to pay the loan as hed used it on occasions  before when theyd let him go over the 
overdraft limit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the view 
that this is a complaint that I can properly  uphold.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letters 
giving her opinion.  So I shant repeat that here. Im afraid theres not a great deal I can add 
to what shes already told Mr J. I think shes covered most points quite clearly and I agree 
with her analysis and conclusions.
Theres nothing to suggest anyone disputes the payment history set out in the FRL. Five 
payment were missed  immediately before the loan defaulted. The records from Lloyds show 
Mr J spoke to them  on 28 September 2018 in response to an earlier  default notice and he 
indicated temporary  difficulties in making payments and clearing the arrears as the sale of 
his property was taking longer than anticipated.  So a 30 day hold was placed  on the account 
then and Lloyds  warned  Mr J that he must  contact  the bank before 27 October 2018 to avoid 
the account being closed.  The records show  that when Mr J next spoke to the bank on 4 and 
5 December 2018 he was clear that he didnt want to enter  into a payment plan but rather 
Ref: DRN34326812clear the arrears in one payment.  So given  these circumstances Im satisfied Lloyds were 
entitled to default the loan and that theyve followed the correct procedures  in doing so.
The default  notices  were sent to the address in the contact details Lloyds have registered for 
Mr J. I appreciate he says he didnt get them  or the letter advising of the returned  payment 
from his current account as he was overseas. But is Mr Js responsibility to manage this 
account in line with the terms  and conditions and to ensure any changes  to his contact  
details are communicated to Lloyds. I cant see that he did this despite knowing this loan 
was at risk of default, was being paid potentially from an unauthorised overdraft on his 
current account and being away from his contact  address for a time. So I dont think his 
failure to receive  the letters is something  I can reasonably  hold Lloyds responsible for. So 
overall I cant say Lloyds have done  anything wrong here and I dont require them to do 
anything further.
Given how strongly Mr J feels about what happened he may want  to pursue the matter  
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with Lloyds informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr J.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3432681