K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about a cash handling  fee she was charged by 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC in February  2019.  
background
Mrs B has a Tesco credit card and says shes previously  used  it to make payments to a third 
party to complete money transfers without being  charged. 
On 27 April 2018 Tesco says it emailed Mrs B to notify her that it was changing the terms of 
her credit card. One of the changes meant Tesco would  start charging a cash handling fee 
for transactions for money transfers. Tesco  says it also wrote to Mrs B on 21 May 2018  with 
confirmation that the terms  would change on 31 May 2018.  
On 29 January 2019 Mrs B made a payment of £837.70 to a third party to complete a 
transfer and Tesco applied a charge of £33.43. Mrs B was also charged interest on £15.98. 
Mrs B contacted Tesco about the fee and went on to raise a complaint. Tesco  says the cash 
handling fee was correctly  applied.  But it says some of the information Mrs B was given was 
confusing so later paid her £25 compensation. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service and an investigator looked at it. The investigator 
didnt think Tesco had made any mistakes as it had sent Mrs B a Notice  of Variation  more 
than 30 days before the new terms came into effect. He said the £25 offered in respect  of 
how her queries were  handled was fair. Mrs B asked to appeal so her complaints been 
passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to this complaint. The first relates to whether Tesco followed the correct  
process before it varied the terms of its credit card and whether Mrs B has been  charged the 
right amount. The second part of Mrs Bs complaint relates to how her questions were  
handled and the information  she was given after she was charged.  
Tesco has provided  systems evidence that it sent Mrs B a Notice  of Variation  which  
contained the details of its new fee structure on 27 April 2018. Whilst Tesco hasnt retained a 
copy of the individual email Mrs B received,  Im satisfied the information Ive seen shows the 
Notice of Variation  was sent more  than 30 days before the changes  came into effect.  
Tesco has also provided a follow up letter  it says it sent Mrs B on 21 May 2018. The letter  
provided additional information  about  the new fee structure and changes  to the credit card 
terms. Im satisfied  that Tesco followed the necessary steps before changing  the terms of its 
credit card on 31 May 2018. 
Ref: DRN32898662Ive looked at the cash handling fee and associated interest Mrs B was charged following the 
transaction on 29 January 2019. Whilst I understand Mrs B wasnt  expecting the fee, I 
havent found anything to show shes been  charged too much.  The credit cards terms say a 
cash handling fee will apply for transactions of that nature. The terms also say Tesco will 
charge interest  on the transaction. Whilst I appreciate Mrs B is unhappy at the fee and 
interest shes paid, I havent  found  anything to show shes  been  over charged or treated 
unfairly. 
Tesco says it provided Mrs B with unclear information about how the Notice  of Variation was 
communicated to her when she first raised her concerns.  As a result, Tesco  decided to 
uphold Mrs Bs complaint  in part and paid £25 to resolve the situation. Mrs B says she thinks 
Tesco has been  unclear in explaining  why it changed its decision and offered her 
compensation. But Tescos final response  dated 20 February 2019 confirms  that the 
previous decision  in terms of the Notice of Variation was right. Tesco  didnt offer to refund 
the charge and interest applied. The letter goes on to explain that £25 would be paid 
because some of the information Mrs B was given  when she called  to discuss  the fee was 
confusing and she didnt  receive a call as promised.  I think  Tesco  explained why it paid 
compensation. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs B but Im satisfied  that Tesco  sent her its Notice  of Variation  more 
than 30 days before the changes of her credit  cards terms came  into effect. The fee and 
interest applied  to Mrs Bs credit  card after her payment on 29 January 2019 were  correct so 
I have no grounds to tell Tesco to issue a refund. Tesco accepts it provided some confusing  
information but its paid Mrs B £25 because of that, in addition  to not calling her back as 
promised. I can see that there was some inconvenience to Mrs B but I think  the £25 Tesco 
paid fairly  reflects  that. As I think Tesco has dealt with Mrs Bs complaint fairly, Im not telling 
it to take any further action to resolve  this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  beyond the £25 already paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3289866