K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G complain British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) caused them distress 
and inconvenience  through  its handling  of a claim on their home emergency insurance policy 
for a leak in their property.  They say, if British Gas had repaired the leak properly in the first 
place, they wouldnt  have had further issues over the following years impacting the use of 
their home.
background 
Around 15 June  2016, Mr and Mrs G reported  a leak theyd identified  to British Gas and the 
following day, British  Gas attended  to investigate and repair  it. A certificate  confirming the 
area was dry was issued around two months later. In between that time, Mr and Mrs Gs 
home insurance provider  (Ill call it H) arranged  for the drying  out and redecorating of the 
area as it seems that wasnt covered under  their home emergency policy. 
On 10 March 2017, Mr and Mrs G say they noticed a second  leak from the same area in 
their property and they reported it to British Gas and H. Between  the date the second leak 
was identified and June 2017, Mr and Mrs G say they went back and forth with British Gas,  
H and their contractors to get the problem fixed and the resulting damage repaired.  British 
Gas has said it attempted  to repair the problem more than once  during  this time but the leak 
continued until it was fixed in May 2019. 
A third leak was identified  from the same area in February 2018. British Gas says it repaired 
the problem in March 2018.  Mr and Mrs G have  said they again went  back  and forth until 
June 2018 between British Gas and H to get the leak fixed  and the further  damage  repaired. 
Mr and Mrs G have provided a sketch  of the pipework to show where the leaks occurred and 
the repairs that were  done.
Mr and Mrs G have explained theyre  extremely unhappy with the impact this situation has 
had on their home life. Theyve said they were  unable  to use several main rooms  in their 
home and were caused discomfort  by the dust caused by the works and noise caused by the 
dryers. Theyve said they faced a great  deal of inconvenience in dealing  with the complaint 
and the works on their home. And they want £3000  compensation  from British Gas to make 
up for this. 
British Gas offered  Mr and Mrs G £500 for the distress and inconvenience  theyve been 
through. Its pointed out that the leaks occurred between six and eight months  apart  and 
after dryness certificates were issued.  So it thinks it did all it could to repair the problems and 
it couldnt be sure the leaks  were  from the same area.  
Mr and Mrs G remained  unhappy, so they came to our service. Our investigator upheld the 
complaint and recommended British Gas pay £750. He said he thought the leaks were  all 
linked to the same initial problem  and he thought  British Gas couldve done more to prevent 
further problems.  As the case wasnt resolved, it was passed to me to reach a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2019.  I upheld the complaint in 
summary because:
From  the evidence Id been given  including a drawing  by Mr G  I thought  all three  
leaks had stemmed from the same place. 
Ref: DRN30931832I didnt think the second and third leaks were a continuation of the first as there was 
time between each  and the area was certified  as dry between each one. But I 
thought the different problems were  either  caused  by British Gas or were connected 
to the initial  problem and couldve been  prevented by British Gas carrying out an 
effective and lasting  repair. 
I thought there were  occasions when British  Gas took a long time to repair the leaks.
Although I could see British Gas had attended  Mr and Mrs Gs property  each time 
there was a leak, I thought this was the service theyd paid for and didnt make up for 
the problems theyd experienced. 
I thought the ongoing  problems wouldve caused  Mr and Mrs G discomfort and 
stopped them from using several rooms  in their home. And I thought the visits and 
repairs wouldve been inconvenient for Mr and Mrs G. So I didnt think the £500 
compensation British  Gas had offered them was enough. 
I thought some of the delays Mr and Mrs G wanted British  Gas to compensate them 
for were  caused by other parties   for example H. And I didnt think  it was appropriate  
for British Gas to compensate them for living longer in discomfort due to this.  
Overall, based on everything  Id seen, I thought British  Gas should pay Mr and Mrs G a total 
of £1,000 in compensation (including  the £500  itd already offered). 
I asked both parties to make any further  comments before I reached a final decision. 
British Gas said it didnt  have any further  comments to add. Mr and Mrs G said in summary 
they think the amount of compensation Id suggested only covered the increase in their 
home insurance premium  with H for two years.  So they didnt think  it was enough. They  gave 
me one page  of their home insurance renewal notices for November 2016, 2017, 2018  and 
2019 to show  this.
I contacted both parties in September 2019  to let them know  Id reconsidered things and 
planned to direct British  Gas to pay Mr and Mrs G £1,500 in total as compensation for what  
had happened   taking into account what Mr and Mrs G had said. 
In response, Mr and Mrs G said they thought  it was clear  their home insurance premiums 
increased with every  claim they made  after each leak.  They also mentioned the delay they 
experienced in British  Gas carrying out the repairs and that they didnt think  it completed  the 
repairs property. They thought £2,000 compensation would be a fairer amount. British  Gas 
didnt respond  with any further comments  by the deadline given.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I still think  this complaint should  be 
upheld for the reasons given in my provisional  decision and follow  up correspondence. 
Mr and Mrs G have said they dont  think £1,500  fairly  compensates  them for what  theyve 
been through  and the increase in insurance  premiums on their home  insurance  policy. And 
Ive considered their comments very carefully.  I know Mr and Mrs G have said their 
insurance premiums have gone  from £200 to £700  per year due to British Gas actions. But I 
cant see that from the information theyve  given me. 
Ref: DRN30931833I assume where Mr and Mrs G have referred to their policy  initially  costing them  £200,  
theyre referring to how much their home insurance cost them in 2015 (which  theyve been 
unable to show me). But I dont think it would be fair for British Gas to compensate them  for 
their premium going up initially. I say this because Mr and Mrs G did initially  have a leak in 
their property in 2016 which caused  further  damage  to the surrounding area.  And they chose 
to claim on their home insurance policy to get the drying out and redecoration work done. I 
think Mr and Mrs G wouldve  needed  to do this regardless  of what  later went wrong with 
British Gas  and I dont  think  it was responsible  for the initial leak.  So I think  its likely  their 
insurance premium wouldve been affected anyway  even if British  Gas hadnt done  
anything wrong. 
I can see Mr and Mrs Gs home insurance premiums did go up in 2017  and 2018  and 
dropped slightly  from the new rate in 2019.  But from the evidence Mr and Mrs G have given 
me, I cant  say what amount their insurance premiums  went up by because of British Gas 
not preventing  further leaks in their property   and what wouldve been down to other  events 
(for example, other changes to their policy or commercial price rises). So Im not satisfied the 
total amount their premiums have increased  by were only because of what went  wrong  with 
British Gas. In any event, I do think its likely numerous claims on their home  insurance  
policy wouldve had an effect  on the yearly premium.  So I think its fair for British Gas to pay 
Mr and Mrs G a total of £1,500 in compensation to make up for things.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs G have pointed out British Gas caused  delays to the repair  work 
done  and each time it needed  to fix a leak, it caused them  inconvenience.  But for the 
reasons given in my provisional decision and above,  I think  £1,500 fairly compensates them  
for this.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs G £1,500 in total as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 November 2019.
Nadya Neve
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3093183