K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Elevate Credit International Limited,  trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
The complaint is brought  to this service  on Mr Ps behalf by a claims management company. 
But for ease I shall refer below to all actions being taken by Mr P.
background
This complaint is about 11 short term loans Sunny provided to Mr P between 
April 2017 and August 2017. The loans were repayable by six monthly instalments. All the 
loans have been repaid.  Mr Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 22/4/17 25/5/17 £300
2. 26/5/17 6/6/17 £750
3. 8/6/17 18/6/17 £850
4. 19/6/17 19/6/17 £850
5. 24/6/17 30/6/17 £850
6. 1/7/17 3/7/17 £850
7. 20/7/17 24/7/17 £850
8. 26/7/17 5/8/17 £850
9. 9/8/17 11/8/17 £850
10. 22/8/17 22/8/17 £850
11. 26/8/17 26/3/19 £850
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld in part. She said that 
Loans 4 to 11 shouldnt have been given to Mr P. She said that by Loan  4 Mr P showed 
signs that he was struggling to repay  previous loans as he borrowed again  soon after 
repaying previous  loans.  And by Loan  6 the overall  pattern  of borrowing suggested that Mr P 
was persistently reliant on short term loans. 
Sunny initially responded to say that the repayments for Loan 4 were £283.35 and
Mr P would have had £1,115.65 left to cover  unforeseen expenses.  But it accepted  that the 
loan amounts never decreased and recognised  that it would have been  prudent to 
investigate further  as to why the amounts consistently stayed the same.  So it offered to 
uphold Loan  11.
Mr P rejected Sunnys offer. 
Sunny then said it had reviewed the complaint again. It said that the average percentage 
Mr P used of his monthly income to repay  the loans was 10.9%. It said that there was no 
evidence of early repayment  followed by repeat borrowing and Mr P was never in arrears. 
But it recognised that the manner in which Mr P used the product indicated he was perhaps 
not using credit for short term borrowing needs. After Loan  5, Sunny said that it was possible 
that Mr P may have started  to become reliant  on credit so that any lending from Loan  6 may 
not have been sustainable.  So Sunny  offered to refund the interest  on Loans 6 to 11, pay 
8% interest on the refunded interest  from the date of payment to the date of settlement and 
to update Mr Ps credit  file.
Ref: DRN35682022Mr P didnt provide  a response to Sunnys  offer.
My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to Sunny on 22 May 2020.  I summarise  my findings:
As Sunny had offered  to settle  Loans  6 to 11, I said that I wouldnt be investigating these  
loans. But I would include  the redress for these  loans  in my proposed  award.
Id noted that when  Sunny lent to Mr P the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Id said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to 
make sure Mr P could  repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, Id thought  less thorough checks might  be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
Id thought it was important  to say that Sunny  was required to establish whether Mr P could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
Id explained that the loan payments being affordable  on this basis might be an indication  a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ref: DRN35682023Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Ps complaint.
Sunny made a number of checks before it lent to Mr P. It had asked  him for details of his 
income and expenditure. Mr Ps declared  income  for all the loans was £2,300.  Sunny had 
shown Mr Ps total expenditure in its Loan Datasheet as between £882  and £1,029.  
Sunny had also said that it had checked Mr Ps credit file before agreeing to the loans. It 
hadnt provided us with the detailed results  of its credit checks. But it did note in its Loan  
Datasheet that Mr P wasnt  bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement  or in a debt 
management plan at the time hed taken  out the loans. 
Wed also received a credit report from Mr P. Id not seen any adverse  information in the 
credit report  that I thought  should  have caused  additional concerns about  Mr Ps financial 
situation. 
Mr P had needed to make  monthly loan repayments of up to £256.15 to Sunny for 
Loans 1 to 3. Id thought  the monthly repayment amounts for all these loans would have 
appeared relatively modest compared  to Mr Ps declared income. And I didnt think  the 
repayment amounts  on Loans 1 to 3 were so large  that its obvious  they wouldve caused  
Mr P financial difficulty.
So given Mr Ps repayment amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Sunny to 
have asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  Loans 1 
to 3 were unsustainable.  
And I didnt  think there was anything in the information Mr P had provided before Loans 1
to 3 or the information Sunny shouldve been  aware  of, which  meant it wouldve been 
proportionate to start verifying what he was saying.  So I didnt think  Sunny was wrong to give 
Loans 1 to 3 to Mr P. 
Id noted that Loan 4 was repaid four hours after it was taken out and no interest  was 
charged by Sunny. It appeared  that it was cancelled on the same  day it was taken  out. So I 
didnt propose  to investigate Loan 4.
Loan 5 was taken out six days after Loan 3 was repaid. Mr Ps previous loans had all been 
taken out within two days of the previous loan being  repaid.  Id also noted  that Loan  3 was 
repaid early  as had been the case with all Mr Ps previous loans. And Loan 5 was effectively
Mr Ps fourth loan in around two months. Id appreciated that Sunny had asked Mr P for his 
income and expenditure. And Id noted that Mr Ps credit commitments were shown as £307 
and his disposable income was £1,074.  But Id thought the pattern of his borrowing with 
repayments to be made  over six months was such  that it wasnt reasonable for Sunny to rely 
on that information. So Id thought this should  have prompted Sunny to do some additional 
checks such as asking  Mr P for more  information about his other  short term borrowing 
commitments.
Id looked at Mr Ps credit  report  and the bank  statements wed received for the month  before  
Loan 5 to see what proportionate checks would likely have shown. Id noted from the credit 
report and bank statements that Mr P appeared to have one other short  term loan with 
another lender which would have been repayable around the same time as Loan 5. The 
Ref: DRN35682024credit report  showed monthly repayments of around  £86. So, I couldnt safely  say that if 
Sunny had carried out proportionate checks before Loan 5, it wouldve seen that Mr P 
couldnt sustainably  make the repayments to Loan  5. So I didnt  intend  to uphold his 
complaint about  this loan. 
But Id noted that Mr P had appeared to have current  accounts  with other financial providers 
at the time of Loan 5. I could see that the adjudicator had asked to see statements for these  
accounts but I couldnt see that wed received these. Id said that Mr P was welcome  to send 
this service his bank statements on his other current accounts for May to July 2017  in 
response to my provisional  decision and I would consider these  before  reaching my final 
decision.
Subject to any further representations by Mr P or Sunny my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part and say that Sunny should put things right in line 
with its offer in respect of Loans 6 to 11.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on Loans 6 to 11 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*; and
Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 11 from Mr Ps credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr P responded to say that he was happy  with the provisional decision. Sunny hasnt 
provided any further information in response  to my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Given that Mr P and Sunny have given me nothing further to consider,  I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  this 
complaint in part and Sunny should  take the steps  set out below  in respect of Loans 6 to 11.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mr P paid on Loans 6 to 11 and pay interest of 
8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*; and
2.Remove all entries about Loans 6 to 11 from Mr Ps credit file. 
Ref: DRN35682025*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr P a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3568202