K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclaycard) lent irresponsibly when it 
approved her credit card application  and later when it increased  her credit limit. 
Mrs B is represented in her complaint by her husband. However, for ease, I will refer to all 
submissions made by Mrs Bs husband  as if they had been made  by Mrs B.
background
Mrs B applied for a credit card in February  2013 and Barclaycard approved  a credit limit of 
£5,500. Barclaycard says before deciding whether to proceed it checked  Mrs Bs credit  file 
and looked at the information provided in her application. Barclaycard says there  was no 
adverse information  on Mrs Bs credit file and her application passed  its affordability checks  
so was approved.  
Shortly after the application was approved Mrs B completed a balance transfer for £4,950. 
There was also some spending which increased  the balance. In April 2014, Mrs B repaid the 
outstanding balance. 
In September  2014 Mrs B completed another balance transfer, this time for £3,000 and took 
a cash advance of £1,862, both at an interest  rate of 0%. Mrs B continued to maintain her 
payments until August  2016 when the outstanding balance was repaid  in full. 
Mrs B continued to use her credit  card for general spending and in November 2017 
Barclaycard increased  her credit limit to £6,300.  Barclaycard says it checked  Mrs Bs credit  
file and looked at how shed handled her account  before taking this decision. Barclaycard 
also says the credit  limit increase passed its affordability checks.
In October  2018 the outstanding balance was repaid in full by Mrs Bs family members.  
Mrs B says the balance  was repaid  in full by family members because, amongst other things, 
she had lost her job in July 2018.
In late 2018 Mrs B complained to Barclaycard that it didnt  carry out reasonable or sufficient  
checks when it approved her credit  card application in 2013 or when it increased  her credit 
limit in 2017. 
In January 2019 Barclaycard responded to say that it didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly. 
Mrs B referred her complaint to our service where  it was reviewed by an investigator. The 
investigator thought  Barclaycard had completed the necessary checks and its decision to 
lend and increase the credit limit were  reasonable. 
Mrs B didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review  and decision.
 
Ref: DRN38767792my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Mrs B has very strong feelings about this complaint.  She has provided detailed 
submissions in support  of her view which I can confirm  Ive read and considered  in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Mrs B will not take the fact that my findings focus on what  I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point  raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
the initial approval of the account with a credit limit of £5,500
When lenders look at any application to borrow money, they need to make sure there are 
proportionate checks in place. The checks should  ensure  that any credit thats approved  is 
affordable and sustainable  for the borrower. Theres no set list of checks  a lender must 
complete and its up to each business to decide  how it wants to approach assessing 
applications. But I think its fair to expect them to consider the information provided  to them  
in the application by the borrower,  a review of their credit history  and any other information it 
may already know about that person. So, what I need to consider is whether I think  the 
checks completed by Barclaycard were reasonable based on the credit it provided.  
Mrs B says Barclaycard didnt carry out an affordability check.  Now I assume that what 
Mrs B means by this is that she wasnt asked to complete an income and expenditure form 
and no additional  documentation was requested of her, for example bank statements and 
proof of income such as a tax return.
But the fact that Barclaycard didnt do the above doesnt mean it has been  irresponsible   in 
some circumstances it wont  be unreasonable  for a lender  to rely on information  it has been 
given on an application  when deciding if credit should be provided. This is especially in 
circumstances  such as in this case  where  the consumer is lent a small proportion of their 
declared income and it needs to be repaid within a reasonable period of time rather than all 
in one go. It should also be noted  that Mrs B isnt saying that she wasnt, at the material  
time, earning  the £33,000 she declared  she was. So, Im not persuaded that Barclaycard has 
done anything  wrong here. 
Barclaycard completed  a credit search  on Mrs B, and it has provided  our service with the 
results of this search for me to review. These search results, in summary, show that Mrs B 
had seven credit commitments  (5 credit cards, 1 mobile phone and 1 mortgage) with no 
arrears. It also showed that there was no county court judgements  or defaults recorded.
Now having reviewed these search results  and given the income  Mrs B says she was 
earning in February  2013, Im satisfied that the granting of the account (with  a credit limit of 
£5,500) wasnt irresponsible as the information indicates that it wasnt unreasonable to 
expect Mrs B to be able to make  payments to clear the balance within a reasonable period of 
time. 
Barclaycard has shown that it followed  a process  to see if Mrs B met its lending  criteria for 
the credit  and Im satisfied  that these checks were  proportionate, based  on the amount of 
credit being  granted and that the lending was done  responsibly.
Ref: DRN38767793the increase in the credit limit to £6,300
Barclaycard increased  the credit limit to £6,300 in November 2017.  Whilst I agree that Mrs B 
had outstanding balances for long periods, there  were also reasonably lengthy periods when 
they were repaid in full. Before increasing Mrs Bs credit limit, Barclaycard checked her credit 
file and found no adverse information  or recent  missed payments. Barclaycard also looked  at 
how Mrs B had handled her account.  Barclaycard decided to increase  the credit  limit by 
£800 and I think  that was a reasonable decision based on what it knew  about Mrs B. I note 
Mrs B says she was reliant on credit  and that her spending wasnt controlled. But I dont 
think that was apparent  to Barclaycard when it decided to increase her credit limit. 
Mrs B says Barclaycard didnt complete checks  before deciding to approve the credit limit or 
increase it. But Im satisfied Barclaycard did complete proportionate checks to ensure the 
credit card debt was sustainable.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 March  2021.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3876779