K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained to us that Commitments Protection Limited (Commitments)  
mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) to go with their mortgage  in 
September 2010.
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt need  the policy.
Although Commitments disputed that they sold the policy, a jurisdiction ombudsman found 
that they were  responsible for the sale in a decision dated July 2019.  
background
The PPI was added when the single  premium PPI policy  Mr and Mrs B already had with their 
mortgage came to an end and they were asked  if they wanted to take out a new PPI policy. 
The new policy  was paid for monthly and only covered Mr B.
From what  Ive seen it looks as if the PPI was quoted for over the phone,  after which  
Mr and Mrs B were  sent information  about the policy theyd taken out. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint because she didnt think  Commitments  had done 
enough to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice about whether to take the 
PPI. 
But in my provisional decision dated  28 February  2020 I explained why I disagreed with the 
adjudicator that the PPI had been  mis-sold. I set out an extract below:
Mr and Mrs B say Commitments made a recommendation that Mr B should  buy the cover 
and that this happened at a meeting. From what Commitments has told us, however, the PPI 
was quoted for over the phone rather than at a meeting. Commitments says also that no 
recommendation was made. I agree with that because  from what Ive seen  about  the sale  
and taking into account that it happened  by phone - I think  Commitments needed to make 
sure that it gave Mr and Mrs B enough information  about the cover. That meant making sure 
that all the information it gave them was clear and not misleading, so that they could make 
their own decision about buying PPI. But it didnt  need to do anything  more. 
I think Mr and Mrs B ought to have known  they had a choice about whether or not to buy the 
policy. I say this because  they took it out shortly  after their single premium policy from 
Commitments had come to an end. And I can see they received a letter from the underwriter 
after its expiry pointing  out if they did nothing, they would  cease  to have cover.  So it ought to 
have been reasonably clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had to take some  sort of action if they 
wanted PPI cover to continue by way of a new policy. I accept its possible that 
Commitments contacted them by phone, at which point they decided to take out the cover. 
But by then I think they were already aware it was open to them not to continue with PPI 
cover if they didnt want it, but they chose to go ahead and buy the policy.
 
From what  Ive seen about the sale, Mr B was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have been 
disadvantaged by any of its main exclusions.  
Unfortunately, the recording  of the phone conversation  when Commitments  quoted  for the 
PPI is no longer available. So I have no way of knowing what was said during the call. But I 
have seen part of the quote  illustration that was prepared and sent to them on the day they 
Ref: DRN38268622decided to buy the new PPI cover. The part Ive seen sets out that Mr B would be covered 
for accident, sickness and unemployment  and quotes the level of cover. I cant  see the 
amount they had to pay but thats most likely  because we dont have the complete quote 
document. 
Even if Commitments couldve done  things  better  in giving Mr and Mrs B more information 
about the policy, I dont think this wouldve made a difference to Mr and Mrs B. I think  they 
wouldve still taken it out. I say this because I dont  think Mr and Mrs B wouldve  lost out by 
buying the policy. Thats because Mr B gave  us some information about his work benefits if 
he couldnt work, telling us that he would receive work for at least  six months, but no more  
than 12 months. And given that the PPI would pay for up to 12 months if Mr B wasnt 
working  including if he lost his job  it provided more protection than his existing benefit. 
The policy cost £29.33 per month for cover  of £430. From what  Ive seen it doesnt look as if 
the cost of the policy was unaffordable for them. 
It follows that I dont currently think the policy was mis-sold.
Copies of my provisional decision  were  sent to both Mr and Mrs B and Commitments but Ive 
not received any response.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Given that Ive not received any new evidence or information by the requested date, being 
28 March 2020,  I see no reason  to add anything to or revisit  my provisional  decision. 
It follows that I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May  2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3826862