K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC recommended they invest in a flexible savings 
plan (FSP), which was unsuitable  for them.
background 
Mr and Mrs J met a Lloyds adviser  in July 1997.  At that time, Mr and Mrs J were  both 
working and had three dependent  children.  They were planning to retire in about 20 years  
time.  
The adviser asked  Mr and Mrs J about  their financial situation and recommended a number 
of products to them. At the meeting,  Mrs J agreed to take out a pension  plan and Mr J 
agreed to invest £3,000  in a personal  equity plan. Mr and Mrs J also agreed to invest  in a 
FSP, and thats the subject of this complaint. 
   
The FSP had a term of 20 years  with a monthly  premium of £85. It provided life and critical 
illness cover  for both Mr and Mrs J, with a sum assured of £24,191. The plan also included  
waiver of premium cover  for Mr J only.
Mr and Mrs Js FSP matured in August 2017, with a value  of £16,408.85.  Mr and Mrs J 
complained to Lloyds that the FSP hadnt been a suitable investment for them.    
Mr and Mrs J were unhappy  with the response  from Lloyds and brought  their case  to the 
ombudsman service. Our investigator looked  into their complaint, but didnt think  Lloyds had 
done anything  wrong. 
Mr and Mrs J disagreed  with our investigator  and so their case  was passed to me to make  a 
final decision.
my provisional decision
I gave my provisional decision in December 2018.  I said I was planning to uphold Mr and 
Mrs Js complaint.
The key issue I looked at was whether the FSP was suitable for Mr and Mrs J at the time 
Lloyds advised  them to invest in it. 
Lloyds provided  copies of paperwork from the time Mr and Mrs J took out the FSP in 1997. 
One of the documents  was a factfind which the Lloyds adviser completed as part of his 
discussions with Mr and Mrs J.
The factfind included  information about  Mr and Mrs Js age, work,  income  and liabilities. 
The adviser asked  them about their existing  savings and investments, and life and critical 
illness cover.  He also discussed  with them how much they had available to invest and their 
investment objectives.  
In making their complaint, Mr and Mrs J said their objective was to build up a cash  lump sum 
for when  they retired. The factfind document  said Mr and Mrs J were looking for capital 
growth. And Lloyds had said the FSP was recommended  for its potential capital growth.
Ref: DRN39842552I looked at the information  Lloyds had provided  about the FSP. The plan would have paid out 
£24,191 if either Mr or Mrs J had died during  the 20 year term of the policy.  It would also 
have provided  cover  if either of them suffered from a critical illness. 
The FSP would also pay out a lump  sum at the end of the 20 year term. One of the 
documents given  to Mr and Mrs J provided examples of what their FSP could  be worth in 20 
years time, based on three different rates of annual growth (5%, 7.5% and 10%). It made  
clear that the figures were  examples and they could get back  more or less. 
The document said that with an annual growth  rate of 7.5%, Mr and Mrs J would get back 
£19,200 when  their fund matured in 2017.  In one of the more detailed  tables  provided,  it was 
also shown that over the full term of the plan, Mr and Mrs J would pay total premiums of 
£20,400 (£80 a month for 20 years). 
I noted that even  with a growth  rate of 7.5%,  Mr and Mrs J would have paid more in 
premiums than theyd get back  when the plan matured. Thats  because  the FSP wasnt just 
a savings plan,  it was also providing  life and critical illness cover.  
I said that, although that cover could have proved valuable to Mr and Mrs J, I didnt think  it 
was what they were looking for. It seemed from the paperwork that the adviser discussed life 
cover and income protection with Mr and Mrs J. It appeared Mr and Mrs J had some existing 
life and critical illness cover for their mortgage, and Mr J had limited  income  protection from 
his employer. 
The adviser recommended that Mr and Mrs J should consider additional cover.  But his 
summary of the meeting said theyd decided  to take no action  in these areas.  I thought the 
potential for capital growth to build a cash lump  sum was more  important  to Mr and Mrs J. 
And I didnt  think the FSP met that objective.
Lloyds had said the FSP was a low risk investment and was affordable for Mr and Mrs J. 
I accepted that the FSP seemed to have been consistent with Mr and Mrs Js attitude to risk. 
I was also satisfied the monthly premium of £85 was affordable for Mr and Mrs J. But that 
didnt mean  the product was suitable for them.  As Id explained, I didnt think  it matched  their 
investment objective.  
Lloyds had also said Mr and Mrs J were sent detailed information  about the FSP, its 
benefits, and what they might  get back when the policy matured. Some of this information  
was sent to them after theyd agreed  to take out the FSP during  their meeting with the 
adviser. 
Based on what Id seen,  I thought it would have  been clear to Mr and Mrs J that the amount 
theyd get back  when the policy matured  would depend on the performance of their 
investment. But I wasnt satisfied it would have been sufficiently clear to them  that even with 
a reasonable growth rate they would probably  still get back less than they paid in. If that 
information and the reason for it  that they were getting life and critical illness  cover   had 
been explained to them, then I didnt  think theyd have gone ahead  with the investment. 
Overall, I didnt  think the FSP met Mr and Mrs Js investment objectives and I didnt think it 
was suitable for them.  I said I was therefore  planning to uphold their complaint. I also 
explained what I thought Lloyds should do to compensate Mr and Mrs J fairly.
Lloyds have accepted my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN39842553Mr and Mrs Js representative wanted to add a few final points in support of their complaint. 
He said English wasnt Mr and Mrs Js first language, and they didnt understand key 
information about the FSP. For example, he says they didnt realise life and critical illness 
cover was a key feature of the policy. And he says Mr and Mrs J were never sent copies of 
the factfind and policy documents.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted the additional  points that Mr and Mrs Js representative has made. As Lloyds have 
accepted my provisional decision, I can see no reason to change my findings. So Ive 
decided to uphold  Mr and Mrs Js complaint and tell Lloyds  to put things right in the way I set 
out in my provisional  decision.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr and Mrs J as close  to the 
position they would probably now be in if they hadnt  been given unsuitable advice.
I think Mr and Mrs J would have invested  differently.  Its not possible  to say precisely what 
they would  have done, but Im satisfied  that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mr and Mrs J's circumstances and objectives  when they invested. If Mr and Mrs J had 
made a successful claim on the FSPs  life and critical  illness  cover, then I would  have taken 
account of that. But Ive seen no evidence they made a claim.  
what should Lloyds  do? 
To compensate Mr and Mrs J fairly, Lloyds should:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs J's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment.  If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Lloyds should  also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN39842554investment 
nameStatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
FSP maturedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private  
Investors  
Income  Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds28/8/97 28/8/178% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Lloyds should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs J wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I think that Mr and Mrs J's risk profile was in between,  in the sense  that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the 
50/50 combination  would  reasonably put Mr and Mrs J into that position.  It doesnt 
mean that Mr and Mrs J would have invested  50% of their money in a fixed  rate bond 
and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable 
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs J could have obtained 
from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude. 
Ref: DRN39842555The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against  
Lloyds Bank  PLC. 
Lloyds Bank  PLC should pay the amount calculated as set out above.  They  should provide  
details of their calculation to Mr and Mrs J in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3984255