K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited (MBFS) imposed unfair 
charges for damage to a car.
background
Mr K had a lease agreement with MBFS for a car which came to an end. It was due to 
terminate on 1 March  2018, but collection was delayed and finally  took place on either  22 or 
23 March after several aborted  attempts. The car was collected by transporter as it was no 
longer taxed and had no MOT certificate.
The car was partially  inspected on 1 March, but due to snow it wasnt  completed.  It was 
inspected on 29 March  at the refurbishment site. MBFS invoiced  Mr K for four damaged 
wheels, a tyre and damage to a sill. The total bill was for £1,141.84. It also offered him £600 
compensation for the delay in collecting the car.
Mr K disputed the damages and complained but this was rejected by MBFS. The complaint 
was brought to this service where  it was considered by one of our investigators.  She 
considered it should  be upheld in part. She reviewed the collection report which  was 
undertaken after the car had been  collected. She also considered the photographs  taken on 
1 March when  the inspection and collection were aborted and those taken on 29 March  at 
the refurbishment site. 
She said that MBFS adhered to the standards set out by the British  Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA) as regards  what  is deemed to be fair wear and tear. She was 
satisfied that the wheels  were damaged in both photographs although only three were 
photographed at the first inspection. Nevertheless,  she believed the damage had occurred 
prior to the car being collected and that it fell outside the BVRLA wear and tear guidelines. 
She also said the damage to the tyre was apparent on both sets of photographs and so she 
also thought that was chargeable.
However, she was persuaded that the evidence showed that the damage to the sill was 
present on 1 March.  The photograph of the sill wasnt a close up and it was partially  snow  
covered. She said the image  suggested  there was something distorting the edge of the 
same part of the step that was recorded as damaged on 29 March. But the distance and 
angle of the step in the image meant it wasnt clear whether this was damage  or just a 
shadow.
She thought  it was possible  that the distortion  caused by the weather conditions could 
equally be caused by the snow or poor lighting rather than showing the damage was 
present. She said it was up to MBFS to prove there  was damage when it was collected.
She also said that MBFS could have  completed  the inspection  on 22/23 March  when the car 
was collected,  to show damage before  it was transported. As it didnt do this, she couldnt  
rule out that this damage occurred during transit.
Mr K accepted the investigators opinion, but MBFS didnt. It said the 1 March photo  even 
though not a close up showed there was damage  to the sill at the same point as shown in 
the close up taken  later. It also wondered  why so much emphasis was being put on the first 
inspection when Mr K would have been advised  that a second one would be required. 
Ref: DRN37359732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBFS is entitled to charge for damages which go beyond  fair wear and tear and it is agreed  
that the wheels and one tyre are chargeable. As such I will only address the one area which 
is disputed  the sill.
It is clear that the sill was damaged when  the second inspection took place, but this was 
after the car had been collected using a transporter and delivered to the refurbishment  site. It 
is possible that damage could have occurred  during  the collection and it is unfortunate that 
the car wasnt inspected  before it was transported by the operatives working on behalf  of 
MBFS. However, it wasnt and we are left with two photographs on which  to base a decision.
I have studied  the 1 March photograph at some  length and even when significantly enlarged  
I cannot say with any certainty that the sill was damaged at that point. It may have been, but 
I dont believe the photograph establishes beyond reasonable doubt that the damage was 
present on 1 March.  
As the investigator  has pointed out that is up to MBFS to prove  the damage was incurred 
while the car was in the possession of Mr K. There is an element of doubt that this was the 
case. It is possible that it happened during or after transport. So while I appreciate  MBFSs 
arguments I dont  believe the evidence is sufficient  to allow  me to agree. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Mercedes-Benz  Financial  
Services UK Limited to forgo the charge  for the sill. This means that Mr K owes  £584.28 for 
damage. If MBFS has yet to pay the agreed £600  compensation  it should  net off the sum 
owed by Mr K and pay him £15.72.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
Im required  to ask Mr K to accept or reject  my decision before 8 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3735973