K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that Metro Bank plc closed  his account and recorded  a CIFAS marker 
against his name. CIFAS is one of the UKs fraud  alert services.
Background
Mr A opened  an account with Metro Bank  in April 2018. He says he lost control of the 
account soon  after and that none  of the transactions on the account  were carried  out by him. 
He says his banking details had been  stolen in February 2018 and this included  the details 
he was going  to use for online banking  with Metro Bank when he opened  an account. He 
says he didnt report any of this to Metro Bank because he was receiving threats not to tell 
anyone.
Metro Bank  received a report that a number of credits to Mr As account were fraudulent. 
In each case the money had been  withdrawn  from ATMs on the same  day as receipt. 
Metro Bank  investigated  this and the other transactions on the account. It says Mr A wasnt  
able to provide  an explanation for what had happened so it decided  to close his account. It 
noted Mr A had a CIFAS marker  recorded by another bank. It decided to record a CIFAS 
marker too.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He concluded  that 
Mr A had either carried out the withdrawals of the fraudulent money, or had authorised  
someone else to. He also thought Metro Bank had done enough to show the CIFAS marker  
had been recorded correctly.
Mr A didnt agree saying,  in summary, that:
In February, hed decided what information he was going to give Metro Bank to open the 
account and use its online banking. This information was stolen when he left his bag 
unattended.
He received the debit  card and PIN and doesnt know how someone  obtained them. He 
thinks someone must  have seen  him entering  his PIN and that he then went  out to a 
crowded place where  he either dropped the card or was pickpocketed.
Mr A explained  how this situation  has impacted on him and how the stress has affected  
his mental health.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN32557512Mr As testimony
Mr As testimony has not been consistent  and this sheds some  doubt on what hes told us. 
He says he didnt  tell the bank that hed lost his card, his PIN had been compromised, his 
online banking details  had been  stolen and that hed lost control of his account because he 
was being threatened. But, in relation to his complaint  against  another bank, hed told us he 
received four or five threats over a period of four weeks starting in the second week of 
February. He hasnt been able to provide evidence of the messages he received and, by the 
time he opened his account with Metro Bank, the threats had stopped.
So I dont  think Mr A failed to tell the bank that hed lost control of his account  because he 
was being threatened.
Were the disputed transactions authorised by Mr A?
There were a number of transactions on the account  from the time it was opened  in April 
2018 to the time Metro Bank closed it in July 2018.  These largely consisted of inward  bank 
transfers from other accounts,  followed in quick succession by cash withdrawals. 
Ive looked at what happened when  the four credits which have been reported as fraudulent  
were received. In each  case the money  was withdrawn on the same day by ATM cash 
withdrawals. Metro Bank cannot provide  a record of the card and PIN used for these 
transactions. But an ATM withdrawal would only have been  possible using a PIN and I think  
its most  likely that Mr As genuine card was used.
Mr A says he received  the card and PIN after the account was opened. He hasnt been able 
to tell us how a third party  obtained  these details. Hes given  a possible explanation, but 
I dont find this very likely.  He says someone must have seen him entering his PIN  
although hes told us he didnt carry out any of the transactions  on the account. Even if he 
was entering his PIN to activate the card or to check the account  balance, it seems unlikely 
that a third party shoulder surfed him and then followed him to a crowded  place  to 
pickpocket him or to hope that he dropped the card. I say this because   according to Mr As 
testimony - this must have been the same individual  who, two months  before, had stolen the 
details he intended  to use for online  banking.
Mr A has not been able to give a consistent  account of how his card, PIN and online banking 
details came into the possession of a third party. And I dont find what  he says to be 
plausible. For that reason,  I think its most  likely that Mr A either  carried  out the transactions  
himself, or authorised someone  to do so.
The CIFAS marker
Four credits to Mr As account were reported  as fraudulent the money had been  debited 
from a third partys account  without  their authority or consent. But before placing the CIFAS  
marker against Mr As name, Metro Bank needed to have a reasonable belief that criminal 
charges could be brought against Mr A as a result of the activity.  A suspicion or concern isnt 
enough. So I need to decide if theres enough  evidence to show  that Mr A knew  more about  
this than hes told us. 
Ive already concluded that Mr As account hadnt  been taken  over and that he authorised 
the transactions on the account.  So I think it most  likely that he also knew  about  the 
fraudulent credits.
Ref: DRN32557513As noted by our investigator,  CIFASs  standards  for recording a marker are very high. But 
I think there is enough information  here for a marker  to be placed against Mr A. A financial 
crime was committed  money was paid into his account from a third party account without 
their authority. The money was withdrawn shortly  afterwards using Mr As card and PIN. 
Theres no evidence that this information had been compromised. 
Taking all of this together, this all points to Mr A knowing  more about the transactions  than 
hes told us. And I think Metro Bank does have enough evidence  to report this matter to the 
police.
In reaching this decision I have taken into account  the impact  that the marker has had on 
Mr A, particularly in view of his young age. But this doesnt change  my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.  
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3255751