K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R say they were mis-sold a regular premium mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy by Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS).
background
Mr and Mrs R took out a joint mortgage with BOS in 1995. At the same time they took out a 
regular premium MPPI policy to cover  their repayments if either were unable  to work due to 
accident or sickness or lost their jobs. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think there
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented  as optional and thought
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs R. 
Mr and Mrs R disagreed.  They say that they werent given sufficient information on the 
policy. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
The sale took place  over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
BOS needed to make it clear to Mr and Mrs R that they had a choice in taking the policy. 
Mr and Mrs R havent provided  any real specific details about the sale which is 
understandable considering the amount  of time that has passed. And BOS havent  given us 
any of the documents from the time of the sale. So I dont know  exactly  what was discussed 
about MPPI  or how it was presented.
But from what I know about BOSs  sales process  at the time,  I think  its likely that it wouldve 
made Mr and Mrs R aware that MPPI was optional  and that Mr and Mrs R had MPPI 
because they freely chose  to take it rather than anything else.
Ive not seen enough to say that they werent  given a choice or that they didnt agree to
buy it.
To put Mr and Mrs R in the best possible position Im treating the sale as if BOS advised 
them to take the policy. What this means  is that BOS not only had to provide information 
about MPPI  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way so that Mr and Mrs R could make an 
informed choice about buying  MPPI. It also had to make  sure that if it were to recommend 
MPPI that the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Rs needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN30439692I dont know if BOS  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think  the policy  was a suitable
recommendation for Mr and Mrs R for the following  reasons:
They were eligible for the policy and although Mr R suffered from a medical condition 
a few years before  the sale that condition wasnt ongoing so it doesnt look like they 
wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of 
the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr and Mrs R say they werent entitled to sick pay and had no other means of 
making their mortgage repayments  if they couldnt  work. A successful claim on the 
policy wouldve covered  their mortgage  payments  for up to 12 months if they were  
unable to work due to accident or sickness or if they lost their jobs.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs R in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think Mr and Mrs R wouldve been interested  in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs R at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel  it.
I also need to consider  whether BOS  gave Mr and Mrs R information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out. 
I dont know if BOS  did give all the information as it shouldve. But for the same  reasons  that 
the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs R has told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the MPPI policy if theyd  been  
given all the proper  information.
So this means  Mr and Mrs R arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by BOS.
my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against  Bank  of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3043969