K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in alongside 
further advances  in 1999 and 2001. Each policy was taken  out in Mr Ks name and they 
paid monthly for it.  
Mr and Mrs K say Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ks case.
Having done that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Lloyds shouldve made Mr and Mrs K aware the policies were optional. And it has provided 
copies of the further borrowing documents  completed at the time of each sale. 
Each mortgage document gives the option to select or decline to take PPI and for each  one, 
Mr and Mrs K have  either ticked to opt for it or have signed in agreement  to taking it. 
So, overall I think Lloyds  made it clear  to Mr and Mrs K they had a choice about  taking  the 
PPI for each sale and they agreed to it. But given how long ago this all happened,  I can 
understand why they cant remember this.
Based on my experience of how Lloyds usually  sold these policies at the time, I think  its 
likely it gave Mr and Mrs K advice about  whether to buy the policy.  So it had to check  it was 
right for them. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances  especially  Mr Ks as the policies were  in his 
sole name  they seem  to have had a need  for the cover. Mr K affected by any of the 
exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr K says he wouldnt have been able to make a claim because he was self-employed. Ive 
carefully reviewed the terms  of both the policies  but I dont think being  self-employed would 
have made  it any more difficult for him to make a claim. Ive noted Mr Ks comments that his 
employment was made  up of fixed term contracts, but looking at the information he gave to 
Lloyds at the time of the applications, he said he was self-employed.  So Lloyds wasnt  wrong 
to recommend the policy to him on this basis. 
Mr and Mrs K say Mr K didnt have any sick pay benefits and they didnt have any savings.  
For each policy, Mr and Mrs K were borrowing funds against a large  and long term financial 
commitment, which was secured on their home. So I think having the security that their 
mortgage repayments would be made if Mr K was unable to work would have been 
important to them.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr and Mrs K chose to take out the PPI each time - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it looks like the policy would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. 
Ref: DRN38155752It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs K off taking  out the cover.  
Overall I dont think Mr and Mrs K have lost out by anything Lloyds might have done wrong. 
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs K some  of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ks 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs K paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3815575