K821x#15complaint
Mrs T brings  a complaint on behalf  of the estate of the late Mr T. She says that The Society  
of Lloyds (Lloyds) has unreasonably refused a retrospective claim she made  under Mr Ts 
group insurance scheme for terminal illness  benefit.   
To resolve  the complaint,  Mrs T on behalf of the estate of the late Mr T wants  the claim to be 
paid in full, with interest. 
background
Mr T was a member of his employers group insurance scheme. As part of this scheme,  he 
was provided with life assurance with a level sum assured of £125,000.  It also included  
terminal illness benefit for a partial  payment of up to 49% of the sum assured.  
Mr T sadly passed away in August 2014,  after suffering from a type of fungal  meningitis. He 
had been suffering from symptoms of the condition since  February  2013.  Though it was 
suspected from around April 2013,  a diagnosis was not given until October  2013.  
Mr Ts employment  ended  the following month;  and on 1 December 2013,  his membership of 
the insurance scheme ended.  
The scheme was operated  by a set of trustees, and the claim handled by a specified 
underwriter. Lloyds accepts overall  responsibility for the claim. 
In early 2018, Mrs T enquired about making a claim under  the policy, for terminal illness 
benefit. She had recently discovered the details of the scheme when sorting through some  
paperwork.  
The underwriter of the policy wrote to Mr Ts treating consultant to establish  what had been 
said regarding his life expectancy at the time of his diagnosis. 
The consultant, Dr B, explained a definitive  diagnosis was given in October  2013  (having 
been suspected from May 2013). At that time, Mr T and his family were informed of the 
seriousness of his condition, which had a particularly high risk of death. She did not give 
Mr T a written  terminal  diagnosis in 2013  because a rare condition like his was treated 
differently with active care as opposed  to palliative care given for other terminal  illnesses 
such as cancer. However, the consultant considered  Mr Ts illness  to be terminal  as of his 
date of diagnosis.  
The underwriter refused the claim.  It said the policy terms hadnt been  met because Mr T 
was not told he had less than twelve months  to live whilst the policy  had been  in force. 
In June 2018, Mrs T complained to Lloyds. She said Dr B had been clear  in stating when 
Mr T became terminally ill, and therefore a claim should be paid. She felt that the refusal  of 
the claim went against the spirit  of the policy; it was designed to offer cover to people in 
circumstances like Mr T where they are highly likely  to pass away within  the next twelve  
months  which  he did. 
The underwriter still disagreed. It said that to meet a claim, Mr T would have had to be told 
whilst he was still insured  under  the policy that he had less than twelve  months to live  and 
to be told that his illness was incurable.
Ref: DRN37911732Lloyds issued a response to the complaint, upholding the view of the underwriter.  It said 
Mr Ts doctors  were actively treating him with the intention of achieving  a recovery,  right up 
until a matter of weeks  before  he passed away. It took the view that a terminal  illness  
diagnosis could not be given during a period of active treatment. 
Though Lloyds  acknowledged that the odds were stacked against  Mr T, there was still a 
small chance that he would respond  to treatment. It said with this in mind,  it could not agree 
that Mr T was given a terminal  diagnosis within  the period where he was a member of the 
group scheme.  
Mrs T brought the complaint on behalf  of Mr Ts estate to this service. She reiterated that 
she felt the evidence from Dr B did satisfy the policy wording.  
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint. He did not agree that in order  to bring  the complaint 
that a terminal  illness  diagnosis must  be given  during the term of the policy - the policy terms 
did not expressly require that. He believed the fair and reasonable approach was to assess  if 
a terminal illness diagnosis could have  been given before Mr Ts group scheme cover 
ceased. 
He asked for further evidence from Dr B, with Mrs Ts consent.  Specifically  he asked if Mr T 
reached a point before the end of November 2013  where his infection would sadly  be fatal, 
therefore rendering  any active  treatment futile even if it was continuing. He also asked if 
there was any further scientific evidence on the longer-term prognosis  for patients in Mr Ts 
position  i.e. eight months  into symptoms and with a diagnosis  of less than two months.   
Dr B explained how the type of meningitis Mr T had suffered  from was exceptionally rare, 
meaning limited data exists about progression of the condition. She couldnt therefore 
answer the adjudicators question about  a prognosis  for a patient with eight  months of 
symptoms. However, she did explain that Mr Ts delayed diagnosis was likely to have led to 
a worse prognosis in his case, because earlier treatments were  not directed at the fungus  
causing the type of meningitis. She said that by the time Mr T came under her care,  they 
were conducting  salvage  therapy, because standard treatment options set out under 
industry guidance had failed for him. 
She was able to reconfirm  a case series of individuals  in a similar position to Mr T, where the 
data confirmed that the likelihood  of death  within twelve months of diagnosis  was 72%. This 
is despite treatment.  Dr B said Mr Ts circumstances were likely to be fatal even with further 
active therapy. However, because Mr T was young and immunocompetent, he remained 
eligible for treatments until he was transferred to palliative care very shortly before he 
passed away.  
Our adjudicator reviewed  the additional evidence but did not feel he could uphold the 
complaint. Specifically, though he believed  that Mr T would not likely have survived  twelve  
months, he didnt believe  that the evidence demonstrated his condition  was incurable at any 
time before the policy expired on 1 December 2013.  Since the policy wording  required  
confirmation of both, he couldnt  conclude  that a retrospective claim was payable.   
Mrs T supplied further evidence from Dr C, an independent medical expert  in infectious 
diseases. He had undertaken a review  of the medical circumstances surrounding Mr Cs 
illness, treatment, and subsequent death.  Following this, he produced a medical report dated 
Ref: DRN3791173311 February 2016. This had been compiled  as part of separate  court proceedings and hadnt 
been presented  to Lloyds  before.  
Mrs T said the report further clarified  that her husbands  condition  was noted  as being 
incurable in 2013, before  the policy cover had expired. She said she felt this evidence 
showed that a terminal  illness diagnosis could have  been provided in 2013.  
Our adjudicator passed the report to Lloyds and reviewed the further evidence himself.  This 
altered his view,  and he concluded the complaint ought to be upheld. 
He said that he now believed Mr Ts circumstances did meet  the policy criteria because 
Mr Ts condition was incurable before the policy ended.  Further, on a strong balance of 
probability he was unlikely to survive  for more than twelve months.  He proposed  that the 
claim be paid in full. He did not believe interest  should be added  to the claim payment.  
Lloyds didnt agree.  It made a number of comments both before and after our adjudicator 
issued his view.  These  were based on an assessment from its underwriters. In summary,  it 
said:
the purpose of terminal illness benefit  is to enable the life insured to benefit from the 
proceeds of the policy whilst they remain  alive;
once a person  has died, then it could be said with hindsight as to when they became 
incurable  but this is not as reliable  as using the facts  at the time the person was 
alive to reach a terminal illness diagnosis;
there is no evidence  that Mr T was given a terminal illness  prognosis  whilst the policy  
was in force; 
it accepts he didnt  have a good chance of recovery, but that is different to ceasing 
treatment or moving to palliative care;
Dr B is clear  that she would not have told Mr T of a less than twelve  month  life 
expectancy until active treatment  was irreversible  and futile   so this would have 
been in mid-2014;    
Dr Cs report  supports that Mr Ts treating doctors were  doing all they could to try to 
help him make a recovery;
a statement in Dr Cs report says Mr Ts life could have been extended with 
appropriate treatment   so this could  indicate that it was even less likely that a life 
expectancy of no more than twelve months would have been given at that time;
Dr C uses  the word incurable  but the policy term requires terminal prognosis and 
that the life expectancy is no greater  than 12 months (as confirmed by a medical  
practitioner);
similarly, our adjudicator has looked  at the word incurable but the underwriter does  
not consider this is what the policy says;
the underwriter has not considered whether the illness was incurable or whether the 
life assured was unlikely  to survive beyond twelve months. What he says he 
considered is whether  a medical practitioner has confirmed a terminal  prognosis  or 
not  and that didnt happen  before 1 December 2013;
Lloyds has no reason to dispute  Dr Cs view that Mr Ts condition was incurable as 
of May 2013;
though it should be noted  that Mr Ts treating doctors continued  to actively  treat him 
anyway;
if a terminal prognosis had been  given  before the policy expired, Mr T would have 
been given different  medical treatment;
Ref: DRN37911734it seems that our adjudicator has now made conclusions using wording outside of the 
scope of the policy;
it therefore requires  an ombudsman to look at the facts against  the correct  policy  
wording;
because no terminal prognosis  was considered nor any claim  pursued  within  the life 
of the policy, Lloyds remains of the view that a claim is not payable  now.
Mrs T also made some further  comments,  noting:
it is only since she has brought the complaint  to this service that Lloyds has made  
arguments about her lodging  the claim retrospectively  this was not previously the 
reason the claim  was refused;
she couldnt have  obtained a written  confirmation of Mr Ts prognosis at the time, 
because she didnt  know about  the policy or its provisions in 2013;
her only approach has been to approach specialists posthumously;
Mr T did have  an exceptionally poor prognosis, and this was borne out by the fact he 
passed away nine months after the policy ended;
Lloyds has been opposed to paying out on the claim from the outset  in the first 
instance it did not even want to permit  her to complete  claims documentation;
she appreciates how complex his condition was, but nonetheless Mr Ts 
circumstances did meet the policy definition and it is right that a claim ought to be 
paid now.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I go any further,  Id like to pass my best wishes to Mrs T and her family. I realise that 
revisiting these circumstances has been  incredibly  upsetting for her. Id like to thank both 
Mrs T and Lloyds  for their prompt and thorough responses throughout the course  of the 
complaint.  
Having reviewed everything supplied by both parties, I agree this complaint ought to 
succeed. In my view,  the late Mr Ts medical circumstances do meet  the requirements of the 
policy wording. Ill explain  why I have reached that conclusion below.  
In its comments  on our adjudicators revised view, Lloyds said it believes the policy  wording 
does not rely on a terminal illness  being incurable  nor does  it consider  if the insured person 
was likely to live more than twelve months.  It says the wording  merely  requires (along with 
some other documentary evidence)  that written  confirmation of the terminal  prognosis is 
supplied from a suitable medical consultant or practitioner. Lloyds says it must be inferred 
that the confirmation be supplied at the time the policy is in force.
Previously in its final response to the complaint, Lloyds did refer to wording relating to a 
terminal prognosis being incurable.    
Since there is some confusion from Lloyds about  the policy wording, I have looked at that 
first. I agree  with Lloyds  that my role is to look at what  the policy requires, and decide if I 
believe it was fair to decline the claim when considering the evidence against  that wording.  
Ref: DRN37911735what are the policy  terms?
The policy schedule says the policyholder is the trustees representing  Mr Ts employer. Mr T 
was a member of the group scheme. The schedule goes on to confirm that the payable 
event (to the policyholder) is diagnosis of a Terminal  Prognosis as described in Point  6 of 
Benefit Conditions.
Point 6 says:
TERMINAL PROGNOSIS ADVANCE (Only  Available To Members Who Have Not 
Attained Age 64)
If a Terminal Prognosis of less than 12 months is made by a qualified medical 
practitioner in respect  of a Member, the Trustees will be entitled to apply for an 
advance of up to 49% of the Life Assurance Benefit  which is appropriate to that 
Member calculated in accordance  with Table  A. In the event of the subsequent death 
of the relevant Member during the currency of this policy the remaining balance of 
the Life Assurance Benefit will be payable.
Terminal Prognosis is specifically set out in the list of definitions  given  on page 17 of the 
policy. It says Terminal  Prognosis is:
Advanced or rapidly progressing incurable  illness (my emphasis) where,  in the 
opinion of an attending consultant and the Companys chief medical  officer,  the life 
expectancy is no greater than 12 months.
Table A says:
The Life Assurance  Benefit  in the case of all [types of job roles] in the service  of the 
[specified employer]  shall be an amount  equal to £125,000.
The policy wording has further requirements  setting out the means  upon  which  a claim for 
terminal illness benefit ought to be lodged. It says:
  NOTIFICATION  OF A TERMINAL PROGNOSIS CLAIM
Upon confirmation  of a Terminal  Prognosis  of less than 12 months  by a medical 
practitioner, notification  should be made in writing to the Company at its address  
shown in the Schedule to the Policy.
DOCUMENTARY EVIDENCE REQUIRED FOR  A TERMINAL PROGNOSIS  CLAIM
(a) A Terminal Prognosis Claim form fully completed  and signed  by the claimant  and 
the Policyholder (the Trustees of the Scheme).
(b) Written confirmation of the Terminal Prognosis from a suitable medical consultant  
or practitioner.
(c) Evidence of the Members entitlement  to benefit.  
(d) Evidence of the Members Date of Birth. 
(e) Any additional information deemed necessary by the Company.
In its later correspondence to our adjudicator,  Lloyds underwriter has only sought to assess  
the claim against the part of the policy wording relating to notification  and disregarded the 
Ref: DRN37911736definition (that says incurable). However, thats not correct. The policy contains glossary 
terms and definitions to key wording, one of these  being  Terminal Prognosis. Its why that 
term is capitalised throughout the policy document. It follows  that the definition of terminal  
prognosis must be satisfied in order to meet the requirements of 1) the documentary 
evidence list and 2) the amount of payment of the insured event given in point 6. Ill assess 
Mr Ts circumstances  against the Terminal  Prognosis definition later in my decision. 
 
retrospective claims 
A number  of points have  been made about  Mrs T having notified Lloyds of the claim after 
Mr Ts membership of the scheme ended. In summary, Lloyds takes the stance that claims 
can only be made at the time the policy is in force for the member of the scheme. 
I disagree. With protection policies, a claim is ordinarily made  after the insured event has 
occurred. As of early  2013, Mr T was severely  incapacitated, to the point that at no time 
would he have been physically able to lodge a terminal illness  claim before his cover ended. 
And Mrs T did not realise  that her husband held any type of insurance  containing  terminal 
illness benefit. It simply was not possible for either  of them to pursue a claim at the time. In 
my view, for Lloyds to refuse  a retrospective claim on that basis  is unreasonable.  
Also, the policy wording  does not make  the requirement that a claim must be lodged  whilst 
the cover  is active.  There are clear directions as to the manner  and evidence  needed to 
satisfy a claim, including  written confirmation from a suitable medical  practitioner.  But, 
importantly, no timescale  or bar is placed on when that ought to be supplied.    
I appreciate Lloyds says the policy infers that a terminal illness claim must be made during 
the life of the policy, because the balance of death benefit can also be paid if a member 
passes away before the policy expires.  In general circumstances that would be the intent of 
the policy. But, that doesnt prevent a retrospective  assessment to determine if a 
policyholder could have made a claim during the relevant  period, but for some  intervening  
factor which meant he or she was unable to pursue it at the material  time. What it does 
mean is that a claim cannot be made for any event occurring after the period when 
membership to the scheme  has ended.
Our remit  is to determine what  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances, and I take the 
view that there is nothing inherently unfair  in looking at a complaint retrospectively to 
determine if evidence  was presented at the required  time, whether a claim definition  would 
have been satisfied or not. That is different to applying hindsight.  It is a reasonable approach 
to assess if a claim could have been  made  at an earlier  point, where a policy has since 
expired. 
the policy definition  and medical  evidence
Though I realise  it is hard for Mrs T to revisit this given the nature of Mr Ts circumstances, I 
do need to look at assessments from his treating doctor and the further specialist  so as to 
explain my reasoning. 
Dr B supplied her assessment to Lloyds in a letter of 12 April 2018,  confirming that:
Ref: DRN37911737[Mr T] first became ill in February 2013  when he presented  at [hospital] with 
symptoms of meningitis.  Due to the complexity and rarity of fungal  (Aspergillus)  
meningitis, in particular in those with no known immunosuppressive conditions,  the 
diagnosis was delayed  and therefore  the correct treatment was only made following 
the confirmation of his diagnosis in November 2013.
As detailed  in the attached case series  of 92 patients published in 2012,  Aspergillus 
meningitis is a very rare complication of infection  with this fungus.  Unfortunately, 
once established  in the central nervous system,  this infection has an exceptionally 
high case fatality  rate, as evidenced by the case series where 72% of patients died 
within the first 12 months- a prognosis  worse than most cancers. Nevertheless, had 
this condition being diagnosed when [Mr T] initially presented to [hospital] in February  
2013, it is likely that his prognosis would have been better  as antifungal treatment 
would have been started at a much earlier stage. 
Lloyds wrote to Dr B again, asking her for the date of a terminal prognosis, and when this 
was given to Mr T.  
Dr B replied:
Having reviewed his medical  notes further  (including the notes of his admission to [a 
previous] hospital), I can confirm that the diagnosis of Aspergillus meningitis was 
initially suspected  in Mr T as early  as May 2013,  based on findings  from blood test 
results, spinal fluid analysis and sinus tissue showing the fungus aspergillus, and he 
was given a course  of antifungal therapy at that stage.  The definitive diagnosis  of 
Aspergillus meningitis was made following a meningeal biopsy in October 2013 
showing the presence of Aspergillus in the membranes lining the brain. At this time it 
was communicated  to Mr T and his wife that his was a serious, life-threatening 
condition that was difficult to treat and associated  with a high death rate (please note 
the scientific review sent to you stating the prognosis of 72% mortality  at 12 months).
In the practice  of infectious diseases  (unlike  in Oncology/ patients with cancer) it is 
not customary for us to give young people with an infection  a terminal  prognosis,  
because this implies  a switch away from active management and towards  palliative 
care. We treated Mr T actively until the very end even when his condition continued 
to deteriorate both clinically and on brain  imaging. However at every  stage from his 
diagnosis in October 2013 and from his hospital  admission with us on [December 
2013] until his death in August 2014 he and his wife were made  fully aware  of the 
gravity of his medical condition and the very high death rate associated with it (72% 
at 1 year), a figure which is as close to a terminal prognosis that we ever get in the 
treatment of an infection. Thus the date of his terminal  prognosis  would equate  to the 
date of his definitive diagnosis based  on a meningeal biopsy on October 3rd 2013. 
I believe at the time of the second  letter it was clear that Dr B had given  a Terminal 
Prognosis. She was Mr Ts attending  consultant, and she concluded  he had been diagnosed 
with a condition  that had a significant  chance  of mortality within twelve  months.   
Lloyds says that because active treatment was maintained, the definition couldnt have been 
met. But I disagree with that. Its not what  Dr B has set out above, or earlier in her 
correspondence with Lloyds. She does  not say that the treatments afforded  to Mr T would 
have altered his prognosis, contrastingly she explains  how grave Mr Ts situation was from 
the outset at this second hospital. At the time Mr T had a meningeal  biopsy in October  2013, 
Ref: DRN37911738Dr B considers that to be a terminal prognosis. That is fully reasoned.  And it is supported by 
medical data which  shows that 72% of patients  pass away  within  less than twelve  months of 
diagnosis. 
In my view, the policy definition implies that the policyholder is not likely  going to survive  for 
more than a further  twelve  months,  irrespective of any treatment. But even if I am wrong 
about that, there is further medical evidence about the irreversible  nature of Mr Ts 
circumstances, in the report from Dr C. 
Dr C is a Consultant Public  Health  Physician  and specifically an expert  in infectious 
diseases. His report was prepared for litigation  Lloyds arent party  to that action. The 
report was issued in February 2016. The report is extensive, but I have read it in its entirety. 
It confirms that whilst the appropriate antifungal  treatment was initially  delayed  by the first 
hospital he attended, the real cause  of his decline (and the reason Mr T passed  away) 
stemmed from an issue during sinus surgery in April 2013. At that time,  the sinus  wall was 
breached and fungal debris entered his intracranial cavity. Sadly,  this was not realised at the 
time.
Lloyds has said Dr Cs report  supports that Mr Ts treating doctors  were  doing all they could 
to try to help him make  a recovery. Specifically  it believes a statement in Dr Cs report  says 
Mr Ts life could  have been extended  with appropriate treatment  so this could indicate that 
it was even less likely  that a life expectancy of no more than twelve months  would have been 
given at that time. 
Ive looked at that reference, and I disagree that it would have extended  his life expectancy 
such that a terminal  prognosis wouldnt be given. What the report actually says is:
Q - If [Mr T] had received appropriate treatment  at an earlier  stage, would this have 
prolonged his life expectancy or even avoided his death?
A - Prolonged life expectancy - possibly, by up to 6 months or so. Avoided  an early 
and untimely death - no.
However, the earlier stage Dr C refers to is in April 2013. Regarding that, he says a 
diagnosis of fungal meningitis should have been  considered on or around 25 April 2013 (and 
indeed it was considered at that time, and empirical treatment with Ambisome was started). 
That medication ceased briefly and recommenced  in May 2013.  
Dr C was specifically asked about  the incurable nature of Mr Ts illness.  He explained that:
It would seem that [Mr Ts] insurers require a definition of the term incurable.  In the 
context of an infection, the definition is: an infection is incurable if and when it 
reaches a point  where it cannot  he eradicated by antimicrobial drugs. This is what 
occurred in [Mr Ts] case.
You have  asked, at what point did your late husbands fungal  meningitis become 
incurable? Based on my review of the clinical evidence (comprising 12 x Lever  Arch 
files of documents), and on my extensive  professional experience, I consider that the 
late Mr Ts fungal brain infection was incurable from, approximately, mid-May 2013 
onwards. Any antifungal or other  treatment  administered  after that point might have 
Ref: DRN37911739delayed the fatal outcome  and probably  in fact did so - but sadly  it could not have 
prevented it.
I believe the expert assessment is unequivocal about the point at which  Mr Ts condition 
could not be cured, due to the unfortunate progression of his fungal infection after the 
operation. This clearly  meets the policy wording requiring an advanced and rapidly 
progressing incurable  condition. And since Dr B has given her assessment of life expectancy  
as an attending  consultant at a time (October 2013) before the cover ceased, the policy 
definition has been met in full. 
The only aspect of the definition that isnt present is agreement from a Chief Medical officer  
(CMO). However, I do not believe it is reasonable to refuse  the claim in the circumstances, 
nor have I actually seen any suggestion  that Lloyds refutes the medical evidence put 
forward. Contrastingly, it has said it agreed with the view that Mr Ts condition  was incurable.
  
It follows that I do not believe Lloyds has reasonably applied the policy  terms here. In the 
relevant Association  of British Insurers guidance  from the time Mr T joined his group 
scheme, the model  terminal  illness benefit  wording for insurers  did not include the 
requirement to have a CMO consent to a consultants medical opinion of life expectancy. So, 
the Lloyds wording goes further than the industry  guidance recommends. 
Nonetheless, I recognise the wording does require the agreement  of a CMO. While I cannot 
disregard the terms and I do apply them to Mrs Ts claim, Lloyds must  still be reasonable in 
its review of the circumstances. I dont  consider  the view of its underwriter  to be a fair 
interpretation of the evidence Ive seen. 
In its submissions to this service, Lloyds  does not actually disagree with the evidence of 
either medical expert.  So I do not take the view that a CMO  disagrees  with the medical  
evidence  or submissions would  have been made on that basis. The principal reason for 
Lloyds refuting this claim is on the basis that a retrospective claim cannot  be made in these 
circumstances  but I believe that it can, and it is not contrary  to the policy  terms to do so. 
The fact Mr T was not given an express  written confirmation of his Terminal Prognosis  in 
terms that would satisfy the notification process for the Lloyds group scheme  does not alter 
the evidence before me. That is, despite any treatment  option afforded  to Mr T, his fungal  
infection was bound  to lead to his death;  upon  confirmed diagnosis  there was a high 
likelihood of him passing away within twelve months, as confirmed by his attending  doctor. 
Sadly, this is what transpired. 
putting things  right
This claim  should be paid in full. The retrospective  view of his attending consultants and a 
medical expert is that he was incurably and terminally  ill no later than October 2013. This 
was before his membership of the scheme  ceased on 1 December 2013.  
The payment ought  to be £61,250  that is 49% of the policys level sum assured (the total 
sum being £125,000). I note that the policy  wording  says how the Trustees will be entitled to 
apply for an advance of up to 49% of the Life Assurance Benefit, with the aim being that the 
balance of the £125,000  can be made  as a further claim if the scheme  member  passes  away 
during the term as well.  
Ref: DRN379117310Since Mr Ts membership of the policy ceased before he passed  away  eight months later,  
there is no death benefit payment owing.  I therefore consider that the policyholder would 
have (or ought  reasonably  to have)  applied  for 49% of the sum assured, had it been  in a 
position to make a claim at the material date of October 2013.  
I agree  with our adjudicator that it would not be appropriate to award interest to this claim 
payment. Our awards of 8% interest  are applied where a consumer may have been 
unreasonably deprived  of their money; for example, if an insurer  had sufficient evidence to 
meet a claim but failed to do so. That isnt the case here  Mrs T has explained why she 
pursued a claim some  years  later,  and the medical evidence  became available during the 
time the complaint was brought to this service. I dont therefore consider Lloyds responsible 
for any such delay or action where any further interest award on top of the claim payment 
would be appropriate.   
Finally, I note that Mrs T has brought this complaint  on the behalf of her late husbands 
estate. She is entitled to do so in accordance with the rules of this service,  which  includes 
beneficiaries of contracts of insurance  as eligible complainants in their own right.  However, 
the policyholder  is her late husbands employer, specifically trustees  of his employers 
scheme. The policy wording confirms all claim payments will only be made payable to the 
Policyholder (the Trustees of the Scheme) . Mrs T will therefore have to liaise with the 
trustees to receive the claim payment to the late Mr Ts estate.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  The Society of Lloyds must process a claim payment to the 
policyholder for the benefit of its scheme member,  the estate of Mr T, within  28 days  of the 
acceptance of this decision.  
I make  no further award.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.   
 
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3791173