K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2005. Mr and Mrs P say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a PPI policy called Mortgage Repayments Cover  alongside a 
mortgage. The policy covered both of them equally  and they paid a monthly amount for the 
policy. They  took this policy  out as part of a package called Total  Mortgage Protection Plan 
(TMPP) which offered  accident, sickness, unemployment, critical illness  and life cover.  
In this decision Im only considering the Mortgage  Repayments Cover (PPI) part of the 
TMPP - which is accident, sickness and unemployment cover,  as thats  what 
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was sold during a meeting between Mr and Mrs P and Halifax.  During that meeting 
Halifax shouldve made Mr and Mrs P aware  they had a choice in buying the policy. Mr and 
Mrs P say it wasnt  made clear  the PPI was optional and they were  told they needed to take 
the policy to secure  the borrowing. 
Neither Halifax nor Mr and Mrs P have much  paperwork from the time of sale. I dont think 
thats surprising  given that the sale took place  14 years ago. But it does mean I have limited 
information about the sale, so I have to decide  what I think is likely to have happened, given  
the information I do have and the broader  circumstances.
Based on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think  its likely the 
optional nature wouldve been made clear. And nothing Mr and Mrs P have told me makes 
me think Halifax didnt  follow its normal process here. 
So overall I think its more  likely  Halifax made it clear to Mr and Mrs P they had a choice  
about the PPI and they agreed to it.  
Halifax recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs P. So it had to check  it was right for them. 
Looking at Mr and Mrs Ps circumstances it doesnt  seem  like Mr and Mrs P werent affected 
by any of the exclusions or limits on the MPPI cover. 
Mr and Mrs P say they both would  have received sick pay benefits from their employers. But 
the policy wouldve  paid out alongside their employee benefits  and wouldve  also covered 
them if either of them  was made redundant. It doesnt look like they had any other means  
such as savings  that they could have relied upon  if either of them lost their jobs.  So it 
seems they had a need for the policy. Mr and Mrs P were borrowing funds against a large 
Ref: DRN39762612and long term financial commitment,  which was secured  on their home. So I think having the 
security that their mortgage  repayments would be made if they were unable  to work would 
have been important to them.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mr and Mrs P chose to take out the policy - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. And  for the reasons Ive explained above  - it looks  like the policy  would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs P off taking  out the cover.
Overall, I dont  think Mr and Mrs P have lost out by anything Halifax  might  have done wrong. 
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr and Mrs P some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Ps 
mortgage was a regulated mortgage they dont apply. So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund any 
of the commission  Mr and Mrs P paid for the PPI they had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3976261