K821x#15complaint
Miss L says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy Ms T took out with a four year loan in 
1999. HSBC dont have a record  of how the sale of the policy  took place, although  Miss L 
says it was in a branch meeting.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. HSBC disagrees with the adjudicators  opinion  and so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
this case. 
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint and Ill explain why.
HSBC cant say whether  the PPI was recommended to Miss L or not. Miss L says it was. 
From what  we know of the way HSBC sold PPI at the time, I think its likely that HSBC did 
advise Miss L to buy the policy. Therefore,  in recommending the policy to Miss L, it needed 
to ensure that it met her needs.
Based on what I know of Miss Ls circumstances at the time she took the policy I dont think  
it was right for her, or that HSBCs recommendation was suitable. I say that because  Miss L 
has told us she took the loan for essential  everyday  spending. I think  she had a need for a 
flexible arrangement, because its likely she would have needed to end the loan early, or 
arrange a further loan before the date the loan was due to end. 
But Miss L would have received only a limited  as opposed to a proportional  refund of the 
PPI premium if the policy had been cancelled early. In my view, that meant it wasnt  flexible 
enough for her needs. 
Ive taken into account everything HSBC has said both before and after the adjudicator  
reached their conclusions but that doesnt  change my decision. For example, HSBC  says 
Miss L would  have got some sort of a refund, even if it wasnt  proportional. I think its 
important that the refund  would only have  been limited. And while I realise  the loan wasnt 
ultimately paid off early  I think the evidence suggests that, at the time of the sale,  there was 
a good chance it would  be.   
Overall, I dont  think Miss L would have  bought  the policy if HSBC had made it clear enough 
to her that it wasnt suitable for her particular needs. So I think shes  lost out as a result  of 
what HSBC did wrong.  
putting things right
Miss L borrowed  extra to pay for the PPI, so her loan was bigger than it should have been 
and Miss L paid more  than she should have each month.  So Miss L needs to get back  the 
Ref: DRN35917822extra shes  paid.
So, HSBC  should:
Work  out and pay Miss L the difference between  what she paid each month  on the 
loan and what she would  have  paid without PPI.  
Add simple interest to the extra amount Miss L paid from when  she paid it until she 
gets it back. The rate of interest  is 8% a year.
If Miss L made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Miss L a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im upholding Miss Ls complaint. I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to put 
things right for Miss L as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3591782