K822xcomplaint
Mr T complained about why all of the proceeds from his defined benefit pension  transfer  
were invested by Gallium  Fund Solutions Limited into a 100% static investment in a mutual 
fund. This fund was managed by a third party which Ill call Provider  B, and Mr T considers 
this to be a relatively  high-charging  fund of funds with exit penalties. 
He says he was led to believe that Gallium  would manage his pension  fund on a 
discretionary basis to a low risk profile, without such restrictions. He cited evidence of the 
ongoing charges Gallium  had made  on his account, at the rates it levied  for DFM,  to indicate 
this was the case.
background 
Mr Ts appointed independent  financial adviser (Firm A) originally transferred him from his 
employers defined benefit scheme  into a SIPP on 28 July 2017. The SIPP  made use of 
Galliums investment platform, which can include  portfolios where Gallium acts as 
discretionary investment  manager  (DIM). Gallium  had envisaged that its appointed 
representative Vega Algorithms would provide advice and other support (including algorithm 
technology) to assist  with discretionary fund management (DFM)  where  requested by clients.
Firm A is now in default to the Financial  Services  Compensation Scheme (FSCS). Its my 
understanding that Mr T has complained  to the FSCS on the basis that it was unsuitable for 
him to make  the transfer in the first place   but if successful hes unlikely to recover all his 
losses from FSCS.  Mr T has also complained  about Vegas alleged  contribution  to those 
losses because it placed him in an unsuitable investment which he had to incur  an exit fee to 
leave. As Vegas principal, Gallium has responded to the complaint.
Back in March 2017, Firm A had sent Mr T a suitability  letter detailing its recommendations. 
It refers to an intended portfolio with a different DIM for which  Gallium  had been about to 
provide custody services  at the time. (That DIM subsequently went  into administration, so it 
appears Firm A entered into the arrangement directly with Gallium and Vega.) The suitability  
letter implied that Mr T would be receiving  discretionary  management from the manager  of 
his portfolio:
The strategy  selects funds to invest in from a universe of around 9,000 diversified funds. [Former 
DIM] monitor  a vast range of economic indicators, which impacts their target  asset allocation mix. 
At times of market  stress,  they may look to reduce their equity exposure across all their model 
portfolios substantially. This means at times, though historically infrequent, they may be fully 
invested into fixed income and cash.
The suitability letter further assessed Mr Ts risk profile as low risk and noted that he wished 
to have the ability to retire in the next few months without having toincur any penalties  to 
take early retirement  benefits. It also referred to a current  artificially  inflated Stock Market 
because of the weakness of Sterling combining  with these circumstances  to mean a 
cautious approach  was desired for the foreseeable future. It didnt set out what any portfolio 
management costs  were  it only disclosed Firm As initial fee of £1,500.  
In April 2017 Firm A signed  an investment  management agreement with both Gallium and 
Vega. This expressly allowed it to place customers in portfolios which were managed by 
Gallium as DIM. In summary this agreement set out that:
There  was a 0.36%  annual management  charge (including VAT) for DFM  in addition to 
the 0.30%  annual platform charge.  
Ref: DRN39960712There  were  seven model  portfolios  starting at capital preservation  at the lowest risk 
level and then ultra conservative, ranging up to adventurous at the highest risk level 
 distinguished  by the maximum  equity exposure  allowed.
A number of the funds  the model  portfolios invested in charged exit fees of up to 5%, 
so they werent  suitable for investments of less than a five-year duration.
There  was also a dealing charge of 0.20% for the DFM service.
In an email exchange with Firm A on 3 May 2017,  Vega  explained that another of Firm As 
clients was invested  in the [Firm A]- Defensive portfolio, which is 100% allocated to our 
Conservative Model Portfolio, which in turn invests around 80% in the Conservative UCITS and 20% 
in the Adventurous UCITS.
If you would like his account  to only buy the Conservative  UCITS, we can create a new [Firm  A] 
portfolio which invests in the Ultra-Conservative Model Portfolio  (sorry for the confusing naming 
conventions there), and assign him to that  
UCITS means a mutual fund recognised  in the European Union. The two funds which  Vega 
seems to have been referring to were a conservative and adventurous fund managed  by 
Provider B. At that time Vega was the appointed  investment  adviser to that fund. 
Firm A instructed Vega: to create a new [Firm A] portfolio  using the Ultra Conservative Model  
Portfolio please, this would be for [redacted] and any other clients we are sending over to you unless 
otherwise specified.
Would you be able to send  me a fact sheet  over for this please?
Copies exist of a Vega model portfolio service  factsheet, which may well have been given by 
Firm A to its clients. It refers to the same seven managed portfolios, and an optimisation 
algorithm to construct each portfolio. It mentions that exit charges may apply if the 
investment is held less than five years and repeats the 0.36% annual management charge 
for DFM. Theres also a rate card for the model  portfolio service, which does itemise the 
0.20% dealing fee for DFM. But this doesnt seem to be part of the model portfolio service 
factsheet itself. (By this I mean that Gallium  provided us the factsheet and the rate card as 
separate documents.)
The factsheet didnt  say that the model portfolios  invested directly into Provider B funds. This 
is likely  because it pre-dates Galliums  decision to do this  Gallium says Vega had yet to 
introduce its algorithm  technology while they evaluated the customer  base. But its clear from 
the email exchange  above that Firm A knew that the underlying investment was a mutual 
fund, and it was able to ask for any more information it required.
This service has also obtained  the relevant Provider B fund factsheets. For the conservative 
fund, the annual management charge was originally  2.05% and more recently 1.86%, but 
potentially with a management fee of 0.35% in addition. The exit fee was on a sliding scale  
of up to 5% over the first five years. 
A Gallium General Investment Account (GIA) paper application form was available  in 2017, 
but it doesnt appear Gallium required this to be submitted in order to make  an application. 
Applications could be completed by Firm A entirely online. The first page of the paper 
application form mentioned, Gallium  Fund  Solutions Limited  manage  the Vega Algorithms 
Investment Portfolios on the advice of Vega Algorithms Limited. 
Firm A used a generic copy of this paper  form to gather Mr Ts details, including additional 
information not requested on the form  his investment choice (£290,000  ultra conservative 
Ref: DRN39960713fund) was added by hand. Mr T signed the paper form on 26 April 2017 below this 
statement:
I confirm that I have  not received and will not receive  advice from Gallium Fund Solutions as to 
the suitability of a DFM service for me. I understand that if I instruct  Gallium Fund Solutions to 
buy or sell any investment  for me, Gallium Fund Solutions will act on this instruction  without 
considering the suitability of the transaction for me
Mr T also separately signed the paper  form below a list of charges, which  didnt mention a 
dealing fee  and only showed an annual platform charge of 0.30%. But it also said, Please 
read the Rate Card  for any other charges  e.g. discretionary management  or execution-only 
services. For the reasons  Ill note later, this appears to be the only contemporaneous 
evidence of Mr Ts application  but its also a form Gallium didnt see at the time.
In June 2017 Firm A used the details  on the paper form to complete an online application, 
which Mr T didnt  see. An extracted  summary  has been produced from this online 
application, showing the charges specific to the service being provided (0.06% per year to 
Gallium as fund manager  plus 0.30% per year platform charge). Unlike the paper form it 
also says Fee  DealingNone. Two versions  of this appear on Galliums file with identical 
charges, but (again for reasons Ill note later) dont appear to be contemporaneous.
The version provided to the ombudsman service captured the following answers:
I would like to invest my assets by         Appointing a Discretionary Fund Manager  (DFM) to 
                                                                   choose my investments
Building my own portfolio of assets and DFM Model   
  portfolios
I would like to                                           Let my DFM choose my portfolio according  to my 
         risk evaluation
                                                            Choose a specific  model portfolio
Choose a specific model portfolio            [Firm A]  Ultra-Conservative  [from drop-down box]
The version Gallium provided to Mr T in its final response to his complaint  had the 
same date and application reference, but used different section numbering. It 
completely omits the I would like to invest my assets by options. 
Both summaries capture Mr Ts attitude to risk on a separate  page  as follows:
Very Low Risk:  Your  priority is likely to be getting as much back  from your investments as you 
put in. You are probably less concerned with making high returns on your investments. Your 
preferred investments are likely to be low risk, such as cash and bonds.
Gallium set up the account in accordance with Firm As online application and the proceeds 
of Mr Ts transfer went into the [Firm  A] - Ultra  Conservative model portfolio on 
28 July 2017.  This resulted in an 100% investment into the Provider  B conservative fund. 
Mr T says he transferred his pension  away from Gallium in around  May 2018, suffering the 
exit charge, following advice from a new financial adviser. He then raised a complaint, the 
key points of which  were:
He had very little experience of financial matters and relied entirely  on the advice  
and/or expertise of Firm A, and subsequently Gallium.  Gallium breached  the terms of 
its contract with him and misled him about its role. 
Ref: DRN39960714He subsequently  found that all of his monies were invested  into an unproven  fund with 
a small manager  which  was subsequently  almost the worst performing in the entire 
sector.
He wasnt told about the very high charges, which he couldnt  identify himself due to 
his lack of experience, and suspected other  parties  benefited from these charges:
oan ongoing charges  fee (OCF) of 2.51% (normally 0.5-1% on a conservative fund)
oa 5% exit fee, reducing by 1% per year over five years. 
Gallium  failed to comply  with COBS 9.2.1 onwards  in the regulators handbook, which  
is in brief to ensure that decisions  taken when  managing investments are suitable for a 
client. He should instead  have been  invested in a diversified portfolio  of investments 
suitable for his needs and objectives.
Gallium responded  that:
-It accepted Firm As application on an execution-only basis to invest Mr T in the 
[Firm A] - Ultra  Conservative  model  portfolio, rather than the Vega portfolio of a very 
similar name. 
-Firm A was selecting the investments to be included in this portfolio under whatever 
authority Mr T had given it to do so, rather than Gallium.
-Mr T had signed the GIA application form which stated Gallium  wouldnt be assessing  
the suitability of any investments it was instructed to buy. This form also disclosed that 
I have read a Client Agreement and Terms  & Conditions document. 
-It neither saw this form nor Firm As suitability letter at the time applications were 
submitted online.  It obtained these when it contacted Firm A for information  in order  to 
respond to complaints. 
-Its screenshots of the online application make the charges on exiting within  five years 
clear  and the adviser chose an option  of 5+ years.  The application summary also 
confirmed receipt  and understanding of the key features for the Gallium/Vega Platform, 
which in turn warns of possible exit charges within the first five years. 
-As the adviser was completing this form on Mr Ts authority, Firm A was therefore  
obliged to make sure Mr T understood the key features (including the charges).
Whilst Gallium  said that Mr T didnt pay the relevant management fee in order to receive a 
DFM service, Mr T showed  our investigator evidence  that he had initially  paid that fee. This 
brought the issue  of the ongoing charges he had paid (in addition  to the exit fee) into his 
complaint.
In addition to a dealing fee of 0.20% at the beginning, Mr Ts statements showed that in the 
first quarter of his investment he paid at the rate of 0.36%pa (including VAT) for a Fee - 
Management and 0.30%pa (including  VAT) for a Fee  Platform. Gallium had told this 
service that it believed These reports also show that the 0.30% + VAT annual discretionary 
management fee was not charged to the account. But it was only the second  quarter 
(October-December 2017) that the management  fee dropped to 0.06%pa. And Mr T was 
able to produce an email  trail from Gallium of when he previously queried  the charges,  which  
concluded in January  2018:
The amounts are in accordance with the rate card. The calculations re the above are correct.
From 1st October the Management Fee is reduced to 0.06% per annum.
Gallium didnt agree with the investigator  that this, in combination with the other evidence, 
proved it had provided a DFM service. In summary, it said:
Ref: DRN39960715-Its platform service  has never  been promoted  directly to retail customers but was 
marketed to financial advisers. The marketing and contractual  documents  reflected its 
future intention  to offer an algorithmic DFM service.
-However an adviser could always construct its own portfolio, using Galliums  
investment platform  but not its DFM service. This was an Adviser  Model  Portfolio for 
which, within the one fund used, Provider B managed the investment..
-The exit fee of £14,000 Mr T suffered in February 2018 would have been clearly  
understood by his (new) adviser  as the consequence of disinvesting.
-Gallium  wasnt  required  to see such documents as Firm As fact find or suitability  letter, 
as it was entitled to rely on Firm A acting on Mr Ts behalf.
-Despite what the Client Agreement says about  DFM, the on-line application contained  
a specific execution-only instruction  that Mr Ts SIPP be invested in the [Firm A] Ultra 
Conservative portfolio. To perform DFM would have been in breach of that instruction.
-Gallium  couldnt have  corrected any misconceptions in respect  of the services  
provided, as it wasnt aware  of any misconceptions at the time of investment.
-The first quarters management fee of 0.30% was triggered  by Firm As selection of the 
Choose a specific portfolio investment option  online. Initially,  the calculation did not 
identify that the [Firm A] Ultra Conservative  portfolio  was a specific  and passive 
portfolio. As soon as Gallium  became aware  of this discrepancy  the management fee 
was then reduced. 
my earlier  provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 23 November 2020. My findings from the provisional 
decision on whether  or not Gallium was providing  a DFM service are reproduced exactly  
below, as Ill go on to explain  why I havent  found  reason to depart from them. 
On the matter of whether Mr T had paid the right charges, there was a typographical error in 
my provisional decision which had transposed the 0.30% and 0.06% figures. In addition 
Gallium agreed to make an offer in respect  of the charges, therefore I will revisit that part of 
my findings  in full under  the my findings  heading.  
The crux of Mr Ts complaint is twofold: 
Gallium was responsible for exercising discretion to ensure his pension  was put into 
a suitable investment  (whether or not it realised it should have done this); and 
given Mr Ts very low attitude to risk (details of which Gallium gathered in the online 
application), it selected an unsuitable investment with high ongoing  and exit charges 
in breach of COBS  9.2.  
It seems  to me that unless I find for Mr T on both these counts, much of his claim for 
compensation from Gallium will fail. (But I recognise that there  will still be some residual 
issues to address regarding the discrepancy  in charges applied to his account.) So Ill start 
with what was agreed between Gallium,  Firm A and indeed Mr T in respect of the DFM  
service it was to (allegedly) provide.
Agent as client
Its a key part of the background  to this dispute  that even if I were to determine that Gallium 
was carrying out DFM  on Mr Ts account,  the investment management agreement (for DFM)  
between Gallium, Vega and Firm A sets out at section 2.1.2 that: The Investment Manager 
will treat the Adviser as a Professional Client" (as such  term is defined in MiFiD) in respect 
of the investment services it provides under this agreement. 
Ref: DRN39960716The agreement in various places describes the DFM services  as being provided  to the 
adviser  for instance the adviser (not the end investor)  appoints Gallium as Investment 
Manager. And it further defines Investor  as A client of the Adviser who invests in one or 
more of the Model Portfolios managed by the Investment Manager.
This is known as an agent as client situation,  and is permitted by COBS 2.4.3R(1) in the 
regulators handbook.  The consequence of this is that Gallium would owe any regulatory 
obligation it had assumed  to manage  funds  appropriately (if it assumed that obligation  in this 
particular case) to Firm A; not Mr T. That is, unless Gallium separately agreed  with Firm A 
(not Mr T) under  COBS  2.4.3R(2) to treat Mr T as its client for the purposes of those 
obligations. I havent found  any evidence  that there is such  a separate agreement. 
COBS 2.4.2G clarifies that this agreement wouldnt affect any obligation Gallium  may owe 
Mr T under the general law. But my view is that  if I were  to determine that Gallium was 
carrying out DFM on Mr Ts account  I would need  to take into account who the client for 
that DFM was (Firm A). And even if Firm A had still been trading, this status  it had agreed  to 
as a professional  client would  have  limited the regulatory protection it had  such as access  
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
To be clear, Im not disputing here that Gallium did also deal with Mr T in accepting an 
application for an account on his behalf  such that he can be regarded as a customer of 
Gallium and is able to access the Financial Ombudsman Service  himself.  But I couldnt  
disregard the context  of the investment management agreement which wouldnt give Mr T 
the right to complain under the regulatory  system about any alleged  DFM  carried out for 
Firm A as client by Gallium on his account.
But in case Im wrong on that, also Ive gone  on to consider to what extent Gallium was 
responsible for Mr T investing in Provider  Bs conservative fund in any case.
Did Gallium make the decision for Mr T to invest in Provider Bs conservative  fund?
The starting point  here is to ask which version of the online application summary accurately 
captures the situation. I think the version Mr T was sent with his final response letter makes 
it reasonably clear that Firm A was selecting the specific model portfolio bearing its own 
name  not the similar Vega model portfolio. And there was no reference  (on that version of 
the application summary) to Gallium being  appointed as DIM. 
Much of the confusion on this (and other) complaints seems to have arisen  because  when 
Gallium sent us its files for Mr T and others, it seems to have printed off another version of 
that application summary which follows  different numbered sections and includes an extra  
(selected) tick box Appointing a Discretionary  Fund  Manager (DFM) to choose  my 
investments. 
One of our investigators  has previously asked Gallium if the format of its online application 
system has changed and it told us in June 2019 that theres been no change in the 
application system. So Ive considered whether its going to be worthwhile pursuing this point 
with Gallium further  it doesnt seem it could explain why there  are two versions of the 
online summary. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, I must make my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. As Gallium  obtained other information from Firm A at the time of the complaint 
(which it also sent to Mr T with its final response),  this may be Firm As version of the 
summary which differs from Galliums  internal copy.  Ive also taken into account that Gallium 
provided a set of screenshots of the online application process  which (allowing that they are 
Ref: DRN39960717for a generic  investment  account and not the particular SIPP Mr T was using)  do mirror  
Mr Ts version  of the application summary. On balance, I dont consider I can safely 
conclude the version  Gallium sent to this service provides reliable evidence that it agreed to 
act as DIM.
Ive also taken into account the investigators  other argument that the [Firm A] Ultra 
Conservative portfolio  might just have been a white labelled version of the Vega Ultra  
Conservative portfolio.  Even if that were the case,  this was still a model portfolio. In other 
words, it wasnt  a bespoke portfolio being designed from scratch  by Vega (or Gallium) for 
Mr T. In common with many platform providers, Vegas  model portfolios were  intended  to 
group investors together broadly in line with the attitude to risk description for the portfolio. 
Details of what the portfolio  was intended  to contain were provided  in the model  portfolio 
factsheets. Firm A was free to enquire  further about  the intended investments, whether that 
was truly in the sense of being Galliums client, or equally in its capacity as Mr Ts adviser 
(who recommended  what portfolio he invested  in). Essentially which  it was doesnt  matter 
here  it [Firm A] needed to satisfy  itself that the overall recommendation it was making to 
Mr T was suitable under  COBS 9.2R.
As it was recommending  the Gallium  platform  to Mr T, Firm A couldnt ensure  that advice 
was suitable without carrying out due diligence into what the initial  fund selection  of the 
portfolio would be. From February 2015  onwards the Personal  Finance Society  (PFS) has 
published a number of Good Practice Guides,  highlighting  the importance  of this due 
dliigence to ensure that advisers  complied  with their COBS obligations.
After Firm A had carried  out its due diligence into the initial  fund selection, and supposing 
this was a portfolio on which  Gallium would then provide  a DFM  service,  Gallium then would, 
reasonably, become responsible for keeping the future transactions  it made  within the 
mandate it was given  to manage  that portfolio. But as there was a static  investment in this 
case, there were no future transactions to consider.
Importantly, we know that Firm A did its due diligence, whether or not this was because it 
actually designed  the portfolio itself (as Gallium suggests).  Its email  exchange with Vega in 
May 2017 shows that it knew that 100% of Mr Ts investment would go into a conservative 
UCITS fund, and that this was a static investment  theres no indication in the email 
exchange that Gallium  had discretion  to change that investment. If Firm A didnt know  what 
specific UCITS fund was used and what that funds  charges were, it ought to have found that 
out in order to provide its advice.
So in my view even  if it had been agreed Gallium would act as DIM  which on the face of 
the evidence looks unlikely  at no point  did it make a decision which Mr T can complain has 
caused him a loss; essentially because Provider  B was carrying out the management. Im 
satisfied this should have been  known to Firm A at the time it advised Mr T. So in the 
particular circumstances  of Mr Ts complaint I think its a moot  point whether, strictly, this 
was one of Vegas model portfolios or one Firm A had created for itself.  
Ref: DRN39960718Reliance on others
Mr T (or his new adviser) has questioned why Gallium didnt obtain a copy of Firm As fact 
find or suitability report until it needed  to investigate  a complaint. Im mindful here of the 
reliance on others rule at COBS  2.4.4R. As Firm A was itself a regulated firm, Gallium was 
entitled to rely on the information  Firm A gathered about Mr T and the recommendations 
Firm A made  to him; whilst Firm A remained responsible for the accuracy of the information 
and recommendations.  
This is also reflected  in the investment management agreement at clause  3.1: The Adviser 
has full powers to assess the suitable Model Portfolio for each Investor  based on their identified  risk 
tolerance and monitor their suitability on an ongoing basis (if required  by any agreement the Adviser 
holds with the Investor).  In taking any decision to deal for the Investor,  the Investment Management 
[sic] shall rely upon the compliance  of the Advisers assessment of suitability  of the Model  Portfolio 
with the FCAs  rules  and shall be entitled to inspect all records pertaining  to such assessment at any 
time upon providing reasonable notice .
Nothing in the regulators rules or the investment  management agreement required Gallium 
to obtain the advisers records of suitability for each investor before placing the investment.  
So whilst it appears Firm A may not have fully apprised Mr T of where  he was being  invested 
within the Gallium platform (or what charges Provider Bs fund would involve), I agree with 
Gallium that I cant fairly say this was Galliums  responsibility.
Mr Ts very  low attitude to risk
Whilst Ive said above that Gallium  wasnt  under  an obligation to check Firm As 
recommendations, Ive taken into account that it did inadvertently gather details of Mr Ts 
attitude to risk. I find Galliums explanation plausible that it did this because  its system 
allowed advisers to select other  portfolios on which it would act as DIM. But at the same 
time, if there  was a clear mis-match between the information it gathered  and the portfolio the 
adviser selected, Ive considered whether Gallium should perhaps have queried that.
However Im not persuaded there  was a complete  mis-match between an investor who was 
very low risk and an ultra conservative portfolio (the main component of which was fixed 
interest investments).  As Ive mentioned, Gallium would have been mindful that a regulated 
financial adviser would be expected  to carry out adequate due diligence into this portfolio, 
including Provider  Bs charges which will have had an impact on the returns Mr T achieved.
If Gallium had known Mr T wanted to exit the investment  within five years, I would also 
expect it to have  queried this  in view of the exit fees. This is in fact not something  Gallium 
appears to dispute  either: it asked a question  about  this on the online application form. And 
the adviser indicated  this wasnt a concern for Mr T. 
I appreciate Mr Ts point that he wasnt asked this question directly.  But hed signed a form 
(whether Gallium received  this in paper form or not) acknowledging that FCA rules allow 
[Gallium] to rely on information  from your Appointed Adviser.  We will seek  the information  we 
need before  we provide  investment services  from your Appointed Adviser. This was what 
Firm A was doing when  it completed the online application on his behalf.
Was Gallium entitled to accept instructions from Firm A and not Mr T?
I understand the point that some  other  platforms ensure theyve taken an application from 
the end client  directly, in writing. The screenshots Gallium  provided show it explained at the 
time that it was optional  for Firm A to upload Mr Ts signed copy  of the application   and I 
Ref: DRN39960719understand Firm A didnt do so. The way Galliums  service operated may be a reflection of 
Firm A rather  than Mr T being  its client  but even  if Im wrong on that, I cant  fairly  conclude 
here that the adviser didnt have  the authority from Mr T to complete the application and 
state that the investment  was for a term of more than five years. 
Theres also been some  discussion  about the meaning of Mr Ts execution-only instruction to 
invest in the [Firm A] Ultra Conservative  portfolio. It clearly cant  be an execution-only 
instruction from Mr Ts or Firm As point  of view, as execution-only  instructions are defined 
by the absence of advice   and Firm A must  reasonably  be considered to have advised Mr T 
to invest in that portfolio as part of recommending the Gallium platform in view of its 
obligations under  COBS  9.2R.
But Gallium  is referring  here to the nature of the instruction from its point of view  as it 
wasnt providing advice  to Firm A or Mr T as the end investor. Firm A selected the Ultra 
Conservative portfolio,  and I agree  with Gallium that with the authority it had to act on Mr Ts 
behalf, its selection of that portfolio on the online application form amounted  to the 
instruction. It wasnt necessary for any separate agreement to be entered into for the 
instruction to have  effect.
Essentially, all of these issues pertaining to whether the arrangements Firm A entered Mr T 
into were appropriate  would have fallen to Firm A to answer (were  it still trading);  and now 
the FSCS. I appreciate the FSCS  has limits  to what it can award, however that alone doesnt 
make it appropriate for me to attribute responsibility for Mr Ts loss to another  party  where I 
cant fairly say it is responsible.
Mr Ts exit fee being used  to pay a third-party  distributor
It appears Mr Ts exit fee was charged  because this recovered the costs of Provider B 
having already  paid a third-party  distributor  for introducing his investment. As I mentioned  
above, this wasnt  an execution-only  investment from Mr T or Firm As point of view.  The fair 
and reasonable assessment of the evidence is that Firm A recommended he make the 
investment. 
Mr T and Gallium  will be aware  that we asked  Provider B who this distributor was, in order  to 
establish if there was any connection with Firm A that might  better  explain why these 
arrangements were made. We werent  able to establish (from publicly available  information) 
such a connection.  The distributor isnt a regulated firm or under the ombudsman services  
jurisdiction.
However the fact that there would be this exit charge  was explained in Provider Bs fund 
prospectus. So again, I would expect this to form part of the due diligence  Firm A undertook 
into its recommendation. Whilst its clearly the same fund that Vega  included in its own 
model portfolio  of the same  name,  it can only be a matter for a complaint against Firm A as 
to how it became aware of the Provider  B fund it decided to use it in its own portfolio.
I understand a number  of concerns have been raised about Provider  B directly. Im not in a 
position to answer  those  concerns. As both the company and the fund are still trading 
(contrary to Mr Ts comment) I would suggest  that Mr T or his representative raises those 
concerns with Provider B directly.
I also cant comment on why Mr T believes his £1,500 advice fee was paid to someone other 
than Firm A. Firm A issued the suitability letter and had his authority to submit his application 
to Gallium. My understanding is that the advice fee was paid out by the SIPP provider before 
Ref: DRN399607110Gallium received the remaining  funds for investment.  So thats something Mr T can ask the 
SIPP provider about.
responses to the provisional  decision
Mr T and his representative raised the following key points:
He couldnt  see that Gallium  had proven that it didnt as a DIM.  As I had 
acknowledged, he was led to believe that Gallium was used  by Firm A as a 
replacement for a previous DIM that had gone  into administration.
The evidence of him having paid the DFM fee demonstrated that the [Firm A] Ultra 
Conservative portfolio  was simply a white labelled version of Vegas DFM portfolio. 
The email instruction for Vega to build that new portfolio (as DIM) was clear. Firm A 
didnt instruct it on what funds should  be incorporated and in what  percentages.
If Firm A was Galliums client, why did he need  to sign terms of business with 
Gallium? Did he not have the right to assume Gallium was acting on his behalf?
He believes Firm A was using the services of a third unregulated  firm, which did a lot 
of the preparation for the defined  benefit  transfers. Yet the third firm wasnt paid 
anything from his SIPP  and Firm A only collected £1,500 for its advice. 
So he suspects the third firm benefited  indirectly from Provider Bs distributors fee 
and Gallium was in some  way responsible  for orchestrating this to happen.
Gallium agreed with my analysis on whether  it could be said to have  provided  DFM  on 
Mr Ts account   including its agent as client relationship with Firm A. So it didnt comment  
further on that. But it went on to clarify the following matters regarding  its fees:
-An initial  dealing fee of 0.20% went to Vega Algorithms Limited. Gallium said this 
related to on-boarding Firm A and enabling  it to instruct  us to acquire the 
investments comprising the portfolios  it created. Vega spent considerable time in 
providing this service and the fact that the fee is one-off reflects the reality  that the 
on-boarding process was a one-off exercise.
-The quarterly platform fee of 0.30%pa went to the software provider to enable  the 
operation of the platform providing  the functionality  to make and view investments.
-The quarterly management fee of 0.36%pa was payable to Gallium  and was 
reduced to 0.06%pa  after the first quarter  when it was apparent that no DFM was 
being provided. This residual amount should be characterized as a custody  and 
reporting fee for execution-only fund selections.
Gallium said it had referred us to its charging  structures for DFM and execution-only 
business as rate cards,  but this didnt mean it had actually published an execution-only rate 
card at the time of Mr Ts investment. It set the execution-only  charges retrospectively when 
it became aware  that the rate card issued related to an irrelevant DFM service. 
When it reset the management fee, it charged  a lower amount at 0.06%pa  than it would 
have decided to set, had it done this originally. This was to compensate for having supplied  
only the DFM rate card at the outset,  but also took into account that it wasnt refunding  the 
overcharged amount  for the first quarter. Incorporating this reduction, its management fees  
totalled 0.135% over the first year. After paying VAT and investor reporting and custody 
service fees to third parties, it only retained 0.03%.  So 0.06% wasnt  a commercially viable 
rate, but reflected  that it couldnt  have  been  expected to provide  a free service  in perpetuity.
Gallium said all its other fees (eg the dealing fee) were identical whether an execution-only 
or DFM  service  was being provided. In particular individual transaction costs  would  have 
Ref: DRN399607111been charged directly  to the portfolio, so the initial dealing fee wasnt associated  with a 
specific investment  but on-boarding  Mr T onto the platform.  This was a fee which Gallium 
has already paid out to Vega and therefore hasnt  benefited from itself.
Notwithstanding its ongoing concerns, and in order to settle matters relating to fees,  Gallium  
was prepared to offer Mr T the amounts Id proposed in my provisional decision,  which  were:
-the amount  by which his management fee exceeded 0.06%pa in the first quarter of 
the investment  (£197.53);
-a refund of the 0.20% dealing fee (£578.95);
-plus interest on both at the rate of 8%pa simple from when they were charged to the 
date of settlement.
Ill revisit the reasons I had for requiring Gallium to make that offer in my findings, below  
after Ive responded to the parties  further  points on the nature of the investment service. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  both parties response 
to the provisional  decision, to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Whether Gallium provided a DFM  service
Its now much clearer than it was at the time of my provisional decision,  that Galliums  
0.06%pa management fee was set entirely  retrospectively. Both the application summary 
documents supplied in the file for this complaint refer to this 0.06% charge, so my previous  
speculation that one of these might have been what Firm A printed off at the point of sale 
cant be correct. 
Its clear that neither  document  is contemporaneous,  but subsequent revisions to Galliums  
systems seem to have  rendered it unable to produce a contemporaneous  version. I have 
similar caution about the screenshots that Gallium has supplied,  although this is the best 
evidence Gallium has been able to provide to us. But Id like to be clear that, for the other  
reasons I gave in my provisional decision,  this doesnt make  a difference  to my overall  
conclusions which in summary were:
The agent as client relationship between Gallium and Firm A wouldnt give Mr T the 
right to complain under  the regulatory system  about  any alleged DFM carried  out for 
Firm A as client by Gallium on his account.
Even if Im wrong  on that, Firm A had various responsibilities  arising from 
regulations and industry  good practice   to assess the initial investment split in the 
model portfolio it was recommending  (and selected) for Mr T; whether that was 
strictly a DFM  portfolio or not.
As this was a static investment as far as Gallium was concerned,  at no point did it 
make a decision  which Mr T can complain has caused him a loss; essentially 
because Firm A recommended the investment and Provider  B managed it. 
Mr T has queried  this first point as it suggests there was no need  for him to sign his own 
terms of business  with Gallium. I disagree.  He was still a customer of Gallium as it received 
a transfer from his defined benefit scheme onto its platform. This was more a question of 
who the client would have been for the purposes of DFM, if that service had been provided. 
And here I cant be bound  by any incorrect impression Firm A may have given to Mr T  
such as that Gallium was directly replacing the originally  envisaged  DIM  unless I can be 
sure that Gallium was a party  to that impression.  The important point here is that Firm A was 
Ref: DRN399607112acting on Mr Ts behalf and this replaced  much of the need for Gallium  to check  that the 
nature of its services had been explained  to Mr T directly. 
Whilst I acknowledged the difficulty in interpreting the actual emails between  Firm A and 
Vega in my provisional decision, on the substance of what services Gallium actually 
provided I dont think it can be demonstrated  this was DFM. And I think its clear Firm A 
knew or ought to have  known this at the time.  I understand  the point that its email didnt 
actually specify the split of funds to use, but I still consider it was an implicit instruction  
because Firm A did know what funds were in the Vega portfolio it was replicating  (or should 
reasonably have known, as part of its due diligence obligations).
Gallium did overcharge Mr Ts management  fee, but I accept the explanation that this was 
because it hadnt  introduced an execution-only fee tariff. Put simply, there was no other fee it 
could charge until it reviewed the fees. That doesnt  prove it actually carried  out DFM when 
all the other  evidence suggests  otherwise.
I agree  Vega  may have  been aware that Provider  B paid a distributors fee, because it used 
Provider Bs funds in its own model  portfolios. But I think that is a long way short  of saying 
that Gallium should  in some way have intervened when those charges were set out the fund 
prospectus and the fund factsheet (which explained  the exit penalty).  As I explained  in the 
provisional decision, Firm A ought  to have  been aware of those charges as a result,  which 
fundamentally affect the suitability of the recommendation  it was accountable to Mr T for. 
And that applies irrespective of who benefited from the distributor fee.
Galliums own charges
I shall set out and expand on my findings  from the provisional decision  here.  But I note 
Gallium is concerned that the somewhat different issue of whether  Mr T had been charged 
the correct amount for execution-only  services,  wasnt part of the complaint. In respect of 
Mr Ts complaint I disagree.  Mr T gave us specific evidence of the fees hed paid Gallium in 
the first quarter, in order to dispute its claim that hed only paid it at the rate of 0.06%pa  
and this went to the core of the complaint hed already  brought  to us.
During the course of considering that point in the provisional decision, I looked  at all the fees 
Mr T had been charged. Gallium says that as Mr T hadnt specifically  mentioned the dealing 
fee (despite objecting to other  charges),  he was therefore happy  with that fee. I dont agree 
that this direct inference could be made,  given  that Mr T was questioning the whole basis  on 
which Gallium had accepted his application  with reference to the charges. Im satisfied that 
given the nature of the points Mr T raised about the charges hed paid, it was within my 
inquisitorial role to consider the other associated charges in Mr Ts case.
 
In my provisional decision I agreed  that a custody  service was still needed for the assets 
Mr T was holding  on Galliums platform, even  if it was an investment in a single fund. That 
was the management for which Gallium was still entitled to charge an execution-only 
customer. I should correctly have said that Mr T was paying  Gallium 0.06%pa in order to use 
its platform  the additional  0.30%pa was the platform  fee that was passed  on to the 
software provider. I accept Galliums argument that this platform  fee would have been the 
same, whether  DFM  was carried out or not.
My provisional decision took into account  that a custody  fee was stated to be free  on the 
DFM rate card. But I accepted that this was because it was rolled up into the management  
fee for DFM of 0.36%pa. Gallium evidently hadnt  contemplated what  the cost of custody 
would be for an execution-only service. We now know  Gallium  felt it was appropriate  to 
Ref: DRN399607113retrospectively set the management fee at 0.06%pa  in order to reflect the execution-only 
service it actually provided to Mr T.
Gallium said in response to the investigators view that there  was no logical or other reason 
why it would have  reduced its management fee, unless it had never  carried out DFM.  But we 
thought that in order for this to be logical, Gallium would also have to backdate  its refund to 
include the first quarter of Mr Ts investment. I appreciate Gallium has subsequently agreed 
to do this. However its also implied that it was reasonable originally to retain  the single 
quarters overpayment, as this was taken into account in setting the future rate. In my view 
refunding this amount is the fair thing to do, as it would otherwise put Mr T in a different  
and worse  position  than other  people who invested later,  and only ever paid 0.06%pa.
Turning to the dealing fee, I noted  in my provisional decision that both the application 
summaries provided for Mr T (which we now know not to be contemporaneous) recorded the 
dealing fee as none. But I acknowledged  that in the rate card for DFM  (which  is 
contemporaneous), a dealing  fee of 0.20% is shown. That rate card is also duplicated in the 
investment management  agreement  between  Gallium, Vega and Firm A. However,  given 
that Galliums position is that Firm A ought to have  known that the rate card for DFM  did not 
apply, there  is very little other evidence of what charges it agreed with Gallium for the actual 
service contemplated  for its clients.
I said in the provisional  decision that in my experience,  its not universally the case that 
platforms will charge a dealing fee. That was particularly true where (as in this case) it was 
known that regular dealing wasnt going to take place and a bulk arrangement  was being  
made for a number  of clients. This was plausibly the arrangement here, not least because 
not a lot of thought seems  to have been  given  to the charges at the time.  I remain of this 
view despite my mis-statement in the provisional  decision that Gallium retained  the 0.30% 
platform fee (when it in fact passed that part to the software provider). 
My provisional decision concluded that there  wasnt enough evidence to show  that Gallium 
agreed with Firm A as client, and by extension Mr T as the end investor, to charge a 0.20% 
dealing fee. The only reliable evidence of the 0.20% fee was linked to DFM rather  than the 
arrangements actually made. Whilst I appreciate  that the reliability of the online application 
summaries has been  thrown further  into doubt,  Ive yet to find a reason why even the 
reprinted versions dont correctly  reflect  a 0.20% dealing  fee, if that was what  was agreed.  
The underlying point Gallium is making here is that it wouldnt have  been  able to make a 
profit on a residual 0.06%  management fee, having passed the 0.30% platform fee to the 
software provider and the 0.20% dealing  fee onto Vega.  But Vega was Galliums  appointed 
representative, so it was also responsible for the onboarding it says Vega did onto its 
platform in return for that fee. I think there are several problems with this:
If the fee isnt for placing a particular investment deal, but rather an initial fee for 
putting Mr T onto the platform, that would  conflict with the fact that the application 
summaries show  the Initial fees to be None. And the rate card (albeit one for DFM) 
also shows that there is no account opening fee.
The reference to onboarding, whilst not really whats envisaged by a dealing fee, 
does largely encapsulate  what went wrong  in this case. Namely, Vegas failure to 
properly document  the nature of the service  and the fees that would be charged. This 
is what has understandably led to Mr Ts complaint. So its therefore  also arguable 
that Vega (and therefore Gallium  as its principal) fell a long way short of what it was 
evidently meant to do in return for this fee.
Ref: DRN399607114Ive also considered Galliums obligations  under the FCA Principles to: conduct its business 
with due skill, care and diligence; take reasonable care to organise  and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively; and pay due regard  to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly. Having  taken all of this into account Ive come to the same overall view as in my 
provisional decision, that its fair and reasonable to require  Mr Ts dealing fee to be refunded 
in addition to the first quarters excess management fee. I consider this appropriately reflects
the shortcomings in how his application was processed, and the resulting ambiguity as to 
what service Gallium  was going to provide.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the main  part of Mr Ts complaint alleging  that Gallium  Fund  Solutions  
Limited was to provide a Discretionary Fund Management (DFM)  service. I consider 
the suitability of the Provider B fund rested with his adviser at Firm A.
I uphold the secondary part of Mr Ts complaint  about the charges on his account in 
relation to the services provided by Gallium. I require Gallium  Fund  Solutions  Limited  
to return to Mr T the excess management  fee of £197.53 deducted  on 1 October 
2017 and the dealing  fee of £578.95 deducted on 25 July 2017.  Interest is to be 
added to these  amounts at the rate of 8% per year simple from the dates these 
charges were deducted to the date of settlement.  Gallium has already  indicated it is 
willing to make these  payments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 February  2021.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3996071