K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Ms H took out a credit card with BoS in 2001. At the same time she bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover her repayments on her credit card if she couldnt work.
Ms H says that the PPI was added without  her consent, and she didnt know it was optional.  
She says she didnt need or want the cover.
The adjudicator didnt think Ms Hs complaint should be upheld.  Ms H disagrees,  so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Ms Hs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Ms H says she didnt know the policy was optional and that she didnt know it had been 
added to her account. BoS has supplied a copy of the credit agreement  Ms H completed to 
take out the card and PPI. I can see theres  a separate section for PPI which  makes  it clear 
its not compulsory.  Ms H signed  separately here to indicate she wanted the policy.  
So, while I understand why Ms H wouldnt  remember this over 17 years later, I think at the 
time Ms H knew she had a choice  about  taking the policy and decided  to do so.
BoS didnt give Ms H a personalised  recommendation  to buy the policy,  so it didnt need to 
take steps to make  sure it was right for her  that was up to Ms H. But BoS did need to make  
sure she had enough information about the policy to make her own decision.
I cant know for sure what information  Ms H received. I can see from the application form 
that Ms H wouldve understood how much the policy would pay out over what  period in the 
event of a successful claim. So I think Ms H had enough information to decide whether her 
existing sick pay or redundancy pay entitlements were sufficient. Ms H wouldnt have  been  
affected by any of the terms which I think were less clear  such  as those  related to existing 
medical conditions  or self-employment. So I dont think  it wouldve  mattered  if she hadnt 
understood these  as well. 
While the headline  cost was stated in the application form, it didnt cover some  of the hidden 
costs  such as the fact the cost of the policy was added to the credit  card balance and Ms H 
wouldve paid interest on it. But I dont think this extra cost wouldve been  enough  to put Ms 
H off buying the policy.  
Ref: DRN32376522The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around the 
same time. It was flexible,  because  it could be cancelled at any time without penalty. And I 
havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Ms H.
So, on balance, I dont  think Ms H lost out as a result of anything  BoS did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Ms Hs complaint, so it follows  that Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to 
pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3237652