K824xComplaint
Mrs B is complaining about  Quilter Wealth Ltd (Quilter)  because  she says she received 
unsuitable investment  advice  from one of its representatives. She says she ended  up with 
investments that werent suitable for her, also saying she was inexperienced and didnt 
understand them.
Background
Mrs B dealt with a financial adviser, Mr N of Noot Financial  Solutions Ltd (Noot FS). He 
advised her on the transfer of various  pension arrangements into a Self-Invested  Personal 
Pension (SIPP) with Guardian Pensions Consultants Ltd. This advice  is documented in Mr 
Ns suitability report dated 16 May 2011,  which confirms  she was initially  putting her money  
into a cash fund with a view to finalising investments later on.
In 2012, following further discussions with Mr N, Mrs B then says she invested approximately  
£111,000 of the money in her SIPP into an investment with Harlequin Property and a further 
£17,000 into an investment with EcoPlanet  Bamboo.
I understand the investments subsequently failed and, sadly,  it seems  Mrs B has lost her 
money. Because Noot FS was an appointed representative of Quilter - previously known as 
Intrinsic Wealth  Ltd (Intrinsic) and, prior to that, Mint Financial Services Ltd (Mint) - she 
thinks Quilter  is responsible for her losses.
Ive reviewed this case before. I initially considered  whether  we can look at this complaint 
and set out my reasons for concluding we could in a decision on jurisdiction. I then 
considered the merits of the complaint and set out my findings  in a provisional  decision, 
which explained why I thought it should  be upheld. An extract from my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of this decision.
Mrs B has confirmed  her acceptance  of my provisional decision. Quilter didnt accept and 
made the following key points:
The case of Anderson  v Sense  Network  cant be used  in this context. Its advice was 
restricted to a pension  transfer into cash. 
Theres no evidence  to show it authorised  the transactions  into Harlequin and its 
certainly not culpable for investment decisions made after the adviser ceased to be 
authorised through the network.
The case should be put on hold pending the outcome of a judicial  review  application on 
another complaint involving reliance on the Anderson v Sense Network  case.
We then explained  to Quilter why we wouldnt be putting this complaint on hold and invited it 
to make any further submissions it wanted me to take into account before reaching my final 
decision. It didnt  contact us again  so Ive assumed it had nothing  to add to the submissions 
its already made.
Ref: DRN38224802My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having reconsidered the case, including 
Quilters response to my provisional decision,  my conclusions havent  changed.
I note Quilters view this complaint should be suspended until the outcome of the judicial 
review on another  case. But its important to recognise that the fact there is a judicial review 
of one case doesnt automatically  mean we should  delay  our investigation of other 
complaints that may or may not raise similar  issues.  The ombudsman  service is required to 
resolve the complaints it receives quickly  and with minimum formality (see section 225(1) of 
the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) and Westcott Financial Services 
Limited v Financial Ombudsman Service [2014]  EWHC 3972  Admin) and I must carefully 
take this into consideration in deciding whether or not I should  delay deciding this case.   
The application of any relevant case law depends entirely  on the facts of the specific  case  
and the facts in Mrs Bs complaint are materially different to those  in the case Quilter is 
referring to. The case  thats subject to judicial review  concerns an entirely  different  business 
and is about the actions  of a self-employed agent of that business.  Mrs Bs complaint 
concerns the actions  of an appointed representative  and my analysis is therefore focussed  
on section 39 of FSMA. For these reasons, I dont agree its appropriate to suspend  my 
consideration of Mrs Bs case. 
Quilter seems to be saying its appointed representative was only involved in switching Mrs 
Bs pension  benefits  to the SIPP and not the investments this funded. But in my view, the 
switch to the SIPP and the investments are closely linked and effectively form part and 
parcel of a single  transaction. Im satisfied the investments wouldnt have happened  without  
the switch to the SIPP and that the purpose  of the switch was to fund alternative,  high-risk 
investments. While the SIPP was initially invested  in cash, this was a temporary measure 
while decisions were made about where  to invest in the longer term. This is confirmed in Mr 
Ns suitability report dated 16 May 2011,  which says:
This transfer  into the cash account is being made  purely to facilitate your wish to make 
the fund and investment decisions yourself  going  forward, in the hope that you will 
enjoy greater returns on the capital than you are currently. Therefore the funds are not 
going to remain  in cash in the long-term.
And:
Once the funds  have  been transferred into the new SIPP you have informed me that 
you wish monies to be held in cash temporarily as, you are considering using  some  of 
your funds to purchase an overseas commercial  property  which  you have already 
researched yourself.
I set out in my provisional decision why I felt the evidence shows  Mr N continued  to be 
involved in advising Mrs B after the switch was completed, including on the investments  to 
be made. It seems Quilter  doesnt accept my conclusion on this point, but it hasnt provided 
any further evidence  that could change  that.
Ref: DRN38224803My decision  on jurisdiction also explained  in detail why I felt Mr N was acting  as Quilters 
appointed representative when advising Mrs B and that his activities were  authorised  by 
Quilter. As a result, I felt Quilter should  be held responsible for those activities. It seems 
Quilter doesnt accept my conclusion on this point, but again it hasnt provided  any further 
evidence that could change that.
My award is intended to compensate Mrs B for the losses she incurred as a result of the 
unsuitable advice  she received from Mr N advice in connection with switching her pension 
benefits to the SIPP  and the unregulated investments this funded. Its my understanding  that 
all elements of this transaction, including the investments, were finalised early in 2012. 
According to the FCAs  register, Noot FS was an appointed  representative of Quilter until 
October 2012 and Im satisfied its not being  held responsible for acts carried out after their 
relationship ended.
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mrs B accepts  my decision,  Quilter Wealth Ltd must  put things right using the method set 
out in my provisional  decision. It should  provide  her with details of its calculations in a clear 
and understandable  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Jim Biles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN38224804Extract from provisional decision:
My Provisional Findings
In reaching my provisional conclusions,  Ive relied  on the following key pieces of evidence:
The appointed representative agreement between Mint Financial Services Ltd (now  Quilter)  and 
Noot FS.
A fact find document completed  by Mr N in September 2010.
A suitability letter dated  16 May 2011 confirming  the advice by Mr N of Noot FS for Mrs B to set 
up a SIPP  and transfer her existing  pension  arrangements into it.
An email from Mr N (using  his Noot FS email address) to Mrs B dated 20 July 2011,  which says:
Quick update, all of your existing  pension funds have  now been enveloped into your new 
Guardian SIPP, as discussed at our last meeting  this was stage  one, now all established 
there are various  other decisions to make depending on your situation,  firstly  with regard to 
Caribbean property investment I have just received details on some newly released pre-
launch properties in the same area I purchased, they have big discounts and I would say are 
great value  considering all the recent success of the first resort launch, so please let me 
know if you are in a position  to progress  as they will have a very short shelf life?
Also we need  to discuss additional pension portfolio investment as at the moment your 
funds are just sitting in a poor cash account, plus we need to re-direct  your new regular 
company contributions and decide on where we are comfortable  investing  this. With all of 
the above  in mind  could we meet up again soon and discuss in more detail?
An email from Mr N (using  his Noot FS email address) to Mrs B dated 30 September 2011, 
which says:
As promised  replying via email as a little easier, yes am free on Tues 11th and would  love to 
catch up, also understand  its a difficult time to make any financial commitments and wasnt 
intending on pursuing this area,  however I have all the paperwork completed for the 
company regular contribution for you and had hoped  to spend some time planning for the 
future surrounding the existing  pension fund currently sat in cash so we could  be ready  to 
move as and when the time is right.
An extract from an undated email from Mr N to Mrs B, that starts Happy New Year and appears 
to be from January 2012, which says:
Harlequin Buccument  Bay SIPP Completion;  Just waiting on Guardian SIPP to go over HQ 
documentation, have  sent chase  up today.  Expect to have all matters concluded very soon. 
There has been some  confusion  here over us now wishing to move ahead with the SIPP 
purchasing 100%, which I questioned before the Xmas break, but have now spoken with 
Harlequins Chartered  Legal  Executive Lawyer  who is now fully aware of the situation and 
will have documents drawn up within a week. Once complete I will send onto yourself  and 
Guardian SIPP to ensure  all is correct and approved.
Mr Ns comments in response to Mrs Bs complaint.
If either party hasnt seen  any of this information, they can ask the investigator for a copy  before 
responding to this provisional decision.
Ref: DRN38224805Advice
Mrs B says she received advice  from Mr N and I find her recollections on this point compelling.  Ive 
already explained my view on this issue in my jurisdiction decision, but Ive summarised the reasons here.
Theres clear evidence, in the form of the fact find and suitability letter completed at the time, that Mr 
N had previously advised  Mrs B, including  on setting up her SIPP.  I think its also clear  from the email 
correspondence between  the two that he was still involved with arranging her investments in 2012.  In 
my view, the tone of their correspondence  and the language used indicates  a high level of trust.
Ive taken account  of what Mr N has said about what happened. It may well be that Mrs B was 
attracted to tax-efficient investments offering  a potentially  high return  and its possible she did identify 
some investments herself as ones she might be interested  in. But the investments  she made  were 
esoteric, high-risk, unregulated products. Ive seen nothing to suggest she was a particularly 
experienced or knowledgeable investor and, on balance, I think  its unlikely she would  have 
committed to them without advice from her trusted adviser. 
The regulated activity  of advising on investments is defined in article 53 of the RAO  as follows:
Advising a person  is a specified kind of activity if the advice is -
a)given to the person in his capacity  as an investor or potential investor,  or in his capacity 
as agent for an investor or a potential investor; and
b)advice on the merits of his doing any of the following (whether as principal or agent) -
(i)buying,  selling, subscribing  for or underwriting a particular investment which is a 
security or a contractually based investment, or
(ii)exercising any right conferred by such  an investment to buy, sell, subscribe for or 
underwrite such an investment.
In terms of the first part of the definition, Im satisfied  Mrs B was an investor  or potential investor. I 
also think the email exchanges show Mr N gave advice  on the merits of buying  the investments. Not 
only did he talk about there being decisions to make and a need to discuss additional  pension 
portfolio investment as at the moment your funds are just sitting a poor cash account,  plus we need to 
re-direct your new regular company contributions and decide on where  we are comfortable investing 
this, the language used indicates  Mr N intended to be involved in those  decisions in my view.  But I 
think his email of 20 July 2011 clearly shows he advised on the merits  of investing  when he said of 
the proposed  Harlequin investment that:
. . . they have  big discounts and I would say are great value considering all the recent success  
of the first resort  launch
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr N carried  out the regulated activity of advising on 
investments specified in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities)  Order 2001 
(the RAO),  which included  the rights under  a personal pension scheme  (article 82) and units in a 
collective investment  scheme  (CIS) (article 81). Further, and for the reasons detailed in my jurisdiction 
decision, I think  he was acting in his capacity as an appointed representative  of Quilter when he did so.
The nature of the complaint
In making her complaint,  Mrs B initially  concentrated  on the investments rather  than the advice  to 
transfer her pensions  into the SIPP.  But in response to my decision  that we can consider  her 
complaint about the investments, Mrs B made the following comments:  
Prior to meeting Mr N, my pension was in a managed funds and I didnt know  anything  about 
self-invested pension schemes.
Ref: DRN38224806Mr N informed  me that I could make  much better returns on my pension if I had a SIPP and 
persuaded me to allow  him to organise  this. I had not seen a financial adviser for several years  
prior to meeting  Mr N and thought  he was an expert. He informed me that he specialised in 
advising people like me how to maximise on their investments  and pensions. The money that 
Mr N moved from my managed fund pension  scheme into the SIPP was my only provision  for 
my retirement.
And that:
I can confirm that during the period between 2008 and 2016 I did not deal with any other 
financial adviser other than [Mr N]. During  this period  of time, the only investments, including 
pension investments, that I made  were at the recommendation of [Mr N], who subsequently 
gave me all the necessary  forms to sign and managed the process. I had never  made an 
investment before and reiterate that my only experience of pensions and investments was 
payment a monthly premium  to an insurance  company.
Studying the available evidence carefully, I believe the SIPP and investment advice were  intrinsically 
linked and I think Mr Ns suitability letter  clearly  shows the SIPP was set up to facilitate the use of the 
type of investments Mrs B subsequently made. It said:
You currently have three Personal Pensions held with Legal & General, Winterthur  and 
Phoenix. You have expressed an interest to be more opportunist and would like to move 
towards a Self Invested Contract. You have therefore asked  for my recommendations regarding  
this and asked me to perform a full pension review  for you.
. . . .
I recommend that you transfer the funds from your existing pensions  into a Self Invested 
Personal Pension Plan (SIPP). The provider  that we recommend for your SIPP  is Guardian 
Pension Consultants Ltd due to various  important elements including  charging structure and 
strength of contract as detailed  below. Once the funds have been transferred  into the new SIPP 
you have informed me that you wish monies  to be held in cash temporarily as, you are 
considering using some of your funds to purchase an overseas  commercial property which you 
have already researched yourself.
. . . .
Taking into account your objectives,  attitude  to risk and the structure of your investments, I would  
recommend the following portfolio of investments as the most suitable to meet your needs:
 100% into Cash Account
This transfer into the cash account is being made purely  to facilitate your wish to make the fund and 
investment decisions yourself going forward, in the hope  that you will enjoy greater  returns on the 
capital than you are currently. Therefore the funds are not going to remain in cash  in the long-term.
I think  this view is supported by Mr Ns email of 20 July 2011, in which he described the transfer of 
Mrs Bs pension benefits  into the SIPP  as stage one and then went  on to talk about the investment 
decisions that then needed to be made.
Mrs Bs account is that she wasnt a sophisticated or knowledgeable investor  and I think a 
consideration of her circumstances, which Ill return to in more detail  later on, supports this. In my 
view, she was an ordinary retail investor with limited  investment experience. Shes not being 
represented in this complaint  and doesnt  work in the industry  or for a claims manager  or law firm, so 
its understandable her complaint isnt drafted like legal  proceedings. I think its clear she wants  to 
complain about the advice she received and, while she initially concentrated on the investment losses 
shes suffered, that the advice on transferring to the SIPP  and the investments were  linked. 
Ref: DRN38224807With this in mind, and in light of Mrs Bs most recent comments above, I think this complaint covers 
the entirety of the advice  she received,  starting  with the advice to transfer her pensions to a SIPP, and 
thats what  I need to consider.
Jurisdiction 
Ive previously set out why I believe a complaint about the advice given in respect of Mrs Bs 
investments within the SIPP falls within  our jurisdiction. Im satisfied we can also consider a complaint 
about the advice to transfer her existing pensions into the SIPP for essentially the same reasons.
In view of the contents  of Mr Ns suitability  letter, I dont think there can be any dispute that he advised  
her on the transfer  and this is clearly a regulated  activity. And as outlined  above and in my previous 
decision, Im satisfied he was acting as an appointed representative of Quilter when he did so. 
To summarise the points made  in my previous jurisdiction decision, the appointed representative  
agreement authorised Noot  FS to advise on pensions  and investments. While there was a 
requirement for compliance pre-approval and additional training for some types of pension transfer 
business, using the terminology from the case of Anderson v Sense Network, these  were restrictions 
on how the business Quilter  accepted  responsibility  for was carried out and arent sufficient for it to 
avoid responsibility.
Suitability of the advice
When advising Mrs B on her pensions  and investments, Mr N had a responsibility  to make sure that 
advice was suitable for her circumstances  and requirements.  As Ive already said,  it may be the case 
that Mrs B was attracted  to tax-efficient investments offering a potentially  high return  as Mr N has 
said. Its also possible she identified  some  potential  investments herself. But Ive seen nothing to 
show she was a particularly experienced or knowledgeable investor and I think  its likely  she was 
ultimately reliant on the advice of her trusted adviser. 
From the fact find and suitability  letter completed by Mr N in 2010 and 2011, my understanding  of Mrs Bs 
circumstances at the time she invested is as follows:
she was in her late 40s,  going through a divorce and had three dependent children;
she ran her own business  producing  an income of around £200,000 per year;
she owned two properties with a combined mortgage debt of around £850,000 and various 
endowment policies that appear to have been intended  to repay some of that debt;
she had three  personal pensions with a combined  value of around £180,000 that were 
transferred into her SIPP when  it was set up; and
a deposit-based emergency fund of around £50,000 and an equity ISA worth approximately  
£7,000 held in a managed  fund.
Mr Ns suitability letter  records Mrs Bs attitude to risk was adventurous. It says this was established  
using an attitude to risk profiler. Unfortunately, Quilter doesnt have a copy of this.
Without sight  of the profiler, its difficult to know exactly how Mrs Bs attitude to risk was assessed. But 
from the documentation thats been provided, it certainly doesnt  appear she was an experienced  or 
knowledgeable investor. I dont think its necessarily  the case  she was unwilling to take any risk with her 
pension investments  at all. But I dont think a consideration of her circumstances supports  the view she 
was suddenly looking to become involved in high-risk investments when she hadnt done so previously.  
Ref: DRN38224808The investments Mrs B made  were  into esoteric, high-risk, unregulated  products of a type the regulator  
has said shouldnt  be promoted to normal  retail investors. I dont think  they were suitable for Mrs Bs 
circumstances or that Mr N should have been recommending them  to her. On balance, Im more  
persuaded by Mrs Bs account that it was Mr N who first suggested the investments. But even if they 
were identified  by Mrs B as Mr N has suggested,  he should still have considered whether  they were 
suitable and advised her against  them  if not. If he had advised her against making the investments, I 
think its more  likely  than not that Mrs B would  have  followed that advice and invested elsewhere.
I must also consider that the responsibility to provide suitable advice goes beyond  simply making sure 
an investment matches the clients attitude to risk. Advisers also need to make sure the client has an 
appropriately balanced and diversified portfolio. In this case, the money  invested in Harlequin and Eco 
Planet Bamboo accounted  for around 70% of Mrs Bs pension funds, with the Harlequin investment 
on its own accounting for more  than 60%. Even if I were to accept the risks of the investments were  
consistent with those she was willing to take,  Id still be looking to uphold the complaint on the basis 
that far too much  of her money was put in this type of investment.
So Im satisfied Mr N gave  Mrs B advice  in connection with her investments and that they were  
unsuitable for her needs. As the main  reason for transferring  Mrs Bs pension benefits to the SIPP 
seems to have been to facilitate the use of specialist  investments, I think it then becomes  clear  that 
advice was also unsuitable.
Aside from the offering  the potential  to make specialist investments  that I dont think  were  suitable  for 
her anyway, I cant see that there  was a real benefit to Mrs B transferring her pensions  to the SIPP. In 
fact, there are compelling reasons for thinking that doing so was actually against her best interests. 
Most notably, these include:
page 9 of Mr Ns suitability letter records that Mrs Bs pension providers would  reduce  the total 
value of her benefits  by £2,160 if transferred; and
page 19 also records that Mr N would receive a fee totalling  2.5% of the value of the benefits  
transferred, which  would  be deducted from Mrs Bs pension  fund. Based on the approximate 
transfer value  of £180,000, this charge was around £4,500.
I think  its likely Mrs B would also have paid set-up charges with Guardian.  And while the suitability  
letter includes  a comparison  of charges, this doesnt appear to include the charges  associated with 
the investments  she would go on to make.
It seems the additional costs associated with transferring  Mrs Bs pension benefits  to the SIPP  were  
considerable. Since  I dont think  the type of specialist investments  that could only have been made  
within a SIPP were likely to be suitable for her or that there was any other compelling reason to 
transfer her existing  pensions,  it follows  that I believe  the advice in connection with the SIPP was also 
unsuitable.
If Mrs B had been unhappy  with the returns she was receiving in her existing pension funds or felt the 
funds she was using werent in line with her needs,  I think its likely  she would have been able to 
switch to alternative funds with those providers  that would have been more  appropriate at little or no 
cost. This is certainly an option I think Mr N should have considered before  recommending she 
transfer her benefits to the SIPP but I havent found any evidence in his suitability letter or elsewhere 
to show  that it was. 
On balance and taking everything into account,  I think the advice  Mrs B received in connection with 
transferring her pensions to the SIPP  and subsequent investments within it were unsuitable for her 
circumstances and requirements. Its for this reason that Im proposing to uphold her complaint.
Ref: DRN38224809Putting Things Right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to return  Mrs B (as close as possible) to the 
position shed probably now be in if she hadnt been given unsuitable advice. While I cant be sure 
exactly what  would have happened, in view of Mrs Bs comments that it was Mr N who introduced  her 
to the idea of setting up a SIPP and making  different  investments, I think its most  likely her pension 
benefits would have remained where they were.
Putting Mrs B back into the correct position is difficult for a number of reasons. Firstly, I think its 
unlikely to be possible to reinstate her previous pensions  now so compensation  can be paid into 
them. There are also a number of possibilities and unknown factors in making an award.  While it may 
be possible for Quilter to take ownership  of the Harlequin  and EcoPlanet Bamboo investments, the 
involvement of third parties including the SIPP provider  means  much of this is beyond the control of 
this service or Quilter. Finally, while it currently seems unlikely Mrs B will receive any benefit from the 
investments, I cant  be certain of that.
All the variables are unknown  and each may have an impact on the extent of any award I can make. 
While its complicated to put Mrs B back into the position she would  have been in if suitable advice  
had been given, I think its fair that shes compensated now. I dont think  I should  wait and determine 
each and every possibility  before making  an award. I believe what Ive set out below is a fair way of 
achieving this. 
In summary, Quilter should:
1.Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mrs Bs previous  pension plans,  as date of my final decision,  
if they had not been transferred to the SIPP.  
2.Obtain the transfer  value, as date of my final decision, of Mrs Bs SIPP, including any outstanding  
charges. 
3.Pay the amount  of (1  2) into Mrs Bs SIPP  so the transfer value is increased by the amount 
calculated. This payment should take account of any available tax relief  and the effect of 
charges.
In addition, Quilter should:
4.Pay any future fees owed by Mrs B to the SIPP for the next five years.
5.Pay Mrs B £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
Ive set out each point  in further detail below.
1. Obtain the notional transfer value  of Mrs Bs previous  pension plans,  as date of my final decision,  if 
they had not been transferred to the SIPP.
Quilter should  ask Mrs Bs former pension providers to calculate  the notional transfer value that would 
have applied  as at the date of this decision had she not transferred her pension  but instead remained 
invested in the same  funds.
If there  are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation then the FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income 
Total Return  Index should be used. That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have 
been achieved if suitable  funds  had been  chosen.
Quilter should  assume that any contributions or withdrawals that have been made would  still have 
been made, and on the same dates.
Ref: DRN3822480102. Obtain the transfer  value, as date of my final decision, of Mrs Bs SIPP, including any 
outstanding charges. 
This should be confirmed by the SIPP operator. If the operator  has continued  to take charges from the 
SIPP and there wasnt an adequate  cash balance  to meet them,  it might be a negative figure. 
3. Pay the amount of (1  2) into Mrs Bs SIPP  so the transfer  value is increased by the amount 
calculated. This payment should take account of any available tax relief  and the effect of charges.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into the SIPP, Quilter should  pay it as a cash  sum to Mrs 
B. But had it been possible to pay into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable income. Therefore 
the total amount  should be reduced to notionally allow  for any income  tax that would  otherwise have 
been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs Bs likely  marginal rate of tax at retirement. 
For example, if Mrs B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  in retirement,  the notional  allowance  would 
equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current  basic rate of tax. However, if Mrs B 
would be able to take a tax free lump  sum,  the notional  allowance should be applied  to 75% of the 
total amount.
4. Pay any future fees owed by Mrs B to the SIPP for the next five years.
Had Quilter  given suitable advice, I dont  think there would be a SIPP.  Its not fair that Mrs B continues 
to pay the annual  SIPP fees if it cant be closed. 
Ideally, Quilter should take over the unregulated  investments to allow the SIPP to be closed. This is 
the fairest  way of putting Mrs B back in the position she would have been in. But if thats not possible, 
and to provide  certainty for all parties, I think its fair that Quilter pays Mrs B an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous years fees),  or undertakes 
to cover the fees that fall due during the next five years. This should provide a reasonable  period for 
things to be worked out so the SIPP can be closed.
Subject to what I say about maximum  awards below, in return for the compensation set out above,  
Quilter may ask Mrs B to provide an undertaking to give it the net amount of any payment she may 
receive from the Harlequin and EcoPlanet Bamboo investments in that five year period, as well as any 
other payment she may receive  from any party as a result  of the investment. That undertaking  should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges  on the amount she may receive.  Quilter  will need to meet 
any costs  in drawing  up this undertaking. If it asks Mrs B to provide an undertaking, payment  of the 
compensation awarded by this decision may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking. 
If, after five years, Quilter wants to keep the SIPP open, and to maintain an undertaking  for any future  
payments from the Harlequin and EcoPlanet Bamboo investments, it must agree  to pay any further 
future SIPP fees. If Quilter  fails to pay the SIPP fees, Mrs B should then have the option of trying to 
cancel the investment  contracts  to enable the SIPP to be closed.
In addition, Quilter is entitled to take,  if it wishes, an assignment from Mrs B of any claim  she may have 
against any third parties in relation to this pension transfer and unregulated investments.  If Quilter 
chooses to take an assignment of rights, it must be affected before payment of compensation  is made. 
Quilter must first provide  a draft of the assignment to Mrs B for her consideration and agreement. 
5. Pay Mrs B £500 for the trouble and upset caused.
I think  the discovery shed received unsuitable advice  that led to a loss of the majority of her pension 
funds would have caused Mrs B considerable trouble and upset and that she should  be compensated 
for this. The impact of these issues is difficult to assess,  but I think a substantial  payment of £500 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN382248011If Quilter doesnt pay the compensation within 28 days of being informed that Mrs B has accepted my 
final decision,  interest, at the rate of 8% simple a year on the fair compensation  payable shall be paid 
from the date of my decision  to the date of payment. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter  deducts  income tax from the interest  it 
should tell Mrs B how much has been taken off. It should give provide a tax deduction certificate if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Mrs Bs Harlequin investment was a deposit. There are therefore more parts of the contract for the 
remaining purchase  price of the property that havent been paid yet. No loss has been suffered  yet for 
these parts of the contract,  so it isnt being compensated for here. But the loss may still occur. If the 
property is completed, Harlequin  could  still require  those payments  to be made. I think  its unlikely 
there will be a further loss. But Mrs B needs to understand that this is possible, and she wont be able 
to bring a further complaint  to us if the contract is called upon.
Award limits
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Quilter pays the balance.
Determination and award:  Im planning to uphold the complaint and I believe it should carry  out the 
steps set out above  up to a maximum financial  effect of £150,000, plus any interest.
If the loss doesnt exceed £150,000, or if Quilter accepts the recommendation to pay the full loss as 
calculated above, it should have  the option of taking the undertaking referred  to above. If the loss 
exceeds £150,000 and Quilter doesnt accept the recommendation to pay the full amount, any 
undertaking should allow  Mrs B to retain all rights to the difference between £150,000 and the full loss 
as calculated above.
Recommendation: If the financial effect of the calculation above exceeds £150,000, I recommend 
that Quilter still carry those steps in full plus pay interest on the balance as set out above.
My Provisional Decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I currently think Quilter Wealth  Ltd 
should pay Mrs B compensation calculated  using the method set out above.
Ref: DRN3822480