K820x#14complaint
F, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc failed to extend the companys 
overdraft facility in a timely manner, and later asked  Fs director for a personal guarantee as 
a condition for converting the overdraft into a loan, after the loan had been agreed without 
such a condition.
background
Mr E is the sole director of a limited  company which  I will call F. F had a bank account with 
HSBC, with an overdraft  facility of £20,000.  That facility  was secured by personal  guarantees 
from Mr E and from another individual (a former  director  of the company),  for £10,000  each.
In August  2016,  Mr E asked HSBC for a temporary increase of the overdraft limit to £40,000, 
to cover some imminent business expenses. HSBC agreed to increase  the limit for four 
months, ending at the end of the year, when Mr E expected to be able to repay the 
increased overdraft in full. This lending was unsecured.  But in January 2017,  the company  
was not in a position  to reduce the overdraft  balance to what it had been  before. So Mr E 
asked for an extension, and the bank  agreed to extend the overdraft facility  again, on 
condition that Mr E gave  a personal  guarantee for the temporary facility. Mr E agreed to do 
so, in early February  2017.
Mr E expected to receive written confirmation of the agreed extension  from the bank  within a 
short time after that. But two weeks later, he had still not received it, and he was about to 
send an invoice to one of Fs clients for £18,000. He was worried that if that money was paid 
before he received written confirmation  of the extension, then the bank might just decline the 
extension. That would  mean  the payment would just have been used to repay the overdraft 
increase, leaving  F without money  that it needed to meet its expenses. F was in a joint 
business venture  with another company, and so Mr E asked that other company to take over 
the contract  with Fs customer.  F never  invoiced its customer, and Mr E blames HSBC for 
the loss of Fs income, which he attributes to the delay in confirming the extension. He says 
the resulting cash  flow problems eventually drove F out of business.
HSBC confirmed the extension in March.  Mr E refused to provide the personal guarantee, 
because of the delay, and HSBC  did not pursue it, since a debenture over the companys 
assets was provided  instead. In August the temporary  overdraft facility  was extended again, 
to November 2017. In July HSBC  refunded one months worth of interest,  from January to 
February, because of the delay (without accepting  that a delay had in fact occurred).
In November HSBC  agreed to convert the overdraft into a loan. But a couple of weeks  later, 
HSBC said that a condition of the loan would be that Mr E would first have to increase his 
liability under  his personal guarantee to £30,000.  Since that had not been  mentioned  before, 
Mr E did not agree  to it. A few days later, HSBC demanded full repayment of the overdraft 
balance, which was over £48,000. Mr E took exception to this, on the ground  that HSBC  
should have discussed other options  with him first.
In 2018 Mr E complained to HSBC, but the bank did not accept that it had done anything  
wrong. It said that whether or not there had been a delay in confirming the extension of the 
temporary facility in February, it had been  granted,  and the facility  had remained in place 
without being  reduced or withdrawn until December. It had been Mr Es decision to give up 
Fs contract in February. So Mr E brought this complaint to our Service, on behalf of F. He 
Ref: DRN33037862also complained  that the interest  rate on the overdraft had significantly increased in January 
2017, and that the refund  of interest  the following July was not all of it.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that in February 2017 Mr E had 
believed that the facility  had been  extended, so his decision to abandon  the contract with Fs 
customer was not something she could hold HSBC liable for. She said the increase in the 
interest rate after the original term of the facility had expired was not unusual. And she said it 
was normal for a bank  to add additional  lending criteria to a loan offer in principle  whilst  a 
loan application  was being  considered. 
Mr E did not accept that opinion. He maintained that it had been reasonable of him to believe 
that there  was a real danger  that HSBC might  refuse  to extend the facility  after the £18,000 
was received into Fs bank account. He argued  that if that had happened,  then he would 
have been in a weak position  from which to challenge the banks actions. He said that the 
delay had demonstrably been the banks fault, and time had been of the essence. The 
extension had not yet been  approved,  so the fact that the facility  had not yet been withdrawn 
either did not mean that this would  not happen once the payment was made. On balance,  he 
had judged it safer to forego the potential profits rather than expose  himself to the risk of 
being disqualified from acting as a director for allowing  F to enter  into a contract knowing 
that F might  not be able to meet its costs. He asked for an ombudsman  to review this case.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The original  facility expired in January 2017.  It is therefore neither surprising nor untoward 
that the interest rate increased 
It is clear from the chain of emails  between the parties  from January  to March 2017  that 
there was indeed an unexplained delay  in formally  confirming  that the £40,000 overdraft 
facility would be extended. The relationship manager had told Mr E on 18 January that the 
final word would probably be given next week. Instead it took until 2 March,  after the 
manager had referred  the application  to the credit team  either late or for a second  time. That 
is poor service, and I can understand Mr E being  concerned about the delay.
Meanwhile, on 31 January the manager  emailed  Mr E to tell him that the overdraft would be 
extended to May, subject  to Mr E providing  certain  information, which  he did on 8 February. 
The managers email was unequivocal, so once Mr E had fulfilled the managers request, 
there was a clear  statement in writing that the extension would be agreed.
Unfortunately after that the manager did not respond  to Mr Es chasing emails until the day 
after Mr E had cancelled  the contract with Fs client. Nevertheless, I dont think  it would be 
fair and reasonable of me to hold HSBC  liable for that decision. Mr E acted on the 
assumption that HSBC  would or might not act in good faith, an assumption which  March  
proved not to be the case, when HSBC extended the facility to August. So if I upheld  this 
complaint, it would have  to be on the basis that I agreed  contrary  to all the evidence  that 
HSBC had been or might have been acting in an underhanded way with the intention  of 
undermining F for HSBCs own short-term gain.
I think that would be a hard conclusion to reach on the facts  of this case.  It would be 
contradicted by the fact that HSBC  had agreed  to give F a temporary facility lasting four 
Ref: DRN33037863months, when three months is usually the maximum. It would be contradicted by the fact that 
when in March  Mr E refused to extend his personal guarantee  (after hed agreed to do that 
on 8 February), HSBC  did not insist on it. It would ignore the fact that having offered to 
extend the facility to May, HSBC actually  extended it to August, and then again to 
November. And it would ignore HSBCs offer to convert the overdraft into a loan, almost a 
year after the facility had originally  been due to be repaid.
The delay is regrettable, but everything else that HSBC did suggests that it was acting  in 
good faith and was doing what it could to help to keep Mr Es business  afloat.  I recognise  
that it is easy for me to say this with the benefit of hindsight, knowing what  was to happen in 
the following  months, whereas Mr E had to decide what  to do amidst  these  events, prior to 
the formal extension in March and amidst his uncertainty about  how the matter would turn 
out. But its not my role to judge the propriety of his decision; rather, its only to decide 
whether I can fairly hold HSBC liable for it, and for the consequences which ensued.  Ive 
read everything hes told us, but I dont think it was foreseeable by HSBC  that Mr E would 
decline to invoice Fs client and give up on £18,000 of income which, one month earlier,  he 
had told HSBC he expected F to receive in February 2017.
I think that the decision not to insist on extending the personal guarantee, and the refund of 
some interest, were  fair compensation for the delay. I therefore  do not uphold that part of this 
complaint.
In November 2017, as Ive said, HSBC  offered to change the overdraft into a fixed-term  loan. 
Mr E agreed to that, and believed that nothing more needed to be done to implement this 
agreement. So I can understand  his disappointment at being told, a few days  later,  that a 
condition of this loan would be that he would have to give a personal guarantee for it. 
However, this often happens  during  loan applications,  and I dont think it was an 
unreasonable condition to ask for. £20,000  which had been due to be repaid nearly a year 
earlier was still outstanding, and the overdraft limit had been  exceeded  by £8,000.  I dont 
agree that HSBC  had to discuss alternative options  with Mr E when he refused to accept the 
loan under that condition. HSBC was entitled to call in the overdraft instead.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E, on behalf  of 
F, to accept or reject my decision  before 22 November 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3303786