K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that AmTrust Europe Limited unfairly declined their claim under a 
new home warranty.
background
Mr and Mrs P bought their home in May 2018 and benefitted from the transfer of a building  
warranty. A HomeBuyer  Report was completed by a surveyor  in January 2018 and in its 
introductions opening  paragraph states If you decide  not to act on the advice in this report, 
you do this at your own risk.  
In section H3 General   the report notes  that Building works are present on land to the front 
of the property. Boundary fencing  to this boundary is weathered and leaning  and there  are 
gaps in the fencing. You are recommended to make further enquiries  as to what  measures, if 
any, are being  put in place to minimise  the risk of slump, possibly affecting the subject 
property. 
And within the same section there  is commentary  about the rear garden which mentions low 
brick retaining walls.  And while no signs of serious defects were noted the report 
recommends inspection by an appropriately qualified  builder  before  committing  to purchase  
the home.
Mr and Mrs P instructed a surveyor because  since moving in to the home theyd noticed the 
driveway to the left-hand boundary sinking. In turn this was pushing  the boundary  fence 
over. They were concerned that a small retaining  wall, which was already distorted,  would  
give way damaging their property.
The surveyor notes the retaining wall (to the left of the home)  consists  of concrete posts and 
gravel boards,  and a fence is constructed on top. Its pointed out that the wall has failed 
causing the driveway to sink along  the left-hand side,  and a drain  running  along the left hand 
side is collapsing and will cause a serious  problem to the building  if further movement 
occurs. And this might  lead to the sewage system  for the home being cut-off. The surveyor  is 
clear that the retaining wall is totally inadequate and will fail and that the home owner 
purchase survey noted distortions on the left-hand boundary, but solicitors did not flag the 
problem.
 AmTrust didnt accept  the claim for the replacement of the boundary  wall because the claim 
didnt meet the requirements of (terms  in bold defined in the policy);
Major  damage
To the housing unit
Caused by a defect in the design,  workmanship, material or components of;
oThe structure
oOr the waterproof elements of the waterproof envelope
AmTrust said the retaining wall and fence didnt form part of the housing unit. And while  
drains had been  alluded  to as a contributing factor to the driveway  subsidence there was no 
such evidence to support  this. 
AmTrust also relied on a term in the policy that excluded its liability  where the policyholder  
had knowledge  of anything that would constitute  a valid claim prior to buying the housing unit 
Ref: DRN32315802and agreed a price  reduction.  The issue of the wall and fence had been  raised  in pre-
contract enquiries and Mr and Mrs P had agreed a £500 reduction with the seller.
Solicitors for Mr and Mrs P said the surveyor had also concluded the retaining wall was part 
of the driveway  constructed  to keep it level. And if the driveway collapsed  then this would 
cause damage to a roadway (the driveway) within the perimeter of the property. They said 
the policy specifically  covers load-bearing walls necessary for stability of any path or 
roadway within  the perimeter. And they explained  that the drainage  pipe was covered too 
because its location  was a design  defect and failure of the retaining wall would cause  the 
drainage pipe to fail.
One of our investigators  explained her view that AmTrust had fairly declined the claim based 
on prior  knowledge. Mr and Mrs Ps home purchase report identified  an issue  with the 
leaning fence and the possibility of slump and recommended further enquiries to minimise  
the risk. The investigator  said Mr and Mrs P had accepted a £500 reduction  in the purchase 
price with assurances about the fence. 
She wasnt satisfied there was enough evidence to show there was a defect in the draining 
pipe as the problem was the retaining  wall and not the drainage  system.  And it would only 
become affected  in the event the retaining  wall collapsed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy involved  in this complaint is not one that was sold directly  to Mr and Mrs P, rather 
it was one they benefitted from as their house  purchase fell within the first 10 years the 
policy covered. 
Notwithstanding the definitions of various  words  and phrases in the policy, there are several 
policy exclusions including one that excludes AmTrusts liability  where;
8. PRIOR KNOWLEDGE
Anything which would constitute a valid claim under the Policy and about which the 
Policyholder was aware prior to purchasing the Housing Unit and as a consequence  
agreed a reduction  in the purchase price for the Housing  Unit or other contractual 
remedy.
Its understandable  why AmTrust would seek to exclude claims in these  circumstances as 
insurance is there to cover the risks of specified events happening rather  than certainties. 
The challenge of the prior  knowledge exclusion is that, while Mrs P says she did all the 
paperwork during  the conveyancing of the house  purchase with the seller and solicitors, she 
thought the issue was with the fence only.  
The home purchase report for Mr and Mrs P showed that the boundary fence was in a 
relatively poor state leaning, with gaps and weathered. And in the same paragraph describes 
the risk of slump and recommended that Mr and Mrs P make further enquiries as to what 
measures were put in place to minimise  said risk. 
Ref: DRN32315803Contained in enquiries between the relevant solicitors are two separately enumerated points; 
one for the fence  and another regarding the slump. The replies to these enquiries in March 
2018 were that no further works  would  be undertaken for the fence. And separately,  the 
sellers solicitors said their client had no knowledge  (of the slump  risk) and Mr and Mrs P 
must rely on their own inspections. Mr and Mrs P negotiated a £500 contribution from the 
seller, which  was effectively a reduction  in the sale price. 
Ive seen an email exchange between the seller and developer of the adjacent site from 19 
January 2018,  so before pre-contract enquiries and completion. The developer  makes  it 
clear that the main  issue is that the site has been  built up without correct  support being 
given. And the row of gravel boards and cut down concrete posts retaining the sellers 
ground is not a suitable construction for the property. Its not our role to investigate the 
conduct of the solicitors  involved and why this issue wasnt  raised more  prominently with Mr 
and Mrs P. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs P face a significant  amount of costs to rectify  the issue  and that 
theyd only negotiated a relatively  nominal amount in price reduction.  And, that had they 
known the extent they wouldnt  have  bought  the property. But Im not persuaded  that 
AmTrust has treated them unfairly. 
The professional parties  in a conveyancing process  have their own regulatory or industry  
standards. The surveyor in the home  purchase  report identified a risk associated with the 
observation about  the leaning boundary fence. And solicitors  asked  about  this in enquiries  
with the sellers solicitor.  The issues faced by Mr and Mrs P may be more  properly  directed 
at the other professional parties involved but thats  something theyd need to explore or take 
advice on from a lawyer or Citizens Advice  Bureau. 
In all the circumstances it would not be fair or reasonable for me to require AmTrust to pay 
Mr and Mrs Ps claim. Thats because a risk with the boundary  and slumping was identified  
and Mr and Mrs P negotiated a £500 contribution from the seller.  They  received professional 
advice during the conveyancing process  and thats not something AmTrust was party  to. 
Given the identification of the risk, and the fact that it was considered sufficiently relevant to 
instruct solicitors to investigate the issue further,  Im satisfied Mr and Mrs P were aware of 
an issue which would constitute  a valid claim under the Policy.  In addition, Im satisfied Mr 
and Mrs P were aware prior to purchasing  their home, and therefore agreed a reduction in 
the purchase price  or other contractual remedy, namely the £500 contribution.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25  April 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3231580