K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with how Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) handled  a Subject 
Access Request (SAR) he made in relation to his account.  
background
Mr S holds a current account with Nationwide, and in March 2019  he submitted a SAR.  
Nationwide responded in April 2019, but Mr S didnt receive everything  that shouldve  been 
sent to him. Nationwide initially  told him everything had been sent, but it later discovered there 
were copies of some  calls which hadnt been. So it apologised, provided the copies and paid 
Mr S £150  compensation. 
During the course of his complaint Mr S had a number of telephone calls with Nationwide   
and he says he was offered  an additional £150  compensation  during one of these  
conversations. Nationwide explained this was an error, it said the complaint handler who Mr S 
spoke to was unaware £150 had already been  paid. So it wouldnt pay another £150 to Mr S. 
Mr S remained unhappy,  so he brought his complaint  to our service. One of our investigators 
looked at the case, and she thought Nationwides apology and compensation payment of £150  
was fair in the circumstances.  She was also satisfied that Nationwide didnt mean to offer a 
further £150, so she didnt  think it needed to pay this to Mr S. 
Mr S disagreed, he said Nationwides complaint handler breached two of five conduct rules  
in not acting with integrity,  and not doing what is best for the customer. He also didnt agree 
the offer of an additional £150 was a mistake. So the case has been passed to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given Mr Ss point about breaching conduct rules, I 
think its important to be clear that I will have regard for relevant law  but if Mr S has concerns 
about compliance Id suggest he speaks with the Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO).  
Here Im deciding how Nationwide handled  Mr Ss SAR request   and the impact to him of any 
perceived breach.
Nationwide doesnt  dispute it made an error   its acknowledged it gave Mr S some wrong 
information, and I think it accepts the data it issued by the SAR deadline didnt cover  
everything Mr S asked for. It apologised for the wrong information it gave and for not sending 
everything within the one month timeframe. It also paid Mr S £150 in compensation. 
Ive thought about the impact on Mr S of having  to wait to receive what he shouldve  been 
sent. I can see from Nationwides customer contact notes Mr S spoke to them a number of 
times throughout the course  of this matter.  So I can clearly see he had to spend  time trying to 
resolve things. But given Nationwide recognised its error, apologised for how it handled his 
SAR and provided the missing calls around three weeks after its initial  response  I think  £150  
is a fair amount  in the circumstances.  
Ref: DRN38772382Mr S doesnt  agree  with our investigator who said Nationwide made  an oversight when its 
complaint handler  offered an additional  £150. He thinks the complaint handler at Nationwide 
knew exactly what had happened  previously,  so would have been aware a payment had 
already been made. Mr S feels  something  was promised to him, and it wasnt  delivered. 
As Ive said above,  Im satisfied £150  is a fair amount in compensation for the inconvenience. 
And having listened to the call where this additional £150 was discussed, I think  its more 
likely than not Nationwides case handler made a mistake.  I say this because  the call was 
focussed around the wrong information Nationwide initially provided, and the case  handler 
wanting to apologise for their previous error. Ive not seen anything  to suggest Nationwide 
wanted to offer Mr S another payment of £150. 
So although  I appreciate Mr Ss strength  of feeling  about how Nationwide  handled  things, Im not 
persuaded another offer of compensation was meant to be made. This service isnt here to 
punish a business for its mistakes, so I dont think its fair to ask Nationwide  to pay another  £150.
my final decision
Im satisfied Nationwide has already made  fair settlement in this case  with regard to how it 
handled Mr Ss SAR, and the inconvenience it caused him. So Im not going  to instruct it to 
do any more. 
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3877238