K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Admiral Insurance  Company  Limited incorrectly cancelled her 
contents insurance policy and failed to notify her.
background
Miss R had a contents insurance policy with Admiral that was due to renew on 23 December 
2018. Admiral automatically applied for payment for the renewal on this date. On 
24 December Miss R called Admiral to change her registered payment details and renew  the 
policy. The call handler didnt realise a payment application had already been  made  using 
her old details, which meant that the payment using the new details couldnt be processed.
The original  payment application  subsequently  failed, as the old card had expired. Admiral  
wrote to Miss R on 25 December to let her know the policy  would be cancelled if she didnt 
pay the amount  due within  seven days.
Miss R received this letter on 23 January 2019 and called Admiral. It explained that her 
insurance had been  cancelled on 14 January due to the problems processing the payment 
from her old card. However, it reinstated the policy and took payment  from her new card 
over the phone. Miss R was unhappy  that Admiral had cancelled her policy without notifying 
her. She also said she should be receiving communication by email  rather  than post and if 
the letter had been sent by email, she would have  received it in time to rectify the problem. 
She complained to Admiral.
Admiral upheld Miss Rs complaint as it accepted it had made  a number of mistakes. 
It confirmed it had already  reinstated the insurance  and that it included the period when the 
cover was cancelled.  It also said it had set her communication preference  to email rather 
than post. It apologised for the poor service she had received and gave her £50 
compensation. 
Miss R wasnt  happy with Admirals response  as she said it had misunderstood her 
complaint. She said Admiral shouldnt have cancelled her policy  and had misled her about 
the reasons it was cancelled. She brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  uphold  the complaint. He accepted  that 
Admiral had made a number of errors,  but said that as it had now put these things right, it 
wouldnt need to do anything further.  He said, as Miss R only had to make one phone  call to 
correct the errors, he wouldnt ask Admiral to pay any more compensation on top of the £50 
already paid.
Miss R didnt agree with our investigator. She felt that Admiral had misled her about why the 
original payment hadnt been taken. She said her bank had confirmed that a payment had 
never been processed from her card, but Admiral  had said the payment had failed. She also 
said it had taken more  than one phone call to put everything right and it had caused  her a lot 
of inconvenience.  She asked  for the complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN33130992Since the complaint came to me, Admiral  have explained that it was the payment application 
made against her old card details that failed.  It said the second payment, with her new 
details, was never processed because another payment application was already being  
processed for the policy at the time it was registered. Miss R has confirmed she now 
understands Admirals  explanation about the payments and it matches the information 
provided by her bank.  
Admiral has accepted it made a number of mistakes  when handling the renewal  of Miss Rs 
insurance policy. I agree that it hasnt provided  good service to Miss R. However, it has 
taken action to put things  right. It reinstated  the insurance cover and agreed to include  cover 
for the period it had been cancelled. This means  even if a claim arises that was during that 
period, the policy  would still provide cover. Admiral  also set Miss Rs communication  
preferences back to email, with a commitment  to provide printed documents  as well, on 
request. I therefore think Miss R is back in the position she would have been, had it not 
made these  mistakes.  It isnt the job of this service to punish businesses  for making 
mistakes, but instead to put things right if they do. As Admiral has already taken action to do 
this, I think this is reasonable and I dont think it needs to do anything further. So the only 
thing left to consider is whether the £50 compensation it has given, is enough to make up for 
the inconvenience these mistakes have  caused  Miss R.
Miss R found out that her insurance policy had been cancelled when she called Admiral on 
23 January. Before this point, she wouldnt  have  realised there was any problem with the 
insurance. Therefore  the inconvenience  she would have experienced was from the point she 
found out on the call. 
I appreciate it would have been worrying for Miss R to find out that insurance  cover she 
thought she had, had actually been cancelled. This would  have  caused  her to panic and 
would have been frustrating as it was due to mistakes made by Admiral  and not herself. 
However, Admiral took action during  the call to rectify the problem. By the end of the call, 
it had restored the cover and set her communication preference back to email. So, the 
impact of the mistakes  would have been limited  to just that phone call. 
Miss R went on to make a complaint, as she wasnt happy with the service shed received 
because of the mistakes  Admiral made.  I appreciate this meant she had to continue  to 
correspond with Admiral,  which  may have  been inconvenient and stressful. However,  
Admiral sent its final response to her complaint less than a week after she made it. In their 
final response, they apologised  for the mistakes they made.  This means  from the time Miss 
R found out there was a problem, and the problem being addressed and explained,  was 
around a week. Therefore, I dont think the inconvenience caused to Miss R was significant  
enough to ask Admiral  to pay any further compensation. 
For the reasons  I have  outlined, although I agree Admiral made a number of mistakes,  
I think it has done enough to put things right. It has also acted  quickly  to rectify  the mistakes,  
which would have reduced the inconvenience  caused to Miss R. Considering Admiral has 
already paid Miss R £50 compensation,  I think this is enough  to make up for the 
inconvenience it has caused. I therefore  dont  require Admiral to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN33130993my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint. I therefore  do not require 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3313099