K822xcomplaint
Mr M has complained about the Aviva UK Digital Limited handled a claim against  him under 
his motor policy.
background 
Mr M said he was at a petrol  station  when he reversed into a car behind. The other driver 
was very abusive and tried to get Mr M to give him cash there and then. However,  the 
garage wouldnt let him take out that amount of money through  cash  back. Mr M also didnt 
get all the details of the other  driver in these  circumstances.
Mr M reported the incident  to Aviva. It said it would notify him if a claim was made  against  
him. It also confirmed that it would  provide  him with the opportunity  to pay for the claim so he 
could keep his No Claims Discount (NCD). Mr M didnt think  there was any damage  to the 
other drivers  car. He did however notice some  pre-accident  damage on it, which he said 
couldnt have  been made by his car, as it looked  like the car had been damaged by a pole. 
The other driver made  a claim through an accident  claims  company a couple of months  later. 
Aviva didnt tell Mr M this. It also settled the other drivers claim and stepped back Mr Ms 
NCD. 
Mr M complained to Aviva. Aviva agreed  it didnt do what it had promised it would and that 
this was unacceptable. It apologised and paid Mr M £125 compensation.
Mr M remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator  didnt think  
Aviva did anything wrong in settling  the other drivers claim but its service to Mr M could 
have been much better. So she thought the compensation to Mr M should be raised to £200.
Aviva agreed but Mr M didnt, so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Mr M obviously went through quite a traumatic time at the time of the accident given the 
unpleasantness of the other driver and the demands  for cash.  However given the 
circumstances of the accident,  as Mr M said he was reversing, its extremely  unlikely Aviva 
could have ever defended  this accident in his favour. Therefore, I dont think Aviva did 
anything wrong  in seeking to settle the other  drivers claim.
The other driver appeared to make his claim via a claims management company instead of 
through his own insurers. That sadly does tend to increase costs  due to the fact the other  
driver used the hire car option whilst his own was being repaired.  But that isnt Avivas  fault.  
And I understand Mr Ms contention, that he didnt cause that amount of damage to the other 
drivers car and that there was pre-accident damage  to the car as well. The other drivers car 
was repaired before the claim was made  to Aviva, which didnt help matters either.
But Aviva said its engineer was clear  that it was reasonable such damage  costing  £2,258 
could have been inflicted in such a low speed  crash. And given the hostility  of the other 
Ref: DRN36539922driver at the scene  of the accident, Mr M wasnt able to get his details. So taking all this into 
account, I dont  think  Aviva did anything wrong  in settling the claim plus £504.08 car hire 
charges.
What Aviva did do wrong was completely fail to keep  Mr M updated and failed to keep its 
promise to him to allow him pay the claim in order to keep his NCD. It has acknowledged  
that, and Mr M has also confirmed he wouldnt have been in a position  to pay the claim in its 
entirety, but could have  paid it over time. 
So were  left with a situation  where its reasonable this is a fault claim on Mr Ms record  
which in itself most probably  would affect  his future  premium amount regardless of the 
situation with his NCD, since the fact of the accident would also need  to be disclosed going 
forward. And its unlikely  Mr M would have been  able to pay the claim back to Aviva in full, 
but might  have been able to over time. 
Consequently, I consider  the right outcome here is for Aviva  to pay Mr M compensation. I 
agree with the adjudicator  that £125 wasnt enough, and that it should now be increased to 
£200. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Aviva UK Digital Limited to ensure it has paid Mr M a total of £200 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3653992