K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the maturity value of his Phoenix Life Limited mortgage endowment 
policy. He says the policy should have  grown  by about £20,000 more than it did since it was 
made paid up in 2009.
 
background
Mr R took out this with-profits mortgage  endowment  policy  in 1993. 
In 2002 Mr R complained  about the suitability of the policy  and he received just under 
£13,000 in compensation  in January 2003. This was worked out using the regulators  
guidance (commonly  known as RU89) and involves comparing the position a person is in 
with the position they would have been in if theyd taken a repayment mortgage instead. The 
idea is that the compensation  can be accepted, the policy surrendered and those sums paid 
to the mortgage.  The mortgage is then switched to a repayment basis so the element of risk 
is removed. If the policy  is retained  it is at the policyholders risk and on the understanding  
theres no guarantee of how much will be payable at maturity.
Mr R kept the policy  but in 2009 stopped paying the premiums so it became whats known as 
paid up. This means no further premiums are paid, but the policy stays in force  until its 
maturity date.
Mr Rs policy  matured in June 2018  for just over £64,000, and he complained  the value 
should have been around £84,000.
Our investigator told Mr R that we couldnt consider the original sale, and that the maturity  
value couldnt  be guaranteed as it was linked  to the policy  performance. She said Mr R had 
been kept informed over the years of the policy value. Mr R didnt agree and so its been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont regulate financial firms,  so I cant tell Phoenix how to run its business;  thats  a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. I can only uphold  this complaint if I think  its the 
fair and reasonable to do so, which will usually mean finding that Phoenix has done 
something wrong. I dont  think  it has and Ill explain  why.
Mr R and Phoenix entered into a contract. Mr R agreed to pay a monthly premium and 
Phoenix agreed to provide life cover  during the term. It also agreed to provide  an investment 
which, if anticipated growth rates were met, would reach a target  amount.
This is where the problem has arisen. The hoped-for  growth  rates havent been  reached  - far 
from it - but they were never  guaranteed.  A shortfall  was always possible.  Of course,  no-one  
thought that would happen but it doesnt change the nature of the contract. 
Mr R was sent annual  statements  which showed the rate at which  the policy  was growing. 
So Im satisfied Phoenix has kept him informed over the years,  rather  than it being a surprise 
when the policy came to mature  last year.
Ref: DRN30426112With hindsight Phoenix might have made different investment decisions. I dont know. Its 
unlikely to have  been in the interests of the fund managers to perform badly and Im sure 
Phoenix would have wanted  the fund to do as well as possible. I cant  use hindsight in 
making a decision.  The fund performance has been disappointing but thats not unique  to 
this fund or this business. Investment conditions changed and many  policies  didnt reach 
their target amounts. I havent  seen  anything to persuade me that Phoenix  mismanaged the 
fund or acted negligently.
Mr R says the policy should have grown at a level equivalent to an interest rate of about 3% 
as thats what he could have expected had he invested the money into a safe low return 
investment product himself. But thats not relevant here as Mr R didnt surrender the policy 
and invest it elsewhere  himself. We cant use hindsight when reaching  our decisions as that 
would be unfair, as in that case everyone  would  always have made  exactly  the right financial 
decisions at exactly the right time. Mr R had the option to surrender his policy and invest the 
proceeds himself and he chose not to. I cant hold Phoenix liable  for that decision,  and it 
would be entirely  unfair  of me to order  Phoenix  to now match the returns  Mr R says he could 
have achieved himself.
The performance was disappointing and I can well understand why Mr R is unhappy about 
that. But Im not persuaded Phoenix did anything wrong or that it would  otherwise  be fair 
and/or reasonable for me to uphold  the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr R to accept or reject  my decision before 24 April 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3042611