K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Openwork Limited told her she could transfer an existing  investment 
into another bond without encashment. It also did not warn  her that value of the bond could 
fall before encashment. It also delayed things, which has exacerbated her losses.
background
In 2018 Mrs H met with Openwork concerned about  the management charges on her bond 
and the potential implications of her brother still being named on it.
Openwork largely  rejected Mrs Hs complaint, saying it was never possible to just transfer 
funds from one bond to another without  encashment  and it was satisfied  that its advisor 
would have explained this. According to its account, this is what had occurred.
After several meetings  Mrs H said she was looking to surrender the bond  in its entirety with a 
view to reinvesting the proceeds. The advisor obtained the bonds value of £104,746 on 15 
August 2018,  with an updated value of £104,669  on 7 September (£76 less).  
On 19 September  the advisor met Mrs H and recommended the surrender/reinvestment, 
outlining that even after taking account  of the new advice fee the overall  fees would be lower 
via the new bond and that there would be no surrender charges. It said Mrs H decided  to 
reinvest £91,500 and keep  the remaining £13,246 (after charges). As this plan differed from 
Mrs Hs original intention to fully encash the bond the advisor  said she would have to go 
through the figures again to check the switch  was still advantageous.  She also said she told 
Mrs H that the current surrender value could not be guaranteed.
Due to holidays on both sides, Mrs H and the advisor were not able to meet again until 11 
October at which time Mrs H signed  the completed  surrender forms. On 25 October  Mrs H 
received a cheque  for £101,607, the full surrender value as of the relevant date.
On 12 November 2018 Mrs H said she wanted to reinvest £85,000 before she went away  on 
22 November but then decided to leave  things till she returned on 8 December. Thered 
been no further contact and the money  remained  uninvested.
Openwork said it had reassessed  the comparative  bonds and was satisfied that the 
recommended switch would have lessened  the reduction in yield  even taking account of the 
advisors new fee. 
However, it recognised  that Mrs H had not apparently been aware that most of the money 
wasnt going to be just transferred to the new bond and was very surprised to receive  the full 
surrender. She had seemingly been expecting  to just receive the money shed asked to be 
encashed. It said that the advisor had explained that the bond would need to be fully 
encashed and that Mrs H had signed the full surrender  forms but in lieu of the apparent 
misunderstanding it offered her £200.
It explained that the fall in the value of the bond between the initial valuation and the 
surrender date was beyond  its control.  It also did not accept responsibility for the delay in 
surrender or reinvestment, saying Mrs Hs changed instructions and subsequent holidays 
made this unavoidable.
Ref: DRN30108042Mrs H did not accept  this and brought her complaint to this service, saying she wanted  
£3,000 in lieu of the fall in value of her bond, Openworks fee of £1,500 to be returned plus 
£1,000 for loss of investment potential and trouble and upset.
An investigator at this service felt there  wasnt sufficient evidence  to safely  say that the 
advisor had told Mrs H that the bond  had to be fully encashed in order to transfer  the money 
to a new bond but she noted that Mrs H had signed  a full surrender form. So, on balance,  
she didnt think it was possible  to be certain about what  had and had not been said.
She didnt  think Openwork could be held responsible for the fall in the value  between  the 
initial valuation and the surrender date or for the various delays in encashment.  So she felt 
Openworks offer of £200 was reasonable.
Mrs H did not agree, and said:
She was never warned that she could or would receive less than the valuation 
presented to her and Openwork had not produced  any evidence that it did write or 
inform her of this
She was told she could transfer  a percentage of the value without surrendering the 
bond
She signed the surrender forms on the basis of what the advisor had told her
Her complaint  is based on the fact that she received  less than shed been promised
If shed simply  wanted to encash  the bond  she would not have needed Openwork to 
be involved or charge  her a fee
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important to clarify that my role is to assess whether a business has done  something 
and, crucially, if the complainant suffered (primarily  financially) as a result of any error or 
mistake.
In this case this second  point  is key. Mrs H was only ever entitled to the value of the bond  on 
the date of the surrender/encashment. So Openwork could never guarantee any specific  
figure. To financial advisors  and experienced investors this may seem self-evident so I think  
it is possible that the advisor failed to make this clear  to Mrs H. But, like the investigator,  I 
dont think there is sufficient persuasive evidence to go beyond  saying that Mrs H was 
clearly not aware  of this and that the advisor  may have failed to spell this out.
But theres no evidence  to show that Mrs H would not have gone ahead  with the proposed  
encashment if shed been aware  that the surrender sum wasnt  guaranteed. She wanted to 
reduce the overall charges she was paying and retain some  of the proceeds in cash. I see 
no reason why she wouldnt have gone  ahead with her instruction if shed been fully aware 
that the surrender sum couldnt be guaranteed. While the value of her bond  did fall during  
the hiatus it could equally have risen so I dont think it is obvious that she would have acted 
differently (by, for example, pushing through the sale quicker) if fully aware  of this issue.
Also, from what Ive seen,  the recommendation was still on course to reduce the fees Mrs H 
paid on her investment  irrespective of the value  of the bond on the day of encashment. 
Ref: DRN30108043Further, I dont think the evidence shows that Openwork  was responsible  for the delay in 
surrender or Mrs Hs decision not to instruct it to reinvest the money.
From what  Ive read Mrs H wanted  to reduce her investments charges, get advice about any 
tax liability from a surrender/reinvestment and where to reinvest most of this money. So I 
dont agree that she had no need for financial advice or that Openwork failed to address 
these concerns. So, overall, I think its offer of £200 for the apparent  misunderstanding  was 
fair and reasonable.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3010804