K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs P say The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as NatWest) mis-sold them 
the PPI. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint  copy of which  attached and forms part of 
this decision. I set out the background to the matter and explained why I didnt think Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. In summary  this was because  I didnt think the PPI was 
unsuitable for Mr and Mrs P.
NatWest responded  to say it didnt have anything further to add. Mr and Mrs P responded 
and confirmed they didnt agree with my provisional decision. In summary they say:
-They found a statement  in my provisional  decision  misleading.
-Their recollections are correct and they werent  told the PPI was optional. They were 
told they required it. Whether the PPI was right for them or not is irrelevant. The point 
is whether it was sold to them  as a requirement of their mortgage and this was most  
definitely the case.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still dont think this 
complaint should  be upheld.
Im sorry  for any confusion caused by the statement in my provisional decision. This was a 
typographical error and the sentence should  have read I currently  dont think  the PPI was 
mis-sold.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P feel strongly that the PPI was sold to them  as a requirement 
of their mortgage. But I cant uphold their complaint  based solely on what  they say they 
remember happening. All of the other  evidence  thats available  suggests  they would have 
known it was optional  and that they had a choice  about taking it out. So, on balance,  I still 
think its more likely  they chose to take it out knowing they didnt have to.
Mr and Mrs P have  also mentioned receiving  payments in relation to PPI from RBS.  They  
say theyre confused about this because  the only credit they had with RBS was this 
mortgage. Ive checked  with RBS and it told me it has paid compensation to Mr and Mrs P in 
relation to a separate  complaint about  a different credit agreement. If Mr and Mrs P want 
more information  about this, they should  contact  RBS directly.
Ref: DRN36469272my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 June 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36469273copy provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in 2004. Mr 
and Mrs P say The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (trading as NatWest) mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs P arranged  a mortgage with NatWest that completed in March  2004.  A PPI policy started  
at the same time. It looks like originally this provided  cover for Mr and Mrs P with the benefit  of £620 
being split equally between them. At this time it cost £31.74 a month.
The mortgage  was ported to a new property in April 2004 and then in July 2004 Mr and Mrs P applied 
for a further advance  of £70,000. It looks  like this further borrowing completed in August 2004. The 
PPI was later amended, in September  2004, so the benefit would  cover this extra borrowing. So it 
became £940 and again  this would  be split equally between them. The monthly  cost went up to 
£48.13.
NatWest said the PPI provided cover for Mr P only but I think its likely it was initially set up to provide 
cover for both Mr and Mrs P but when Mrs P turned 65, the cover  automatically transferred to Mr P 
only.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
I currently dont think the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Mrs P say they were led to believe they had to have  the PPI to get their mortgage and the 
further advance. I accept that this is how they might remember the sale. But for me to uphold  their 
complaint on this basis I need to be persuaded that their recollections of events that occurred many  
years ago are more likely than the alternative, where they were told the PPI was optional and they 
chose to take it.
Theres no evidence  to support Mr and Mrs Ps recollections. The paperwork from the original sale,  
from when they applied to port their mortgage and when the further advance was taken  out, all 
suggests the PPI was optional   its referred to as optional and there was a separate  PPI application 
form and direct debit theyve  completed. And the mortgage  offer for the further advance says When 
we completed the mortgage  application with you over the telephone you indicated you did not require  
Mortgage Repayment Protector. It goes on to explain  what they can do if they change  their mind.  As 
the PPI wasnt amended until after theyd already received their further advance, it seems likely they 
did change their mind.  This suggests they chose to amend the PPI, knowing  they didnt  have to for 
NatWest to agree to the further advance.
Having carefully considered this point, there isnt enough for me to conclude its more likely than not 
NatWest gave Mr and Mrs P the impression their mortgage application wouldnt  be successful if they 
didnt take out PPI.
Ref: DRN36469274NatWest says it didnt advise Mr and Mrs P to take out the PPI. But Mr and Mrs P say it did. Its 
possible NatWest said to Mr and Mrs P it would  be a good idea to take out the PPI, and as the 
mortgage adviser  had some  information about their circumstances,  as a result of going  through  the 
mortgage application, Mr and Mrs P took this to be a personal recommendation. But even if NatWest 
did recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, meaning it should  have checked it was right for them, 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was.
As Ive already said, although NatWest said in its final response letter that the PPI covered Mr P only,  
I think  its likely it was originally set up to provide joint cover. I say this because  all of the 
documentation, including the application forms, confirms this is what Mr and Mrs P wanted.  When  Mrs 
P turned  65, the cover  would automatically  transfer to Mr P. And I think  thats why the insurer told 
NatWest the policy only provided cover for Mr P when  Mr and Mrs P complained.
Arguably, it would be have been more suitable for the PPI to be set up to cover Mr P only at the 
outset. Mrs P appears to have had little need for the unemployment  cover it provided. She had been 
working for her employer for nearly 24 years,  so if she was made  redundant, shes likely to have 
received substantial redundancy pay. Also,  to claim  for unemployment, she would need to be actively 
looking for a new job. Given her age and length  of service with her employer, I think  its unlikely she 
would have done this. So the unemployment  cover doesnt  seem like it would  be useful for her.
Having said that, I do think she could  have  benefited  from the accident and sickness cover and all the 
cover provided  by the PPI seems to be suitable for Mr P. Had the PPI just been set up to provide 
cover for Mr P from the outset, it would  have cost the same as the joint policy they took out. So Mr 
and Mrs P havent lost out financially as a result of the PPI being  set up in joint names, rather  than 
just in Mr Ps.
Mr and Mrs P say they didnt need  the PPI because they were in secure employment and the terms of 
their employment were  very generous as far as sick pay was concerned. But just because Mr and Mrs 
P had worked for their employer for a long term, there was nothing  to guarantee that this would 
continue. As Ive already explained, Mrs P probably  didnt have  much need for the unemployment 
cover. But Mr P had been  employed  for less time and his redundancy pay is likely to have been 
significantly less. I also think its more likely he would  want/need  to find a new job if he was made  
redundant, so he would have been able to benefit  from the unemployment cover.  
Mr and Mrs P originally told us they would have received at least  three months full pay from their 
employer if they were  off sick. More  recently they told us they would  have received  at least six 
months full pay. But either way, if either (or both) of them had an extended absence from work 
because of sickness  or they had an accident, after their sick pay stopped,  I think  theyre  likely  to have 
struggled to continue  to pay their mortgage. So the PPI would have been useful  and given  them 
peace of mind  that at least their mortgage repayments would be made. 
So while I accept Mr and Mrs P could have got by without the PPI for a while, it does seem like they 
did have some need for the cover it provided.
As both Mr and Mrs P were in full time, permanent  employment and have told us they were in good 
health at the time, it doesnt seem like they would  have been affected by any of the exclusions  to or 
limits on the PPI cover.
Its possible the information NatWest gave  Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But as Ive already  explained, I think its likely they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have 
put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr and Mrs P paid on their PPI  and whether NatWest 
treated them unfairly. 
Ref: DRN36469275NatWest has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ps PPI was less than half of what  they paid 
for each premium. Weve looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on what  weve 
seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ps commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As 
thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about  the commission  so I dont think NatWest 
treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs P back any of the commission 
they paid for the PPI. 
my provisional  decision
I dont plan to uphold this complaint.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3646927