K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs M bought the policy in 1995 and it protected her repayments on a store  card.
 
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  because:
Due to the length  of time since the PPI policy was sold,  there are no copies of any 
paperwork completed at the time of sale. This isnt surprising. 
Mrs M hasnt  complained that she was told she had to take PPI or that she didnt 
know shed taken PPI. Her complaint largely  is about the policy  not being explained 
and her not needing it.
After our adjudicators assessment her representative stated It was done at the 
checkout of a busy storeIn these situations  it was common that the store  staff 
would complete the form for the customer and just pass it to the customer  to 
sign..It is likely that the box would have  already been ticked when  it was passed to 
Mrs M to sign.
Even if the box was ticked and the store was busy, Mrs M didnt  have to sign the 
application form until shed had an opportunity to read the form.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that the PPI was presented  as optional 
and Mrs M agreed to take it out.
Ref: DRN35799782I dont think that FICL recommended the PPI to Mrs M, so it didnt have to check if it 
was right for her. 
But FICL did still have  to give Mrs M good  enough  information so that she could 
decide if the policy was right for her and if she wanted to take it out.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Mrs M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ms comments, including what shes said about her sick pay 
entitlement meaning that she didnt need PPI. But this PPI policy  would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay that Mrs M received and for longer than she would have received full 
sick pay. 
Having this PPI policy  would also mean  that Mrs M would have the option of being able to 
use her sick pay entitlement to help pay for other  living expenses that she may have had. In 
addition, Mrs M hasnt  indicated that she had any other  means for making her repayments  of 
she was made unemployed, whereas the PPI would help protect  her financial position. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 July 2019
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3579978