K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr S in 2004. The policy  was taken out 
when Mr S was applying for a mortgage,  and provided cover  if he couldnt  work because of 
accident, sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Lloyds gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr Ss needs?
- Did Lloyds give Mr S the information  he needed to decide whether to take out the 
policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr S 
is worse off as a result. That is, would he have done something different  such as not taking 
out the policy  if there hadnt  been  any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr S says Lloyds didnt make it clear  to him that he had a choice about buying the cover.  Ive 
noted everything Mr S has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr S and Lloyds 
when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these  events took place many  years ago, and 
that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ive also looked  at the documentation that was completed at the time. It seems  Mr S had to 
complete an application form for the PPI which was separate to the mortgage application. So 
I think Mr S wouldve  realised that they were two different  products  and that buying the PPI 
wasnt a condition of getting the mortgage. 
Ref: DRN37947122So without anything  else to support  what Mr S has told me, I havent  been able to safely 
conclude that Lloyds didnt make him aware that the policy  was optional.
Lloyds accepts that it advised Mr S to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time.  I say this 
because:
- Mr S was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mr S says he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer  if he was off work because 
of sickness or accident, and that he had some  savings. But the PPI wouldve paid out 
in addition to Mr Ss employer benefits and would do so, it seems, for longer. Having  
the policy in place would mean Mr S could use his employer benefits and savings to 
pay for other expenses. So I think the policy wouldve  provided  a useful benefit to him 
if he couldnt work. 
- Mr S wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (such  as those 
affecting people  with pre-existing medical conditions, or those who were self-
employed). As Mr S could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think it 
unlikely he needed better  advice or information about  the policys  exclusions and 
limitations.
- It seems  the cost of the policy was set out in the application  form, and I understand it 
may have been free for the first year. So I think Mr S wouldve known how much  he 
wouldve been paying for the cover and found it acceptable. The policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr S would have  
made a different  decision if better  information about the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But as Ive already said, Mr S wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr S would 
have made  a different decision if better  information had been provided  overall,  I think  he 
would still have taken  out the policy.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:  
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN37947123my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Lloyds Bank plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 July 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3794712