complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold them  a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  with a loan.
background
Nationwide sold Mr and Mrs M a PPI policy  with a loan in 2002. The cost of the policy was 
added to the loan and attracted interest. The loan and PPI was due to run for three years, 
but the loan was repaid  early. Only Mr M was covered  under  the policy. He was covered for 
accident, sickness and unemployment.
Mr and Mrs M said, in summary, that PPI was sold to them without their knowledge and it 
wasnt made clear that it was optional. They said they were shocked to find they had PPI 
and if it had made clearer to them, they wouldnt have  taken  PPI. They  said they took out 
their loan (with the PPI attached) in a branch,  and not on the phone,  as Nationwide  had 
said. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed, so the case was passed to me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken  this into account  in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
As some of the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory, Ive made  a decision on what  
I think is most likely  to have happened  based on whats available. Ive also looked at the 
documentation available from the time of sale, to see what this says.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive seen the credit agreement that Mr and Mrs M signed to take out the loan. Theyve  
both signed to take out the loan with PPI. I wasnt present at the meeting, so I cant know  
what was or wasnt discussed. Ive listened  carefully to what Mr and Mrs M have said.  
But, I also note that this policy was sold quite some time ago and memories  can fade over 
time. Mr and Mrs M said they went in to a branch to take out the loan (with PPI attached). 
I think they are probably right about  going  into a branch, as I can see that they have 
signed the loan paperwork. But, I also think that Nationwide may be right too, and that the 
sale of the loan and PPI took place on the phone and Mr and Mrs M then went into a 
branch to sign the paperwork.
The loan agreement  sets out the cost of the PPI separately in a column headed Optional 
Credit Insurance. This lists the amount borrowed for PPI, the amount of interest for PPI, 
the total amount payable for PPI, the interest  rate and the monthly payment for PPI.
The first column on the credit  agreement sets out the amount of the Principal Loan, the 
amount of interest payable, the total payable  and the monthly payment. Had Mr and Mrs M 
wanted a loan without PPI, this is what they wouldve had to pay. The middle column set 
out what they had to pay for the Optional Credit Insurance, as set out above. The final 
Ref: DRN36791932column set out the Total payment for the Principal Loan and PPI combined. Mr and Mrs M 
signed this agreement.
Based on what Ive seen,  I think the paperwork made it clear that PPI was optional, and Mr 
and Mrs M were clearly told the cost of it. I think it likely that had Mr and Mrs M wanted  a 
loan without PPI, they wouldnt have signed  this agreement. So, I cant fairly  uphold their
complaint on this ground.
I dont think Nationwide recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs M. But, it still needed to give them 
information that was clear, fair and not misleading  so they could make  an informed choice 
about whether  the PPI was right for them. 
I cant be certain about  all of the information  Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI. 
So, Ive considered,  whether if they had been  given  better information, it wouldve affected 
their decision. I cant see that it wouldve. In reaching this conclusion,  I have taken into 
account Mrs Ms circumstances  too, even though only Mr M was covered under the policy.
 It seems Mr M was eligible for the PPI and wasnt affected by any of the main 
things the policies excluded or limited cover for.
 The loan agreement  made it clear the PPI was an extra cost and set out what 
the costs were  both with and without the PPI policy.
 Mr M says he wouldve got sick pay from work,  so didnt need PPI. Mrs M was 
working too, and said she wouldve  got sick pay too if she was off sick. The 
policy wouldve paid out on top of Mr Ms sick pay. It wouldve covered their 
repayments until the end of the loan if Mr M was off sick, and for up to 12 
months per claim if he became unemployed. PPI wouldve allowed them to use 
Mrs Ms income and Mr Ms work benefits to meet their other household 
expenses at what might be a difficult time for them financially if Mr M wasnt 
working.
 They potentially could  have  got quite a lot more back from the PPI in claims 
than it cost. So I think they would have  seen it as protection that was worth 
having and it appeared affordable.
 Mr and Mrs M ended  their loan early. But it seems the policy  provided a 
proportional refund.  So, I cant see that Mr and Mrs M have lost out because  of 
this.
Taking everything into account,  I cant see that Mr and Mrs M have lost out because  of how 
Nationwide sold them the PPI.
Ref: DRN36791933my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3679193