K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that TSB Bank  plc delayed transferring funds to a different financial 
business. As a result, she says,  she missed out on the opportunity to invest in a lifetime  ISA. 
background
Mrs B wanted to open a lifetime ISA with a different financial  services provider, which  Ill call 
S. She wanted  to fund her lifetime ISA by transferring funds from a TSB ISA. S accepted  her 
application and sent it to TSB, so TSB could transfer the money. The application to S was 
dated 21 June  2018, and the application  said that would be the date of transfer for ISA rules.  
Ss own terms required Mrs B to fund her new ISA within 30 days  of the transfer  acceptance. 
TSB says it received the application on 3 July. It said it would usually arrange to make  
payment within  five working  days,  but there  was a delay  in this case. It issued a cheque  on 
17 July; S says it received payment on 26 July. By this time, however, S had closed Mrs Bs 
account, since it hadnt received any funds within 30 days.  It returned  the funds to Mrs B. 
By the time she got the money back from S, it was too late for Mrs B to open  a lifetime ISA. 
Thats because a saver  must be under 40 to open  a lifetime ISA. Mrs B turned 40 on 11 July 
2018.
Mrs B says that TSBs  delays in sending payment mean shes lost out on the chance  to have 
a lifetime ISA at all. She would otherwise have been  in a positon  to invest £4,000  a year (the 
maximum allowed)  for the next 10 years. Provided relevant conditions are met, the 
government will pay a 25% bonus on funds invested  in a lifetime  ISA, so Mrs B calculates  
her loss at some £10,000. 
TSB agreed  that it had delayed payment, but it didnt think  its delay had caused  the loss Mrs 
B claimed.  She complained to this service and one of our investigators considered her case. 
He thought it was by no means certain  that Mrs B would have been able to meet the 
necessary conditions of investment for the next 10 years, and so felt that compensation of 
£1,000 was appropriate. 
Neither Mrs B nor TSB agreed, and so I considered  Mrs Bs complaint. I concluded, 
provisionally (and in summary):  
TSB didnt receive the application  until 3 July.
Using  TSBs own usual timeframe of five working days  meant that payment would be 
processed on or about  11 July  Mrs Bs fortieth  birthday and, therefore, the day after 
government rules allowed her to open  a lifetime ISA. 
TSB accepted it hadnt processed  the payment as quickly  as it should have done. 
Even  if it the payment had been processed  in line with TSBs usual standards, I thought 
it unlikely that S would have received the payment and processed  it in time. I didnt think 
therefore that it would be fair to hold TSB responsible for the fact that the lifetime  wasnt 
opened before  Mrs Bs fortieth birthday. 
Mrs B didnt accept my provisional  findings and made further comments, which I summarise  
below:
Ref: DRN33397282TSB had suffered a well-publicised IT failure in April,  just two months before this 
episode, and Mrs B asked whether this had anything to do with the delay. 
S had confirmed  that the transfer  was in process on 28 June, and said that 80% of 
transfers took place within  seven working days.  
Mrs B was away celebrating her birthday, and it wasnt  until she chased TSB on her 
return on 17 July that TSB sent the money  to S. 
There is no similar product on the market, so she couldnt recover  her losses. 
She has lost at £4,000 as a result of not being  able to open a lifetime  ISA. 
Whilst the timeline  was tight, the account would have been opened in time if TSB had 
acted within their usual timeframe. 
She raised  a complaint with TSB in August  but kept receiving holding letters that didnt 
address her complaint.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ill deal in turn with each of the points Mrs B has made in response  to my provisional 
findings.
Mrs B is correct  in saying that TSB suffered a major IT failure  in April 2018. Shes explained 
that she was one of a relatively small number of customers who were  still experiencing 
problems with their account some  weeks later.  Shes asked whether this had anything  to do 
with the delay, but Im afraid  I dont consider the reasons for any delay to be directly  relevant 
to my findings here; my provisional findings  focused  more on the effect of any delay. I said 
that TSB had accepted it didnt process the application  for payment as quickly as it should 
have done, and I agreed that there was a delay. But the key point was that, even if TSB had 
processed the payment without unreasonable delay, it was likely that it would  still have been  
too late. Thats a conclusion I would  reach,  whether or not TSBs  well-known  IT problems 
had been a factor.    
S confirmed  that the application  was being processed on 28 June, a Wednesday. TSB said it 
received the application  on 3 July, the following Monday. I accepted  that in my provisional  
findings. In my view,  Ss confirmation  of 28 June is consistent with TSBs records  that it 
received the application  on 3 July; there were only two clear working days between  the two.  
I accept that Mrs B was away  and didnt return until 17 July. But by then it was too late to 
open the lifetime  ISA. I accept too that she should not have  had to chase TSB to find out 
what was happening,  and that TSB was slow to make the payment. But, as Ive explained, I 
dont believe  any delay  on its part caused  Mrs B to lose the opportunity to invest, given the 
very tight timescales  involved. 
I note too what Mrs B has said about her losses. It is, as she acknowledges, by no means 
certain that she would  have been able to invest the full amount allowed every year the 
account was open. I have  no doubt  nevertheless that she has lost out significantly on what 
Ref: DRN33397283she would  have received if shed been  able to open the account in time.  But I dont accept 
that TSBs  delays were  the cause of that. 
I understand Mrs Bs frustration; as she says, there is no similar product available to her 
now. The lifetime ISA was introduced in April 2018  and she had only a small amount of time 
in which  to open one before her fortieth  birthday. I agree too that TSB should  have  
transferred funds to arrive before they did (on 26 July). But Im afraid I cant  fairly  say that it 
should have transferred funds in time for S to open  the account  before 11 July. That might 
have been possible  but I dont believe that TSB is responsible  for the fact that Mrs B lost out 
on the opportunity  to open a lifetime  ISA. Even if TSB had made the transfer  immediately, 
she was still reliant on S to move quickly. 
Finally, I note what Mrs B has said about TSBs handling of the complaint. However, since I 
dont consider that TSB was responsible  for the fact that the lifetime ISA wasnt opened, I 
dont propose to make any award here. 
In conclusion, I agree that TSB didnt process  Mrs Bs application as quickly  as it should 
have done. However,  even  if it had done, I still dont believe that the lifetime  ISA would have 
been opened before  her fortieth birthday.    
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank  plc to do anything further to resolve Mrs Bs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3339728