K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr C bought the policy in 2002 at the same  time as taking out a store card.
 
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint because:
Although Mr C has said that he wasnt given the option about PPI, Ive not seen evidence  to 
support what hes said. I say this because Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs store  card application. 
On this form there was a section with the heading Protecting your account. Underneath this 
it states; Account  cover (only sign this box if you require Account Cover).  Yes, I would like to 
protect my Account with Account Cover
As Mr C has signed separately in this section to agree to take PPI, as well as signing the 
overall form, I think this indicates what he wanted. I cant  fairly say that Mr C wasnt  given an 
option about PPI even  though hes told us he didnt  usually take PPI with borrowing - in this 
case he signed to agree to take it.   
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it 
did still have to give Mr C good enough information so that he could decide if he wanted to 
take out the PPI. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. For example,  Mr C has said that at no time were extra costs mentioned during me 
taking this card out. I do not recall anything stating  costs  on the printed application for 
either. 
Ref: DRN33867652Whilst I think that the information on the cost of the policy  could have been  better,  I do think  
that Mr C would have,  at the very least, been  aware that there was some cost for the policy  
and that it wasnt  free. I say this because near the top of the application form it states; 
Costs just 1p for every pound on your monthly  balance and in the section where Mr C 
signed for PPI, it states; Please debit my Account with the relevant  monthly  premium  until 
further notice.  
When Ive considered Mr Cs existing means  alongside  the cost and potential benefit that 
this policy  could have  paid out, I dont  think that better information about  the policy would 
have changed  Mr Cs decision  about  taking the PPI. I say this because:
oThis policy may have  cost more than similar  policies sold around this time, but it 
did also offer a comparatively higher level of benefit to similar  policies. For 
example, this policy offered to pay 15% of Mr Cs outstanding  monthly  balance  at 
the time of the claim in the event of a successful claim, whereas other policies  
sold around this time normally offered a 10% or lower  benefit;
oThis policy could have paid out for longer than Mr Cs existing means, such as his 
sick pay entitlement likely would have lasted;
oAlthough Mr Cs family and friends may have wanted to help him make his 
repayments, they may not have been in a position to help when needed as 
circumstances can change; and
oMr C also doesnt appear  to have been affected  by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover  and based  on what I know about his circumstances it looks  
like the policy couldve been  useful to him. 
So I dont  think better or clearer  information,  including information on the cost of the policy 
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments,  including what hes said about  not being  given the 
full information  to make an informed decision . As Ive explained already, I dont think  that 
Mr C was given all of the information about  the policy, but in my opinion, even if he had been 
given better  information  I dont think that he would have made a different choice about  taking  
out the PPI and these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3386765