K822xcomplaint
Mr Bs unhappy about adverse information Barclays Bank UK PLC has entered  on his credit file. 
background 
Mr B contacted Barclays to advise  it that hed be making a monthly payment late. It wrongly 
told him this wouldnt  be recorded on his credit  file. Mr B says if hed been given correct 
information he wouldve  borrowed the money  elsewhere to make the payment. He wanst his 
credit file amended.
Barclays said in its final response that Mr B was told on 12 July 2018 that there wouldnt be 
a late payment marker on his credit report if he cleared  the arrears.  This wasnt the case. 
Here the payment was due in June  2018 and Mr B paid what  was owed during the call in 
July. So, the late payment  marker  is an accurate reflection of the account and it cannot  
change it. Barclays apologised for giving Mr B incorrect information  and said its offer of £100 
compensation still stands.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be partly upheld. She said:
The pre-contract information  sent to Mr B said any missed  payments would be recorded 
on his credit  file. But Mr B says he was told on the phone that this wouldnt  happen if he 
paid before  the next monthly  payment was due on his loan. But this wasnt correct.
Mr B says if hed been given correct information  he wouldve ensured the payment was 
met. But the evidence  suggests the payment date had already passed and he was 
therefore already too late to meet the required  payment  date when he made  a payment 
on the phone  believing  this would avoid the late payment marker being entered.  
Mr B was clearly worried in the calls that the missed  payment would affect his credit 
record. He made a payment and finished  the call believing his credit record wouldnt be 
affected. And it wouldve come as shock and disappointment  to him to later find out that 
wasnt the case.
Barclays has offered £100 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
But this should  be increased to a total of £200  as more couldve been done to ensure Mr 
B was given  correct  information and he experienced a significant amount of distress and 
it took time resolving  things.
Mr B doesnt  agree  and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says he was told on 
multiple occasions including in a phone call before  the payment was due that his credit file 
wouldnt be affected. He was ill advised and doesnt think the investigators proposed 
resolution is fair. He wants  his credit file amended and to be refunded  £719  in compensation.
Barclays says its happy to increase the compensation from £100  to £200.
Ref: DRN31079422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays says Mr B missed a payment for May and June  2018. 
Mr B was clearly worried about  his credit record when he rang Barclays and spoke to it twice  
on 12 July 2018.  During these calls Barclays says he was told whilst he paid any arrears, as 
he had an affordability  loan, this would show on his credit report. In addition  it said any late 
or missed payments would also show on his credit report.  It also says it told him that if he 
paid £722.18 before 15 July this wouldnt show as a missed payment on his credit report. 
But it says it didnt advise  that any other adverse data wouldnt show.
Mr B has said if hed been correctly advised  on the phone he wouldve borrowed the money  
elsewhere and made  the payment in time. But the calls were on 12 July which was after the 
payment was due.
The pre-contract information Mr B was given made clear that any missed  payments would be 
recorded on his credit file. And Barclays has an obligation to record  accurate information about 
the operation  of Mr Bs account. So, whatever he was told on the phone, I think it was entitled 
to record adverse information on Mr Bs credit file about the missed  and late payment.
As a result I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require  Barclays  to remove the adverse 
information from Mr Bs credit file as hed like.
Barclays accepts its advice to Mr B on the phone on 12 July wasnt clear and it offered £100  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. I agree with the investigator that 
this isnt enough compensation in this case.
Barclays has agreed to pay £200  as recommended by the investigator.  But Mr B says a 
payment of £719  compensation  would be fair for this. Im afraid  I think the amount Mr B 
seeks is too much. 
As a result of being given wrong or unclear information Mr B paid the arrears reasonably 
believing his credit  file wouldnt record a late payment marker. And, particularly given his 
individual circumstances,  it wouldve come  as an unexpected and unpleasant shock to 
him to find out later that this wasnt  the case. He was clearly caused  distress and 
inconvenience by this.
Taking everything into account,  including the level of awards  we make,  I agree that a 
payment of a total of £200 compensation is fair and reasonable to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience Mr B has been caused.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Bs strength of feeling and frustration, I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this complaint.
Ref: DRN31079423my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right I require Barclays  Bank UK PLC to pay Mr B £200  
compensation.
Barclays must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr B 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Barclays considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr B how much  its taken  off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3107942