K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Metro Bank  PLC didnt refund a payment she made  to a company she 
says was operating  a scam. 
background
In February 2018  Mrs C attended  a photo  shoot  with a company Ill refer to as S. She paid 
a £50 deposit in advance  to cover the costs of the photo shoot. The company took several  
photographs of her which she could potentially use to obtain  modelling work. She says she 
was pressured  and threatened into signing a contract for £3,850. She paid this using her 
Metro Bank  debit card. 
The contract Mrs C signed said she had purchased a number of photographs  to be supplied  
on a disc, most of which had been  digitally retouched. Also included  was an online portfolio 
and a digital  Z Card.  The contract  says that it is non-cancellable.
The following  morning Mrs C called Metro Bank to say she had made a payment the day 
before to S and has since realised it is a scam. She said she had reported that matter to 
Action Fraud and the police. She asked Metro  Bank  to get her money back  through  a 
chargeback. She also asked for her debit card to be cancelled as she didnt  want  S to be 
able to debit further amounts from her account.  
She told Metro Bank that she had been  promised a modelling contract and that she would be 
signed up to S agency. But after she left the studio  she says she realised  the paperwork 
didnt mention these  things   only the photographs  and the online portfolio. Metro  Bank said 
it would  need  evidence from Mrs C, such as a covering letter  about what  had happened and 
what she had done to try and resolve the issue with S first. 
Following that phone call Mrs C wrote  to S twice asking for a refund.  She explained that she 
had felt pressured and threatened to make a payment and sign the agreement and wouldnt 
have done so if shed been  allowed time to think it through. She said shed asked to make a 
call to her husband  before  making  the payment, but the staff hadnt allowed her to make any 
calls. She said shed been told shed  be signed up to S modelling agency  and she was 
already guaranteed two paid modelling jobs each paying £1,000.  She says S told her shed 
then be guaranteed as many as five assignments  (all with recognised  brands) each month, 
each paying a further £1,000, so shed  make back the £3,900  very quickly.
Mrs C said she didnt receive  a response from S to her letters,  so she went  with her friend to 
S studio  to hand  back the photographs to them in person. She took photos of her leaving 
the items  at their front desk. Mrs C sent the evidence to Metro Bank and it agreed to attempt 
a chargeback. 
S defended  the chargeback claim and provided copies of the photographs it had taken and a 
copy of the contract  Mrs C had signed. It said this showed Mrs C had got what  she had 
agreed to. Mrs C then made  Metro  Bank  aware  of newspaper articles about S and its 
director which had also alleged S was operating a scam. But as S had defended the 
chargeback Metro Bank therefore declined Mrs Cs claim. 
Mrs C complained to Metro Bank about the outcome of the chargeback.  Metro  Bank  said it 
had handled  the chargeback correctly, but it agreed  to pay her £20 compensation because  it 
had given incorrect information to her during the chargeback process.  
Ref: DRN39272722Mrs C asked our service  to look into her concerns. Metro Bank told us it accepts Mrs C was 
probably told something different to what she had signed in the written contract. And it was 
aware S and similar businesses had been in the media due to alleged  scams. So although 
Mrs C was likely to have been  the victim  of a scam there was no reasonable basis  to hold 
Metro Bank  responsible for her loss. 
I sent Mrs C and Metro Bank  my provisional  decision  on 27 March  2020. I explained why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. An extract of my provisional decision is copied 
below. 
Mrs C contacted Metro Bank  the day after she paid S to say that she thought  she was the 
victim of a scam. She said the services she was promised verbally werent  going  to be 
provided to her. As Mrs C paid for the services  using her debit card and wanted  a refund, 
Ive thought about whether Metro  Bank  dealt with that request fairly.  
The chargeback process  is relevant here. A chargeback  is the process by which payment 
settlement disputes  are resolved between card issuers and merchants, under the relevant 
card scheme rules. What  this means is that Metro Bank can in certain circumstances ask for 
a payment Mrs C made to be refunded. One of those circumstances is where the goods or 
services arent supplied or as described  by the merchant Mrs C paid. 
A chargeback isnt guaranteed to result  in a refund. There  needs to be a right to a 
chargeback under the card scheme  rules. And under those  rules  the merchant  can defend a 
chargeback if it doesnt agree with the request. If a chargeback is defended, the card issuer  
(in this case  Metro Bank) can make a second  presentment of the chargeback by providing 
further supporting  evidence.  If it is still defended  by the merchant, it can ask the card 
scheme provider to decide whether  a refund  should be given.  This final part of the 
chargeback process  is called arbitration.  
There is no obligation for a card issuer to raise  a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. 
But I would consider it good practice  for a chargeback to be attempted where the right exists 
and there  is some prospect of success. 
Regarding second presentment and arbitration,  there is also no obligation for a card issuer 
to take these further steps if the initial chargeback  is defended. But if the defence  from the 
merchant was weak or the consumer was able to produce further strong supporting  
evidence, I would consider it good  practice  for the chargeback process to be pursued  further.  
Ive kept this in mind  when thinking  about  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this case. 
Metro Bank  raised  the chargeback under the reason code for goods or services not as 
described. Mrs C provided a detailed account to Metro Bank of what  she was promised 
verbally as part of the contract, as well as proof that shed attempted to return the goods she 
did receive. So I think Metro Bank  acted  fairly  in raising the chargeback initially. 
When S defended  the chargeback, Mrs C provided further evidence by way of media reports  
that S was likely operating a scam. But Metro Bank declined  to pursue the chargeback  
further. I dont think that was fair and Ill explain why. 
Metro Bank  said it decided this because of how robust S response was to the chargeback. It 
said it provided a copy  of the contract, copies of photographs it took for Mrs C and gave a 
Ref: DRN39272723detailed written defence. But Metro Bank accepts Mrs C was likely to have been  the victim of 
a scam. Its own investigation into S revealed a number of concerning reports about  its 
activities which closely mirrored the circumstances Mrs C had described. So I dont think it 
was reasonable  for Metro Bank to conclude that S defence of the chargeback was robust 
enough to mean a second presentment (or arbitration) was more likely to fail.
Ive listened to the calls Mrs C had with Metro  Bank  while  it was dealing with her chargeback  
claim. Mrs C clearly  expressed her strength  of feeling about  her being a victim  of a scam. 
This coupled  with the evidence Mrs C had been able to provide, and what Metro Bank itself 
had located I think was sufficient to cast significant doubt on the written  defence  S had put 
forward which was simply just a denial of Mrs Cs allegations and nothing more.  
Metro Bank  says the written contract made  no mention  of Mrs C being  signed up to S 
agency or having a guaranteed modelling  contract. But Mrs C said what  was verbally agreed 
was different, and shed  been able to supply wider supporting evidence from the media  
reports that backed up what shed said. Mrs C was able to give strong  and detailed  
information verbally about what  she was promised. Further, I find it very unlikely Mrs C 
would have paid nearly £4,000 just for photographs. So I dont think it was reasonable to rely 
solely on the written contract and its terms as a reason  not to pursue the chargeback further 
 especially  given what Metro Banks own research had uncovered about S. 
The chargeback reason  code was for goods or services not as described. And Mrs C had 
said the services werent as verbally  described.  Im not aware that the card scheme  rules  
limit the description of the services  to be in writing only. Overall  Im satisfied Mrs C did 
sufficiently evidence that it was more likely she was told shed been  signed  up to S agency 
and had a modelling contract. Metro  Bank  also appears to agree  with this. 
Taking everything into account  I dont think Metro Bank acted fairly in dealing with Mrs Cs 
chargeback claim. This is because I think it ought to have more  robustly  pursued  the 
chargeback process  through to second  presentment and even arbitration if the second 
presentment were to be defended. This is because there was sufficient evidence to suggest  
Mrs C had been the victim of a scam and she hadnt received the services she believed she 
would receive. 
Its now not possible for Metro Bank to make  a second presentment  or take the dispute to 
the card scheme  for arbitration. I cant know for certain what  would have  happened  had 
either of these been attempted. But based  on everything Ive seen,  I think  its more likely 
than not she would have received her money back. 
It seems  all parties to the dispute  except S  believe Mrs C was a victim of a scam so its 
more likely than not the card scheme would have  taken  a similar view. Ultimately, Mrs C has 
lost the opportunity of having  her money  refunded. And as Ive said above, I think  she stood 
a more than reasonable chance of getting  her money back  either by second presentment or 
arbitration. So Ive thought about what a fair resolution should  be. 
As I think  the chargeback would more likely than not have succeeded had Metro Bank 
pursued it further, I think it should  now refund  the £3,850 to her. It should also pay 8% 
simple interest per year on that refund from the date it declined her chargeback claim to the 
date of settlement.  This is because Mrs C has been  deprived of the use of these monies. 
Metro Bank  accepts it didnt provide the best service  when it was dealing with Mrs Cs 
chargeback claim and gave her some incorrect information. Given this didnt cause  any 
Ref: DRN39272724notable delays in its handling of her claim I think the £20 compensation it has already paid 
for any upset it caused is fair and reasonable.
Both Mrs C and Metro Bank  accepted my provisional decision and had no further comments  
to make.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision and had no further comments  or evidence  
to provide, I see no reason to change the decision I reached. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Metro Bank PLC to:
Refund £3,850 to Mrs C, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date the 
chargeback claim was declined to the date of settlement. 
If Metro Bank considers  tax should be deducted from the interest  part of my award, it should 
provide Mrs C with a certificate showing how much tax its taken off. Mrs C can then reclaim 
that amount,  assuming she is entitled  to. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3927272