K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading under its Halifax brand)  has applied 
payments to credit card balance transfers in a way which means that he pays more  interest  
than he should.    
background
Mr H has made a number of interest-free balance transfers to his Halifax  credit card account 
from other accounts. There have been  four which are relevant to this complaint, namely:
in January  2017  a transfer of £1,302.47, expiring  in January 2019; 
in April 2017  a transfer  of £5,766.48,  expiring  in June 2019; 
in July 2017 a transfer of £2,639, expiring in October 2018;  and 
in October 2018, a transfer of £1,236  expiring  in November 2019.  
In each case, the balance  transfer figure includes the transfer fee. 
When Mr H received his credit card statement for September 2018, he noticed that it 
included notification that interest  would  be applied to the whole of the July 2017 balance 
transfer unless  he repaid  it by 14 October 2018. Although hed been making monthly  
payments, theyd been applied against the January and April 2017 balance transfers, but he 
still owed the full amount of the July 2017 balance  transfer  that is, £2,639. 
Mr H thought this must be an error. Halifaxs literature said that it would apply  payments  
against the most expensive part of the account  balance first, so it should have been applying  
his payments against the balance transfer  that expired  earliest. 
Halifax explained that, once the July 2017  transfer started to attract interest,  any payments 
would be applied against that part of Mr Hs overall balance  until it had been repaid. In the 
meantime, however, it had been applying payments in line with the account terms. They  said 
that, where there  were balances of the same type incurring the same rate of interest, 
payments would be applied against the oldest balance first. 
Mr H said he didnt think that was fair, because it would  cost him more.  If Halifax had applied 
his payments against the July 2017 balance transfer first, it would have been significantly 
less than it was by October  2018, and any interest applied after that date would have  been  
similarly reduced. Halifax maintained though that it had simply operated  the account in the 
way it had said it would in the terms and conditions, and that Mr H hadnt  been treated 
unfairly. 
Mr H referred  his complaint to this service, where  one of our investigators considered it. He 
agreed with Halifax  though, and so Mr H asked that an ombudsman look at the case, as the 
final stage in our process.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For a number of years  credit card businesses have been required to allocate payments first 
to that part of an overall debt that is subject  to the highest rate of interest, then to the next 
Ref: DRN39006442highest rate, and so on. That requirement  is currently set out in the Consumer Credit  
sourcebook (or CONC) of the regulators Handbook  at CONC 6.7.4. That rule sought  to 
address the previous practice  of some lenders to allocate payments against, for example, 
interest-free balance transfers, while  leaving cash withdrawal balances  to incur interest at a 
relatively high rate. 
Halifax says its terms and conditions  achieve  the aim of the relevant  regulatory rules. Those 
terms say, at section B7.4: 
We use your payments to clear any overdue  amounts  before we apply them  to your latest 
minimum payment.
We will reduce  the amount you owe in the following order:
any overdue amounts  from previous statements; then
the remaining  balance  on your statement; then
any recent transactions  not yet shown  on your statement.
We use your payments to pay off balances charged at the highest interest rate first and so 
on down to balances  with the lowest interest  rates. This means the more expensive 
balances are always paid off first.
If there is more than one type of balance at the same interest  rate, they are paid off in the 
following order: cash transactions, purchases, balance transfers and money transfers,  and 
then default charges (plus any interest or charges incurred as a result of those balances). 
For each type of balance, your payments will pay off the oldest balance (and  related 
fees, charges or insurance) first.
The emphasis is mine. 
Having considered the matter carefully,  I take the view that the account  terms do reflect the 
requirements of CONC 6.7.4. It also seems to me that Halifax has applied them as it said it 
would in Mr Hs case. Until October  2018, all the balances on his account were  interest-free, 
and so Halifax applied  his payments against the oldest  balance first  namely, the January 
2017 balance  transfer. 
I do understand Mr Hs argument  here, of course. His July 2017  balance transfer wasnt  the 
oldest, but  because it was the balance with the earliest end to the interest-free period  it 
would be the first to attract interest.  And Mr H is right to point  out that a different way of 
allocating payments would have been  less expensive for him in the long run. Neither the 
regulators rules nor the account  terms, however,  require Halifax to make that kind of 
detailed calculation or to anticipate how the account  might be managed in the future. 
Mr H says that at least one other provider allocates  payments  first against balance  transfers 
that are due to expire first, rather than those which were created first. I dont believe however 
that means that Halifax should do the same.  Nor would that necessarily  mean a customer  
would pay less overall, although  I accept  it might have been  better  for Mr H. The overall  cost 
would depend  on a number of things,  including other  use of the account  and the level of the 
balance transfers.  
Im satisfied therefore that Halifax allocated payments in the way it said it would. Until 
October 2018 interest was applied to all of Mr Hs debt at the same rate of 0%. The 
regulators rules say only that payments should  be allocated first  to the debt subject to 
the highest rate of interest  At the time of the allocations which led to Mr Hs complaint, no 
Ref: DRN39006443part of his debt was subject to a higher  rate of interest than any other. Overall, therefore,  Im 
not persuaded that the way Halifax allocated those payments  was unfair. 
Finally, Mr H says too that his September 2018 card statement arrived  late  in fact, a month  
after its date. Halifax acknowledges that it had problems with issuing statements. Whilst this 
might have been frustrating for Mr H, I dont believe it warrants  any compensation. The 
statement still arrived well before the payment due date, and in any event Mr H had set up a 
direct debit, so payment  would be made  on time, whether or not he received the statement.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to do anything further to resolve 
Mr Hs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr H to accept  or reject  my decision before  16 September 2019.  
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3900644