K820x#14complaint
Mr As complaint against TSB Bank plc (TSB)  concerns the inconvenience he was caused 
when he tried to upgrade  his account  online,  and thereafter when he complained.
background
In April 2019, Mr A tried to upgrade his TSB Classic Plus account online. But the outcome 
was that a second Classic Plus account  was opened. 
He was unhappy with this, so contacted  TSB. It explained that a notice was present on its 
website explaining that account  upgrades  werent available  at the time  albeit this didnt 
appear on customers individual  sign-in  portals, so he might not have seen it. It apologised 
for opening the second Classic Plus account,  and paid Mr A £29  including £4 for his call 
costs.
Mr A wasnt  happy with this, and brought his complaint to our service. He said he didnt  want  
the compensation, and wanted TSB to remove it from his account.  He wanted the second 
account to be closed, which hed been  told would be done automatically but hadnt been; 
and for a full explanation from TSB as to what had happened. 
He was also unhappy with the time hed spent on the phone; that TSB didnt call him back 
when it said it would;  that there was no timescale  for his complaint to be dealt with; and that 
the money was paid into his account with no advance notice, and TSB wouldnt take it back 
out. 
Our Investigator  looked  into matters and felt that TSB had already done enough to resolve 
Mr As complaint, by explaining, apologising and paying him the £29. He didnt feel it was fair 
to ask it to do anything else.
Mr A maintained that he remained  unhappy,  and wanted a call and explanation as to what 
had happened. So asked  for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that the steps  TSBs  already taken to 
resolve matters with Mr A have been  enough.
I know this will be frustrating and disappointing  for Mr A, but I hope I can explain why I think  
this is the right and fair outcome for both  parties. 
I can see that TSBs system caused  Mr A a problem, and that when he wanted  to upgrade 
his account he ended  up with another same  account. Its not ideal that he didnt see the 
notice advising that upgrades werent available.
In any event, while I can see why it might have been annoying for Mr A to have to seek to 
close the second account, I havent seen evidence to indicate that this itself caused  such  an 
adverse impact on him that the apology and compensation from TSB werent sufficient to 
resolve matters at that stage.
Ref: DRN34718572Mr A maintains he wants a call and an explanation. But its not clear  what he expects in this 
regard, and Im not sure it would take us any further forward. TSBs  system opened a new 
account of the same  type he already held, when he was looking for an upgrade. It then tried 
to put things right by paying him £29, and apologising. While I note Mr A didnt want  the 
money, I cant  say TSB acted unreasonably  in trying to resolve matters this way. I think the 
steps it took were  reasonable, proportionate, and taken in good faith.
Im sorry  TSBs service  wasnt as good  as it should have been. Mr As annoyed his second 
account wasnt closed  automatically, when he was told it would be, and that he didnt receive 
a call back he was promised. TSBs confirmed that he can call up to close the account, and I 
think the £25 its already  paid for its poor service is proportionate  to its other mistakes. I cant  
say that on any occasion  theres evidence it acted with malice or recklessness. 
Our service in an informal alternative to the courts.  We look at all the evidence, and reach 
conclusions on what we think  a fair outcome it to both parties. I dont think  what Mr As now 
seeking as a resolution to his complaint is clear, and therefore  I cant  say its reasonable. My 
view is, given everything I know  about this complaint that TSBs done  enough  already  to try 
to draw a line under  matters. So I wont be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3471857