K820x#14complaint
Mr W says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) trading as Halifax mis-sold him a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Mr W bought a Mortgage Protection Plan Insurance (MPPI) alongside a mortgage in 1996.
      
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr W disagreed so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
BoS had to make Mr W aware  that the MPPI  was optional and gain his consent before 
adding it to his mortgage. Mr W says he was told it was necessary to have the MPPI in order  
to get his mortgage. It isnt possible for me to know with certainty  what  was said at the time, 
and theres limited information available. But this isnt surprising considering  BoS arent 
required to keep this type of information indefinitely. From the information that is available I 
dont have enough to say BoS didnt present the MPPI as option,  or that Mr W didnt choose 
to take it out. 
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr W so it had to check that the MPPI  was right for him. 
Mr W has told us he would have been entitled  to generous  sick pay when he took the MPPI. 
He also had shares and some  savings. But the MPPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mr Ws sick pay and allowed  him to keep  both his shares and savings in place.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ws circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits  on the MPPI cover and he seems  to have had a need for the 
cover. So I think it was right for him.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr W about the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I think he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it 
seems like it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like it 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the MPPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said including that he has had a previous complaint 
upheld by BoS. But complaints are decided on their own individual merits and his other 
complaint wouldnt  affect  the outcome of this one. So these points dont  change  my decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN33260392Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 July 2019.  
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3326039