K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about three credit card debts of his that have  purportedly  been 
assigned to Cabot  Credit Management Group Limited (Cabot). 
Hes unhappy about the lack of information hes received from Cabot  about  the debts and 
how much  he owes.  
background
There are three debts, under which the original  lenders were respectively CitiFinancial, 
Halifax and Opus.  Cabot has accepted the debts are unenforceable  in court. But it has 
asked Mr T, via his representative, to agree  to an affordable repayment plan. 
Our investigator couldnt look into all the points Mr T raised, for example the original  
affordability of the debts.  But he did examine what evidence there  was of the debts having 
been assigned  to Cabot and of what was still owed. 
The investigator concluded:
The Halifax debt had been assigned to Cabot, and the amount said to be still owing 
appeared to be in order. There was no reason to stop Cabot from pursuing this debt.
On the basis of the available evidence, Cabot was entitled to pursue  Mr T for the 
CitiFinancial debt,  which  had been  assigned to Cabot. However, for the reasons the 
investigator gave, Cabot should  reduce the balance  owing by £196.94 and 
corresponding interest.
Revising his original  conclusion because of further evidence,  the investigator thought 
there was enough to show  that the Opus debt had been  assigned to Cabot. He also 
thought the amount Cabot  was asking Mr T to repay was correct.  So there was no 
reason to stop Cabot from pursuing  this debt. 
Cabot accepted the investigators conclusions. Mr T didnt dispute them further with regard 
to the CitiFinancial and Halifax  debts. Regarding the Opus  debt Mr Ts representative  wrote:
Cabot hadnt  been able to provide  any documentation for the former Opus  account  
that could adequately  prove the debt to be due and the sum that was owing.
Paragraph 5.8 of Office of Fair Trading Guidance on s.77, s.78 and s.79 of the 
Consumer Credit  Act from October 2010  (relating  to circumstances when  a creditor 
was unable to comply with the s.77/78/79 request)  stated The  OFT would  firstly 
expect the creditor  or owner to take steps to check that there was in fact an 
agreement with the debtor or hirer,  and in particular  whether there are in fact monies 
outstanding under  it, and if so for how much. This should be capable of being  
demonstrated to the debtor or hirer.
Without a copy agreement,  complete  statement of account and notice of assignment 
itself, Cabot couldnt establish a debt to be properly due, and so to continue  to 
pursue Mr T for a sum would be unfair.
Ref: DRN38588282my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Both parties  have accepted, or not further  disputed, the investigators conclusions  about the 
Halifax and CitiFinancial debts. Ive reached the same conclusions as the investigator  with 
regard to those  debts.
Regarding the Opus debt, Cabot has accepted its not enforceable by court action, and the 
ombudsman service has no power  to require Mr T to repay  the debt. The question  for us is 
whether we should stop Cabot from pursuing  the debt.
While the ombudsman service takes  account  of the relevant law etc, were  in the end obliged 
to decide complaints by reference  to what we think is fair and reasonable. My understanding  
is that Mr T doesnt deny  he had a credit card debt with Opus. The available  evidence has 
persuaded me, on the balance of probabilities,  that the debt was assigned to Cabot and that 
the amount said to be owing is correct. That being  so, I dont think I can fairly require Cabot 
not to ask Mr T to repay the debt. Im sorry to disappoint  Mr T. 
Like the investigator, I dont think Cabot should  pay any compensation for distress  or 
inconvenience. Mr Ts complaint has for the most part not been upheld. The ombudsman 
service hasnt concluded Cabot shouldnt pursue repayment of the debts. 
my final decision
If it hasnt  already done so, Cabot Credit Management Group  Limited should reduce the 
balance owing under  the CitiFinancial debt by £196.94 and the interest  thats built up on that 
amount. I dont require  Cabot to do anything more in relation to the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3858828