K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that he was mis-sold a Personal Contract Plan (PCP) for a new car by 
Mon Motors Limited as the annual mileage limited  wasnt suitable for his needs.
Background
In November  2017, as an earlier  PCP agreement was coming to an end, Mr S arranged  
to enter  into another PCP agreement for a new car. This new PCP was arranged  by 
Mon Motors and was for four years. Unlike the earlier PCP,  the annual  mileage limit for 
this second agreement was 8,000.  Mr Ss first PCP had had a limit of 12,000.
Mr S queried the lower mileage allowance with Mon Motors and said he was concerned 
hed exceed this mileage allowance as hed driven 29,000  miles in the three  years  of his 
earlier agreement.  But he was assured that this wouldnt be a problem  so long as he took 
out another new car after two years  and before the total limit of 32,000 miles had been 
reached.
Mr S raised  his concern about the annual mileage  limit on two further occasions with 
Mon Motors. Each time he was reassured  that exceeding the mileage limit wouldnt be an 
issue. nor would it incur additional costs.
Mr S then had cause  to raise a complaint  about a different matter  with Mon Motors. 
During its investigation into that unrelated matter Mon Motors reviewed the calls Mr S had 
had about the mileage  limit in his agreement. It then contacted Mr S and said that in light 
of his previous mileage limit, and the fact that the first car had been  returned with a 
mileage of 29,000  after three years,  it agreed  annual mileage limit of 8,000 wasnt  
appropriate and should have been 10,000.
Mon Motors offered  to pay Mr S £672 to resolve matters. This was equal to the cost that 
would be incurred if Mr S exceeded  his annual mileage limit by 8,000 miles during the life 
of the agreement and so allowed him to have an annual mileage limit of 10,000.
But Mr S was unhappy at this offer as he said that in reality he drove  an average of 
12,000 miles per year, and hed have  an outstanding bill at the end of the agreement for 
excess miles that hed still have to cover. So he complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint  should be partially  upheld.  She said 
shed listened  to the calls between Mr S and Mon Motors and it appeared hed been given 
misleading information about the mileage allowance. And he was never informed that hed 
be charged for excess  mileage if he exceeded the annual limit set in the PCP - regardless 
of when he handed the car back.
Our investigator also noted that Mr S had told Mon Motors he wanted to keep his monthly  
payments in the £250 to £300 range. And the agreement hed signed was for £305 per 
month, with the annual  mileage limit of 8,000.  But if the annual mileage limit had been 
increased then it was likely that the monthly  cost would also have gone up and he wouldnt 
have been able to keep his monthly payments  within  his budget. So our investigator didnt 
think Mr S would  be in a different financial position  than he was now,  as either hed have  
had to pay a larger monthly amount for a higher mileage limit or pay the excess  mileage at 
the end of the contract. So she thought  it was fair that Mon Motors had covered the cost of 
increasing the mileage  to 10,000 per year for the life of the PCP.
Ref: DRN35830732But she thought the misleading information had caused Mr S distress  and 
inconvenience and recommended that Mon Motors pay him £100 compensation for this.
Mr S disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said 10,000 miles per year didnt meet 
his needs as he drove 12,000. This meant he wasnt  able to use his car for two months  
each year to make sure he kept to the mileage limit. He said he wanted  to take the car back  
as hed been misled about the mileage  and didnt think the contract  had been  honestly sold.
As the parties  couldnt agree, the complaint was passed to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision along the following lines.
It was agreed that when Mr S arranged the second  PCP he was misled about the effect of 
the 8,000 annual mileage  limit. And that when he'd raised his concerns about  exceeding  the 
limit he was told that this wouldnt be a problem so long as he arranged to take another car.
And Mon Motors agreed  it was fair for it to cover the costs so that this agreement  was now 
in effect one with a 10,000 annual mileage  limit.
But Mr S said that Mon Motors offer wasnt sufficient and a 12,000 annual mileage limit was 
what fitted with his needs. Mr S said that hed insured  the car on the basis of 12,000 per 
year. He said he was facing either  having to pay an excess mileage charge when he 
handed the car back at the end of the agreement or not using the car for two months  each 
year. He said hed chosen not to drive the car for two months,  though hed still have to 
make the monthly  payments under the agreement.
Although I was satisfied  that Mr S had chosen the car he wanted, I believed  he was 
induced to enter into the agreement by the misrepresentation of a material fact. I accepted 
that had Mr S been aware that under  the terms of the agreement  the finance company 
could charge him for any excess mileage over and above the 8,000 miles per year 
provided for in the contract, he wouldnt have entered into the agreement.
Mr S was also told that he could return the car after two years, and as long as he hadnt 
driven further than the total mileage  limit set by the agreement  (32,000) hed have nothing 
extra to pay. Mr S said this was what hed intended to do. However under the agreement 
Mr S could only voluntary  terminate the contract once hed paid 50% of the total amount 
payable which was £15,575.5. And if hed exceeded the 8,000 miles per year mileage limit, 
then this would also attract  an excess charge. So I was satisfied he was also misled as to 
when he could return the car.
The issue  for me to decide was what would be a fair settlement in these circumstances. 
Usually where misrepresentation had arisen then the remedy  was to put the consumer 
back in the position theyd  have  been if the misrepresentation  hadnt arisen. That was, to 
cancel the contract  and allow Mr S to return the car.
Mon Motors had offered  to cover  the cost of 2,000  extra miles for each year of the 
agreement, but I didnt  think this offer went far enough. Mr S was clear  he needed 12,000 
annual mileage limit, and it was only the reassurances hed received that had led him to 
taking the agreement with the lower limit.
I appreciated there was a cost implication  for an agreement with a higher mileage limit, but I
Ref: DRN35830733didnt know what that extra cost would  have been. However, I was aware it was likely to 
have been less than the excess  mileage fee rate provided for in the agreement.  And I 
couldnt say that Mr S paying for an additional 2,000  miles  per year as an excess  charge at 
the end of the agreement wouldnt have cost him more overall than if hed simply taken an 
agreement with a permitted mileage of 12,000 per year at the start.
So looking  at the evidence, I thought the fairest way to resolve  Mr Ss complaint was for the 
contract to be cancelled  with nothing further  to pay and for Mr S to return  the car. 
Mon Motors must also reimburse him his deposit of £2,940 with interest. And any excess  
mileage charges should be covered  by Mon Motors.
Mr S had also asked that he was reimbursed the two monthly  payments hed made 
when he wasnt able to use the car in order to keep the mileage at 10,000 per year. 
These two payments amounted  to £600. However, I didnt think  a full reimbursement of 
£600 was fair in these circumstances. Mr S had chosen not to use the car in order  not 
to incur excess mileage fees, which although understandable I didnt think was a 
proportionate action when looking at how much  using the car would have actually cost 
in excess charges. Looking at the cost per mile,  if Mr S had used the car for those two 
months it would  have cost him around an additional £75 per month.
I agreed having the agreement misrepresented and not being  able to use the car as 
hed wished has caused Mr S distress  and inconvenience. I thought  compensation in 
these circumstances  of £300 was fair and reasonable  to reflect  the impact this has had 
on him.
So looking  at the evidence, I intended  to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Mon Motors disagreed  with my provisional  view. It said that at the time the second  
agreement was being set up questions would  have been asked of Mr S about  his use of his 
previous car. It also said that it was recorded  that Mr S had said he needed a mileage limit of 
8,000 miles per year for the second PCP. 
Mon Motors said that it was likely a change of circumstances  had arisen after Mr S had 
entered into the second PCP which had led to his need for 12,000 miles per year limit as 
there was no evidence hed needed  this limit earlier. Hed driven the first car for 29,000  miles 
despite having a limit of 36,000. Mon Motors said it didnt agree with the way the salesman 
had dealt with Mr S but thought that 10,000 miles per year limit would have been agreed at 
the time as suitable for Mr S.
Mon Motors said that it had offered Mr S a discount  on his next car.
Mr S said that he hadnt used the car for a total of four months in the past two years hed had 
the car and that it would be fair for the payments for those months to be reimbursed.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mon Motors says that its offer of covering  the costs of an extra  2,000  miles per year that 
Mr S had the car is fair and that this would  have matched Mr Ss needs  at the time he took 
out the second agreement. But I disagree. I appreciate that its recorded  Mr S needed  a 
Ref: DRN358307348,000 miles per year limit but I think Mr S has always  been consistent about  his mileage 
needs. He also says that when he took out the first PCP he didnt  have the job he now has 
but knew that he was going to be driving  around 1000 miles per month  in the future so took 
out the 12,000 mile per year agreement to ensure he had the mileage limit he needed.
As the salesman wasnt open about the impact  of an 8,000 miles per year limit when dealing 
with Mr Ss second PCP agreement I cant reasonably accept that Mr Ss needs were 
accurately recorded  at the time this agreement was being discussed. Nor do I think  I can I 
say that the appropriate  enquiries were  made  when discussing what Mr S needed from his 
next agreement.
So Im satisfied Mr S wanted  and needed an agreement with a 12,000  miles per year limit 
and that Mon Motors  offer didnt go far enough in addressing his complaint.
Mr S says that he hasnt  driven the car for a total of four months in the two years  he has had 
it. He says that didnt  want to add to the already chaotic situation hed found himself  and 
was scared to use the car due to the surrounding  uncertainty and the length of time it was 
taking to resolve the situation.
While I appreciate Mr S was concerned about the excess mileage fees he may have had to 
pay I still dont think his solution of not using the car at all for that period was proportionate  to 
the actual cost he was facing.  So I think compensation for not being able to use the car as 
he would  have wished  is an appropriate  and fair way of resolving this. And I still think  £300 
compensation is fair when looking at the inconvenience  and distress  caused to Mr S.
Ive seen that Mon Motors  has provided  a discount on another  car for Mr S. I think  that 
shows good customer service but I dont  think  its fair I take account of that when looking at 
this complaint. I dont  know whether that was a discount it could offer to other customers and 
not something specific to Mr S.
So looking  at the evidence again  I havent  changed  my view and Im upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Im asking  Mon Motors to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr S.
Cover the cost of any excess mileage fee thats  been incurred (unless  the 
payment of £672 has already been  made  to Mr S).
Reimburse Mr S his deposit of £2,940 together with interest at the yearly rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Pay Mr S £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding Mr Ss complaint. And to resolve  this complaint fairly 
Im asking Mon Motors Limited to do the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
Arrange to collect the car at no cost to Mr S.
Cover the cost of any excess mileage fee thats  been incurred (unless  the 
payment of £672 has already been  made  to Mr S).
Reimburse Mr S his deposit of £2,940 together with interest at the yearly rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement.
Ref: DRN35830735Pay Mr S £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3583073