K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complained that Lloyds Bank  PLCs linked business  led them to believe that 
life cover was a condition  of the mortgage  offer and that they did not need  this cover. 
background
In June 1997 Mr and Mrs P applied for a mortgage which was turned down by the first 
lender. Their adviser then arranged a mortgage with another  provider and they agreed to 
take out a life insurance policy to support it. They say he told this was a condition  of the 
mortgage.
 
The adjudicator who assessed this case was unable to locate definite evidence that life 
cover had been a condition  of lending and accepted  Lloyds assurance  that it hadnt been.
She noted that Mr P was self-employed  and Mrs P also worked; they had one dependent 
child and did not have any life cover for the amount and duration of the mortgage they were 
taking out. 
She said that even  where life cover is not a condition it is considered  sensible to arrange 
appropriate cover, and is therefore generally  a reasonable recommendation. This is because  
if one person passes  away,  the remaining spouse  may find it difficult  to repay  the 
outstanding mortgage. This is particularly the case  where  there are children involved.  As 
such she did not believe that the recommendation was an unsuitable  one.
Mr and Mrs P said the advisor insisted that they take out the life insurance policy hed 
recommended even though this was linked to the earlier  mortgage  application  which had 
been rejected.  He strongly implied the new mortgage required it as well.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to uphold  a complaint I need  to conclude that there is sufficient,  persuasive  
evidence to say that the business clearly  did something wrong. In this case, that the advisor  
told them  that they had to take out life insurance and/or this policy in particular in order  to 
obtain the mortgage in question.
I simply dont  feel there is such weight of evidence.  I have considered Mr and Mrs Ps 
recollections, and I have no reason to doubt them,  but I dont this evidence alone is sufficient 
to uphold this complaint.  The key meeting occurred more  than 20 years ago and  Lloyds is 
adamant the advisor would not have told them the policy was compulsory when it wasnt.  As 
Mr and Mrs P cancelled  their policy 10 years ago I would not expect Lloyds to have retained 
a full file including, for example, a suitability letter (something which  might  have offered 
further evidence  about what was said at the time).
Finally, Id like to confirm that this policy was not a form of PPI but a standard  life insurance  
policy designed to pay off a mortgage in the event  of the policyholders death. As such it did 
not have the drawbacks of a typical PPI policy, such as eligibility to claim  issues,  which have  
come to light in recent years.
Ref: DRN36291362my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 June  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3629136