K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc will not refund them  money they paid to a 
fraudulent company.
background
Mr and Mrs I say they used their HSBC debit  card and made several  bank transfers from 
their HSBC account to pay a total of £30,450 to a holiday company. They  say the products 
and services were misrepresented to them and, therefore, they have a right to claim a 
chargeback from HSBC.
HSBC says it could  not refund the money as the payments were made outside the timescale 
set by Visa and the scenario did not meet the criteria  for fraudulent  transactions.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She explained that the 
chargeback rules meant that the claim was out of time as it could only be brought within 540 
days of the date of a transaction.  She added that Section 75 didnt apply as the payments 
werent made using  a credit card. So our adjudicator said HSBC didnt act unfairly by not 
raising a claim.
Our adjudicator also looked at whether the transfers  should have caused concern to HSBC  
at the time. She concluded that it shouldnt have - there were  no widespread concerns about 
the holiday group at the time, and Mr and Mrs I would have confirmed their intentions  to 
make the payments had HSBC asked.
Mr and Mrs I responded to say, in summary,  that they would never  have paid by debit  card 
had they known the restrictions, that banks, including HSBC, are now compensating 
customers for similar cases and that there  was widespread evidence  of the wrongdoings of 
the holiday company.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have considered  three possible 
alternatives for Mr and Mrs I to claim money  back from HSBC as follows:
Section 75
Section 75 allows, in certain circumstances, someone buying  goods and/or services on 
credit to claim against their credit provider over the actions of a third party supplier. 
However, in this case, the various  payments made  by Mr and Mrs I were on their debit card 
or by bank transfer. As such, HSBC was not acting as a credit  provider  so Mr and Mrs I 
cannot claim against the bank under Section  75.
Chargeback
Chargeback is the process by which disputes are resolved between card issuers  (in this 
case, HSBC)  and merchants (the holiday company).  Chargebacks are decided  based on the 
card scheme's rules (Visa)  and timescales  for submitting a chargeback are quite strict. While 
there are a number of different  timescales  that can apply,  as an overall timeframe to bring a 
dispute, Visa allows  up to 540 days since the transaction in which to dispute  it.
Ref: DRN39798362The last payment Mr and Mrs I made  on their debit card was 27 April 2015. They would then 
have had until October 2016  to dispute the transaction. As they didnt contact HSBC until 
2018 about the payments,  HSBC  would have been unable to raise a chargeback claim, so I 
cant conclude it was wrong not to do so.
Suspicions of fraudulent  activity
Finally Ive considered  whether it would have  been  reasonable  for HSBC to have identified  
these payments as suspicious. Although I acknowledge that the owners  of the holiday 
company have now been prosecuted, I cant see that there were widespread concerns 
between 2011  and 2015 when Mr and Mrs I made their payments. Im satisfied that, had 
HSBC contacted Mr and Mrs I at the time,  the payments would have been authorised. I say 
that because Mr and Mrs I clearly  wanted to make the payments and were  satisfied  
themselves that it was a legitimate purchase. So even  if HSBC had flagged the transactions  
here, I think  its most likely they would  have proceeded with them at the time. So I dont think 
it would  have been reasonable to expect HSBC  to have identified the company as 
fraudulent.
In summary,  although I very much sympathise with the position in which  Mr and Mrs I find 
themselves, I cant conclude HSBC is obliged to refund any of the money.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3979836