K821x#15Complaint
Mr P says PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, lent to him irresponsibly.
Background
Mr P had ten loans with Mr Lender. Ive summarised  some of the information Mr Lender provided 
about these loans in the appendix to this decision.
An adjudicator considered  this complaint  and thought it should be upheld  in part. He didnt  think  
loans 1 to 7 were unaffordable for Mr P. But he did think  the pattern of lending  from loan 8 
onwards ought to have caused  Mr Lender to realise further lending from that point would  be 
unsustainable or otherwise  harmful for Mr P. So he recommended Mr Lender put things right in 
respect of loans 8 to 10.
Mr Lender didnt agree  and neither  did Mr P (who thought other loans were also unaffordable)  so 
the complaint was passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  
short-term lending - including  all of the relevant  rules, guidance and good industry practice - on 
our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr P could repay  
the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different 
things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment  amounts  and the consumers income 
and expenditure.  With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These  factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make  any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could  be more difficult  to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period  of time 
during which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending  itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying  that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably  repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN36090512Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might  be an indication  a consumer  
could sustainably  make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case.  This 
is because the Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular  the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. The previous regulators (the OFT) Irresponsible Lending Guidance  (ILG) 
defined sustainability  in similar terms and applies to some of Mr Ps earlier loans.  It follows that a 
lender should  realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont be able to 
make their repayments  sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
Our adjudicator explained that proportionate checks for loans 1 to 7 would most  likely have  
shown that Mr P could  afford to repay these loans.  Mr P has disputed this, particularly in relation 
to loans 1 to 3. He says that for loans 1 to 3, the income he declared  to Mr Lender was £2,100  a 
month  not £2,800 (which he says is only correct for loan 4 and onwards).
Im not persuaded  that what Mr P has said means that proportionate checks  wouldve suggested  
loans 1 to 3 were unaffordable. I say this because in this stage  of the lending  relationship, I think  
it wouldve been reasonable for Mr Lender  to rely on what  Mr P told it about his income and 
expenditure. By Mr Ps own admission, he didnt  always provide  Mr Lender  with accurate 
information about his credit commitments. So even if Mr P had told Mr Lender his income was 
£2,100  I cant say that gathering further  information  about his expenditure, and in particular  his 
credit commitments,  wouldve  led Mr Lender  to conclude loans 1 to 3 were  unaffordable.
There was a long break between loans 3 and 4. So when Mr P returned for loans 4 to 7, 
I think it wouldve  still been  proportionate  for Mr Lender to rely on what Mr P told it about his 
income and expenditure.  I dont think Mr Lender carried out proportionate  income and 
expenditure checks for all of these later loans. Loan 7 in particular was a long-term commitment, 
so I think Mr Lender shouldve obtained detailed  information from Mr P about his outgoings 
(including regular and short-term credit commitments).  But for essentially the same reasons  as 
Ive given for loans 1 to 3, I dont think proportionate checks, such as asking Mr P for detailed 
information about his expenditure, wouldve led Mr Lender to conclude loans 4 to 7 were not 
sustainably affordable.
I understand from what Mr P has said that throughout  most of the time he was borrowing  from 
Mr Lender, he also borrowed  from other payday, guarantor  and alternative lenders.  This is 
evidenced on the credit  file hes provided. 
Ref: DRN36090513I think its likely that Mr Lender  wouldve been aware of some of these loans, as it says it carried 
out credit  checks.  For example, theres a loan on Mr Ps credit report from another provider which 
runs from September  2013 to September 2014 with a monthly payment of £162   and this would  
overlap with loans 2 and 3. But many of the other loans  he mentions  fall between his loans  with 
Mr Lender, or start on the same day (or close to) or after his loans with Mr Lender were 
approved. So its not clear that Mr Lenders credit check  wouldve  always suggested  Mr P had a 
lot of active loans elsewhere  at least not to the extent that it Mr Lender ought to have  realised 
the loans  Mr P was asking  it for were  unaffordable.
I entirely understand why Mr P has highlighted the above  points. But bearing in mind that 
I think for loans  1 to 7 it wouldve been reasonable for Mr Lender to largely rely on what Mr P was 
telling it, I dont think the points  Mr P has raised  mean I should uphold the complaint about loans 
1 to 7.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern  of Mr Lenders  lending history  with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Mr Lender should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans.
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ps case,  I think  that this point was reached by 
loan 8. I say this because:
From loan 8 onwards  there was a clearly established pattern of Mr P taking out loans 
within days or weeks of settling  a previous loan.  So Mr Lender ought to have realised it 
was more likely than not Mr P was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving in his finances and that his indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
Mr P wasnt making any real inroads  into resolving  his indebtedness to Mr Lender. Loan 
10 was taken out more  than two years after loan 4 (the start of a new chain after a long 
break). And it was for a much larger amount.  Mr P had paid large amounts  of interest  to, 
in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender over an extended period.
I think that Mr P lost out because Mr Lender continued to provide  borrowing from loan 8 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ps ability to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
Ive considered what Mr P has said about the pattern of lending. He thinks  the point at which the 
pattern of lending demonstrated  there was a problem  was when he asked for loan 7  because 
hed had three consecutive  loans before loan 7. While this is correct, these  loans were not for 
increasing amounts  and I dont think three loans, in his case, is a significant  enough  number to 
suggest, on the pattern  of lending alone, that further lending  wouldnt be sustainable.
Mr Lender has also questioned whether its fair to uphold  Mr Ps complaint about loans 8 to 10 
without assessing his bank statements. As Ive explained  above, there are circumstances  in 
which this service considers the pattern of lending to be a more significant factor than a strict 
pounds and pence affordability calculation.  Ive explained why I think this applies  in 
Mr Ps circumstances and Mr Lender  hasnt provided any reasons why this approach shouldnt 
apply. 
Ref: DRN36090514Ultimately, in the second chain of lending,  Mr Lender  provided Mr P with high-cost  short-term 
loans for an unbroken period of more than two years  or three years had loan 10 ran to its 
contractual term. As Mr Lender notes on its website,  this type of loan should  be used for short 
term financial  needs and is not appropriate for long-term borrowing  That Mr P had been 
borrowing from Mr Lender for so long  together with the other factors described above in the 
pattern of borrowing   ought  to have  caused it to realise further lending  would be unsustainable  
or otherwise harmful.
So Im upholding  the complaint about loans  8 to 10, for the reasons given above.
Putting things right
For loans  8 and 9 Mr Lender should refund  any interest and charges  Mr P paid, adding 8% 
simple interest  from when Mr P paid them, until the date of settlement. It should also remove the 
loans from Mr Ps credit history.
I understand loan 10 has been sold to a third party  but Mr Lender has said it can take it back.  
So Mr Lender  should take back loan 10 and remove  any interest and charges, treating any 
payments Mr P made (to it or the third party) as if they were payments towards the principal. It 
can then deduct the redress  from loans  8 and 9 from the balance of loan 10. There  will likely  still 
be an outstanding balance once its done this, so I encourage Mr Lender  and Mr P to engage  in a 
constructive discussion about  repaying the balance.
If for some reason Mr Lender  cant take back  the debt for loan 10 from the third party,  it will need 
to ensure Mr P doesnt pay more than the £1,500  he borrowed. For example,  it can make a 
payment to the third party  equivalent to the amount of interest and charges added.  Or it could  
pay that amount  directly  to Mr P to use for the same purpose.  And if Mr Lender  cant  take back  
the debt, it must pay the redress for loans  8 and 9 directly to Mr P. 
Finally, Mr Lender should remove loan 10 from Mr Ps credit history, or if relevant ask the third 
party to do so. Its reasonable however that the loan continue to be reported until its settled.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender must  
give Mr P a certificate showing how much  tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ps complaint  in part. PDL Finance  Limited  must put things right by taking  the steps  
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or reject 
my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN36090515Appendix  loan table  and notes
Loan  
no.Amount (£) Start  Date Original  
termRepayments  due
1 450 02/06/2013 23 days £157.50 and £607.50
2 700 01/11/2013 24 days £910
3 750 06/03/2014 19 days £975*
20 month break in lending (approx.)
4 400 30/11/2015 3 months £203.73, £199.46 and £166.41
5 400 25/02/2016 3 months £216.53, £199.46 and £163.21
6 300 16/07/2016 3 months £188.80, £149.60 and £123.20
7 1,000 25/10/2016 12 months 12  from £209.33 to £93.84
8 500 02/07/2017 3 months £242.66, £252.01 and £208
9 400 23/09/2017 3 months £219.73, £203.73 and £165.34
10 1,500 29/12/2017 12 months 12  from £287  to £141.24
*in this instance, the figure is the total sum payable  as I have  not been provided with clear 
information about the individual repayment amount(s)
Ref: DRN3609051