K820x#14complaint
Mr V says Nottingham Building  Society  (NBS) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Due to the time that has passed,  its not clear how Mr V took out his PPI policy   but it is 
assumed that it started around  the same time as he took out his mortgage in 1998.  And I 
think this is a reasonable assumption to make.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment    subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £300 a month towards Mr Vs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost just over £16 a month.  
At the time,  Mr V was employed as an HGV tanker driver.  He said he was not entitled to any 
(enhanced) sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying his mortgage should he be 
unable to work  although  I note the mortgage application from the time records that Mr V 
had a couple of thousand pounds in savings. Mr V has said he had a medical condition prior 
to the sale. 
NBS sent us evidence to show that the mortgage  account closed in 2003.
 
I issued my provisional decision of June  2021  in which  I explained why I didnt  intend  to 
uphold the complaint and I gave both parties  the right to respond with anything they thought  
was relevant.
NBS said it had nothing  further to add.
And despite reminding Mr V (through his representative) of the deadline for responses, 
neither Mr V nor his representative  have chosen  to respond to my provisional  decision. But 
Im satisfied it was sent and received,  so I think its reasonable  to assume that if Mr V and / 
or his representative wanted to respond they wouldve done so by now. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Having done so, and because Ive not been given anything  new to consider Ive decided not 
to uphold this complaint.  My reasons are set out below.
did Mr V know he had a choice?
NBS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr V applied for his mortgage by completing  an application with the help of a broker. NBS 
has a copy of the mortgage application.  Looking at this I can see the section for PPI and the 
corresponding direct debit  mandate havent been completed.  And unfortunately NBS doesnt 
have any other paperwork   but thats not surprising given the passage  of time and the fact 
that the mortgage account ended in 2003. 
Ref: DRN36141882So it appears that Mr V took out PPI with NBS after submitting  his mortgage application for 
approval, either by meeting or by post following a mailing. But whichever it was, based on 
the available  evidence it appears Mr V wouldve had to complete a separate application to 
take out the policy and a separate direct debit  mandate to allow the premiums to be taken 
from his nominated bank  account. Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade  me that 
something very different happened here.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mr V knew  the policy was 
optional and he agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did NBS provide advice?
NBS says it didnt  provide  advice during this sale. Mr V hasnt said either  way. Looking at the 
available evidence, Im not persuaded that NBS provided advice  Ive not seen anything to 
show or suggest that NBS considered Mr Vs individual needs and circumstances and/or 
recommended the cover  as being  right for him.
This means  NBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr V. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy.
the information
Ive already said that theres not much by way of paperwork available from the time of the 
sale. But I think more likely than not Mr V was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover and do (i.e. it would protect his payments if he was unable  to work 
through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  Ive reached 
this conclusion because  I think  its unlikely Mr V would have taken out the policy  without any 
sense of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But because of the limited evidence from the time of sale, theres  little to tell us whether NBS 
gave sufficient information about  the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr V agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think NBS did everything that it should fairly and reasonably should have done. 
has Mr V lost out as a result?
While I dont think its likely NBS gave Mr V the information he needed about the PPI to 
make an informed decision about it, Im not currently persuaded that Mr V wouldve acted 
differently and declined the cover had NBS done anything more.  I say this because:
as I found above, I think  its likely he chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted 
this type of cover;
I dont think the policy  operated  fundamentally differently to what  he expected;  
based on his circumstances at the time it doesnt  appear that it was fundamentally 
wrong or inappropriate for him - for example  he was eligible for the cover and given 
his limited other means it seems like it would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong; and
it looks like it was affordable.
Ref: DRN36141883Possibly the most significant difference to what Mr V thought he had bought was that the 
policy excluded claims for existing medical  conditions (albeit time limited.) The policy  terms 
and conditions defined  an existing condition as broadly anything Mr V knew about at the 
start date or anything  hed seen a doctor about in the 24 months prior to the start date.
Mr V has said that he suffered back pain and saw a doctor circa 1996.  While Mr V hasnt 
been definitive when he suffered with his sickness / condition, given what  hes said I accept 
that its likely  his condition  met the policy definition of an existing condition.
And while I accept that its possible the above exclusion might have caused Mr V to stop and 
think carefully about the cover and the usefulness of it to him, Im not currently  persuaded 
that better  information  about it wouldve likely put him off taking it out. 
I say this because  firstly and in my view importantly the exclusion was time limited   Mr V 
was only prevented from making a claim for his existing condition in the first 12 months of 
cover. So he could make a claim for his condition after the first year. The policy didnt place 
any additional restrictions on making a claim for back pain than for any other  disability claim 
either.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Vs occupation  and that he was likely at greater  risk of his 
condition impacting his ability to work  particularly  as he got older. But he was less than 40 
years old at the time of the sale and he hasnt said enough about  his condition to persuade  
me that hed have  thought  it was likely  hed need to claim  on the policy  in the first year 
because of his condition. For example he said he needed time of work in 1996  but he 
hasnt said that he needed more time off work again in the run up to taking out the policy.
Im mindful too of the following:  the policy was protecting his mortgage payments and 
ultimately his home; he had limited other means he could draw  on to meet  his payments  if he 
wasnt working; he was solely responsible  for the mortgage; and the policy couldve helped 
to reduce his outgoings at what would likely be a difficult and perhaps uncertain time. 
And it is these things that I think Mr V wouldve thought about in weighing  up whether to go 
ahead with the policy or not.
So taking everything into account, I currently think it more likely than not Mr V would still 
have taken out the policy. I think  it was sufficiently close to what  its likely he thought  he was 
getting and provided benefits  that would help him manage the consequences  if he was made 
unemployed or he was unable to work through accident or sickness.  In the circumstances  I 
think Mr V wouldve taken  out the policy  in any event despite the limitation on cover.
Finally  Mr Vs representative  has raised  a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says applies to all PPI complaints.
These general points  include: a claim that we are not correctly applying the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NBS should have disclosed the poor value  
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr Vs representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Vs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
Ref: DRN36141884I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Vs particular case. But 
these points doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
So it follows  that NBS doesnt need  to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, and for the reasons I have set out 
above, I dont  uphold this complaint and I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3614188