K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2001 
alongside a mortgage. Mr W says Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr W case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr W took out his mortgage  via a third party, but from the evidence  Ive seen it looks  like PPI 
wasnt taken out at this point.  I say this having  seen a copy  of the mortgage application 
where the no option was ticked for PPI. YBS says the PPI was taken out a few months later 
when Mr W went  into a branch to speak to a YBS mortgage advisor. Mr W says that he was 
told by the third party that he had to have the PPI. But, as Ive said above, based on the 
evidence Ive seen  I dont think he agreed to take out PPI at this point. 
YBS has provided a copy of a separate PPI application  form which was signed  by Mr W 
confirming he wanted to take out the cover,  a few months after his mortgage application. 
This shows that the monthly benefit required and full accident,  sickness and unemployment 
cover was selected. So I think YBS made  it clear that Mr W didnt  have to take out the PPI 
and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  remember  this.
Mr W says YBS recommend  the PPI to him, but YBS says it didnt.  Ive seen a copy  of an 
insurance needs form which includes a section about its recommendations for Mr W. And 
PPI is included as part of its recommendation. So I think its likely this was an advised  sale.  
As an advised sale YBS had to check that the PPI was right for Mr W  and based on what 
Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example he wasnt  affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. And even though Mr W had some sick 
pay from his employer at the time of sale, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this and for 
longer than his sick pay wouldve lasted him  so he seems  to have had a need for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W. But YBS will 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about  that. Because  YBS didnt tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN33565332To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
YBS has to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. YBS should  also pay back to Mr W any extra interest  he paid 
because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr W the extra he paid each month because the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should also pay Mr W 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr W can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr W any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3356533