K820x#14complaint
Miss J says Barclays  Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1996  by post. The policy was taken out 
at the same  time as Miss J applied  for the credit card. It gave her accident, sickness  and 
unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss J disagreed so the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Js complaint, Ill explain why.
I think Barclays made Miss J aware the PPI was optional and she chose  to take it. I say this as 
Miss J indicated  that she wanted  it on her application form. And the options to select or decline 
PPI were set out with equal prominence. Miss J said she wasnt  made aware the PPI was 
added, but she applied  for the card by post and wasnt with anyone  from the bank  at the time of 
the sale. She completed the application  form and returned it to the bank by post.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss J so it didnt need to check if it was suitable for her. 
This means it was up to Miss J to decide  whether  the policy was right for her. Shes told us her 
parents would have  helped  her but thats not suitable alternative protection. Its not guaranteed  
and peoples  circumstances can change.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss J about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should 
have been. But Miss J chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy  was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think  it unlikely Miss J wouldve made  a 
different decision if better  information had been provided. On balance I think  she would still 
have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Ref: DRN31635802Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3163580