K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that a car that was supplied to her under a hire agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited,  trading as Seat Finance, wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality. Shes being helped  with her complaint by her father.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mrs M under a hire agreement with Seat Finance that she signed 
in June 2017. There were some issues with the cars automatic braking system not working  
correctly so Seat Finance replaced the car with another new car in October  2017.  But Mrs M 
says that the same  problem has occurred with that car. She returned  the car to the dealer in 
April 2018 because of issues  with the handbrake not releasing properly and issues  with the 
infotainment system and Bluetooth  connectivity.  And she returned the car to the dealer again 
in July 2018 because the front braking  assist  was activating unnecessarily. And shes 
continued to complain about  issues with the car. She complained  to Seat Finance  about 
those issues and it sent her its final response letter in July 2018.  She wasnt  satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  She said that it was 
clear that the faults with the car hadnt been  resolved  so rejection was the most suitable 
option. And she recommended that Seat Finance should cancel the agreement, refund the 
deposit paid by Mrs M (with interest) and pay her £500 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Seat Finance has asked  for this complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says that 
no fault has ever been found with this car and that the dealer kept it for a week in December 
2018 to conduct an in depth test and the only code found was in relation  to restricted  view  
which can be caused by weather, particularly  rain and snow,  and shouldnt be considered  as 
a fault but as an event. And it says that the car should be inspected by an independent 
and impartial third party.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Seat Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that the car was of 
satisfactory quality. That will depend  on a number of factors,  including the age, and mileage 
of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mrs M was a new 
car and I consider  that it was reasonable for her to expect that the car would be free from 
even minor defects. Satisfactory quality  also covers durability which means that the 
components within the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but 
exactly how long that time is will depend  on a number of factors. 
The car was supplied to Mrs M in October  2017   as a replacement for a car that shed 
returned because  of issues with its assisted braking function. About six months later she 
returned the car to the dealer because of issues with its Bluetooth connectivity and the 
handbrake not releasing. The dealer updated  the software and made  some  minor 
adjustments to the car which Seat Finance says rectified those issues.
Ref: DRN32788012Mrs M returned  the car to the dealer  again in July 2018 because  of issues with the 
infotainment system and the front braking assist activating unnecessarily. It said that the 
issue with the infotainment  system  was caused by a software  update on Mrs Ms phone that 
wasnt supported by the infotainment system at that time and that the car had been tested 
for 79 miles  but no fault with the brake assist was found.
And Mrs M returned the car to the dealer again the following month  because  of unwanted 
brake assist  intervention. It found a fault code but said that it wasnt  related to the front brake 
assist and the car was tested for more than 200 miles  and the issue  hadnt been found.
But Mrs M has continued to have problems with the car and shes  provided detailed  
descriptions of the many  faults that shes experienced with the car and a log of the incidents. 
She has also described the effect  that this has had on her and her family. In particular  she 
describes her concerns about the assisted brake system not working correctly and the 
danger that that presents.  Her descriptions are supported by detailed  evidence from her 
father and by photos which  show  some of the warning  lights that have been displayed on the 
car.  
A break-down recovery  report from May 2018 refers to a hand brake fault and fault codes 
being found. And last month  the dealer said that faults had again been  logged in the cars 
memory for restricted view (even though  it said that there was no reason for the fault to be 
logged) and that it was replacing the cars  radar and calibrating the system to stop the brake  
assist issue happening.
Having looked  at all of the available  evidence, I consider it to be more likely than not that 
theres a fault with the cars brake  assist  system  and that the fault was present or developing 
when the car was supplied to Mrs M. So I find that the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality at 
that time and that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for Seat Finance to 
allow her to reject the car. So I find that it should  end the hire agreement  and collect the car 
from Mrs M. Seat Finance  has confirmed that Mrs M paid an advance  rental  of £2,500  to it  
and I find that it should  refund that advance rental  to her (with interest). 
Seat Finance has had difficulties in replicating  the faults about which Mrs M has complained.  
And I consider that similar difficulties  are likely to be experienced if an inspection of the car 
by an independent expert was arranged. It hasnt arranged an independent inspection of the 
car and Im not persuaded that it would  now be appropriate for such  an inspection  to take 
place.
Mrs M has been able to use the car and has been  provided with a courtesy  car for much of 
the time that she wasnt able to use her car (though I note her concerns about the suitability 
of some of the courtesy cars). She confirmed last month that the cars mileage was 28,410 
miles. Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Seat Finance to 
refund to Mrs M any of the monthly her payments that shes  made under the agreement   it 
can keep them as payment for the use that Mrs M has had from the car (and the courtesy  
cars that have been provided  to her).
But these  events have  caused considerable distress and inconvenience to Mrs M. And I find 
that it would  be fair and reasonable for Seat Finance to pay £500 to Mrs M to compensate 
her for that distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN32788013my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. And I order  Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited, trading as Seat Finance, to:
1.End the hire agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected  from Mrs M  both at 
no cost to her.
2.Refund to Mrs M the advance rental  of £2,500 that she paid for the car.
3.Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement.
4.Pay £500 to Mrs M to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience that shes  
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Seat Finance to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to at 3 above. Seat Finance  must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3278801