K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains under power of attorney for her father Mr D. He is unhappy with the delays 
in respect of his home insurance claim for water  damage by U K Insurance  Limited and with 
its decision to then decline  the claim and void the policy for alleged fraud. 
background
In March 2018 Ms C reported a claim to UKI due to a burst  pipe at her fathers  property. 
Mr D had been staying  with his other daughter (Mrs P) since October  2017  when his wife 
had passed away.  This had been reported  to UKI who had initially planned to put an 
endorsement on the policy concerning non-occupation. This wasnt done  however and Ms C 
was told that the property  could remain unoccupied  for 60 days  but (erroneously) that this 
period could be reset if the property  was stayed in for 3 or 4 days. 
Initially UKI proposed  to decline  the claim as it said the property had been unoccupied for 
more than 60 days. Also all the furniture and contents apart  from the white goods had been 
removed. After reviewing the matter  it decided that in light of the wrong advice being given to 
Ms C it would accept the claim, which it did around the beginning  of May 2018. Drying  out 
had commenced  in the meantime. Subsequently  in June 2018 it had been decided  that Mr D 
could no longer stay with his Mrs P. Ms C arranged for Mr D to come out and stay with her 
where she lived, abroad. She didnt tell UKI of this decision at the time.
The property was certified dry by early July 2018, and a scope of works drawn  up for the 
repairs. On 21 August UKI advised that the costs  had been accepted. However  due to a 
contractor withdrawing  its tender there  was a delay in getting another contractor  to carry out 
the repairs. Ms C then enquired about a disturbance  allowance  payment for her father  as 
she said he had incurred  expenses  by living away from home. UKI offered £1,500, which  it 
said reflected Mr Ds inability to return home until the likely completion of the repairs  due in 
early 2019.   UKI then increased its offer to £2,000. This was rejected by Ms C, as she 
advised that Mr D had incurred much more costs than that.
Subsequently UKI reviewed Ms Cs complaint.  It reiterated its £2,000  offer. It apologised for 
the delay in arranging the repairs  and paid £500 compensation.  It awaited details of Ms Cs 
expenses
Ms C rejected this as she had been  advised  by the loss adjuster that a payment would be 
made in lieu of costs  that could be recovered  commercially. She pointed out that had Mr D 
been staying in local rented accommodation during this time he would have incurred monthly  
rental payments of at least £1,200 per month.  In December 2018 she presented  a list of 
expenses her father had incurred, including rent to Ms C and Mrs P, air travel  and transport 
costs. She said those expenses amounted to more  than £14,000. UKI asked Ms C for 
evidence of those  costs. It was concerned that there  was a fraudulent claim for expenses. It 
arranged for a special  investigator to interview Ms C with her father  present.
UKI then advised that it wouldnt be paying the claim. It said that Ms C hadnt told the truth 
about her fathers  intention to move back home. It pointed out that all the contents  had been  
cleared from the property  and despite Ms C telling UKI they intended to revamp  the property, 
it could find no evidence  that that was the case.  It said that on checking  the position  with the 
local authority, it had been  told in October  2017  that Mr D had gone to live permanently with 
his daughter. In correspondence the local authority had said that Mr D had gone to live with 
his daughter full time and that it had surmised he had left permanently.  While Mr D was now 
Ref: DRN30091352on record with the council as the occupier, that was only after UKI had challenged Ms C 
about the expenses.
In further support of its position UKI noted that Mr D had applied  for a visa to be able to stay 
with Ms C for more  than six months,  shortly  after arriving  there.  He wouldnt have needed to 
do that had the intention  been that he would  be returning home.
UKI concluded that Ms Cs application  on Mr Ds behalf for expenses was fraudulent.  It 
concluded that Ms C had knowingly given  it information that she was aware was untrue or 
misleading. It further believed that this was undertaken dishonestly and with the intention  of 
making a financial  gain for herself or another party. In light of that it wouldnt be making  any 
payments in respect of the claim and would be cancelling the policy  from the date Ms C 
made the fraudulent claim, 19 December 2018.
Ms C disputed UKIs allegations. In respect  of the contents she said that UKI had been  
aware from March 2018 when it first inspected that, apart from the white goods, these had 
been removed.  A lot of the furniture  was dirty and old and her mother had been  a hoarder. 
The position  hadnt changed and it had confirmed the claim and continued to deal with it.
In respect of the council, it was told in October 2017  that Mr D had gone  to live with his 
daughter full time. Ms C said that if it surmised that this was permanent it was wrong,  and 
that there  had never been any intention  that Mr D would move  out permanently.
As regards  the visa Ms C said that Mr Ds travel  insurance would expire after three  months 
and in light of his age and that he might need to remain more than six months they decided it 
was best that he apply  for a visa. This would give him access to the countrys  health  
facilities.
On referral to this service  our investigator  considered the position as it was set out in UKIs 
first final response letter of 5 December  2018, dealing with the delays  in the claim, then in its 
letter of 9 October 2019 declining  the claim and cancelling the policy.
In respect of the delays in dealing with the claim our investigator  proposed that UKI increase 
its compensation award to £800.  In respect  of the second letter  he said that UKIs position 
was reasonable  and that it had acted  reasonably  in declining the claim and voiding the 
policy.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I wasnt satisfied that UKI had acted  fairly  in 
declining the claim and voiding the policy. I proposed to require UKI to overturn the voidance  
of the policy, reconsider  the claim and pay an appropriate amount for the repairs  using  
Mr Ds contractors rates. I further said it should  pay £250 compensation.
Both parties  disagreed with my provisional  findings.  I will set out their comments in my 
findings below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to Ms Cs comments on the background to this case,  as set out above, apart 
from any errors which Ive corrected, Im satisfied  that it reflects my understanding  of the 
Ref: DRN30091353case. I should make the further point  that both parties have their views on the case and are 
obviously more closely involved than me. I have to assess the evidence that has been put 
before me by both parties and set out what is in my opinion moist  likely  to have happened
delays up until the decline of the claim
In my provisional decision I said:
The claim was made in March 2018.  Initially UKI had justifiable concerns about whether the 
property had been unoccupied for more than 60 days  when the damage  occurred.  The 
decision to proceed  was made in early May 2018. Drying out took place and the property 
was certified dry in July 2018.  There were  delays after that caused  by a contractor 
withdrawing its tender for repairs and UKI failing to arrange promptly for another  contractor 
to take over.  As a result a site meeting didnt  take place until November 2018.  Works  were  
due to commence  on 26 November with completion  anticipated in January 2019.
However I understand that repairs were held up as Ms C had requested  additional private 
works be done and the contractors were awaiting drawings for the private  work.  I understand  
that Ms C says she was assured that the private works wouldnt hold up the matter  but 
nevertheless if additional  drawings/plans were  required I think it was reasonable to wait for 
those.
Ms C raised her complaint with this service in March 2019. From then until UKIs further final 
response letter of October  2019, it was carrying out an investigation into Ms Cs claim for 
further expenses  which it considered to be fraudulent.
I think there were significant delays  in getting  the repairs under way, but I think  UKI was 
entitled to carry  out an investigation into Ms Cs claim for expenses  (which Ill deal with 
below). I also have to take into account that Ms C had made a formal  complaint to us about 
the delays in March 2018. Ive also taken into account that at the time of making  the claim 
Mr D had been out of his property for over five months and didnt  look likely to return to it 
imminently.
Having reviewed the complaint about delays I think that the investigators proposal that UKI 
pay compensation of £800 for those  delays is reasonable. UKI needs to pay a further  £300.
Ms C says that the discussions  over private  works  were with Mrs P (Ms Cs sister) and that 
they believe the delays in updating the scope  of works were the fault of the contractors. I 
note what they say, but I remain  satisfied by my provisional findings.
voidance of the policy and declining the claim
In my provisional decision I said:
An allegation  of fraud is a serious  matter  and will affect Mr Ds ability  to obtain insurance in 
the future.  When  considering the standard of proof we dont apply the criminal standard.  
Rather UKI has to provide  evidence that its more likely than not that Ms Cs claim for 
expenses was fraudulent. Because of the seriousness of the allegation I would need to see 
strong evidence to support UKIs position.
The declining of the claim and voidance of the policy arises from the expenses Ms C sought  
to claim from UKI. She initially  proposed  that UKI pay the full cost of alternative 
Ref: DRN30091354accommodation from the date of the claim. She subsequently provided a list of expenses 
Mr D had incurred. Theses consisted  of airline  tickets for Mr D to travel to live with Ms C, 
travel insurance costs, rental payments made  to Ms C and to her sister, additional furniture 
and transport costs.  These  totalled (in December  2018) over £14,000.
After investigating  the matter  UKI deemed  that claim to be fraudulent for the following 
reasons:
1) The property  had been unoccupied for more than 5 months  at the time of the claim which  
called into question Ms Cs assertion that Mr D intended to return.
2) Ms C had asserted that the property was to be revamped which  was another  reason for 
Mr D not returning.  She had provided  no evidence that this was the case.
3) The property  was cleared of all contents and furniture  which  were disposed  of rather  than 
placed into storage,  strongly indicating that Mr D didnt intend to return.
4) The local council  had been  told in October 2017 that Mr D was living  with his daughter full 
time and advised  UKI in a phone  call that Mr D had left the property permanently.
5) Ms C asserted that taking Mr D to live with her abroad was a necessity and that UKIs 
failure to reinstate the property meant he had to remain there.  UKI disputed this was 
necessary as Ms C had enquired with UKI about  alternative accommodation before leaving 
the country and had been told to speak  to the loss adjusters about it. She didnt do so and 
proceeded to arrange for Mr D to travel  abroad.
6) Ms C said it was her intention that Mr D would return  within 3 months. A visa isnt required 
if the applicant  is staying for less than 6 months.  Yet she applied for a visa within  two months 
to allow  him to stay for an extended  period of time.  UKI said this was evidence  that Mr D 
intended to remain  away from the property and not return. It didnt accept that this was for 
medical reasons  as Ms C had already said there were  no medical concerns and Mr D had 
taken up travel insurance.
7} Ms C didnt claim any costs for alternative  accommodation or disturbance  allowance 
saying it hadnt  crossed  her mind to do so until October 2018. Yet this point was fully 
discussed with Ms Cs sister in June 2018.
8) The property  was transferred to Mr Ds name  in June 2018 but Ms C didnt contact the 
council to update its records until December 2018 at the same  time as UKI was querying her 
expenses.
9) It believes that the above points showed that Mr D had left his property permanently at the 
time the leak occurred.  It believes  that as a consequence Ms C was attempting  to make a 
financial gain under the policy that she knew she wasnt entitled to.
With regard to points  1 to 3 I think that UKI knew about them at the time the claim was 
made. Indeed  it made enquiries  about  the occupancy of the property. Its adviser  had wrongly 
advised Ms C that the occupancy period could be reset. It accepted the claim and by 
implication accepted Ms Cs statement that she had stayed at the property from time to time. 
I dont think that Ms C was very clear about whether the contents had been disposed  of or 
put into storage  but she did later produce  house clearance invoices. I think it fair to accept 
Ms Cs assertion that the house contents were  in a very poor state and I think  its 
Ref: DRN30091355understandable given  that Mr D didnt want to return to the property due to his distress that 
the opportunity  was taken to have a good  clear-out.
Also UKI, knowing the situation, continued  to offer a disturbance allowance.  It started  to 
object when Ms C rejected this and put in a full list of expenses. But this can be explained at 
least in part by the loss adjuster telling her that she could claim for expenses at commercial  
rates. This didnt  mean that UKI would pay what it would have cost to place Mr D in 
alternative accommodation though its understandable  if Ms C thought this was the case.
UKI doesnt accept  that it knew about points  1 to 3 at the time the claim was made. It points 
out that in discussions with Mrs P she didnt say that the contents  had been  disposed of. 
Ms C didnt produce the evidence that the contents had be disposed  of until after she was 
questioned by its investigator. It accepted the claim in good faith on the basis that) Mr D was 
only temporarily away from the property, b) it was always  his intention to return and c) that 
the property was still being  resided in within  the 60-doy period. 
It further refers to the preliminary report from its loss adjusters which  said,  Contents were 
removed from the property approximately 2 weeks before discovery of the loss as the 
Insured was contemplating selling the property and remaining with his daughter  in the 
medium term. It points  out there is no evidence that the contents were  in a poor state. UKI 
says that Ms C later contradicted this by saying Mr D couldnt face seeing the furniture and 
then that it was badly soiled.  It further  says that when Mrs P registered  the claim she asked 
about contents and didnt  mention that they had been disposed of. It believes these 
discrepancies gave rise to concerns it was entitled to take inti account.
Ms C says that not all the contents were  removed as only some of the soiled and worn 
contents and furniture was disposed of. 
The fact that Mr D might not be returning was contemplated  by UKI and it continued with the 
claim. I do think that Ms C and Mrs P were not frank with UKI about the disposal of the 
contents until asked  about it in the context of their fraud investigation. Ms C said in her 
statement to UKIs investigator that everything  in the property was gone apart from the 
white goods.
But I have to go back to what  happened before the claim for expenses etc was made. UKI 
accepted that the contents  were  gone and also the possibility that the property might  be 
sold. If the evidence  of the disposal  of the contents was important  then UKI could have 
insisted on having  it earlier  in the claim. Apart  from the fact that it might show there wasnt  
an intention for Mr D to return I dont think the fact of their disposal affects the claim. I said I 
thought it fair to accept Ms Cs assertion that the contents were in a poor state. I accept 
theres no evidence  of this apart from what she says.  And while Ms C later gave different 
explanations for the removal of the contents they arent necessarily contradictory.  
Im still of the view that if UKI had any misgivings about the case in the first few months, it 
could have investigated the matter  further.  The fact that it didnt leads me to the view that 
only the evidence  which came out after that is relevant to deciding whether it was entitled to 
decline the claim and void the policy. 
In my provisional decision I further said:.
Point 4  as far as I can see UKI said the local council had surmised that Mr D had left the 
property permanently. The record shows that he had gone to live with his daughter  full 
Ref: DRN30091356time. As theres no recording of the conversation I dont think it fair to assume from this that 
the council had been told Mr D had left permanently. Indeed  the fact that Mr D wasnt  able to 
continue living with Ms Cs sister  would  indicate  to me that the arrangement  was never 
intended to be permanent.
UKI believes I should take into account the fact that Ms C said that when Mr D moved out, it 
was only intended  to be for a night because he couldnt bear returning home. So there would 
have been no need to ring the council. 
Ms C has attempted  without success to obtain a recording of this call. Shes adamant  that 
she didnt say he was living  there  permanently. I have to bear in mind that the property was 
in Ms Cs late mothers name so it was thought  appropriate to ring the council  at that time. It 
might show  that it wasnt his immediate intention to return  but I dont think the note from the 
council evidences anything more.
Points 5 and 6. I understand that until December  2018  UKI had no idea that Ms C had taken 
Mr D to live with her abroad.  But it goes  to whether the payment should be made  rather than 
whether it was fraudulent. As will be noted from my review of the claim, by August 2018 the 
property had been declared  dry and a scope of works had been accepted. But there was, as 
Ive noted, no further  action  by UKI until November  2018. I understand Mr Ds travel 
insurance would have expired in late August. While he may have had no immediate medical 
concerns, I understand the application  for a visa would have given him access  to the 
countrys medical facilities which was reasonable especially in light of his age and not 
necessarily an indication  of a lengthier stay.
Point 7 - I dont think the timing of the claim for expenses shows an attempt to make  a 
fraudulent claim. It appears to have  come out of a discussion with the loss adjuster about 
payment at commercial rates.
UKI believes that the intention was always that Mr D would go and stay with Ms C on a long 
term basis, and not as matter of necessity. It points out that Ms C had told UKIs investigator 
theyd looked  at care homes. So it believes this shows that Mr D wasnt likely to be able to 
return home alone. It says that Mrs P was told specifically about the availability of alternative 
accommodation in March and June 2018.
Ms C says Mrs P denies being told about  alternative  accommodation.  She further says that 
up until October 2018 no mention of a disturbance allowance  was made.
I dont think that either UKI or I are able to tell what Mr Ds intention  was. UKI hasnt shown 
me evidence  of a long term plan. There are two alternatives here - either the staying with 
Mrs P had broken  down,  and Ms C didnt want  Mr D to be on his own or they had a long term 
plan that he stay with Mrs P for a certain time then move to Ms Cs. I think UKI read too 
much into Ms Cs and Mrs Ps motives. Its quite understandable for Mrs P that having  her 
father staying with her over a long period took its toll on their relationship. Its also 
understandable that Ms C would agree to have  Mr D living with her even  if he had to travel 
overseas to do it. Given Mr Ds age and the fact that the property wasnt going to be ready 
any time soon it seems to me that it would have been a sensible arrangement  to apply for a 
visa for him. They did consider care homes but thats not to say that Mr D wasnt able to 
move back  home with necessary support. 
Ref: DRN30091357Point 8 - Given that I dont think its been shown  that the council had been told Mr D living 
with his daughter  was a permanent arrangement, I dont think the timing  of the change in the 
records is particularly relevant.
Point 9  Overall I dont  think its been  shown that Ms Cs claim for expenses was fraudulent.  
I dont think that UKI has shown that Mr D had, at the time of the claim,  an intention to live 
away from the property  permanently. So I dont think its fair that UKI has voided the policy. It 
should reinstate  the policy and remove any record of the voidance  from any internal or 
external databases.
I have considered all of UKIs points. On the point that Ms C only sought to change the name 
on the council  tax record after the allegations of fraud, I also note that she had to change the 
name on the deeds when the probate came  through, so it was part of that arrangement.  Ive 
taken account  of the fact that Ms C and Mrs P werent frank  with UKI at some points, but I 
dont think for the reasons Ive set out that this meant that it was justified in finding the claim 
for expenses  to be fraudulent. Ive also noted that following the discussions with the loss 
adjuster Ms C believed  they were entitled  to claim at commercial  rates  which doesnt make 
the claim for expenses fraudulent. The expenses they claimed  I believe came  out of those 
discussions.. This was a difficult  case where Ive tried to ascertain what might have 
happened had the insurance claim not arisen.  I stand by my provisional findings.
In my provisional decision I said:
compensation
The investigation  took some  time but this did involve having interviews with Ms C in Mr Ds 
presence and the obtaining of records and evidence. Nevertheless it took over ten months 
for UKI to formulate its response and effectively all repairs were  on hold. I also dont  think  
UKIs evidence was really  approaching the strength of evidence needed in respect of a fraud  
allegation. For this I think it should pay further compensation of £250.
settlement
If the policy is reinstated then UKI will have to deal with the claim. With regard to Ms Cs list 
of expenses the fact remains  that at the time the claim arose Mr D wasnt living  at the 
property and was unlikely, in view of the fact that the property had been  cleared out to be 
returning any time soon.  The alternative  accommodation allowance in the policy  would only 
be payable if the policyholder needed it and at the time of the claim I cant say that Mr D did. 
I dont think either that UKI is liable for Mr Ds travel expenses or the cost of furniture when 
he was abroad or any other expenses concerning that. That was something he undertook  
without any reference  to UKI and the policy would only pay reasonable expenses.
Its not possible for me to say exactly when Mr D might have returned home had the claim 
not happened. But the fact that he may have  been  paying his daughters in order to stay in 
their homes doesnt mean that this would be recoverable as he wouldnt then be incurring 
any expenses of living in his own home.  UKI had offered £2,000 as a disturbance allowance. 
I think it should reinstate  that offer.
As regards  the repairs UKI had already accepted the claim so is liable to pay for the repairs. 
I understand from Ms C that Mr D has paid to have the repairs done. If so, then a cash 
settlement is appropriate. Ms C should send details  of the cost of the repairs  to UKI who 
should advise  me in response to this provisional decision whether it accepts that cost. If it 
Ref: DRN30091358doesnt I shall be asking  it to reconsider the cost of the repairs  but it will have to assess  this 
at Mr Ds contractors rates rather than what it would  have cost it using its own contractors. If 
a figure  cant be agreed Mr D will have the option  of referring it back to this service.
As regards  alternative  accommodation, I believe Mr D and Ms C have returned  to this 
country from where they were living. If thats  the case and Mr D is living in alternative  
accommodation, UKI should reconsider  the cost of that up until the date the repairs are 
completed. If hes living with relatives  it should consider payment of a disturbance  allowance.
Ms C has mentioned that she has incurred legal costs. We dont usually make awards for 
legal costs unless  they are necessary  for making the complaint. I dont think they were 
necessary for that in this case. If Ms C wants  to pursue a legal  route thats a matter  for her 
but I dont intend to award her any legal  costs.
Ms C doesnt agree  with my proposed settlement. She wants me to make an award  to Mr D 
of all the costs of his repairs, plus interest, and a substantial disturbance  allowance.  She 
also believes  the compensation  proposed is too low and doesnt account for the delay in the 
claim being concluded, or for the work  she has put into setting  out Mr Ds case and that I 
should award legal costs.
First of all the costs  Mr D has incurred in the repair of his property havent been put to UKI 
so cant be dealt with here. These are clearly  substantial and will need to be assessed by 
UKI and the repairs inspected. It wouldnt be fair and reasonable to expect it to pay those 
costs without assessing them. The same applies to any disturbance  allowance.  I believe 
Mr D has returned to this country but I have no idea where hes living. UKI will have  to 
consider this, but I wont make any direction as to how it should do so.
I wont increase the compensation  award. I think it is reasonable and in line with awards  we 
have made  in similar cases. I cant take into account  the length  of time the complaint has 
been with this service.  Whilst  I appreciate that Ms C has gone to great  lengths  in setting out 
Mr Ds complaints, thats a matter  for her. Mr D is the policyholder and he hasnt personally 
incurred costs in making  the complaint. In any event we dont usually award the costs 
involved in making  a complaint and Im satisfied  that this isnt an appropriate case  for doing 
so.
Similarly with regard  to legal costs I dont accept  they should  be payable.  Whatever  legal 
costs may have been incurred arent  relevant to the making of the complaint and as this isnt 
court proceedings rules about costs for litigants in person, which Ms C has drawn my 
attention to dont apply.  I dont think this required any specialist knowledge or expertise to 
present to us.
So I wont  depart  from my provisional findings.  With regard to the wording in my findings  
again save for any errors which  Ive corrected I dont intend  to make any amendments,  as 
put to me by Ms C. Those findings  are now final and form part of this final decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require U K Insurance Limited to:
Overturn the voidance of his policy and to reinstate  it, removing any reference to that 
voidance from all internal  and external databases
Ref: DRN30091359Pay Mr D a cash sum in respect  of the repairs he has carried out/will  carry out, if such a 
figure is agreed. Otherwise it should reconsider the cost of the claim so as to pay an 
appropriate amount  for the repairs using  Mr Ds contractors rates  rather than its own 
contractors rates.
Pay Mr D a disturbance allowance of £2,000 and consider  his claim for alternative 
accommodation and/or a disturbance  allowance following  his return  to this country.
Pay Mr D a further £550 compensation in respect of the two figures Ive mentioned 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C on behalf  of 
Mr D to accept  or reject  my decision before  19 November 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3009135