K820x#14complaint 
Mrs S complains about the advice she received from Legal and General Assurance  Society  
Limited in 1992  to transfer out from her occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a personal 
pension plan (PPP).
background
Mrs S received advice  in 1992 to transfer  out of her OPS into two personal pension  plans. In 
2000 the business carried out a review of the advice  it had given and offered Mrs S 
compensation. Mrs S accepted that offer of compensation.
In 2017 Mrs S complained to the business  about  the advice to transfer.  She said she was 
concerned about  the amount she was going to receive from her personal pension  plan. 
Mrs S said she was now aware that she would have received more if she had stayed in her 
OPS. 
The business didnt  uphold her complaint. It said it had reviewed the advice  in 2000 and 
made an offer of compensation to Mrs S in February  2000.  Mrs S had accepted that offer in 
October 2000 in full and final settlement of all claims against the business arising out of the 
advice. So it wasnt prepared to revisit  the advice. The business said the compensation had 
been added  to the value  of her plan.
Mrs S disagreed and referred her complaint to our service. She reiterated her concerns 
about the value of her personal pension  plan and said the letters from the business were 
ambiguous. She was unhappy with the amount of compensation she had received. 
Our investigator considered her complaint and didnt  feel it should be upheld.  He said the 
business has reviewed  the advice in 2000 as part of an industry  wide exercise instigated by 
the regulator. It had offered Mrs S compensation which she had accepted  in full and final 
settlement. He referred to the correspondence  from the business  which  said Mrs S could 
contact the business for further information or clarification and that it was also open to her to 
seek independent advice. 
The investigator was satisfied that the methodology used by the business  was as set down 
by the regulator at the time and it had used the assumptions applicable at that time. He 
acknowledged that unfortunately investment returns had turned  out to be lower  than 
expected and annuity rates were  much lower than anticipated. But he said that didnt mean 
the business had acted  incorrectly  because  it had followed the relevant guidance at the time.
Mrs S disagreed. She also questioned  why the business had not reinstated her OPS instead 
of paying the compensation  into her personal  pension plan. The business  confirmed  that it 
had been unable to reinstate as Mrs S had left her employment by the time of the review.  
The business provided records from the time that stated it had decided to top up her PPP 
because it was unable to reinstate.  
Mrs S also contacted her former scheme but it was unable to give her a definitive  answer  as 
to whether it would have  reinstated  her OPS in 2000. 
The investigator was satisfied the business has considered reinstatement but had been  
unable to do which is why it had topped up her PPP instead. 
Ref: DRN38279852Mrs S asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Mrs S had an occupational pension with her former employer.   She  left her employment in 
1991. In 1992 she received advice from Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  to 
transfer out from her OPS  to two personal pension plans. 
The business carried out a review of this advice in 2000. This was part of an industry wide 
exercise at the time, instigated by the regulator. This had come about as there  were  some 
concerns about  mis-selling in relation to advice to transfer or opt out of occupational pension 
schemes.
The review  was intended to be a one off exercise  to try and put right any damage caused by 
poor advice  rather than waiting for some 20 or 30 years until the consumer retired.  It wasnt  
intended be revisited at a later date. Where compensation  was offered-it was calculated on 
the basis of the methodology  and assumptions  about what  would happen between the 
review and retirement age. The assumptions  and methodology were  set by the regulator  and 
the business was required to follow them. Unfortunately a number of those assumptions 
didnt mirror what actually happened  and annuity  rates have also fallen considerably.
Mrs S was contacted by the business about  a review of the advice she had received in 1992. 
In February 2000  the business  sent her a formal  offer of compensation (dated 12 February  
2000). The offer letter said: 
Details of this offer are set out in the attached document.  I recommend that you read this 
offer carefully before you take any further action.  If you have problems understanding  any 
aspect or require any further information,  please feel free to contact me before reaching  your 
decision. Alternatively, you may wish to seek  independent advice, although the cost of this 
will be your own responsibility.
The letter asked for a response by 23 March 2000  but indicated that if this time frame posed 
a problem Mrs S should contact the business. 
So I dont  think Mrs S was put under pressure to accept the offer.  I am also satisfied it was 
made clear to Mrs S that she could ask for further  clarification or seek  advice if she didnt  
understand the basis of the offer, or if she was unsure whether to accept. 
I note Mrs S didnt formally accept the offer until October 2000 so I think  there was ample 
time for her to seek further  information  if she was unsure.
I also note that the offer of compensation  said:
 In practice,  the occupational scheme  benefits you have given up are guaranteed, whereas 
the benefits available from your replacement plan with Legal  & General will be dependent  on 
fund performance and annuity  rates which reflect market conditions.  It is only when a claim 
is made on your Legal & General plan that the exact value will be known. This could be more 
or less than assumed in our calculation, but if you accept this offer your case will be deemed 
to be settled.
Ref: DRN38279853I consider there was some warning there that the eventual value of her PPP at retirement 
might not be the same  as assumed in the calculation  carried out by the business. So, the 
offer might not compensate Mrs S fully. But if the offer was accepted  that would be the end 
of the matter as the case would be considered settled.
I appreciate that it would be quite difficult for Mrs S to know whether this was a good offer 
without knowing what was going to happen in the future. But it was difficult for all the parties  
involved to predict what  investment conditions would be like over the next 20 years or so. 
This was an offer that had to be considered in the light of what was known  at the time. 
As Mrs S accepted the offer in full and final settlement and the review process was intended 
to be a one-off  exercise I dont think it should  be revisited provided the business followed the 
relevant guidance at the time. 
Businesses, such as Legal and General Assurance Society Limited,  hired specialist 
actuaries to carry out these calculations. I have been provided with the calculations carried  
out by the business. The business compared the value of the benefits under 
Mrs Ss personal pension plan with the value of the benefits which  would have remained 
under her occupational scheme  if they had not been transferred. There is nothing  to suggest  
that the business carried out the calculations incorrectly or failed to follow the guidance at 
the time.
I have taken into account the point  Mrs S has made about reinstatement to her former 
scheme. The business has confirmed that its default position was to reinstate if it could. But 
the business records from the time give unable to reinstate as the reason why a top up to 
the PPP was offered  instead. The business says at the time the scheme wouldnt allow  
reinstatement where  the consumer was no longer an employee,  as was the case  with Mrs S. 
I am satisfied on balance that reinstatement  was considered by the business  but not carried 
out because it was unable to do so. I also note that Mrs S has contacted  the scheme and 
has not been able to obtain any definitive answer  which might suggest  otherwise. 
I can appreciate Mrs Ss concern about the value of her PPP as she approaches retirement.  
This must be upsetting for her. But it isnt the fault of the business that assumptions made 
nearly 20 years ago (which were  considered reasonable  at the time) have not been  realised. 
That is the difficulty with assumptions  they arent certain and can turn out to be incorrect. 
So, whilst I do have sympathy for the position Mrs S now finds  herself in, I dont consider her 
complaint should  be upheld.  
my decision  
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint against  Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  for the reasons outlined in this decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Julia Chittenden
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3827985