K820x#14complaint
Mrs V complains about issues shes experienced with a car purchased  with finance from 
Black Horse  Limited.
background
In March 2017 Mrs V was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  
with Black Horse Limited.
Mrs V experienced a number of issues with the car including:
Smell  of fuel
Burning smell
Rust on wheel hubs
Squeaking noise from brakes
Vibration through the pedals
Rattle from exhaust
In April 2017 the supplying dealer attempted to resolve the fuel smell by replacing the 
pressure sensor.
The car was later returned  to the supplying  dealer  with a burning smell. No fault was found 
but the pollen filter was replaced  as a precaution. The garage also looked at the rust on the 
wheel hubs but said this had been  caused by the use of an acid based cleaner.
Mrs V continued to experience issues with noises from the brakes. She says the fuel smell 
continued until November  2017 when a fuel leak was diagnosed and an injector  replaced.
In March 2018 DEKRA  was instructed  to carry out an independent inspection of the car. The 
report noted that the fuel smell  had been addressed. The engineer was unable to replicate 
the burning smell or the rattle from the exhaust.  In relation to the corrosion on the wheel 
hubs the engineer said this was due to natural  heat cycling but that it may have been 
accelerated by the use of certain  cleaning  chemicals. The engineer said that the squeaking  
noise was caused because the parking  brake had separate shoes which  operated inside the 
brake disc which  caused  the noise. The independent engineer  concluded that the car was of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Mrs V remained unhappy  and complained to Black Horse. In its final response, Black  Horse 
said that based on the information from the supplying dealer and the DEKRA report, the fuel 
smell had been  addressed and the other issues were either not replicated  and/or not point of 
supply faults.  It offered  Mrs V £50 in recognition  of the distress  and inconvenience 
experienced due to the pressure sensor  which had been replaced a short  time after the point 
of supply.
Mrs V wasnt  happy with the response and complained  to this service. She said there  were  
still issues with the brakes  squeaking and a new noise when the brake pedal was 
depressed. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint and said that although  the car had some  issues, 
including the fuel small, burning smell,  vibration with pedals and corrosion on wheel hubs, 
Ref: DRN32928602these issues had been resolved. The investigator  said that based on the independent report, 
the issue with the brakes wasnt present or developing at the point of supply. 
Mrs V didnt agree. She said the wheel hubs hadnt been fixed  and that they had become 
corroded within 3 weeks of the point  of supply. She also said the brakes were still squeaking.
Since the investigator issued a view, the car has been returned to the dealership again in 
April 2019. The garage was unable to replicate the squeaking noise. It carried out a 
comparison with a similar car and found the same noise coming from that car as well. It 
concluded that the noise  complained about was a characteristic of the braking system and 
not a fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Black Horse has supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, theres  an 
implied term that it is of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory is what  a  reasonable person would 
regard as acceptable, taking into account  factors such as the price paid, fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability. I would expect a 
brand new car, such as that supplied to Mrs V, to be of a very high standard as compared  to 
a used car where I would  expect to see a degree  of wear and tear.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  where a fault is found within the first 6 months,  its 
generally up to the business to put things right. The business is allowed  one attempt to 
repair a fault.  If the repair isnt successful, the consumer can reject  the car.
Mrs V and Black Horse  disagree about whether the car had a fault at the point of supply. In 
order to reach a decision, I need  to look at the available evidence and decide, on the 
balance of probabilities, whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
An expert engineers  report  can help with deciding whether or not theres  a fault,  and 
whether a car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. In this case, DEKRA carried  
out an independent inspection of the car. Mrs V complained about several issues  so Ill deal 
with each one in turn, taking into account  the findings of the independent report as well as 
what Mrs V has said.
Fuel smell
The independent report said there was no small of fuel because the issue  had been  
addressed. I can see that the pressure sensor  was replaced in April 2017 and that the fuel 
pressure rail and injector was replaced in November 2017.  Mrs V hasnt raised any further  
complaint about  a fuel smell so Im of the view that the issue  has been repaired successfully. 
Burning smell
Neither the dealership nor the independent engineer was able to find a burning smell. I can 
se that Mrs V has mentioned a burning  smell recently when she turned on the heater. I dont 
disbelieve Mrs V but I havent seen enough evidence to persuade  me that there is a fault 
which is causing the smell.
Ref: DRN32928603Rust on wheel hubs
Theres no dispute that the hubs  have corroded. Both the dealership and the independent 
engineer have said that the corrosion has been caused by wheel cleaning chemicals. Mrs V 
says shes only used  products provided  by the manufacturer. I wouldnt expect to see 
corrosion in a new car. However, because there are two people saying that the corrosion 
was caused by cleaning products, I cant safely conclude that this is a point of supply fault or 
that the car was of unsatisfactory quality.
Pedal noise and vibration and rattle noise from exhaust
The independent inspection wasnt able to replicate these issues.  I can see that Mrs V first 
mentioned them in April 2018, which is outside  of the first 6 months. This means its up to 
Mrs V to show  that theres  a fault which  was present or developing at the point of supply. On 
the available  evidence she hasnt managed to do this.
Squeaking noises
Both the dealership and the independent  engineer identified a squeaking noise.  The 
engineer said this was due to the operation of the brake system on the car. He didnt find a 
fault with the brakes.
The dealership has looked at the brakes again more recently. It says the noise was caused  
by the brakes  as they were applied. It carried out tests using a car with the same braking 
system and produced exactly the same  noise. It concluded that the noise was a 
characteristic of this type of braking  system.
I appreciate that Mrs V feels that the noise is louder on her car than on the other car which 
was tested by the dealership. I wasnt present at the test so its not possible for me to be 
certain. However, the dealership has said that the noise was exactly the same.  Even if Mrs V 
is right and the noise  on her car was louder,  Im still not persuaded, on the basis  of the 
information Ive seen, that there  is a fault with the brakes.
I appreciate that Mrs V is frustrated by the issues shes experienced with her car but taking 
everything into consideration,  I dont think theres enough to persuade me that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply. So there  arent grounds for Mrs V to reject the 
car.
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3292860