K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Miss H took out with a charge card in 1996. Its been 
agreed that Allianz should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity, Ill refer to 
Allianz in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Hs case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ill explain why below.
Allianz has sent us a copy of Miss Hs application form for the charge card. This included a 
section on PPI, with a box to be ticked if she wanted to take it out. The box has been ticked  
and Miss Hs name and date of birth have also been  filled in to show she was to be covered 
by the policy.
Based on this, I think Allianz made  it clear  to Miss H that she had a choice about the PPI, 
and that Miss H chose  to take it.
Miss H has said the way the card was sold to her was rushed and done in a way to 
encourage you to agree  to everything.  But she hasnt given us much more  detail about what 
happened or what was said at the sale. This is understandable given  how long ago the sale 
was. But I dont think theres enough evidence  here for me to say that Allianz  unfairly 
pressured her into taking the PPI.
Allianz didnt recommend  the PPI to Miss H, so it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to decide  if it was right 
for her.
Its possible the information Allianz gave  Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But the policy couldve paid out for longer than Miss H told us she wouldve been 
entitled to sick pay. Miss H has mentioned  a medical  condition  she had, but she hasnt been  
able to give us any further details about  the condition or when it was first diagnosed. So I 
think its unlikely the condition wouldve affected Miss Hs decision to take the PPI. And she 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover.
So it looks  like the PPI couldve  been  useful to her if something went  wrong. It also looks like 
it was affordable. And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Miss H 
off taking it out.
Ref: DRN34746142my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2019. 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3474614