K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Arval  UK Limited has unfairly  requested he pay a shortfall on a 
settlement made by his insurers following the car he had via a personal contract hire 
being stolen.
background 
In June 2016  Mr C entered into a two year personal contract hire agreement  for a car with 
Arval UK Limited.
Unfortunately Mr Cs home was burgled  in February 2018 during which the cars keys 
were stolen and the car taken. Mr C reported  the theft to his home insurer and also to 
Arval. The home  insurer  dealt directly with Arval.
At the end of February 2018  Arval provided  the home insurer with a settlement figure of 
£16,902.19 for the car. Mr C was aware that there would be a shortfall as to the amount 
owed on the car once  the insurer had paid out under his policy due to the applicable excess 
charge.
In March 2018 Mr Cs insurer sent the funds for the car to Arval but this had no reference 
to Mr Cs car included with the cheque.  This meant Arval  was unable to allocate the funds  
to Mr Cs account and the payment was returned  to the insurer.
Mr C had been told by Arval to continue to make  his monthly payments until the funds for 
the car had been received  from his insurer. He says he was told that these  payments would 
be offset against any shortfall  that arose  after the insurer had paid out.
The insurer re-sent the settlement cheque in June 2018 through  by this time the net 
book value  for the car had reduced to £16,666.01. The insurer  paid a settlement of 
£16,145.36 and the lease for the car was terminated.
Arval invoiced Mr C for the sum of £540.65  made up of £520.65  shortfall between  the net 
book value of the car and the settlement paid by the insurer together  with a £20 admin 
fee.
Mr C complained to Arval  as he felt it was unfair  to be invoiced for the shortfall having 
paid under the lease for four months after the car had been stolen. He said he thought  
those payments were  going towards  the shortfall.
Arval didnt uphold his complaint. It said that the net book value of the car had reduced as 
the insurer had first requested the figure in February 2018  but not paid the settlement 
until June. And that this meant that the shortfall between what the insurance company 
had paid and the value  of the car had reduced  from £756.83 to £520.65.
Arval also said that it was a term under the lease  that Mr C was required to pay his 
monthly payments  until the settlement payment had been received.
Mr C was unhappy at Arvals decision and complained to this service.  Our investigator  
recommended that Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. She said that the settlement figure 
of £16,902.19 had been provided  in February  2018  and this was in line with net book value 
shown on the car depreciation  summary.  It was at this point that Mr Cs home  insurer  had 
Ref: DRN31417442agreed to make a settlement of £16,145.36 meaning there was a shortfall that Mr C would 
need to cover of £756.83.
The investigator said that Mr C was aware  and willing to pay this shortfall but hed said hed 
been told he couldnt make this payment until Arval  had received the settlement from his 
insurance company.  Arval  had informed Mr C that he would need to continue  to make 
payments under his lease but hed also been told that any overpayments  would be passed 
back to him and any underpayments would be invoiced. The investigator said that if the 
monthly payments  werent going towards  the settlement of the car then it was impossible  
for Mr C to make an overpayment.
The investigator said she thought that in Mr Cs circumstances it was fair and reasonable 
for the payments hed made after the car had been stolen and up until the insurance  pay-
out to go towards  the settlement for the car. She said Mr C didnt have use of the car in that 
period and so she couldnt see what the purpose of the monthly payments was unless it 
was to go towards the shortfall.
The investigator recommended  that Arval refund the amount paid over the £550.64 that had 
been owed and that interest should  be added to that figure.  She also recommended  that 
Arval pay £50 compensation to Mr C for the inconvenience and distress caused to him by 
its handling of this matter.
Arval disagreed with our investigators view. It said that under the lease Mr C was required 
to continue to make payments until the settlement amount was received. It was only on the 
receipt of the monies paid by the insurer that the lease was terminated. And it was on the 
point of termination that Arval would calculate the difference  between  the insurance 
proceeds received  and the Written Down Value of the car.
As the parties  werent able to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Mr C had been the victim of a burglary in February 2018 during which his leased car was 
stolen. He correctly  notified both his insurer and Arval, and under the terms of the lease  any 
monies paid out by the insurer went directly to Arval so Mr C wasnt  involved in the 
settlement process.
Arval had provided Mr Cs insurers with a settlement  figure of £16,902.19. Mr Cs insurer 
agreed to pay a total of £16,145.36  leaving a shortfall of £756.83. Id seen that Mr C had 
known thered be a shortfall and he expected to have to pay it.
Mr Cs insurer  sent the funds to Arval at the start of March 2018  but these couldnt be paid 
into Mr Cs account due to a missing  reference.  This hadnt been Mr Cs fault and I accepted  
it wasnt due to any error by Arval. This meant  that the settlement on Mr Cs account was 
delayed.
Under the terms of the lease the agreement wasnt terminated until the insurance  
company had made the settlement payment, so Arval had informed Mr C that he needed  
to continue  to make payments under the agreement. Mr C made payments of £252.72 in 
March, April and May 2018 making  a total of £758.16.
The insurance company  made the settlement payment  in June 2018 and the lease  was 
terminated. Looking  at Mr Cs account  with Arval Id seen that Arval has credited some of 
Ref: DRN31417443the monthly payments made by Mr C towards the outstanding net book  value of the car. 
This reduced  the total outstanding amount to £16,666 making the shortfall between  the 
monies received  from the insurance company and the cars  value as £520.64.
But I didnt think it was fair that Mr C was penalised for the late settlement of his account  
as this hadnt been his fault. And I thought in these circumstances it was reasonable for 
Mr C to have expected  that the payments hed made under his lease from March  2018 
would all be put towards the shortfall  between the insurance companys settlement and 
the amount outstanding for the car. Hed had no benefit from the car as he wasnt able to 
use it.
Mr C had expected  to cover a shortfall  of £758.83  and in the intervening  time between  the 
first attempted  settlement and the actual payment hed paid £758.16 to Arval.  While I 
appreciated the monthly payment had different elements (lease  cost and repairs plus 
servicing costs) in these circumstances I thought it was fair that all the monthly payments 
were put towards  the cars value rather than just part. I didnt think Arval  was 
disadvantaged by this as it still received the settlement figure  of £16,902.19 which had 
been the netbook  value of the car in February  2018.
So looking  at the evidence I intended  to uphold Mr Cs complaint and ask Arval  to cancel its 
invoice to Mr C. I also thought that taking into account the distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr C by Arvals handling  of this matter that it should pay £50 compensation to
Mr C.
Mr C hasnt disagreed  with my provisional  view though Arval  says it doesnt think it acted 
unfairly as it only charged Mr C in line with the terms of his agreement. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my view. As Ive set out above, it was the particular circumstances of this 
complaint that I thought made it unfair  for Arval not to put Mr Cs continued payments 
towards the shortfall. The delay in the payment  wasnt  his fault and Arval  hasnt suffered any 
financial loss as its received the full settlement figure that was quoted in February 2018.
I had originally asked  for the invoice to be cancelled, however I am aware that Mr C has in 
fact paid it in full. So Im asking Arval to reimburse  Mr C the amount of £545.64 and pay that 
amount together with the £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
him.
my final decision
For the reasons  above Im upholding Mr Cs complaint. Im asking Arval  UK Limited to do the 
following:
Reimburse Mr C the amount of £545.64
Pay Mr C compensation of £50 for the distress  and inconvenience this matter  has 
caused him.
Ref: DRN31417444Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3141744