K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs C bought  the policy in March 1997 at the same time as applying for a mortgage. 
Due to the time that has passed,  its not clear how Mr and Mrs C applied for their mortgage 
and PPI policy. But Lloyds  have assumed that Mr and Mrs C applied for the mortgage  and 
PPI policy  in branch.  And this seems  a reasonable assumption for a Bank to make about the 
sale of a mortgage and associated insurance  as the Branch  network was likely  to have 
been the primary sales channel for those at that time. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs C for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. Mr and Mrs C were each entitled  to 50% of the 
benefit amount  in the event of a successful claim for either of them. The benefit  amount  in 
1997 was 123.85 and the premium  was £7.34 a month. 
At the time,  Mr and Mrs C were employed. Mr C told us he was employed as a ticket  
examiner and Mrs C was employed as an administrator. Mr C told us he was entitled  to 6 
months full pay as sick pay and Mrs C told us she was not entitled  to any company sick pay. 
Mr and Mrs C told us they had significant other means they could rely on if they were  off 
work for a long time.  Mr and Mrs C clarified  that they were referring to two critical illness  
policies they said they held at that time. But Mr and Mrs C told us they didnt have any other  
means of repaying  their mortgage should they be unable to work. And whilst Mr and Mrs C 
said they had only been working  for 3 and 4 years respectively for their employers, Mr and 
Mrs C thought theyd  be entitled to a payment if they were  made  redundant. 
Mr C told us he was in good health  at the time of the sale. Mrs C told us she had a medical 
condition since 1985. The condition had led to a stay in hospital in 1989 but hadnt been an 
issue in that way since. Mrs C told us she had twice yearly check ups and that it had cost her 
no more than 5 days off work since. 
Where there is missing or insufficient evidence  for me to consider, I need to make my 
decision based on a balance of probabilities  that is to say, Ill consider  what  I do have,  look 
at what both sides have  said,  and make a decision based on what I think most likely 
happened. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide a copy of the policy booklet from the time of the sale.  But 
it has provided a copy of the policy booklet  that was, it says, the next subsequent  policy  
document. The policy booklet is dated November 1998 and I think it would  have, most  likely, 
closely resembled the policy details  that pertained at the time of the sale.
Lloyds sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account was redeemed in 2013  and 
that the mortgage account was a regulated  account.  The screenshots tell us that the 
mortgage accounts became regulated when Mr and Mrs C took a further advance in 2006.  
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
Ref: DRN38512152I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Cs representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for consumers on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Cs representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr and Mrs C about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs C and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs C received was misleading. These  policies were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN38512153This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs C arranged a further  advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Lloyds Code 
of Practice for all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Lloyds Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct  
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Banking  Ombudsman was required to observe any 
applicable rule of law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Ref: DRN38512154key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr and Mrs C with reasonable  care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs C, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs C 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above, and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs C 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  
below. 
did Mr and Mrs C know they had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Lloyds has been  able to provide the actual  mortgage application. To get the cover  Mr and 
Mrs C had to tick a box for it within the mortgage  application. If they hadnt wanted the PPI 
they could have left the box blank or they could have ticked  the No box. Whilst the 
mortgage application form is not easily readable, it seems that Mr and Mrs C ticked  the Yes  
box to get the cover.  I say this because Mr and Mrs C went on to complete the following part 
of the application that asked some questions around  their eligibility for the PPI and it detailed 
who was to be covered.  And whilst much of the form is hard to read, it is clear that Mr and 
Mrs C signalled that they each wanted  to be covered for 50% of the benefit amount. 
So, taking everything  into account, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs C knew the policy  
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says it provided advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs C thought the policy  had been  
sold without a recommendation. So, whilst it places a higher responsibility on Lloyds  whilst,  
in this case, making no difference to the outcome  of this complaint, I have assessed the 
case as if advice was provided. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs C with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN38512155the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs C. It seems  the adviser had information about some  of Mr 
and Mrs Cs financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. And it seems  that 
whilst the form isnt entirely legible, the application  form did contain some  questions that 
tested whether Mr and Mrs C were eligible for the cover. Mr and Mrs C cant  remember  
clearly what happened  and there  is no record of what  the adviser discussed, beyond  
eligibility, in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  in respect  of a sale during a meeting. 
So, while the adviser had some limited information  about Mr and Mrs Cs financial 
circumstances, there  is no legible evidence to show the adviser took steps  to establish 
whether Mr and Mrs C would have been  caught  by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might  have meant the policy did not fully meet their needs. For example,  there  is 
nothing to suggest Lloyds considered whether Mr and Mrs C had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs C, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs C most  likely met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs C had a need  for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Cs ability  to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
either of them  was not working  for an extended period of time  even allowing for the 
sick pay that Mr C told us he expected if he was off work through  ill health and the 
possible redundancy benefits  Mr and Mrs C thought they would have been entitled 
to.
-Mr and Mrs C had a need  for the policy  as they had little or no savings  they could 
fall back on. The PPI policy would have helped Mr and Mrs C manage  the 
consequences if either party was unable to work.  Mr and Mrs C told us about the 
critical illness policies they said they had at the time,  but these would not have paid 
out, most  likely,  if they lost their jobs. And such policies are designed only to pay out 
in the event of the diagnosis of a life threatening illness. So it seems that many 
conditions that could cause long term absence  from work might  not have triggered  a 
successful claim  on such a policy.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs C. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs C. 
There was nothing  about Mr or Mrs Cs employment or occupation which would have 
made it difficult for them to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mrs C 
told us about the medical condition she had before the sale.  In thinking about  this, I 
have noted what  Mrs C told us about  the condition.  Mrs C told us that whilst the 
condition had caused her to be hospitalised  for a time, that happened eight years  
before the sale in question and such an occurrence had not happened again. Mrs C 
told us that whilst she required  twice  yearly check ups about the condition, this 
Ref: DRN38512156seemed to have  brought matters under control, to the extent that Mrs C told us the 
condition had caused her no more than five days off since  1989.  So, Ive thought  
about all of the above, and the fact that the policy required  the consumer  to be off 
work through  ill health for 30 days before requesting  a claim form for the disability 
part of the policy.  And Mrs C told us the condition had not cost her anywhere near 
that amount  of time off work in in the entire time Mrs C had the condition, since 1985.  
So I do not think that this made the policy unsuitable for Mrs C. 
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the requirement  
that Mr and Mrs C be unemployed for 60 days before they could make  a claim for 
unemployment and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim of either  disability  or unemployment), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances, including their employers redundancy 
provisions (which  they might expect  to provide an income during the policys 
60-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs C be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs C sufficient  
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what Lloyds 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C were given a broad description  of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
they were unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs C 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But whilst the mortgage offer contained some information about cost and the policy  booklet  
would most  likely have  been available to Mr and Mrs C at some point before the mortgage 
and the policy started, the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Lloyds gave 
sufficient information  about the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs C agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs C Im not persuaded 
Lloyds did enough  to present information about the policy  it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ref: DRN38512157Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a Lloyds when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Cs. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Cs representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs C about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs C have suggested. And taking into account  the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either . 
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs C? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs C suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs C. So I have gone on to consider  whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  
Mr and Mrs C suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer this, I must decide  whether 
or not Mr and Mrs C would have still taken  out the policy,  had Lloyds done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs C, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs C have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs C would have acted  differently,  or whether they would have taken  out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs C say they wouldnt  have  taken it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
Ref: DRN38512158return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs C had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Lloyds told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr and Mrs C applied for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely  Mr and Mrs C would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible they might have raised  that with Lloyds  at the time, or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs C would have found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Lloyds  made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs C would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Cs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet their mortgage  payment) were significantly different  to what  the policy actually did. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs C thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that happened during the 
twelve months before the effective date shown  in their completion  letter  and for which 
they had consulted or received treatment  from a medical practitioner.  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back conditions, and placed  
more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy excluded claims for disability relating to mental health, including stress.
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs C wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and/or exclusions above might  well have 
caused Mr and Mrs C pause  for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the 
policy wasnt as good as they thought and they might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  Mr and Mrs Cs in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs C from 
taking out the policy.  
The evidence about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. They  were  eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to them 
Ref: DRN38512159should the insured risks had become a reality. Although Mrs C says she had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out and the policy wouldnt have  provided  cover had she 
needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think better information about  this 
exclusion would have  put her off agreeing to it. I wont  repeat the points  I made above, but I 
say this for the same reasons I gave earlier in this decision when I found that the existing 
condition didnt make  the policy unsuitable  for Mrs C. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  Mr and Mrs C wouldve been caught by any of 
the other significant  exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy 
out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for back pain were more onerous  than Mr and Mrs C 
might reasonably have  expected. Im mindful too that claims for mental  health  conditions 
were excluded. But its unlikely they would have  expected to be able to make  a disability 
claim without  having  to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this limitation 
and exclusion might have  dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs C from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs C, in their circumstances, still had some 
good reasons  to take it out.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs C that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for. 
But 12 months was a longer period than Mr and Mrs C would have  received  full sick pay for 
and I think their statutory  redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months  
income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs C would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should they be unable  to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
his outgoings  at a difficult and uncertain  time, ensure their home was not placed at risk and 
might potentially help preserve Mr and Mrs Cs sick pay or redundancy money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs C would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for them, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr or Mrs C were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs C would have taken out the policy  in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Cs representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ref: DRN385121510Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs C would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs C found themselves in as a result of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs C believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs C in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs C compensation, as that would  
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs C think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 1997  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Cs representative says a court  might  take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs C and about  
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN385121511Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3851215