K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a packaged  bank account  called the Gold  Added Value 
Account (GAVA) by Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds). 
background
Mr B took out a fee free Classic bank account with Lloyds  in July 2001.  He then took out a 
Select Added Value Account (SAVA)  six months  later in January 2002 which incurred a 
monthly fee.
Mr B took out a Gold Added Value Account  (GAVA)  five years  later in July 2007 which  also 
incurred a monthly fee.
Mr B says Lloyds recommended he take out the GAVA, but it wasnt right for him.
Our adjudicator looked into Mr Bs complaint and decided that Lloyds didnt do anything 
wrong in selling the GAVA.  Mr B disagrees  so the complaint  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B says that he complained to Lloyds about  the SAVA, and Lloyds upheld his complaint 
and has paid him redress. So I dont need  to look into the sale of the SAVA. This complaint 
is about the GAVA.
In July 2007 Mr B says he had on occasions  been  running an overdraft and had been 
enquiring about a loan.  Mr B says he talked  to Lloyds and it recommended that he open a 
GAVA as that would  give him a better  overdraft  facility  and preferential  loan rates.  He then 
applied for the GAVA  online and was accepted.  The fee for the SAVA hed had was £7 a 
month at the time, and the fee for the GAVA  was £10 a month.
Mr B had taken out both fee free accounts  and packaged bank accounts  in the past.  And he 
is clear that he knew he was opening a GAVA, that it had a range of benefits, and that there 
was a monthly fee. So in my view he was aware  he had a choice and chose to take out the 
GAVA.
Lloyds says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt recommend the 
GAVA to Mr B personally or advise him to take it. Mr B took out the GAVA on line so I would 
normally consider  this to be an information  only sale.  
Ref: DRN31105592Ive taken into account that Mr B says Lloyds recommended  the GAVA to him in a 
conversation just before he applied on line and Ive considered it carefully.  I dont  know what 
was said at the time, but Ive not seen anything such as a record of a discussion about Mr Bs 
needs and circumstances or a suitability check to show me clearly that Lloyds did make a 
personal recommendation to him. I accept its possible that in providing information to Mr B 
and explaining the benefits  of the GAVA, Lloyds  may have said or implied that it was a good 
idea to take out a GAVA.  But this isnt the same as a personal recommendation. And this was 
an on line sale, so I think its more likely than not that Lloyds sold the GAVA to Mr B on an 
information only basis. 
This means  Lloyds did not have to ensure that the GAVA  was suitable for Mr B, but it did have 
to provide Mr B with good  enough  information about the GAVA  so he could make  an informed 
decision about whether to have it or not. And I think it did. I say this because Ive looked at the 
internet screens  that Mr B would  most  likely have seen and I think its more likely than not that 
he would  have understood  the cost and benefits  of the GAVA  and had a good  idea of their 
value. I note that the benefits of the GAVA shown on the online application site did not include 
preferential rates for loans.
The GAVA benefits  included  worldwide  travel insurance, access  to discounts on holidays, 
AA breakdown cover (as a driver or a passenger), mobile phone insurance, sentinel  card 
protection, a £100 interest and charge free overdraft  facility  and preferential  interest rates  for 
overdrafts over £100. There was nothing about Mr Bs circumstances that would have 
prevented him from using  these. So I think the GAVA was of interest  to Mr B, and he 
wouldve thought  it useful. 
Mr B says he hasnt used these available benefits very much. But it was up to Mr B whether 
he used them or not. And Mr B couldve closed the GAVA at any time,  but he hasnt and he 
still has it.
So I think its more likely  than not that Lloyds provided Mr B with sufficient information to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the GAVA,  and Mr B chose to take it out.  
And there wasnt anything  that Lloyds didnt tell him that wouldve caused him not to do so. 
For completeness, I note that Mr B also complained about the unfairness of his overdraft 
facility being extended. My decision  does  not cover  this part of his complaint and if Mr B 
wishes to take it further he must first complain  to TSB Bank which  would be responsible  for 
this aspect. And then if hes not satisfied with their reply he can bring his complaint to this 
service as a separate case.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3110559