K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that PDL Finance Limited  (trading  as Mr Lender) gave him a loan that was 
not sustainably  affordable.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision that I issued in June 
2019. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I thought the complaint should  not be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Lender has confirmed  it has nothing  further to add to my provisional  decision, but Mr G 
hasnt responded.  In these circumstances I see no justification for departing from the 
findings set out in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37550652EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
background
Mr G took a payday loan of £250  from Mr Lender in July 2011. The loan was originally  scheduled to 
be repaid by a single  payment on 20 July 2011, but was ultimately repaid  in May 2012.
Mr G is unhappy that, at the time the loan was provided  to him, he was already trapped  in a spiral of 
debt and had outstanding loans with various  other lenders. He feels  that this shouldve been  apparent 
to Mr Lender from the information he provided to it at the time.
Mr Lender feels that it did carry out sufficient checks before lending and had satisfied itself that Mr G 
was creditworthy  and that the loan was affordable to him.
Our adjudicator considered  that Mr Lender was wrong  to provide this loan to Mr G because  its credit 
checks shouldve made it aware that he was experiencing  financial difficulties, having  defaulted on a 
number of other credit  facilities. He suggested that, to put things right, Mr Lender should  pay some 
compensation to Mr G.
Mr Lender doesnt agree;  it contends that it wasnt obliged to carry out a credit check, particularly as 
this was Mr Gs first loan with it, and the repayment required represented only 12% of his net monthly 
salary. It argues that its checks  showed  no evidence of financial difficulty that may have prompted it to 
carry out any further checks. As such, its asked that the complaint  be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
my provisional  findings
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including all of the 
relevant rules, guidance  and good  industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr G could repay  the loan in 
a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of different things, such  as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  relationship,  I think  less thorough checks  might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly 
and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a higher  
repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during which a 
customer has been  given loans  (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the 
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  its important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish whether  Mr G 
could sustainably repay his loan  not just whether the loan payment was affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.  
Ref: DRN37550653Of course the loan payment being affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer could  
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
At the time the loan was given the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) whose Irresponsible 
Lending Guidance states Assessing affordability is a borrower-focussed  test which involves a creditor 
assessing a borrowers ability to undertake a specific credit commitment,  or specific additional credit 
commitment, in a sustainable manner, without the borrower incurring (further) financial difficulties. 
The guidance goes  on say that repaying  credit in a sustainable manner means being able to repay  
credit out of income and/or available  savings and without undue difficulty.  And it defines undue 
difficulty as being able to repay credit while also meeting other debt repayments and 
normal/reasonable outgoings and without having to borrow further to meet  these repayments
So it follows that a lender  should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower 
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their 
repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
When he applied  for the loan Mr Lender carried out an employment check, the results of which 
showed that Mr G had a net monthly income  of £2,600. It also carried out a credit check. I havent 
seen the results of this credit check, but note from Mr Lenders file that it considered his credit  score 
to be average  and that there was no evidence of any insolvency processes. I cant  see any evidence 
from Mr Lenders file that it was aware, from the credit check, that Mr G had previously defaulted  on 
other credit agreements. 
Mr G says that his credit report would have been poor at the time, and so Mr Lender shouldve seen 
that he was struggling financially. But, generally, the information a consumer might see when  they 
request a copy of their credit file might  be very different  to that seen by a lender. A lender might only 
see a small  portion of the credit file, some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might not 
be up to date.  So, this may explain any differences between the information  provided by Mr Lenders 
credit check and what Mr G says should have been seen from his credit report.
This was Mr Gs first, and only, loan from Mr Lender. I dont think  that the amount  borrowed, and the 
amount that needed to be repaid to clear the loan, constituted a significant proportion of Mr Gs 
monthly income. And it was due to be repaid after a very short term,  on his next payday.
In these circumstances, I think  that proportionate checks for Mr Lender to undertake before agreeing 
to the loan wouldve been to ask Mr G for details of his monthly income, normal monthly  living costs 
and any regular financial commitments. At this early stage in the lending relationship I wouldnt have 
considered it proportionate  to expect Mr Lender to ask about  other short term loan commitments.
Its clear that Mr Lender did ask for details of Mr Gs income but I cant  see that it asked for any 
information about his living expenses and financial commitments. As such, I dont think that its checks 
went far enough. So Ive reviewed Mr Gs bank  statements  from the time of the loan to establish what  
hed most likely have declared to Mr Lender if hed been asked for this information.  
I can see that he had regular commitments amounting to around £1,800,  including some normal 
finance commitments and payments to a debt management plan. I think  that, if Mr Lender had asked 
Mr G for details of his monthly expenditure  including  regular financial commitments,  then hed most  
likely have declared  these figures. In those circumstances I think  its likely  that Mr Lender would still 
have considered its loan repayment, at £332,  to be sustainable. Whilst I know itll disappoint Mr G, it 
follows that I dont think Mr Lender was wrong  to provide this loan.
Ref: DRN37550654I dont doubt that Mr G has experienced financial difficulties, and that this was likely the case  when he 
borrowed from Mr Lender. But I havent seen anything  that persuades  me that Mr Lender shouldve 
been aware  of this from the checks it undertook  and nor would it likely  have been made  aware  had 
it carried out the better checks that I consider to be proportionate.
Mr G has highlighted to us that he was borrowing from a number of other short-term  lenders at this 
time, and that he was also gambling heavily. But, for the reasons Ive set out above, I dont think its 
reasonable to expect  Mr Lender to have been aware of this at the time it gave its loan.
Ref: DRN3755065