K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains about Pen Underwriting Limited (trading as AA Home  Insurance) (Pen) 
for its handling of a claim she submitted  for damage  to her home following a storm. She is 
unhappy with delays which occurred and that some work detailed was not completed. 
background 
In 2015, Mrs W made a claim on her home  insurance for storm damage.  This included  
damage to two flat roofs, roofing tiles and damage  to a bedroom due to water penetration. 
A contractor  attended Mrs Ws home.  Subsequently Pen declined to cover one of the roofs,  
as it considered that the damage  there  was caused by poor workmanship and deterioration. 
Pen subsequently  agreed to undertake repair works  at Mrs Ws property, including repairs to 
the roof, and repairs to decoration inside. Pen prepared  a schedule of work. 
Delays occurred throughout the period of repairs, and some of the works  detailed on the 
schedule of works were  not completed  satisfactorily. Mrs W describes being  caused distress 
and inconvenience  by the delays, and in having  to contact Pen regarding the works. 
Repairs works were  ultimately carried out and Mrs W was satisfied with the repairs. 
Mrs W submitted  a complaint, regarding  the delays she had experienced, and about issues  
with the scope of works not accurately reflecting the work that was done.  
Pen sent Mrs W its final response in October  2018.  It acknowledged that there  had been  
delays in the service,  and offered £50 compensation for Mrs Ws distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mrs W was not satisfied  with that response  and contacted us. She felt that Pen should pay 
more compensation  for the delays  she had experienced.  
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out his view to the parties. He 
noted that there had been several  delays through the process  and considered that the 
complaint should  be upheld  and the offer of compensation should be increased to £200. Pen 
accepted this view, and increased its offer of compensation  to Mrs W to £200.  
Mrs W has not accepted  that view and so the complaint has been passed for an ombudsman 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that Mrs W experiences health  issues, which  include  serious illness.  Mrs Ws 
representative has confirmed that Pen was not aware of Mrs Ws specific  health issues, but 
was aware that she suffered generally  poor health.  
I also note that there is evidence of delays to the work at Mrs Ws home, including  where  
there was a mix up in whether  contractors attended, and the timeline  of events shows some  
Ref: DRN38092932other delays  to repair works. I have also seen evidence that Mrs W had to call Pen for 
updates. 
Pen has corrected the scope of works  so this now accurately reflects  the work that was 
undertaken. 
I am pleased  that the corrective works  were  undertaken and that Mrs W is ultimately 
satisfied with the work that was done.  I do, however, think that the delays which she 
experienced were  unacceptable and constituted a poor customer service. 
Our investigator considered that, in light of Mrs Ws health  issues, the delays caused her 
distress and inconvenience which was not adequately addressed by Pens initial offer of £50 
compensation. He considered that £200 was a more appropriate sum to reflect the distress 
caused. 
I agree  with this view and, although  Mrs Ws representative has indicated  that she considers 
this amount insufficient, I think this is in line with other awards  we would make in similar 
circumstances. 
I am pleased  that Pen has indicated its willingness to offer this compensation. I would not 
ask Pen to do anything  further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs Ws complaint, and require Pen Underwriting 
Limited to pay Mrs W £200 compensation for the impact of the poor service she received. I 
do not require  Pen Underwriting Limited  to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020. 
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3809293