K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) turned down a claim on his 
pet insurance policy. 
background
Mr R made  a claim on his insurance policy after his cat was unwell and received treatment 
from the vet. RSA reviewed Mr Rs claim and turned it down saying theyd already paid the 
maximum benefit allowed  under the policy for that illness. Mr R didnt think this was fair and 
complained. He said the previous claims hadnt  been able to give a definitive diagnosis,  for 
this reason he felt the claim should  be paid.  
RSA reviewed Mr Rs complaint and said while the previous claims hadnt given a definitive 
diagnosis they had suggested Mr Rs cat was suffering from thiamine deficiency.  Because 
this claim was also for thiamine deficiency, and it was likely the previous claims were for 
thiamine deficiency,  RSA didnt uphold his complaint.  As Mr R disagreed he brought  the 
complaint here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Rs complaint and didnt find that RSA had done  anything 
wrong. She discovered  that while the previous claims hadnt definitely diagnosed Mr Rs cat 
with thiamine deficiency, it was a probable diagnosis. And as Mr R had already claimed for 
the maximum amount  allowed under the policy, she didnt  think it wouldnt be fair to ask RSA 
to pay anymore. 
As Mr R disagreed the complaint  has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs policy  says RSA will pay vet fess for 12 months from the date of first treatment or until 
the vet fee limit on the policy schedule is used  up, whichever happens first. Mr Rs policy  
schedule provides a cover  level/vet fee limit of £3000 per illness.  Ive therefore looked at 
whether RSA has acted  fair and reasonably when applying this. 
Mr R made  two claims in 2017  which were reasonably close  to each other. On the claim 
form for the first claim it says the condition  being claimed for is suspected  thiamine 
deficiency. For the second claim form it says open  see report  and a report is attached.  
The attached report provides two possible conditions, thiamine deficiency or meningitis. For 
these two claims RSA has paid £3000, the policy limit. 
In 2018 Mr R made a third claim and the diagnosis on the claim form says thiamine 
deficiency. Mr R said for the second  claim  the report provided shows  an MRI was done and 
the normal  signs of thiamine deficiency werent present. Because of this he doesnt think  its 
fair to say the claim  was for thiamine  deficiency.  
Ive reviewed the report and also Mr Rs vets comments and unfortunately I dont agree. I 
say this because  while the report does says the normal  signs associated  werent  present  on 
the MRI, it goes on to say but this may be because she had been treated for this prior to 
Ref: DRN38229892referral which may have  meant  we would not see the classical lesions on the MRI.  I 
therefore also need to consider that the symptoms werent seen due to the recent treatment.  
As one of the probably diagnosis  was for thiamine  deficiency, and there arent any reports to 
show this is incorrect or that Mr Rs cat was treated for another illness. Im satisfied that RSA 
havent been unreasonable by saying all three claims are for the same  condition. 
I appreciate this isnt the answer  Mr R was hoping for, and I hope his cat his now fully 
recovered and doing well. But as RSA has already paid out the policy limit it wouldnt fair and 
reasonable to tell them to cover this claim too.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3822989