K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that Allianz  Insurance Plc has declined his commercial insurance claim for 
fire damage  to his shop premises and voided  his policy Also that Allianz  renewed  the policy 
for a further two weeks then declined his claim for malicious damage during that period.
background
Mr F took out his policy through  a broker in March 2017. When he took out the policy he 
failed to tell the broker  that he had been  charged  (but not yet tried)  with a criminal offence  in 
August 2016.  In July 2017 he pleaded  guilty to certain criminal charges and received a 
sentence of imprisonment. The policy renewed  in March 2018. Mr F insists that at that time 
he wrote  to his broker to advise them of the criminal conviction. In November 2018 Mr F 
suffered a fire at his shop  premises. He advised  the appointed loss adjuster of the criminal 
conviction and as a result they wrote to him in December 2018 reserving the insurers rights 
and asking for confirmation as to why the conviction  wasnt disclosed.
On 20 February 2019 Allianz wrote to Mr F via his broker formally setting out that the 
conviction hadnt been disclosed so Mr F hadnt in its view given it a fair presentation of the 
risk when taking out the policy in March 2017  or at renewal a year later.  It set out that it 
considered it was entitled to void the policy and not pay the claim. It requested that Mr F set 
out any representations within 14 days.
The policy was due for renewal on 8 March.  To give Mr F an opportunity to respond and to 
allow the underwriters  to consider the position.  Allianz agreed  to renew the policy for two 
weeks from 8 March  2018. In that time Mr F suffered  malicious damage at his premises.
Allianz formally wrote  to decline liability and to confirm that it was voiding the policy  from its 
inception date in March 2017  and the subsequent renewals. It also said that it wouldnt be 
paying the claim for malicious damage.
Mr F complained that Allianz had renewed  the policy in full knowledge  of the conviction but 
still refused to pay out on his claim following that renewal.  Although he maintained  he had 
written to advise of the conviction he still felt it was unfair of Allianz to keep his policy  on 
while it investigated as he could have insured elsewhere had he known it planned  to void his 
policy.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Allianz  had acted fairly.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As a commercial customer Mr Fs policy is subject to the Insurance Act 2015. This sets out 
that it is the duty of the customer to make a fair presentation of the risk to the Insurer at 
Inception, renewal and variation of the Policy. This means that the customer should 
disclose:
(a)every  material  circumstance  which the insured knows  or ought to know,  or
Ref: DRN39975632(b) failing  that, disclosure which gives the insurer sufficient information to put a prudent 
insurer on notice that it needs to make  further  enquiries for the purpose  of revealing those 
material circumstances.
At the time of taking  out the insurance policy in March 2017,  and at renewal in March 2018  
Mr F was sent a statement of facts  which said:
This insurance contract is based on neither  you nor your director(s) or partner(s) having: -
any convictions that are unspent under the Rehabilitation  of Offenders Act 1974 for a 
criminal offence other  than (road traffic) motor offences.
been charged (but not yet tried) with a criminal offence other  than (road traffic) motor 
offences.
At the time of taking  out the policy Mr F knew he had been charged with a criminal offence 
but failed to disclose this to his broker. When renewing the policy Mr F was aware of his 
conviction. He asserts that he wrote to his broker to advise them but wasnt  able to use email 
or recorded delivery. The broker didnt receive any such letter  and as I only have Mr Fs 
word for it I cant say whether its likely that he actually sent the letter. Even  if I were  to find 
he had sent the letter  he didnt disclose  the fact he had been charged  when taking out the 
policy. There was therefore  a qualifying breach  of the duty under the Act. In such 
circumstances, where  the breach wasnt reckless or deliberate, the Act says:
If, in the absence of the qualifying breach, the insurer would not have entered into the 
contract on any terms, the insurer may avoid the contract  and refuse all claims, but must in 
that event return  the premiums paid.
Allianz has shown  us that it wouldnt  have  offered a policy had it known about the fact that 
Mr F had been charged with an offence. And it wouldnt  have offered renewal  terms (or 
offered a new policy)  had it known about  the conviction. In those circumstances  its entitled  
to void the contract  and refuse all claims. Mr F believes that his actions were called reckless 
or deliberate by Allianz. But we have  established  with Allianz that it doesnt  regard  the 
breach as reckless  or deliberate. In such circumstances  it must  return  all premiums  which  I 
understand it has done.
Turning to the renewal  for two weeks in March  2018, its been asserted that Allianz offered 
renewal terms  in full knowledge  of the conviction. But I dont think  it had a choice. It had 
advised Mr F that it was proposing to void his policy, but had to give him the opportunity  to 
address its concerns, and then allow time for the underwriters to make their decision.  This 
took it over the policy renewal date. We dont generally consider it fair for insurers  not to 
offer renewal  terms when  a claim is still under investigation.  This is because its likely that 
Mr F would have had great  difficulty getting  insurance in those circumstances.
With regard to the actual claim Mr F had in that short period, I appreciate  that Allianz knew 
about the conviction. It offered renewal  on the following  terms:
We would like to make it clear that the renewal  terms we are offering are issued is entirely 
without prejudice  to the question of policy indemnity, our position is reserved in respect of 
the policy & the claim and no steps  taken  should  be interpreted as in any way amounting to 
affirmation of, or election to, confirm, or waiver or estoppel  of any right we may have.
Whilst that it is written in legal terns Mr F could  have asked his broker  or sought advice 
before accepting the renewal terms. He had already been made  aware of the intention  to 
Ref: DRN39975633void the policy. I dont  think that that obliges Allianz  to consider any claim,  once  it had voided  
the policy.
Mr F further  says that Allianz should  have voided  the policy immediately after it became 
aware of the conviction, giving him an opportunity  to get insurance  elsewhere. But I think  
that would  have been unfair if Allianz had done  that. As Mr F now knows, voiding a policy is 
a serious matter. The fact of a policy being voided has to be disclosed to any future insurer 
(and likely on renewal  of any existing policies).  So its not a step an insurer  should take 
without full investigation of the circumstances. Whilst Mr F believes  that the investigation 
took too long I think it reasonable to accept that Allianz had to get certain  details from the 
Court, which  took some  time. Mr F had been aware  of the investigation immediately after the 
loss adjusters visit, was given full warning by letter in December 2018 and was sent a 
detailed letter in February 2019  advising him of the position.
So I dont  think that it would have been  fair to void the policy  before a full investigation had 
taken place. That would apply to any customer who is alleged to have failed to provide a full 
disclosure or misrepresented their position,  so I dont think  that Mr F has been singled out or 
treated unfairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3997563