K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wrongly  refused to accept a mandate  for a family 
member, who Ill refer to as Mr P2, to operate his accounts. He asks for compensation.
background
Mr P gave Mr P2, a mandate  to operate his accounts while he was overseas for medical 
treatment. Mr P says HSBCs refusal to accept the mandate caused  considerable trouble 
and inconvenience.  In particular, Mr P2 wasnt able to pay Mr Ps medical  bills or his credit  
card bill.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr P 
completed the mandate to give Mr P2 authority to operate his account and returned it to his 
branch in February 2019. But HSBC had to complete checks  which required further  
information. Mr P2 was added as a signatory in March 2019. Mr P2 wasnt  an account  
signatory when he visited the branch  in February 2019. 
Mr P didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr P and Mr P2s frustration here. Mr P completed a mandate so that Mr P2 
could operate  his accounts while he was overseas. It was no doubt  inconvenient to find that 
Mr P2 wasnt  able to operate the accounts  as hed expected.
But I must consider  whether HSBC made  an error or acted unfairly.  I dont think  it did. 
Mr P completed a third party mandate  to add Mr P2 as a signatory. This was returned to a 
HSBC branch by Mr P2 on 19 February  2019. HSBC needed further information and to carry 
out checks. Mr P2 was added as a signatory  to Mr Ps current account on 26 March  2019. I 
think its reasonable for HSBC to have a process  in place  to make checks  before adding 
signatories to an account. Theres nothing to suggest it didnt follow  its process or that there 
were unnecessary delays.
During the same visit on 19 February,  Mr P2 tried to make a cash deposit into Mr Ps credit 
card account. HSBC says it doesnt  accept cash deposits from third parties.  At this point, 
Mr P2 wasnt  a signatory  for any of Mr Ps accounts.  So I dont think HSBC  made  an error 
when it didnt accept  the payment.
HSBC has said that it cant  add third party signatories to lending specific accounts  such  as 
credit card accounts. Mr P2 doesnt  agree with this. He says the mandate should allow him 
to operate all of Mr Ps accounts. But I dont think HSBC has made an error  here.  Its 
explained that it cant add Mr P2 as a signatory for, or allow him to make  cash  deposits into, 
Mr Ps credit  card account.
HSBC has said that Mr P2 can pay cash into Mr Ps current  account, for which he is a 
signatory. He can then pay the credit card account from the current  account. Mr P hasnt 
Ref: DRN31504342explained why Mr P2 was unable to pay or transfer money for his medical costs. I havent  
seen anything to suggest this was due to an error by HSBC.
I dont think HSBC made an error here.  It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3150434