K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  is about  their whole  of life policy with ReAssure Limited.
For ease of reading Ill mostly refer only to Mr H. 
background
In 1994 Mr H took out a whole of life policy  with another business B. The level of cover was 
£24,240 for a monthly premium of around £24. ReAssure later took over the policy  from B. 
ReAssure say the policy was reviewed after ten years in 2004. It was then reviewed at five 
yearly intervals in 2009 and 2014. In 2018  Mr H turned 70 years old and the policy was 
subject to another review. By this point the monthly premium had increased to around £70. 
The 2018  review letter explained that the level of cover couldnt be maintained by the 
monthly premium. It gave Mr H several options  in relation to increasing  the premium  and or 
reducing the amount of cover. Mr H elected to maintain the level of cover by increasing the 
monthly premium to around  £90.
Mr H was unhappy with a number of issues and raised a complaint. In summary he was 
unhappy that the review letter was unsigned  and contained no calculations  nor the name of 
the actuary involved.  
ReAssure responded and didnt uphold the complaint. They  explained that system generated 
letters arent signed by an individual but they noted  Mr Hs feedback about this. Mr H 
responded and said he was also unhappy  that the policy will be subject to yearly reviews,  
which he says is an exploitation  of a position  of power. 
Mr H referred  the complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked into it and didnt 
think that ReAssure  needed to do more.  She explained that she thought theyd  acted within 
the terms of the policy in conducting their reviews  and she didnt  think Mr H had been treated 
unfairly. 
As he still disagrees, Mr H has asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator and for essentially  the same reasons. I know this will be disappointing for 
Mr H, so Id like to explain  why. 
Mr H has made detailed  submissions in bringing  his complaint, which I thank him for. And whilst I 
dont intend to respond in similar detail, I have  read all his correspondence and taken it into 
account when  making  my decision. So if I dont mention  any particular point or piece of evidence  it 
isnt because I havent seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need  to reference it to 
explain my decision.  I hope  Mr H doesnt  take this as a discourtesy; it is just a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. 
As our investigator has explained, our service  has no power  to influence commercial  
decisions that a business is entitled  to make. We can however, look at the individual 
Ref: DRN31913912circumstances of a complaint to find a resolution we consider to be fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances. 
I understand that Mr H feels it is discourteous that the letter  to him wasnt signed.  But I think 
ReAssures explanation that their system  generated letters arent signed by an individual is 
reasonable. I dont  think this makes a difference to the content of the letter and I dont think 
Mr H has been treated unfairly or been  disadvantaged by the letter being unsigned. 
Similarly the decision as to whether or not to share the name of the staff member  completing 
the calculations  - or the calculations themselves - is one I think  ReAssure  are entitled to 
make. I dont agree that ReAssure are obligated  to share this information or are breaching 
any regulatory requirements by not doing  so. 
So whilst I understand this is information  Mr H would like to see, Im not going to direct  
ReAssure to share it with him. Looking at everything  as a whole, Im satisfied that the letter 
sets out ReAssures position  and I dont agree that not knowing the name of the individuals  
involved makes a difference. 
Mr Hs policy  says that upon either of the lives assured reaching 70 years, the Company 
may deem that anniversary to be a Review Date. I dont  consider this to be an inherently  
unfair term. I think it is self-evident that when a policy provides a benefit  on death, that the 
risk being  covered increases along  with the ages of the lives assured. 
I think the policy makes clear that ReAssure are entitled to carry out annual reviews  when 
either of the lives assured reach 70. Mr H makes the point that the wording  says may 
deem. I agree that is the wording used, but I again think  this is a decision ReAssure are 
entitled to make. I dont think ReAssure are obligated to provide further explanation or 
justification for their decision to conduct  yearly reviews. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr H was hoping for. But the primary purpose of this type 
of policy  is to provide  life assurance. And unfortunately as a customer  ages, the risk being  
covered increases. The investment element of the policy  is intended to smooth  and lessen 
the impact of any changes in premium. But ReAssure  are within  their rights to review  policy  
and amend the premiums and this was set out clearly in the contract Mr H agreed to at the 
outset. It is a decision for Mr and Mrs H as to whether  or not they wish to continue with their 
policy, but Im not going to direct ReAssure  to guarantee not to further increase the premium 
as Mr H would like. 
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31913913
Ref: DRN3191391