K820x#14complaint
Miss Rs complaint relates  to seven transactions, totalling £610, which  she claimed she 
didnt make or authorise herself. She was unhappy The Royal  Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) 
didnt accept her claim and refused to refund £610  to her; with how the bank dealt with her 
and her claim after she raised her dispute;  and that it went on to close  her account.      
background
Our investigator shared with both Miss R and RBS a detailed  table  setting out the timings of 
the disputed transactions; undisputed  transactions; mobile banking logins; one time 
passwords sent by RBS to Miss Rs phone,  and which facilitated the payments being 
possible; and conversations with RBS. I wont repeat the table here,  Ill simply record  that the 
disputed transactions  were all online card payments,  to the same merchant and were for £30 
and £50 on 28 December  2018; and £100, £100,  £100, £150 and £80 on 1 January 2019. 
The investigator was satisfied, from the banks  records, that the card details, including the 
security code from the reverse of the card (CVV) were inputted  to make the transactions.  
Miss R told the investigator  she left her phone on a train.  She said she was logged  on to her 
RBS mobile banking app and someone  on the train could have seen her enter her personal 
identification number  (PIN) for the app. She said she didnt log out of the programme so 
anyone could have  accessed it although no one else knew her mobile banking code.
Miss R also said there was no security for her phone  so anyone could have accessed  it. The 
phone was lost for perhaps a day or more before she was called by someone from the train 
station who said the phone had been handed in with a flat battery. Miss R then charged the 
phone for a couple of hours  before she noticed money had gone from her account  and she 
called the bank to report the transactions.
The merchant to which the disputed payments were made was a company providing  
gambling services. Miss R had been  in touch with that company and she said it had told her 
the gambling account had been  set up in her name. The investigator was mindful that its 
common, with gambling accounts, for any winnings to only be able to be paid back to the 
account where the money originally came  from.
The investigator also noted one time passcodes had been sent to authenticate a number of 
the transactions. So whoever had Miss Rs phone would have needed to be able to access 
these to authenticate the payments, which he was satisfied was done.
He noted regular mobile banking logins, all recorded against one device with there being no 
evidence to show a new device being  registered  against Miss Rs online banking profile. 
After the last disputed  transaction,  there were a number  of separate logins where the 
balance could have  been seen. This activity is consistent both before and after the disputed  
transactions. RBS has confirmed the mobile  banking log in passcode was never  changed.
The last disputed transaction was at 6.36pm on 1 January 2019 and Miss R reported it to 
RBS 23 minutes later.  Yet Miss R later told the investigator the phone needed charging for a 
couple of hours once  shed picked it up from the station. 
The investigator didnt  consider the evidence, when all taken together, reflected that  on 
balance - someone other than Miss R had been able to obtain  both Miss Rs card details  and 
Ref: DRN30737502access to her mobile phone before carrying out all the activity that was carried  out, including  
making the disputed  transactions  to the gambling  company. He didnt recommend the bank 
refund to Miss R the value of the disputed transactions.
The investigator also addressed the service RBS gave to Miss R when it dealt with her 
request to receive  a refund of the transactions she disputed making. And he addressed the 
issue of the account being  closed. He considered various pieces of evidence including what 
Miss R has said about how she was treated. He listened to calls between Miss R and the 
bank, reviewed chat logs, account  statements,  email  exchanges  and various bank notes.  
 
He noted that RBS had initially told Miss R theyd need 5 working days  to investigate her 
claim of fraud on her account, but the bank extended this to 6 days, given the quantity of 
complaints they had received, at a busy time of year. It then requested an extra 10 working
days as they needed  to write to the merchant that was the payee in respect of the disputed  
transactions for details it held about  the payments. 
The investigator didnt  think the timescales  involved were unreasonable. Nor did he find 
there to be any evidence, outside of what Miss R claimed, of a definite confirmation as to 
when a response would be given or of any promise of a refund. 
But Miss R had said she was repeatedly  told wrong  information from different staff members 
and the investigator  acknowledged Miss R was encouraged  to keep calling back for a 
response and how this would all have been frustrating. RBS agreed  its communication could 
have been better and therefore agreed to pay £50 compensation and £24.30  to cover the 
cost of calls. This was paid to Miss R on 11 January 2019.
As regards  the closure of Miss Rs accounts, the investigator explained that RBS is allowed 
to choose who they want as customers.  And in certain situations  they can decide to not keep 
a customer and close accounts with immediate effect. The investigator was satisfied, in this 
matter, that RBS had reasonable  grounds  to come  to that decision.   
It was acknowledged  as to how difficult that must  have been, for the full period from when 
the disputed transactions took place,  it affecting  how Miss R was able to maintain  payments 
to various organisations she owed money to and for buying things such as petrol.  
Miss R says her bank card was blocked  without notice and she had to go to the branch to 
find out what happened. There were  a number of missed payments and these were loaded  
against her credit file as late payments. She then had to open up a new bank account and 
re-arrange direct  debits,  waiting until the receipt of further wages.
And in addition to the difficult circumstances that anyone would have found all of the above  
to be, the actions of RBS caused  Miss R anxiety and health  issues whilst pregnant and put 
her in greater financial  difficulties as she ended up making double payments  later.  
The investigator said he felt RBS had tried to be positive  and sympathetic to Miss Rs 
situation, including,  at one point it mentioning Temporary Emergency Assistance could be 
provided, albeit  after Miss R had been  into branch.
Taking everything into account,  including that RBS could have handled things better, the 
investigator considered  that the amount already paid to Miss R was appropriate for the 
impact on her for its failings in their dealings. Thats because, in short,  the failings were in 
respect of its communication rather than the outcome of the disputed transaction claim itself 
or its decision to suspend and then close the account.  
Ref: DRN30737503He noted RBSs final response letter said the decision to decline the claim of fraud was 
based on a commercial decision by the bank to close  the account. But this wasnt  correct. 
The claim was declined  as RBS believed the transactions  had been carried out by Miss R. 
Also, even if RBS had initially told Miss R they would refund all the transactions,  the result  of 
its consideration of the claim meant it wasnt  obligated to do that, despite the account having 
been emptied  and that this caused  difficulties and stress.
Miss R has asked for the view of the investigator  to be reviewed.  She hasnt though 
contested the investigators view that she wasnt entitled to a refund  of the disputed 
transactions  on the basis that she most likely, taking into account all the evidence, 
including what Miss R says, made  these  herself.
Miss R is though seeking more compensation for how she was treated from when she raised 
the disputed transaction claim,  the time it took for the matter  to be dealt  with, what she was 
advised and the closure  of the account.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive had careful regard  for all Miss R has written about this matter.  I cant quote  verbatim 
every comment or statement shes put to us but Ive read all her emails,  including those sent 
since the investigator issued his views,  and Ill summarise them here. Miss R has said she:
wasnt treated well in RBS handling  of the claim or in closing the account, this causing 
financial stress and placing the health of her baby in jeopardy;
needed to find another bank urgently for the receipt of wages and to make  payments;
was inconvenienced in having  to wait for wages and benefits  to be paid,  take a short  
term loan and rejig payments;  
suffered embarrassment in finding out the account was blocked, without notice; 
wasnt supported by RBS at a difficult time.
I dont doubt this was an extremely difficult time for Miss R and that the chain of events 
played out in a manner  which  was far from convenient  for her. But in deciding  whether the 
bank should compensate Miss R for how shes been distressed and/or inconvenienced, I 
have to start with the matter of the extent to which  the actions of the bank should  be 
compensated for; and have regard for whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.   
Its not in dispute  RBS didnt communicate with Miss R as well as it might have nor dealt  with 
Miss R in the manner  it would set out to do. Its therefore right it should  pay some  level of 
compensation to Miss R in recognition of that. Miss R has made  out very clear  reasons why 
the compensation ought to be far greater than the £74.30 its paid.
But it has to be material here that the conversations that Miss R was having with RBS 
initially, and substantively, were on the back of her seeking to claim a refund to her account 
of £610, on the basis  she didnt make  transactions to that value. Ill come back to talk about 
the closure of the account and the banks actions  in relation to that later.
And the bank found, on balance, and this was endorsed by the investigator and is now not 
contested by Miss R, the transactions appeared from all the evidence not to have been  able 
Ref: DRN30737504to be made  by anyone  other than Miss R. So I dont  consider it would be fair and reasonable 
for the bank to have to pay additional  compensation than it already has, given the nature  
as just described - of the claim that was dealt with by the bank, and the impact said to have 
arisen from the banks  handling of that claim.  
I appreciate that the dealings and conversations that RBS and Miss R were having also 
related to the account being  blocked before being  closed. So Ive considered the banks 
actions in this regard too, insofar as Miss R says those actions negatively  impacted on her.
But, largely as the investigator has explained to Miss R, a bank is entitled  to end its banking 
relationship with a customer by closing accounts  they hold with it; just the same  as a 
customer of a bank  may decide to end the relationship themselves. No explanation is 
required to be provided and I cant fairly and reasonably require the bank to provide banking  
services simply  because  the customer wants to remain a customer;  or for the bank  to
provide the explanation Miss R would  like.
That said,  I would expect  a bank to exercise its commercial  judgement, to close  an account,
legitimately. A bank  adopts procedures for administrating an account, allowing access  to it 
and for dealing with its closure. And RBS has such procedures in place, which to some  
extent are written into agreed  terms and conditions. But it also has legal and regulatory 
obligations to observe  when carrying out those procedures and administering  accounts, and 
these influence the decisions made  by a bank in its dealings with customers.
In this matter, Im not aware  that RBS failed to follow its own procedures in administering  the 
account how it did and closing it. I therefore  cant fairly and reasonably say that the closure 
of the account,  ultimately, was inappropriate;  nor carried  out by RBS in a way other than As 
it would  in seeking to comply  with good banking practice. And, most importantly, as it was 
entitled to do under the account terms and condition as well as its procedures.   
my final decision
In light of everything Ive said,  I dont  uphold Miss Rs complaint;  I consider the 
compensation paid to her already by RBS is sufficient in recognition  of all aspects of her 
complaint; and dont  require  RBS to do anything further in this matter.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Ray Neighbour
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3073750