K822xcomplaint
Mrs H has complained somebody was making use of her account  and Lloyds Bank plc didnt 
do enough to help her.
background 
Mrs H called her bank  at the beginning of August 2017. She was concerned  her card had 
been swallowed  up by the cash machine. She disputed  eight cash machine transactions she 
hadnt made. Lloyds  didnt  think anybody  else could have used her debit card  and know 
her PIN. They rejected  her fraud claim.
Lloyds sent Mrs H a new card and PIN. She was very upset about this. Shed specifically 
asked them not to do this. She also noticed further  transactions on her account which she 
didnt make. Direct debits had been  returned. Shed didnt have enough money  in her 
account to pay them. These further transactions had been  made  with her replacement  card.  
Lloyds didnt think itd been possible for someone  to intercept her card, and new PIN. These 
had been sent separately.  Mrs H had said no other person knew  a new card was being sent.
Mrs H brought her complaint to the ombudsman service. She was upset Lloyds had accused 
her carer of making  these  transactions. Our adjudicator got hold of further evidence from 
Lloyds. They confirmed  there was no CCTV evidence available.
He also held detailed  conversations with Mrs H. During these  she alerted us to more 
potential fraud on her account. She didnt recognise transactions  in March, April and May 
2017 either. She also told us shed not been receiving any statements over a number of 
months. It was clear Mrs H believed someone  at Lloyds was behind  what  was happening.
Mrs H was also receiving hospital  treatment for a serious illness.
She raised  a number  of additional concerns. These included:
 problems she was having paying  her credit card (with  another bank) when 
she was told she needed a debit card;
 direct  debits  to pay that credit  card not being  made;
 being charged a penalty for closing  a fixed-rate ISA;
 being charged for returned debits on her account; and
 being treated  dismissively by Lloyds, with them not taking into account the 
impact her bad health was having  on her.
It was also clear she was concerned we were siding with Lloyds. And just believing what  
they were telling us. We confirmed shed need  to raise these issues  with Lloyds. Theyd  
have an opportunity to investigate  her complaints before we considered  them. These  issues 
have not been referred  back to us by Mrs H.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the evidence showed  there were  transactions  on Mrs Hs 
account which she hadnt made.  But he felt Lloyds hadnt treated Mrs H fairly. She had real 
anxiety about  the conduct of her account, along  with her health worries. Theyd been 
reluctant to deliver  her replacement card to the branch.  Their  internal policy, however, said 
they could do this. Branch notes were  sketchy  about  Mrs Hs branch visits. Mrs Hs 
descriptions of what happened  were comprehensive.  He thought it was fair to rely on these. 
Ref: DRN30839392He asked Lloyds  to pay her a total of £350 for the distress caused,  and as a further token of 
apology. 
Mrs H didnt agree with the adjudicators  outcome. She was reluctant  to ask an ombudsman 
to make a decision as she knew this would be final. She agreed  to withdraw her complaint in 
November 2017.  Within the month Mrs H changed  her mind. She wanted her case to be 
referred to an ombudsman.  
Lloyds also disputed the outcome. They felt Mrs Hs story about  branch visits didnt match  
what the branch  was saying. All their evidence pointed to Mrs H managing her account 
through automated telephone banking rather than extensive branch visits. They didnt think 
the award of £350 was fair.
In the meantime Mrs H had been in touch with the police. Shed been told her bank 
statements had been received by a neighbour. So she remained concerned someone else 
was using her account. She also believed other bank products were being  taken out in her 
name.
Mrs H was concerned about the lack of her bank statements. Our adjudicator  got copies of 
her current  and savings  account statements and sent these  to her. These covered all of 
2018 for her current account and three years of information for her savings  account.  He also 
shared a copy of her credit file with her which wed obtained on her behalf.
I completed a provisional decision on 16 October  2019. This explained my reasoning  why I 
felt it was fair Lloyds  pay Mrs H £450.
Lloyds accepted this outcome. Mrs H spoke to us in detail about  what  had happened to her 
and how this made her feel. This covered  a number of issues  but included:
the history of her complaint when  her card kept being blocked  and she was unable  to 
use her PIN at cash machines;
the bank being able to detect money  going out of her account  when she was in 
branch;
the bad service shed  got from one staff member  who kept referring to Mrs Hs illness 
inappropriately; and
her card eventually being  unblocked and being  available for her to use.
I now have all the information I need to complete a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive not seen anything  
which has made me change my mind from what I said in my provisional decision so my 
reasoning remains  mostly  the same.
Although Ive concentrated on those issues relevant to my decision, Id like to reassure 
Mrs H Ive considered everything she raised with us. I should mention Ive also listened to 
the call Mrs H had with our investigator  on 17 October 2019 after she received the 
provisional decision. 
Ill now explain what I think and why.
Ref: DRN30839393how we look at fraud
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent when  looking  after their card and PIN. So when  
we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud complaint, one of the 
things we consider  is whether the customer made  the transactions  themselves or allowed 
them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund the money.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive reviewed the transactions themselves. That 
includes how Mrs Hs old and new debit cards, along with her PINs, could have been  used 
by someone else. Ive also taken other evidence into consideration, including  what  Mrs H 
has told us and Lloyds  records.
disputed transactions
I was immediately concerned at the seriousness of what Mrs H was saying. What 
transactions were  in dispute wasnt clear. I asked  Lloyds to get proper clarification. Their  
initial evidence showed 12 transactions on her old debit card. These totalled £2,350. There  
were eight on the replacement card totalling  £1,200. But Mrs H had disputed  a further six or 
seven transactions  when  talking to our adjudicator.
It was clear Mrs H felt someone else had got hold of her cards and was using them. She was 
sure her identity was being used. Shed already told us she didnt recognise things that were  
noted on her credit  record. Mrs H gave us consent to review  her credit record. There were  a 
few other  bank accounts noted on it, but these have been open for many  years, along with 
Mrs Hs other credit  agreements. Her record didnt show  any recent credit agreements. Nor 
was there  any reference to the credit card she was having difficulty  paying.  
I know Mrs H believes shes  been a victim  of someone using her identity. But I dont think  
this has happened  with her Lloyds account. If other accounts have been opened in her name  
then I couldnt  see those on her credit  record.
cash machine transactions in July 2017
The card ending 1849 was the card Mrs H reported as lost on 1 August 2017. Mrs H 
disputed £2,350 worth  of transactions on this card. These transactions took place between  
22 and 31 July 2017.  
Mrs H initially  told us her card got trapped in the cash machine on the same day as she 
reported it lost. She then believed shed mixed this card up with another card.  Shed  
probably not seen  it since  the middle of July.  
Ive looked at Mrs Hs statements  for this period.  Mrs H used her debit card on 17 July to 
take £500 from a cash  machine. Then she withdrew £1,000 using  her debit card within  her 
branch. On 20 July there was a balance  enquiry  at a cash  machine. No cash was withdrawn 
(although statements show the account held more than £2,800).  After that it was only used 
for the transactions  she disputes.
I cant see any opportunity for a fraudster to have seen her PIN when she was using her 
card. Itd certainly  be unusual for a fraudster to note a PIN but then not get hold of or use the 
Ref: DRN30839394card for a further couple  of days  unless  it was someone who knew Mrs H and was waiting for 
the right opportunity to make use of her card. I considered this possibility too.
During the set of disputed cash machine withdrawals there were two withdrawals of £250 
made on 27 and 31 July. These were done at fee-charging cash machines.  The fees were 
£1.99 and £1.80. In both cases the transaction was cancelled after the money was 
requested. This is shown  on Mrs Hs statements. Whoever was making these transactions 
realised a fee was going to be charged. They then very reasonably  cancelled  the 
transactions. Within  a few minutes  in each case £250 was then withdrawn  from a free cash  
machine. This would be unusual behaviour for anyone other than Mrs H, or someone close 
to her. A fraudster wouldnt be interested in minimising charges to her account.
Mrs H didnt write her PIN down. She used  a date well known to her so didnt need to. Mrs H 
is worried this was done by someone she knows. Shes consistently maintained this couldnt 
be her carer. I see no reason to doubt that. But I cant see how someone could have known 
her PIN, nor does there seem  to be a point where  her card could have been taken. 
I know Mrs H believes one of her replacement  cards was received and used by someone 
else but I dont  believe the evidence supports this.
Having reviewed whats happened, I think its more  than likely Mrs Hs card didnt go missing 
until 1 August. Shes had a history  of losing cards or accidentally blocking PINs  so think  its 
more than likely shed  act immediately to get a replacement. That certainly seems to be what 
shes done in the past. I also dont see anything out of character in how the card was used to 
withdraw money. Im satisfied Mrs H either  made these withdrawals herself or authorised  
them.
cash machine transactions in August 2017
A new card ending 1856 along with a new PIN were sent  in separate  mailings   to Mrs H. 
This is the card Mrs H says she never received. £1,200 worth  of transactions  is disputed  
which took place  from 17 to 30 August 2017. This card was then cancelled in early  
September.
The evidence Ive seen  shows Mrs Hs new card was sent on 3 August. The PIN was sent 
on 2 August. Id expect  both to get to her within a couple of days  after that. 
Firstly no fraudster would know Mrs H was expecting a new card and PIN. Itd be a 
coincidence for someone to have intercepted both the card and PIN by chance.  And again  
the disputed use doesnt take place until 17 August. This suggests any fraudster  got hold of 
the card and PIN and didnt use them for about  10 days. This doesnt normally happen.
Mrs H explained to us her postman generally rings  her bell when she has post. She then 
gets her post direct  from him. This further suggests  her new card and PIN werent  
intercepted.
Mrs Hs bank records also show she maintains regular  contact  with her bank  either using a 
branch or more  often telephone banking. She uses this regularly to check her balance. I can 
see she did this throughout the period of these transactions. She also transferred £600 into 
her account  on 25 August. This credit  covered  the most recent withdrawals and provided 
enough credit for the further withdrawals  made  over the next couple of days.
Ref: DRN30839395Having considered all the evidence, Im satisfied Mrs H either made these  withdrawals 
herself or authorised them.
cash machine transaction in March 2018
Mrs H also disputed a cash machine transaction of £80 which happened on 2 March 2018.  
Ive also reviewed this transaction. Lloyds was able to provide us with evidence from the 
bank whose cash machine Mrs H used. 
Mrs H told us her card got trapped in the cash machine and she never got the money.  Ive 
reviewed the electronic  record for this transaction.  This shows the card being handed back 
successfully and then £80 being dispensed.  The bank has confirmed  their cash machine 
wouldnt dispense money at all if the card got trapped. And then neither  would  the account 
have this amount  debited. Nobody else used  that machine  for a further 20 minutes. I dont 
think there was an opportunity for someone else to have taken Mrs Hs money either.
According to the bank  whose cash machine  Mrs H used, money in the machine balanced 
when audited. This suggests the £80 Mrs H requested came out of the machine. Ive 
confirmed it was unlikely  this was picked up by anyone else.  I wont be asking Lloyds  to do 
anything further  about their transaction. I believe Mrs H got her money.
Overall I wont  be asking  Lloyds Bank  to refund  these disputed  transactions.
service issues
After Mrs H first told Lloyds about  fraud on her account, she was very unhappy about how 
shed been treated.
She complained about:
 being sent a replacement debit  card and PIN when she didnt want  one;
 incidents at the branch;
 difficulties using  Lloyds telephone  banking services; and 
 the tone used in conversations she had with their fraud  department. 
She believes the service  she received was not what shes entitled to expect.
When Mrs H reported her card lost on 1 August, she was already concerned at not getting 
her bank statements. This had been  going on for months. Evidence Lloyds shared with us 
shows Mrs H checks her balance regularly. She uses telephone banking or a cash machine 
to do this. But this may have indicated she was missing key account information  as well.
Theres no dispute Mrs H didnt want a new card and PIN sent to her. She was worried 
theyd go astray. But Lloyds made a mistake. They were both sent. Ive already said I dont 
think they were intercepted. But its clear they didnt  do what she requested.
For a long period  after the card ending 1856  was cancelled, Mrs H didnt have a debit card. 
Shes unclear about the details or the state  of her account. She hadnt received statements 
for a prolonged period. She was told shed have to pay for additional copy  statements. 
Ref: DRN30839396I can see Mrs H relies on disability benefit.  She also tops up her current  account from her 
Lloyds savings account. She uses  telephone  banking quite regularly. Shes  also had to rely 
on going into branch to get cash.
Thats caused difficulties.  Shes withdrawing  large  amounts  so needs identification. Mrs H 
doesnt have a driving licence or a passport.  She says the branch has been reluctant to 
accept the alternative  identification she takes with her. This can include her birth certificate 
or household  bills.
She was also told it wasnt company policy to send her replacement card to the branch for 
her to pick up. I suspect  there was a mix up about  this issue.  But theres no doubt  Mrs H was 
without a card for nearly two months.  Her statements show very limited  transactions  
between 1 September and 3 November, except her regular payments  being made. 
We spoke to Lloyds  about these issues. There were  very limited notes about Mrs Hs branch 
visits. On the other hand Mrs H has provided  us with detailed  information about whats 
caused her problems.  
Its also clear  that Mrs H has serious  health  problems.  Ive seen nothing to suggest Lloyds 
took this into account. So for example, theyre  required to provide alternative arrangements  if 
delivering Mrs Hs card to her home address isnt satisfactory, for whatever reason. This 
didnt prove  to be as simple as it should.
I was concerned we didnt  have clear information  about Mrs Hs problems; I encouraged  
Lloyds to have  a more detailed discussion with her. This would help identify the fraud 
transactions. And get us a better  understanding of her issues. Whilst she was most upset 
about how the fraud team and branch had treated her, I felt something else may be going 
on. Unfortunately bad weather stopped Mrs H and the branch manager  meeting on a 
number of occasions.
A meeting did take place in March  2018.  This was when the further  card problem on 2 March  
was highlighted.
Id like to thank both Lloyds and Mrs H for agreeing  to meet. This did clarify  the fraud 
transactions. Im satisfied  Ive considered all the transactions  Mrs H disputes.  
I appreciate Mrs Hs concerns about  this approach. I was conscious of the number of issues  
shed raised and wanted to give her as comprehensive an answer  as possible. Particularly 
bearing in mind she was initially  reluctant to have  an ombudsman  make a final decision at 
all. 
When reviewing Mrs Hs bank statements, I also noted a number of disputed  payments were 
refunded to Mrs H in January and October  2018. More than £1,050 and £630 worth of 
transactions originally  made using her debit  card were refunded  to her. These have not been 
the subject of any complaint to us so I believe Mrs H feels Lloyds treated her fairly on those 
occasions.
conclusion
As already confirmed,  I dont believe theres enough  to show Mrs H didnt make or authorise  
the cash machine  withdrawals. But, like our adjudicator, I think Lloyds has caused Mrs H 
trouble in not sorting out her service issues. She certainly didnt feel her fraud complaint was 
Ref: DRN30839397treated seriously.  There were other  failings  as Ive confirmed above. Taking all this into 
account, and Mrs Hs personal situation,  I think  Lloyds should pay her £450 for the trouble 
caused.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Lloyds Bank plc to pay Mrs H £450 
to put things right.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019. 
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3083939