K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a claim he made under his furniture warranty for damage to a sofa 
and footstool.  He is unhappy  that the claim  for part of the damage to the sofa has been 
declined. In addition,  he is unhappy  that when the explanation for why part of the claim 
wasnt understood immediately by his wife, the technician  was rude and raised  his voice  to 
her.
Ageas Insurance Limited is the provider of the warranty and I will refer to it throughout, 
including where  actions have been completed  by its representatives.
background
Mr C bought a suite  of furniture in 2014. Alongside the furniture Mr C was sold a warranty.  It 
had a five-year term and covered  the furniture for staining and accidental damage. 
Accidental damage cover is defined  in the warranty as a sudden and accidental event 
resulting in a rip, tear, burn,  scratch, puncture or scuff.
In 2018 during a party  one seat cushion  of the sofa and the footstool became damaged. A 
claim was made, and Ageas arranged for the furniture to be inspected.
The technician who inspected the furniture documented there were  some scratches on the 
sofa cushion and the footstool. The claim was accepted  for these  issues and repairs were  
done. However, he didnt think all the damage to the sofa cushion was covered.  This was 
because he determined that there  was a flaw (scar)  in the leather, which  had always  been 
there, and that flaw had opened  up. He considered this to be an inherent flaw with the 
leather the cushion cover  had been  made  of and so a manufacturing flaw, rather  than an 
incident of accidental damage. The technician said that whilst the flaw could not be removed, 
it could be filled and recoloured to improve its appearance.
Mr C referred  the matter to the retailer which had sold him the furniture and it also inspected  
it. Mr C has told us that the retailers technician said that if there  had been  a flaw in the 
leather of the cushion it would have  shown up earlier than it did, and it was not a 
manufacturing fault.
Mr C wasnt happy with the quality of the repairs that were done on the footstool or the 
decision to decline part of the claim.  He referred  his complaint to this service. Mr C also 
ordered and paid for a replacement sofa cushion from the retailer.
Our investigator, when considering the evidence, spoke to Ageas about the quality  of the 
repairs to the footstool. Ageas arranged for another technician to attend Mr Cs home.  A 
further repair was completed, and Mr C has confirmed he is now happy with the repairs.   In 
relation to the partial declinature for damage to the sofa cushion, the investigator considered 
the evidence available  didnt indicate Ageas had acted  inappropriately when  declining  that 
part of the claim. 
Mr C didnt accept the investigators conclusion and so the complaint was passed  to me for 
consideration. I requested some further  information relating to Mr Cs concerns about the 
technicians behaviour and the examination  by the furniture retailer.  
The technician was unfortunately  unable  to remember the visit to Mr Cs home after so much 
time. However, he said he has never been asked to leave a property and prides himself on 
Ref: DRN35364952his professionalism,  even  in the face of angry and disappointed customers. He denied that 
he would  have been rude to any customer or raised  his voice. It was also commented  that 
whilst the technician was in Mr Cs home  repairs were completed, which  would seem unlikely 
if he had been  rude and been asked to leave.  In addition, it was confirmed the technician  
was a long-serving member of staff and used for difficult  situations because of his tact and 
professionalism.
The furniture retailer confirmed it had arranged for a technician to look at Mr Cs sofa and 
footstool before the second  set of repairs. There is no detail  of the technicians conclusions 
about the nature of the damage to the cushion. It simply says that a new seat cover  would 
need to be ordered and that it should  be chargeable to Ageas. It was detailed in the retailers 
later notes that the retailer had sent Ageas an email saying that the cushion damage  was an 
accident, but that Ageas maintained it was not. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2020  in which  I set out my conclusions  and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt of that document.
The technician who attended  the property in the first instance noted four scratches on the 
sofa cushion and a natural scar. I have looked  at the photographs provided by both Ageas 
and Mr C. The damage the technician has described as a scar is more substantive than the 
other damage claimed for. It is also quite  uneven and jagged   quite different from the other 
areas of damage  photographed.
The technician from the retailer also photographed  the damage  and again  the damage  
Ageas has described  as a scar is more visible and appears to be more substantive than any 
of the rest of the damage. The conclusion was that the damage was accidental  rather  than a 
flaw in the leather. There is no explanation  as to how this conclusion  was reached or why the 
technician thought Ageas  conclusion was wrong.  
When we consider complaints such as this one, we rely heavily on the technical evidence  
from the experts. Where  that evidence is contradictory, we have  to make a decision  based 
on which expert opinion  we find more persuasive.  It is possible for there to be inherent  flaws 
and weaknesses in leather because  it is a natural material. Taking this into account along 
with the photographic evidence, I am more  persuaded by Ageas technicians conclusions. 
As such,  I dont think Ageas was wrong  when it declined to cover all the damage  on Mr Cs 
sofa.
In relation to the matter of the behaviour of the technician, it is a difficult  matter for me to 
determine. I was not there to witness the events and the technician  has denied  the 
allegations. It could  be said that this is what the technician would say irrespective of what  
happened and I understand why that could be a conclusion reached. However, Ageas has 
also told us that the technician  is a long-serving member of staff and was selected  for visits 
where it knew the situation could be difficult.  This would indicate  that he was considered 
unlikely to behave  in the manner alleged in stressful or difficult situations. In order  to find that 
Ageas did something  wrong, the evidence  has to support that having  happened and it not 
just being a possibility. I know this will disappoint  Mr C, but in this case the evidence isnt 
conclusive either way. As such, I cant uphold this part of the complaint.
Ageas didnt respond to my provisional  decision, but I am satisfied it received it. 
Mr C didnt accept my conclusions. He commented  that he is unhappy  that the technician is 
still employed following  his complaint  about him. He also said he was surprised  he was sent 
Ref: DRN35364953to difficult or complex situations. Mr C then speculated that the selection of the technician  
may have  been  because  Ageas had a policy in place of scaring customers from the very 
beginning of claims in order to avoid its liability. As such, he would be surprised if the 
technician admitted his threatening behaviour. 
Mr C has said that I have  taken the technicians word over that of his wife. He considers my 
conclusions mean  a male  technician  can raise  his voice while serving  a female  customer  to 
scare her from asking for proper service/advice/information, deny doing so and get away 
with it. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would confirm that this decision  only relates  to Mr Cs concerns about the claim made  to 
Ageas. If he has concerns  about  what he was told at the time of the sale of the warranty, 
they would  need to be directed to the retailer that sold the policy.  As such, I cant comment  
on the concerns  raised in Mr Cs recent  email about  the sale. 
Mr C has indicated he believes that because of Ageas comment that the technician who 
attended his home was used for difficult or complex  situations, due to his abilities,  Ageas  
was planning  to cause problems with his claim.  I would clarify the technician  was not only 
used for such situations, but rather when they did exist,  he was the preferred technician  to 
be sent to those claims. I dont believe there  is any evidence that Ageas expected there  to 
be any issues with Mr Cs claim or that it decided in advance  to create a problem. Nor do I 
think there is any evidence to support Mr Cs speculation about Ageas having  a policy  of 
scaring customers to avoid its liabilities. 
As for Mr Cs belief that I have taken the technicians  word over that of his wife, I can assure  
him that is not the case. I carefully considered his comments  about  what happened and his 
wifes recollections. However, I must  also consider what the business and the technician 
have said. In order to uphold this aspect of their complaint I must be persuaded Mr C and his 
wifes recollections are more likely  to reflect the events, not just as likely. In this case Mr C 
has said something happened and the technician has denied  ever having behaved in the 
manner alleged. There is no separate evidence  that would make one of those accounts  
more likely to be accurate than the other.  As such,  I cant uphold  this part of the complaint. 
Mr C hasnt made any comment on my findings in relation to the damage  to the sofa.  As 
such, I see no reason  to alter my conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr C to accept  or reject my decision before 
3 August 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3536495