K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Ls complaint is that they were mis-sold mortgage endowment  policies in 1993 
and 1996. They say they were assured by the adviser the policies would definitely repay 
their mortgage. Both policies were sold by ICB Financial Services  Limited.
background
In 1993 Mr and Mrs Ls first mortgage endowment  policy  started. It had a target value of 
£66,500 over a term of 25 years. The policy was a traditional with-profits  arrangement. I will 
hereafter refer to this policy as policy  1.
Mr and Mrs L have told us that at the time of the sale of the policy Mr L was working as an 
office administrator  and his salary was £18,000.  Mrs L wasnt  working at the time and was 
caring for their young children. They had existing life assurance  polices  and ICB has told us 
that Mr L had a personal pension. They have said that there was no indication given that the 
policy would fall short of its target  and they were assured  their investments were safe. They  
went on to confirm they were told their money  was being well invested and the outcome 
would be profitable.
In 1996 Mr and Mrs L increased their mortgage lending and took out a second endowment 
policy for that increase. The policy was a unitised  with-profit policy.  It had a target value  of 
£5,000 and a term of 22 years to tie-in with the maturity of policy  1. I will call it policy 2.
Mr and Mrs L have said that their circumstances were the same at that time,  other  than 
Mr Ls salary having increased to £21,000. They recollect being  given  the same 
reassurances as they received when policy 1 was sold.
In 2004, following receipt of letters  warning  Mr and Mrs L there  was a significant risk that 
their policies wouldnt pay off their mortgage,  they approached ICB for assistance. It was 
decided that Mr and Mrs L would convert  their mortgage to a repayment basis. They 
extended the term to 25 years  at that time. Policy 1 was sold as a traded endowment for 
£10,745 as part of this process. New life cover policies were put in place at the time.
Mr and Mrs L decided to keep policy 2 as a savings  plan.  They  later surrendered it in 2009  
for £2,046.
Mr and Mrs L complained  about  the sale of their policies in 2018. ICB didnt consider the 
merits of the complaint as it considered the complaint had been made too late. Mr and Mrs L 
didnt accept this stance and referred  their complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators considered the papers and concluded that the complaint hadnt 
been made too late. ICB accepted  her explanation  and she went on to consider the merits of 
the complaint.  Having  done so she concluded  that there was no evidence that the policies 
were unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs L.
Mr and Mrs L didnt accept the adjudicators conclusion and asked that the complaint be 
considered by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN34998152my findings
I would firstly confirm that I, like our adjudicator, have considered  whether the complaint was 
made in time. I agree the complaint was made within the time limits set out in our rules  and, 
as such, the complaint is one that I can consider. As I am satisfied the complaint is within our 
jurisdiction, I have  considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is limited  information from the time of the sale of these policies, which  isnt surprising 
given the amount of time that has passed since the sales.  However,  it does make assessing  
the suitability of the policies somewhat more difficult. In order to uphold  a complaint I must 
have evidence that a business  did something  wrong. In this case that would be evidence to 
show that the policies were  unsuitable; I would need to be persuaded that the evidence  
indicated that Mr and Mrs L were not willing  or in a position to take the risk associated  with 
these policies. 
In 1993 and 1996 polices  such as the ones  Mr and Mrs L took out were  performing  well. 
They were  reaching  their target values and often exceeding them.  It was generally  thought  
that this would continue.  So I think its entirely  plausible that Mr and Mrs L were told that their 
money was being  well invested and the policy was most  likely  to be profitable. However, 
those policies didnt  guarantee  to reach their target values.  The risk of them not doing so 
was considered to be low, but it did exist. The fact that Mr and Mrs L knew this was an 
investment, and that how it was invested would  affect its value, could indicate  that they were 
told there was a risk, albeit one that wasnt thought likely to come to fruition.  
Having looked  at Mr and Mrs Ls circumstances I dont think there is anything that indicates 
they werent in a position to accept  the risk associated with the policies if they wanted  to. I 
say this as their borrowing wasnt excessive when compared with their income.  They would 
also likely have capacity to deal with any shortfall  in later years after their children ceased to 
be dependent. 
I can never know for certain  whether a policy sale was bad after the passage  of so much  
time. However, whilst  I know that this will disappoint Mr and Mrs L, what evidence  is 
available doesnt  indicate that the policies were  unsuitable for them  at the times they 
arranged them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept  or reject my decision 
before 3 June  2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3499815