K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that her mortgage lender NRAM Limited (previously Northern Rock):
1.refused to give her a new fixed rate when her product expired, saying she didnt have 
the income to support her application for a new rate at that time;
2.agreed lower repayments for her as part of an agreed plan but didnt explain this 
would mean she had more to pay when  the debt was paid off; and
3.set its standard  variable rate (SVR) at a level that wasnt competitive and was way 
above Bank of England base rate.
Ms H says NRAM  didnt help her when  her mortgage payments increased once the fixed 
rate expired.  Ms H says her mortgage  payments doubled which placed significant financial 
strain on her and her family.
background
Ms H took out an interest only mortgage  with Northern  Rock in 2004.  Later  in the same  year 
Ms H took out a further advance, also on an interest  only basis.  Ms Hs mortgage was taken 
out on a two year fixed rate. 
In May 2006  Ms H took out another two year fixed  interest rate product of 4.69%  until 1 July 
2008. 
In April 2008 Ms H asked for another fixed rate in the run up to her interest rate expiring. 
Ms H says she was told by NRAM that she couldnt  have a new fixed rate because  she didnt 
have enough income to qualify. Ms H says this caused her financial difficulties and stress for 
her and her family.
Also in 2008 Northern  Rock was nationalised.  In 2010 Ms Hs mortgage was transferred to 
NRAM Limited. 
In June 2012 Ms H sold her property and repaid the mortgage.
Ms H has previously complained about NRAMs decision to lend her a further advance in 
2004. That has been investigated  by us as a separate complaint and an ombudsman has 
already issued a decision  on that matter. 
Ms H raised her complaint about NRAMs failure to offer a new interest  rate product and the 
level of its SVR to NRAM in a letter dated 14 February 2018.  In January 2019 Ms H also 
complained to us that NRAM didnt make it clear  what impact a payment arrangement she 
entered into would  have  on her mortgage balance. 
I issued a jurisdiction  decision setting out which parts of Ms Hs complaint we could  now look 
into and why. I wont repeat that again  here as both Ms H and NRAM are already aware, and 
have had a chance to comment  on the parts of this complaint we can look into and why this 
is.
I determined that we could look at whether it was reasonable  that NRAM didnt make  any 
further interest rate products available to Ms H in 2008 and whether NRAMs SVR was 
competitive between February 2012  and June  2012.  
Ref: DRN33673572We couldnt look at the remaining parts of Ms Hs complaint because theyd been brought  to 
us out of time. 
Our investigator then looked at the parts of this complaint Id said we could consider. His 
findings were that didnt  think that NRAMs SVR had been unreasonably high the period we 
could look into. And he was satisfied that NRAM wasnt making interest  rate products 
available to any of its mortgage customers at the time it wouldnt give Ms H a new product. 
Ms H replied  to say she disagreed with our Investigators view. Ms H has replied at length in 
response to the Investigators findings raising wider  concerns about the conduct of banks 
and the role of our service. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful  to Ms H and NRAM for the further  information thats been provided about this 
complaint. Im also conscious  that Ms H has raised  a number of concerns with our 
Investigator about our rules, role and remit, and wider concerns about Northern Rock, its 
nationalisation and the treatment of customers whove  since  become mortgage rate 
prisoners. 
Were an informal dispute resolution  service, set up as a free alternative to the courts.  Our 
role is distinct  to that of the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority. The Financial  
Ombudsman Service isnt set up to punish  or fine businesses for wrongdoing or to govern  
their processes or policies or lead wider banking reform. These  are matters for the regulator. 
Its my role, as an ombudsman, to look at whats happened in the specific circumstances of  
individual complaints brought to us, and to decide whether further action is now required 
from the business to put things right.  
In this decision Ive focused on the complaint issues  brought to us by Ms H and Ive 
considered the issues I have the power to look into. I intend no discourtesy to Ms H in not 
addressing each point shes raised  about wider  industry concerns, or her queries about our 
role and remit. This is merely a reflection of the nature of our service and my role within it.
Was it unfair that NRAM didnt offer Ms H a new interest rate product in 2008?
Ms H says that when  she asked NRAM for a new interest rate product in 2008 she was told 
she couldnt afford another fixed rate. 
Ive looked at Ms Hs mortgage offer to see what NRAM had said would happen when the 
two year fixed rate product she took out in 2006  expired.
The mortgage offer says:
 This secured mortgage is based  on the following interest rate periods:
-a fixed rate of 4.69% until 1 July 2008
followed by
-the Northern  Rock Standard Variable Rate,  currently 6.59%, for a period of 3 years
Ref: DRN33673573followed by
-Northern Rocks Variable Loyalty Discount Rate,  which  is Northern Rocks Standard 
Variable Rate, currently 6.59%,  with a discount  of at least 0.25%, which  will apply 
provided that payments are kept up to date, for the remainder of the mortgage giving 
a current rate payable  of 6.34%.
I think the offer makes it clear that the fixed rate product expires on 1 July 2008, and that 
after that time interest will be applied at Northern Rocks SVR.  No commitment is made in 
the agreement  that further interest  rate products will be available  from that point. It also sets 
out that the loyalty discount rate is dependent on how the mortgage is managed, and its 
only available if the mortgage doesnt fall into arrears.
Im satisfied that NRAM didnt have  to provide Ms H with another interest rate product under 
the terms and conditions of the mortgage  agreement- but Ive also thought about whether it 
was fair that it didnt  in all the circumstances. I can see why Ms H feels  strongly about her 
complaint. Ms H says when her fixed rate expired, and the mortgage  reverted  to the SVR,  
this meant  her payments effectively doubled. Ms H has said this caused  her and her family 
significant financial difficulty. 
Ms H recalls  she was declined a new product because she was told she didnt qualify due to 
her income. Ms H remembers  she was told that she couldnt afford a new product. And shes 
mentioned regulation thats come into force more  recently thats meant that affordability 
checks shouldnt be used  as a reason to decline new interest rate products for mortgages 
taken out before 2014. Im aware  of this regulation  introduced  as part of the Mortgage  
Market Review but Im conscious  the events in this complaint happened some  time ago now.  
The interest rate wasnt offered in 2008, and that predates this regulation introduced some 
years later after the mortgage had been  repaid.
Ive looked back  to see what records NRAM has from the time Ms H made her enquiries  in 
2008. Weve also asked NRAM why it says no products  were  made  available  to Ms H in 
2008. This isnt to say I doubt Ms Hs recollection. However, its our role to look for evidence  
to try to establish exactly what did happen at the time. This is especially relevant where  the 
events being considered  happened a long time ago and both parties disagree about what  
has happened or in this case, the reasons  why no new interest  rate was offered.
NRAMs contact notes  record  that Ms H called  her lender on 11 April 2008.  The notes say 
Ms H knew  her fixed rate was due to expire at the end of June 2008.  And she said shed 
need to get a fixed rate at that point or she was going to struggle  to make her mortgage 
payments. The notes say there was nothing NRAM could do to help because it had already 
declined a remortgage due to arrears.  The call handler makes a written  note that they 
suggested Ms H contact Citizens Advice,  or see if there were other unsecured loans, such  
as car finance, that she could get put on a reduced  payment plan to help her manage her 
outgoings. Theres no mention that Ms Hs income was assessed or that her income wasnt  
enough for a product. 
I do think its also relevant that in March 2008  NRAM says its predecessor Northern Rock 
had sent a letter to all customers explaining the impact of public ownership on its customers. 
Ive been given a copy of the letter. It says one of the effects of public ownership  was we 
will not always be able to offer our mortgage customers a competitive new deal when they 
come to the end of their existing product term. NRAM has told us this meant  that no new 
rates were  made available to customers from February 2008.
Ref: DRN33673574From the records available to me from the time, I think on the balance of probabilities that 
there was likely more than one reason why Ms H wasnt offered a new interest rate product 
in 2008. But I cant see any evidence that supports Ms Hs recollection that it was due to her 
income not being enough. Ms Hs mortgage  was already in arrears  and she was struggling 
to maintain her interest payments  even before the mortgage reverted to SVR. Typically  
mortgage borrowers who are in arrears arent  eligible for new interest rate products and I 
think that would have applied in Ms Hs case.  
In light of Ms Hs financial difficulties and Northern Rocks nationalisation in 2008, I think  its 
reasonable to assume that these  were the reasons  no new interest rate product was 
available to Ms H in 2008. 
Northern Rock, and then NRAM, has operated as a closed book lender since  this time and 
hasnt made  new interest rate products available to its mortgage customers since 2008. 
While I can appreciate Ms Hs predicament at the time and her frustration when her fixed 
rate came to an end, I dont think NRAM acted unfairly by not offering a more  competitive 
interest rate product  to Ms H in 2008. It was operating within the terms of the mortgage  
agreement by the loan reverting onto the SVR. I also think its highly unlikely that NRAM 
would have offered  interest rate products to any of its customers in arrears,  even if it hadnt  
become a closed  book  at that time. 
I know this will be a disappointment  to Ms H but I dont uphold  this part of the complaint.
Was NRAMs SVR unreasonably  high between February 2012 and June 2012?
Ms H is unhappy that the level of NRAMs SVR was too high, and particularly so in the 
context of Bank of England base rate. 
Ive looked at Ms Hs mortgage offer to see how Northern Rock set out what interest rate 
would apply to the mortgage once the initial fixed rate expired. Ive also looked  at under what 
circumstances it said this rate of interest  could be or would be varied. 
As Ive already  explained, after Ms Hs two year fixed rate of 4.69% expired, the mortgage 
offer said that the mortgage will revert to Northern  Rocks SVR.  I dont consider that the 
mortgage offer said or implied that the SVR would track the Bank of England base  rate. 
Ive also carefully looked  at what  the terms and conditions said about  the way the lender said 
to would set its variable rates. There wasnt a requirement to track or follow the Bank  of 
England base rate, or to pass on any decreases  in prevailing interest rates  within a given 
period of time. The terms and conditions go on to list a number of reasons  why Northern 
Rock may  increase the SVR. These reasons  are broad and are fairly open to interpretation 
but theres no specific mention of changes to the Bank of England base rate being a reason 
to either  decrease  or increase the SVR.
From February to June  2012 NRAMs SVR was at 4.79%. It had been reduced  to this level 
on 1 March 2009 and it stayed at this level until 2016. I consider that NRAMs SVR was 
broadly in line with the SVR rates of other comparable  lenders over the period in question. 
Overall Im not persuaded  that this interest  rate was at an unfairly high level, or that NRAM  
was operating outside the agreed terms and conditions  of the mortgage in the way it set this 
rate, at the time of this complaint.
Ref: DRN33673575my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3367357