K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains about the rate of interest applied to his account  with Skipton Building 
Society (Skipton).
background
Mr N has an online savings account with Skipton.  He has held the account for a number of 
years and the interest rate has changed  from time to time. In 2018, Mr N became  aware  that 
Skipton had closed  the type of online savings account which  he held, meaning it was no 
longer being offered to new customers. He said they had created a new online savings  
account which was paying a higher rate of interest.
Mr N wrote to Skipton to complain about this. He said Skipton hadnt told him that his 
account type had been closed or that a new, similar  account paying more  interest  was being 
offered to new customers. Mr N said he didnt  think  Skipton had treated him fairly. He asked  
it to credit his account with the amount of interest  he would have earned if the rate had been  
the same  as the new account. 
Skipton didnt uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said hed opted out of marketing communications  
so hadnt received information about  its new products. Mr N wasnt  happy with Skiptons 
response, so he brought his complaint to this service.
Mr N acknowledges that Skipton told him about  interest rate changes to his account. And 
that he could have looked at its website for information about other products and rates.  But 
he doesnt think thats enough. He says Skipton has fundamentally changed the way his 
account was being managed. He thinks it should  have  told him that his account  type was no 
longer being offered to customers. He says the fact that he hadnt opted in for marketing 
communications shouldnt  make  any difference here. He says that Skipton has created an 
identical account with a different name  which is paying a higher rate of interest.
Our adjudicator thought Skipton had acted fairly  and didnt ask it to do anything. Mr N didnt 
agree and asked  for his complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman.  He says the overall 
impact of Skiptons  actions has led to an unfair  outcome  in his case. He says he expected 
his account to provide good  value  in the long term but this isnt the case. He says Skipton 
didnt tell him that he needed to switch  accounts  in order to achieve this.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr N feels  strongly  about  his complaint so will find my decision disappointing. But I 
dont think Skipton has done  anything wrong  here. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Im satisfied that Skipton was entitled to change  the interest rate on Mr Ns account 
from time to time. The terms  and conditions of the account confirm that its a variable rate of 
interest which can move up or down.  I havent seen anything which makes me think  Skipton 
acted outside  the terms and conditions  in the way it varied the rate.
Ref: DRN34996552Im also satisfied that Skipton made Mr N aware of the interest rate changes  which  applied  to 
his account. And Mr N accepts that it told him about  the changes. So I think  Skipton was 
entitled to change the rate and implement it in the way it did.
I also think Skipton was entitled  to create  a new online account, offering a different rate. Its 
not unusual for financial  businesses to offer many different products and for their offerings to 
change over time. I dont  think  Skipton has done anything  wrong  by creating the new online 
savings account,  or by withdrawing the account Mr N holds.
Mr N is unhappy that Skipton  didnt tell him it was withdrawing his account. Skipton didnt tell 
him that. But I dont  think it needed  to. The commercial decision to withdraw that account 
didnt affect Mr N because  it didnt mean his personal account would be closed.  His account  
is still operational. Its just not available to new customers. 
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr N opted out of marketing 
communications from around  May 2018. He says thats not relevant because  Skipton 
wouldnt have told him that his product  had become  a legacy product in any event. From the 
information available,  I dont think Skipton would have told Mr N that his account type had 
been closed to new customers, even  if hed continued to receive  marketing communications. 
But I dont think that constitutes service  information  about the account. And, for the reasons 
above, I dont  think Skipton  needed  to tell Mr N this.
Opting out of marketing communications  meant Mr N no longer received information  about 
new products. But a building society isnt obliged  to tell customers if a higher rate account  
becomes available. Ultimately, its for the customer to keep an eye on the rate they are 
getting and what  rate they could get elsewhere. Im satisfied  that Mr N was aware of the rate 
being applied  to his account  from time to time.  And if he wasnt happy with that rate, he 
could easily  have found out about  other  accounts  and rates being offered by Skipton. He 
could have done that by looking at the website,  by opting in to receive  marketing 
communications, or by contacting Skipton for a savings review as suggested in some of its 
letters to him.
Mr N says Skiptons approach is incompatible  with statements on its website, such as We 
aim to provide  long term good value  to help you plan for your future.  But Skipton wasnt 
obliged to keep  the interest rate on Mr Ns account at a particular level.  It kept him informed 
of changes to the rate. And I think it did enough to enable him to make  an informed decision 
about his account. So I dont think Skipton has done  anything wrong here.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3499655