K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  Mrs G took the PPI at the same time as taking a credit card in 2001. 
background
I issued my provisional decision in which I said I intended to uphold Mrs Gs complaint on the 
basis that the benefit from an income  protection policy  (IPP) she already had in place 
would be reduced  by any amount she may have  received in benefit from her PPI policy. So 
the PPI policy  would not have been  of any benefit  to her. 
Tesco didn't agree. It wasnt satisfied that the IPP benefit would be impacted by any PPI 
benefit Mrs G would have  received.  
Mrs G gave me further information  about the policys terms and conditions  which  resulted in 
my further provisional decision concluding  that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  A copy of 
this provisional decision  is attached  and forms part of my final decision.
Mrs G had only protected up to 25% of her annual income with the IPP. And the maximum 
allowed on the IPP was 75% of annual earnings.  It was only when Mrs Gs income reached 
the maximum that any benefit paid by the IPP would be reduced by any other insurance 
benefit Mrs G would receive. So I concluded that Mrs G could still have benefited from the 
PPI policy.
Mrs G didn't agree. In her response, Mrs G referred to the wording in the annual  letter  she 
received from the insurer and yearly statement. I clarified the detail of the policy with the 
insurer and wrote again to Mrs G. 
The insurer  confirmed that the starting point for how the maximum benefits  payable by the 
IPP is calculated is 75% of the pre-disability income  level, not 75% of the income benefit on 
the policy. 
I confirmed the IPP would only start to deduct any other relevant benefits  received (including 
from the PPI) if the policyholder  chose to protect the maximum of 75% of their income.  
Mrs Gs earnings  were  recorded as being £32,000  so 75% of Mrs Gs monthly earnings 
would have been £2,000.  And by insuring only 25% of her income  - £667  there  was plenty 
of capacity for other benefits,  including any PPI benefits, before there would be any 
deductions to the monthly  amount Mrs G would  have received from the IPP before the 
maximum benefit of 75%, or £2,000, was reached. 
Mrs G replied and reiterated some points she had made.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G has said that the IPP was taken  out years before she applied  for the Tesco  credit  card 
and was based on her income at that time.  But that doesnt alter my comment about the 
percentage of income Mrs G had protected compared to the maximum benefit.  
Ref: DRN38882812Mrs G says she believed the PPI policy would pay any outstanding  credit card balance  in full 
and if she had known  it didn't, she would  never  have taken the policy. But the sale was 
made by postal application so I think its unlikely Mrs G would have been told this by a Tesco  
representative. 
Mrs G has said the she wouldnt have taken  the policy if she had been  provided with clear  
information about the policy benefits. And looking  at the at the application form, I dont think  
information about the costs, benefits, main  exclusions and restrictions was as clear  as it 
should have been. So Ive gone  on to consider whether better  information  would have  
dissuaded Mrs G from taking out the PPI.
In the event of a successful claim,  the PPI would pay out in the event that Mrs G wasnt  able 
to work because of accident, sickness or involuntary  unemployment.  Whereas Mrs Gs IPP 
only covered her for accident  or sickness  it didn't include  unemployment  cover. And the 
IPP policy  had a deferred period of six months  before it would pay out while  the PPI would 
pay out after the first 30 days. So Mrs G would have received the benefit  from the PPI 
sooner. 
Also, the PPI would  have paid out in addition to any existing  employee benefits Mrs G has 
said she would receive, and for longer.  In the event of a successful claim the policy would 
have paid 10% of the outstanding balance on the credit card,  on a monthly basis, for 12 
months. So if Mrs G wasnt  able to work,  the policy could have paid the credit  card balance  
in full.
And Mrs G wouldnt have  had to use any of her savings she has told us she had for her 
monthly credit card repayments. The cost of the PPI was comparable  to that of other, similar 
policies available  at the time and I havent seen  anything which makes me think it would 
have been unaffordable for Mrs G at the time of the sale. In addition, Mrs G doesnt appear 
to have been affected by the main  exclusions and restrictions  in the policy. 
Mrs G has said she could have relied  upon her husband for financial support if she wasnt  
able to work. But his offer of help could not have  been guaranteed as his own financial 
circumstances could  have  changed.  So, I think Mrs G could have benefited from the policy if 
she wasnt able to work and she could have  found it of use to her in what could have been a 
difficult time. Having considering everything, I dont think having clearer  information would 
have put off Mrs G from taking out the PPI. 
So after carefully  taking  everything into account  I dont  think the policy  was mis-sold. So 
Tesco doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the policy. But Tesco  has paid back some  
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Tesco got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs G about that. Because  Tesco didnt  tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC doesnt have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G. 
Ref: DRN38882813Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN38882814copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs G says Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  Mrs G took the PPI at the same time as taking a credit card in 2001.  
background
I issued my provisional decision on 5 November  2018. A copy of my provisional  decision is attached. I 
intended to uphold Mrs Gs complaint on the basis that the benefit from the income protection policy 
(IPP) she already had in place would be reduced by any benefit  she would  have received  from her 
PPI policy.  
I also passed on Tescos  offer to pay Mrs G any of the commission and profit share  it had received on 
the PPI premiums Mrs G had paid that were  in excess of 50%.
Mrs G responded  with a query about the workings  of the redress offered,  but fundamentally  accepted 
my provisional  decision.
Tesco didn't agree. It wasnt satisfied that the IPP benefit would be impacted  by any PPI that Mrs G 
would have received. 
In light of this, Ive looked again at the complaint. 
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
In Tescos response it said that Mrs G had only protected up to 25% of her annual income, and not 
75% - the maximum allowed  on the IPP was 75% of annual earnings. And it was only when Mrs Gs 
income reached this maximum would the benefit be reduced  by any other insurance Mrs G would 
have received  which would include the PPI policy benefits. So 
Mrs G could still have benefited from the policy. 
I asked Mrs G for a copy of the policys  terms and conditions, and Id like to thank  her for providing 
them so promptly. 
With reference to the benefits,  the policy  terms said:
The Maximum Benefit Amount
There is an upper  limit to the Income Benefit that will be paid to you in the event  of a 
claim and this is determined by the Maximum  Benefit Amount as set out in the policy 
provisions.  In summary, you can claim no more than 75% of your earnings up to £45,000 a 
year plus 33.3%  of any income over £45,000less the following deduction:
-.
-.
-and other amounts which should be payable to you as a result of your disability  e.g. 
payments from other insurance companies.
So I think it is clear that it would only have been if Mrs G had chosen the maximum benefit from the 
IPP that she would have been penalised  if she received  a benefit from her PPI policy  as well. And this 
wouldnt happen in Mrs Gs case  as she only took 25% of her income  worth of cover.
Ref: DRN38882815I also see that the IPP had a deferred period of six months before Mrs G would  receive any benefits.  
The PPI would pay out after the first 30 days so by paying 10% of the outstanding balance at the time 
of the claim it would have paid half of the 12 month maximum payment period and significantly 
reduced the credit  card balance.
So Mrs G could have  used any benefit  she received from her IPP for other essential household  
expenses. And Mrs G has told us she had employee benefits for up to three months and savings  of 
up to three  months  of her income. The PPI policy  would  have paid out over and above any employee  
benefits Mrs G would  receive so they could have been used for other necessary expenses. And the 
savings could  have remained intact and been used for their original purposes,  or as emergency funds.
In addition to the accident and sickness benefit the IPP offered, the PPI policy would  have also paid 
out the monthly benefit if Mrs G were  to become  involuntarily unemployed, again  for up to 12 months,  
which could have cleared the outstanding balance on her credit card. So overall,  after reconsidering 
the benefits of both policies,  and any impact the benefit of one would have had on the other, I think 
Mrs G would still have found the PPI of use. 
Now that the IPP policy and benefits have been clarified,  I will consider whether  the PPI policy  was 
mis-sold to Mrs G. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Gs mis-sale complaint.  Pending  any further comments I may get, 
Ive provisionally decided this policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain why.
I think  that Tesco made Mrs G aware  she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she  chose to 
take it. I say this because of the copy of Mrs Gs credit card application that Tesco has sent to me. 
Tesco has said it was a postal application and I think this is likely  as it has Mrs Gs address pre-
printed on it. On the application there is a separate Cardholder Payment Protection and Mrs G has 
ticked the box to take it. 
As I agree with Tesco that its likely the application was made by post this would  have meant Mrs G 
didn't have any input from a Tesco representative. So I dont think  Tesco  recommended the PPI to 
Mrs G, and consequently didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it did have to give Mrs G 
enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information Tesco  gave  Mrs G about PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
But Mrs G doesnt appear to have been affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt cover.  And 
based on what I know  about Mrs Gs circumstances, and as discussed above - it looks like the policy 
could have been useful  to Mrs G. So I dont think that better information  would  have put Mrs G off 
taking out the cover. 
As I dont think the policy was mis-sold this means Tesco doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs G.
But Tesco will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G because: 
Tesco  got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it 
should have told Mrs G about  that. Because Tesco didnt tell her, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 50% of the 
PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mrs G any extra interest she paid because of that.
Ref: DRN38882816Tesco should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs G the difference  between  what she 
owes and what she would have owed  if the commission  and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% 
of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mrs G 8%* simple interest if she paid off the credit card 
at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs G can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I now plan not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint  so Tesco Personal  
Financial PLC doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs G.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mrs G any commission and profit  share  it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Please could  Tesco Personal Finance PLC and Mrs G send  me any more  information  or comments to 
look at by 17 January 2019.  After that, Ill issue my final decision.
Ref: DRN3888281