K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained  about the suitability of the advice he received in early 2007 from 
Ellis Bates Financial Solutions Limited  (referred to from now on as Ellis Bates or the business) 
to transfer the value  of his accrued  pension benefits  in an occupational pension  scheme (OPS) 
of a former employer to a personal pension plan (PPP).
background
In April 2005  the parent  company of Mr Ts employer sold its UK operations (where  Mr T 
worked) including the OPS to its UK management team for a nominal sum of £1. The existing 
final salary OPS was closed. At the time the OPS had a deficit  of £245 million  on liabilities of 
£1.2 billion.
This transaction took place  just before the Pension  Protection Fund (PPF)  lifeboat 
arrangement was set up on 6 April 2005.  Following the sale of the business to the 
management team the members of the OPS  were worried whether the scheme would survive 
and whether their benefits in the OPS were secure.
Whilst the PPF had not been formally set up when the sale of the business  was completed its 
powers were  retrospective  and it could challenge companies over transactions going back  to 
April 2004. As a result  the Pension  Regulator did investigate the sale of the business and the 
treatment of the final salary pension scheme.
In May 2006, (before  Mr Ts transfer  had been  arranged) it was announced  that an agreement  
had been reached between the trustee of the final salary pension scheme, the Pensions 
Regulator and the former employer. Whilst the discussions remain confidential the former 
employer agreed  to pay a lump sum of £101  million  into the pension scheme over a period of 
six years.
The press release also announced  the pension scheme would be eligible to join the PPF
in the event that the need arose in the future.
In early 2007 Mr T met Ellis Bates  to discuss his pension provision. He was working for a new 
employer and was a member of his new employers final salary pension scheme. Mr T was 
aged 51. 
The full transfer  value in lieu of Mr Ts benefits was over £200,000 but a reduced transfer 
value was quoted by the trustee  of the final salary pension  scheme  of £160,464 due to the 
deficit in the scheme.  The statement from the OPS administrator noted:
In view of the Fund currently having  insufficient assets to meet  its accrued liabilities the 
amount of the guaranteed cash equivalent  has been reduced by £41,029.81  in 
accordance with regulation 8 of the Occupational  Pension Scheme (Transfer Values) 
Regulations 1996. It is unlikely  that an unreduced cash equivalent  value will be 
Ref: DRN32456482available until 31 March  2009. However this will be kept under review  by the Trustee  
having regard  to advice from the Actuary.
The transfer went ahead in 2007 after Mr T received advice from Ellis Bates  and a new PPP 
was set up. The reasons given for the transfer  were Mr Ts desire to access a tax-free cash  
sum to pay off his outstanding mortgage,  car loan and credit  card debts.
The business did not carry out a transfer value analysis as the scheme was underfunded and 
the result  of the calculation would have  shown the rate of return  required to match the benefits 
being given up was very high.
In September  2008 (over 18 months  later) Ellis Bates carried out a review  of the advice that 
it had given to Mr T to transfer  in early 2007.  After the review Ellis Bates issued a review 
letter dated  9 September 2008 (referred to from now on as the review letter)  that stated:
 it appears that, due to (a) number of fundamental changes  made  to the {    } 
pension scheme, there was a feeling among former employees that the former 
employer was not to be trusted  and that pension benefits were vulnerable.
Mr T received the review letter and took no action.  It was only after becoming aware in 2015 
a former colleague of his had complained to the Financial  Ombudsman Service  about  the 
advice to transfer out of the OPS  that Mr T complained to Ellis Bates about the advice he 
had received in the past.
In its response,  dated 17 December 2015,  Ellis Bates argued  Mr Ts complaint had been 
made outside the time limits  allowed  in our rules.
Mr T was not satisfied with the response and he then complained to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. 
The issue  of the time limits was then investigated, and another ombudsman issued a 
jurisdiction decision on 24 February  2017 stating this was a complaint the Financial 
Ombudsman Service could investigate.
An adjudicator then issued an assessment upholding  the complaint on 11 October 2017.
The business and its legal  representatives  disagreed with the adjudicators conclusions and 
made a substantial response  on both jurisdiction and the merits of the complaint.
The complaint was then referred  to me. The representative made further submissions which  
highlighted the following:
It continued to believe  the complaint was time-barred following the letter it had sent to 
Mr T on 9 September 2008.
Ref: DRN32456483The PPF had not yet been established, and it was not certain  what would happen to 
members benefits  in the OPS  going  forward.
There was no certainty the promised  payments  from the former employer of 
£101million would be paid.
There was no guarantee the higher risk investment strategy being followed by the 
trustee would  generate higher  returns and therefore reduce the deficit  in the scheme. 
The adjudicator  had applied hindsight to his consideration of the complaint. In 
particular, he had argued the review  letter from 9 September 2008 confirmed the 
advice was not suitable. It said the letter was issued 18 months after the advice and 
cannot be used  evaluate the suitability  of the initial advice.
The adjudicator  had used the wrong  approach when deciding the advice was 
unsuitable. In particular, suggesting there had to be a quantified  need for the 
transaction to take place. 
A Pension Fund  Withdrawal Risk Warning  was given which  set out the risks of 
transferring and was signed by Mr T, confirming he understood the risks associated  
with it. 
In my initial provisional decision issued on 29 November 2018 I covered both the issue  of 
jurisdiction and the merits of the complaint.
I noted that the business had argued that the review letter  sent to Mr T on 9 September 2008  
(some 18 months after the transfer  had been arranged) should have given him cause for 
concern and the complaint should be time-barred.
I considered the review  letter  in detail and in my opinion this letter set out a comparison of 
the benefits from the existing OPS on early retirement at age 51 and those benefits payable  
from the new drawdown arrangement. I have seen no reason why this would have given    
Mr T any cause for concern about  the advice that he received to transfer.
The letter in September 2008 explained in some  detail  why the advice had been  to transfer 
out of the OPS in 2007. 
The letter covered the fact that the transfer  value on offer was being reduced because  of the 
underfunding in the scheme.  The letter also explained an unreduced transfer value was 
unlikely to be available before 31 March  2009.  
In my provisional decision I stated that given the fact it was noted  by the scheme  actuary 
that the 20% transfer value penalty might be removed (or reduced) after 31 March  2009, the 
advice should  have been to leave the deferred  benefits in the scheme and to wait for the 
20% transfer penalty to be removed (or at least reduced).
Ref: DRN32456484The review  letter explained  there  were feelings  amongst the staff that the employer could not 
be trusted and might  cease trading. However the staff were  aware  that the trustee  and the 
Pensions Regulator were  having discussions about  what would happen to the scheme  in the 
event the employer ceased trading. The letter concluded the advice Mr T had received was 
in their view appropriate.  It acknowledged had Mr T stayed in the scheme the transfer  value 
might have been greater later on but if he transferred he could take benefits immediately 
rather than from age 65.
The review  letter concluded by saying the transfer appeared to be okay. The letter then 
explained if Ellis Bates did not hear from Mr T within the next two weeks  it would assume  he 
was happy with the advice he had received and it would take no further action. In my opinion 
this letter  would not have given Mr T any cause  to be worried about the advice  he had 
received to transfer. The letter did not express any worries or concerns about the advice and 
merely offered to discuss the advice  Mr T had received if he had any concerns.
The review  letter issued  in September 2008  compared the benefits  payable from the former 
employers OPS with the benefits  payable from the new drawdown  plan.  The benefits from 
the new drawdown plan were  based on information set out on the illustration that had been 
obtained from the pension provider in 2007.
The comparison was, in my opinion, misleading as it showed the lump  sum from the OPS  
was about £49,000 but from the drawdown plan would be £40,000. It also showed on the 
comparison the pension  from the OPS was initially about £4,100 p.a. and the maximum 
pension from the drawdown plan was shown as about £7,900 p.a. At age 65 the income 
from the OPS was shown  as £6,61.62  (this was clearly a typographical error). I note that 
assuming 14 years  of 3% compound increases  on the pension quoted of £4,073 would have 
given £6,161.63. at age 65.
However, Mr Ts OPS benefits included  a temporary  pension  of £418.56 that has been 
allowed for in the above figures.  This would increase to £633 in arriving  at the £6,161.63 
pension shown at age 65. At age 65 the temporary  pension from the OPS  stops and the 
OPS pension would be reduced to £5,528 p.a.
The income from the drawdown plan was shown as remaining at £7,942.97 from the initial 
payment of the benefits to age 65. 
In my opinion this is very misleading because if the maximum income is taken from the 
drawdown plan then after every five years  it would be expected that the maximum income 
level would fall. I consider that if this been highlighted to Mr T he would have not transferred 
to the new drawdown  plan.
The illustration that was produced by the pension provider  for Mr T appears to have been 
produced in 2007 at the time that Mr T was being  advised by Ellis Bates. This illustration 
indicates that the maximum  income  that can be taken is £7,943 per annum. However, the 
projections assume that no income is taken until age 75. 
Ref: DRN32456485There is no indication Mr T was given examples of the benefits  which  might be payable from 
the new drawdown plan on the assumption that he would be taking  out the maximum income 
allowed every  year and I therefore consider that the comparison that Ellis Bates put in the 
review letter  was very misleading.
 
Given the apparent  high level of income  shown  from the new drawdown  plan, I have  
therefore seen  no reason  why this letter would have given Mr T any cause for concern about 
the advice he had received to transfer. The letter just explained  the business had reviewed 
the transfer and had found no problems. 
As a non-pensions expert I think its likely that Mr T would have just accepted this 
reassurance about  the transfer which had taken place in the past. I therefore concluded that 
the review letter would  not have  given Mr T any cause for concern and the complaint was 
one that this service  could  consider.
Then in my initial provisional  decision I considered  the merits of the complaint.  
At the time of advice  to transfer out of the OPS  in 2007 Mr T was aged 51, was employed  
and a member of a new final salary  pension scheme. The business  had recorded Mr Ts 
objectives at the time of advice to transfer as being  to pay off his mortgage, reduce his credit 
card debts and to redeem  his car loan.
Given the recorded objectives on the fact find I asked Mr T to confirm the level of debts  he 
had in 2007 when he was advised to transfer.
Mr T has told the Financial Ombudsman  Service that in 2007 his mortgage balance was 
about £2,000 (this is actually recorded on the fact find completed  in February 2007), his car 
loan was about £2,000,  and his credit card debts were less than £300.
In the circumstances, I do not consider  Mr T should have been advised to transfer the value 
of his guaranteed final salary benefits (worth around £200,000) to a personal  pension 
arrangement in order to access  the tax-free lump  sum at a time when the transfer values 
were being  temporarily  reduced by 20% (or £40,000) to reflect  the underfunding in the OPS  
which the employer  was trying to reduce.
I have then considered  in some detail the Pension Fund Withdrawal  Risk Warning sheet that 
was signed by Mr T on 5 February 2007.  This set out all the relevant  warnings  about  a 
Pension Fund Withdrawal arrangement. However, just because  Mr T was told of the risks 
does not make the advice to transfer  suitable. In my opinion  the responsibility  was on the 
business to make sure that the advice  it gave Mr T was suitable  for his circumstances.
I also note before the transfer took place the pension scheme  actuary had stated full 
unreduced transfer values might be available after 31 March 2009  in just over two years 
time. So in my opinion  Ellis Bates should  have  advised Mr T not to transfer before the full 
Ref: DRN32456486transfer values  would  be payable by the scheme.  This would have given Mr T a significant 
increase in the transfer amount payable. 
It would have been apparent to the business Mr Ts pension benefits were in respect of 
approximately 30 years  service and were going to form the major part of Mr Ts overall  
pension provision.
In 2007 Mr T had transferred to a new employer  and was still working. He had no urgent 
need for additional income or the tax-free  lump sum to reduce  his very modest levels  of debt. 
Given the reduction of 20% (or about £40,000) being applied to the transfer values and that 
Mr T had been recorded as having  a Below  Average attitude to risk I do not consider the 
advice Mr T received to transfer out of the OPS  in 2007 was appropriate.  It would have been  
expected the benefits  from the new drawdown plan would be lower  in value than the full 
benefits payable  from the OPS. 
Whilst it is clear  at the time of the advice to transfer  the funding  position of the scheme was 
poor, I consider Ellis Bates should  have given significantly more weight to the statement 
made by the scheme actuary who had said it was expected unreduced transfers could be 
offered after March 2009 in two years time. I dont consider  this is applying the benefit of 
hindsight, because the scheme  actuary made these comments before the transfer took 
place. The proposed £100m investment from the former employer had also been  announced 
before the transfer took place. The Pension Regulator had also said it was willing to let the 
OPS enter the PPF (if the need arose) before the transfer took place.  
I have seen the reasons put forward by the business to Mr T as to why he should transfer, 
but in my opinion the advice should  have been  not to transfer at that time.  Whilst  the death 
benefits after transfer would have been  greater there is no evidence that Mr T was in ill 
health or that he was concerned about the level of death benefits. Mr T would also have 
been covered  for substantial death benefits  under his current employers pension  scheme.
Mr T did not need to access the funds to pay down  his very modest  levels of debt. He was 
still working and could have repaid them in a short period  of time. There was also reason to 
expect unreduced  transfers might be on offer within a reasonably short period of time. In my 
opinion if Mr T had been told by Ellis Bates not to transfer out he would have  followed that 
advice.  
I therefore stated that I was minded  to uphold the complaint. 
The business did not agree that the complaint  should be upheld  and on 11 January  2019 
it made very detailed submissions in response to my provisional decision. It argued that:
I had only referred to its submissions dated 15 November 2017 and I had 
not referred to its subsequent  letter  dated  22 December 2017. It wanted to 
make sure that I had received the later submissions.
Ref: DRN32456487The review letter that was sent in September  2008 had drawn Mr Ts attention 
to:
The fact that the OPS was a defined benefit  scheme which 
provided a guaranteed income.
The PPP required the policyholder to take all of the risk.
The benefits payable  from the PPP were more volatile.
The fact was that the normal recommendation would have been  do not
transfer.
The OPS transfer value might have been greater if Mr T had remained 
in the OPS until March  2009.
The annual statements would have indicated  that the performance  of the 
PPP was not in line with the illustration  that Mr T had received. The annual 
statements showed that the value of the PPP was falling  and Mr T should  
therefore have  been aware that he had cause for complaint.
In 2009  Mr T transferred the policy to a new provider  as he was unhappy with 
the investment  performance of his existing PPP provider.  It believes that this 
showed that Mr T had cause for complaint at that time.
The business has also stated that my provisional decision was not in line with earlier  
decisions that have  been issued by other ombudsmen at the Financial Ombudsman 
Service.
The business noted that whilst the employer  had paid in the £101 million  that was 
promised there was still a very considerable shortfall in the pension  scheme  funding. I had 
repeated the statement made by the actuary that unreduced transfers might be available 
after March  2009.  This however was not guaranteed.
The business stated,  in conclusion,  that it agreed that Mr T was in a very difficult  position 
in that he was a member  of a significantly underfunded pension  scheme  that had been cut 
adrift by the sponsoring employer. Mr T had transferred to an arrangement  where the 
benefits from the PPP would be backed by a very secure pension  provider.
The business argued that the illustration provided showed that it was possible that the 
benefits from the PPP would exceed  the benefits  from the OPS. It considered  that the 
analysis of the transfer needed  to be considered in the light of the circumstances at the 
time of the advice. The business thought that the advice given to Mr T to transfer was 
appropriate.
The business continued to argue that the complaint was time-barred as it believed that 
the falling  value of the assets in the PPP ought  reasonably to have made Mr T aware he 
had cause for complaint.  Indeed, in its letter  dated 22 December  2017  the business  
Ref: DRN32456488argued that the adjudicator had misapplied  the relevant rule from the Regulators  
handbook. The business referred  to earlier cases that had been issued by ombudsmen 
where the conclusion reached in what appeared to be similar  complaints,  was that the 
earlier complainants  were time-barred. The business did not understand why the 
complaint made by Mr T was different from the earlier cases.
The business argued that notwithstanding  the fact that the complaint  should be time-
barred the advice given to Mr T was suitable. It considered that Mr T had been given 
appropriate advice  to transfer out of the OPS and into the PPP.  It did not agree with my 
provisional decision.
In my second provisional decision  dated 3 September 2019 I stated that I was still minded to 
uphold this complaint.  Mr T accepted my second provisional decision.  The business did not 
and on 7 October 2019 it made a further  submission arguing  that the second provisional  
decision was incorrect and irrational.
The business noted that were minor  errors in the second provisional decision that it 
considered should be addressed by me. The errors  were on pages two and nine regarding the 
age of Mr T and the business has also said there  was an apparent  discrepancy  in what  I have 
said about Mr Ts recorded attitude  to risk.
With regards to the minor errors raised by the business I would like to apologise and say that 
on page 2 of the second provisional decision I had meant to say that in early  2007 Mr T was 
51 and on page  9 of same decision,  where I stated the year as 1989, it should actually have 
been 2009 and Mr T would  indeed have been  aged  54 as I set out. The issue  with the 
difference in the recorded attitude to risk is dealt  with below.
The business also submitted on 7 October 2019  that:
1.My provisional decision says the business  relies on two events which  should have 
alerted Mr T that he had cause  for complaint.  It says this is not accurate. These factors 
cannot be considered in isolation but should be viewed together  with all the information 
provided to Mr T and his subsequent  actions. Consideration  should  be given to 
whether knowledge and information accumulated over a period of time. It still considers 
that the complaint has been  made outside  the time limits allowed in our rules.
2.The illustration in January 2007 comprehensively set out a number of investment 
scenarios. In each  year the fund was predicted to grow  by 5-9%.  The figures in the 
illustration were  in direct contrast  to the figures  shown in the annual  statements. The 
annual statements showed a steep decline in the value of his investments. Whilst I said 
in my provisional decision that Mr T hadnt raised concerns  about the fact the value of 
his policy  had been increasing  and decreasing,  the business said this was not the test. 
The relevant test is whether Mr T objectively ought to have been aware he had cause 
for complaint  about the advice that he received to transfer more than three years 
before he actually complained.
Ref: DRN324564893.The 2007 illustration  provided Mr T with an unambiguous reference  tool for the 
projected value  of his pension  pot and contrasted with the annual  statements he 
received subsequently.  As the annual statements showed  his projected  fund and 
pension income  was decreasing, it is difficult and unsustainable  to argue Mr T didnt 
have the requisite knowledge to trigger awareness of cause for complaint. The 
March 2009 annual statement indicated Mr T had suffered large losses.
4.Mr T transferred his pension  fund in 2009 to another  provider as he was disappointed 
with the investment returns. It considers this shows Mr T was actually aware  he had 
cause for complaint  in 2009 and the complaint should be time-barred. 
5.It disagreed with the analysis that I had carried out when looking at other  complaints  
that had been made  against the business and which  had been rejected  by this service.  
It singled out one decision, where  it said the rationale for the ombudsman concluding 
the complaint  was made out of time was because the pension had lost a third of its 
value. Mr T ought reasonably to have realised that a pension  fund that lost money  year 
after year was unlikely  to be able to match the same level of benefits that his OPS  
would have provided to him and given him the realisation he had cause for complaint. 
6.The business continued to argue that the transfer was suitable for Mr T as the OPS 
had been cut adrift by its former employer and could not meet its accrued liabilities.  As 
a result the business believed that there was a real possibility that the PPP could  
outperform the OPS.
7.Mr T had transferred out of a significantly underfunded  OPS  to a PPP provider with one 
of the highest  financial  security  ratings  possible.  As such  it argued  that there was a real 
possibility that the PPP could outperform the OPS arrangement.  The higher risk would 
have been to remain in the underfunded OPS. Mr T after transferring had the 
opportunity to substantially increase the value of his pension provision. 
8.The business said I have mischaracterised  Mr Ts understanding  of his pension  
arrangements. Mr T is financially astute and is running his own investment account 
with a broker.  
9.It acknowledges that the global economic downturn following the transfer  drastically 
affected many personal pensions,  including Mr Ts. but this should not carry any weight 
in terms of the ombudsmans assessment of suitability of the advice given to Mr T in 
2007.
The business continued to argue that an oral hearing should be held to determine a number  of 
factual points. These include the reasons  why Mr T transferred to the new provider in 2009. 
The business believes  that this was in part due to disappointment with the investment returns  
that had been achieved  on Mr Ts transfer plan so far.
Ref: DRN324564810The business also referred to earlier  cases  that had been issued by ombudsmen where 
the conclusion  reached in what  appeared to be similar complaints, was that the earlier 
complainants were time-barred. The business  did not understand why the complaint 
made by Mr T was different from the earlier cases.
The business argued that notwithstanding  the fact that the complaint  should be time-
barred it considered that the advice given to Mr T was suitable. It considered  that Mr T had 
been given appropriate advice to transfer out of the OPS and into the PPP.  It did not agree 
with my second provisional  decision.
As agreement has not been  reached  the case was referred back to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Hearing request
I have considered the business  reasons for requesting a hearing  in my letter  dated  
15 October 2019. In this I noted that the business wanted to ask Mr T why he transferred  in 
2009. It also wanted to ask Mr T what he believed the annual  statements showed. 
The business considered that Mr T should have been aware that he had cause for concern 
and complained much sooner than he did. I declined  the request for a hearing on the basis 
that I had sufficient evidence on the files already to see why the transfer  had taken place in 
November 2009,  and I had reviewed a number of the annual  statements that had been  sent to 
Mr T.
I kept the possibility of a hearing  under review, but I remain of the view, expressed  to the 
business on several occasions, that there is already  enough evidence on file to fairly decide 
this complaint and I do not consider there  would be value in holding an oral hearing.  
I have previously noted that some of the businesss points, such  as examining Mr Ts reasons 
for transferring to a new provider in 2009, are better considered in light of the 
contemporaneous documentary evidence I already have. 
I also expressed my doubt that asking Mr T about his recollections  of what  he thought about 
the annual pension statements would add much to the evidence I had. Mr T has already 
indicated that he did not have cause  for concern materially  earlier than the date he 
complained. The business also noted the key issue is what Mr T ought reasonably to have 
known from these statements, rather than what he actually knew. A point it has repeatedly 
suggested I have  not grasped  or have  interpreted incorrectly. I am satisfied I can determine 
whether the statements,  objectively, ought  to have  given  him awareness of cause for 
complaint, without asking  him for further clarity on what he actually thought  about them.
Ref: DRN324564811Overall, I remain satisfied  that I can fairly decide  this complaint without holding an oral hearing.
Jurisdiction 
The business has continued to argue that the complaint has been made outside the time limits 
set down in our rules. In particular, it considers that I have mis-interpreted the relevant DISP 
rule. 
The relevant  rule when  considering if a complaint has been  brought to the ombudsman  service 
in or out of time is DISP  2.8.2 R which states  that:
9The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers  it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
(1)more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant its 
final response, 512redress determination  or summary resolution communication 512; or3
(2) more than: 
(a) six years  after the event  complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became  aware (or ought 
reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or to the Ombudsman 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other  record  of the 
complaint having been received;
unless:
(3)in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time limits in DISP 2.8.2 R 
or DISP  2.8.7 R210 was as a result of exceptional circumstances 
The business considers that Mr T has made  his complaint too late as it was made  more  than 
three years after the date that the business thinks Mr T knew,  or ought reasonably  to have 
known, that he had cause for complaint. 
But I have found  on the facts that Mr T has not referred his complaint more than three years 
from the date on which  he became aware (or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he 
had cause for complaint. 
In addition to considering  the evidence as it relates to actual or constructive awareness  
individually, I have  also considered the cumulative  effect of that evidence as to the question of 
whether Mr T ought reasonably to have become aware, or actually  became  aware  of having 
cause for complaint more than three years before referring this to the ombudsman service. 
Ref: DRN324564812The Illustration and Annual Statements
Turning to consideration of the evidence, the business says if Mr T had retained  the initial 
illustration from 2007  that on receipt of the annual statement that was produced  in 2009 he 
should have been able to determine that there  were  problems  with the advice to transfer. 
This is because on the lowest  rate of assumed growth shown on the 2007 illustration (5%)  the 
fund should have been worth £130,068  being the sum of the projected non-protected rights  
fund and the projected protected rights fund. The business has argued that at the time of the 
2009 annual  statement the PPP was worth  £94,618.  
This was some  £35,450 less than the figure  on the illustration that had been provided  with 
some three years earlier.  This, it believes,  would  (or should) have given Mr T cause  to 
complain about  the advice  that he had received to transfer some three years earlier.
The business says the illustration dated 31 January 2007 comprehensively set out projected 
funds on a year by year basis  assuming standard growth rates  of 5%, 7% and 9%. 
These projected values  the business considered could have been compared  with the figures 
shown in the annual statements. I think this is an inaccurate portrayal of the illustration. The 
illustration made clear the figures  were  examples  only, they did not show  the minimum or 
maximum amounts that Mr T could get. What  he actually  received would depend  on how the 
investment grew. 
In addition, I note that the illustration treated the non-protected rights fund and the protected 
rights fund separately and Mr T would have had to have known that the appropriate figures 
needed to be combined for the comparison with the annual statement. I therefore  do not agree 
that the annual statements would or should  have  given Mr T cause  for concern about the 
advice that he received  to transfer  out of the OPS.
However, I note that on the annual statement produced in January 2011 the fund value with 
the new provider  was shown on page 2 as being £115,175. 
But this could not be compared  with the figures on the illustration from the initial drawdown 
provider as Mr T had withdrawn £8,006.64 in the previous 13 months. I therefore do not agree  
that Mr T would have been aware that (or should have been aware)  that he had cause for 
complaint.
One of the points I made in my provisional decision, and which the business  appears to have 
misconstrued, is that Mr T hasnt complained that he was unaware that the value of his PPP 
could fluctuate.  So the mere fact that his PPP had fallen  in value wouldnt necessarily give    
Mr T cause  to think that the underlying  advice  he had been given in 2007 to transfer  was 
unsuitable. It also seems to misconstrue my point about the global economic downturn that 
followed Mr Ts pension transfer.  I didnt mention this in the context of any assessment of the 
suitability of the advice given to Mr T. I mentioned it because, given that Mr T seems to have  
been aware the value of his PPP could fluctuate, the global economic downturn, which saw 
Ref: DRN324564813the value of many pensions fall, would have given Mr T no particular reason to suspect he had 
been poorly advised by the business  to transfer  out of the OPS. It would be natural to assume  
he had just been unlucky, along with many other investors, that the markets were going  
through a period of turbulence (hopefully short term) that meant the value of his pension  had 
reduced.
If Mr T had brought a complaint that he did not appreciate the value of his PPP could fluctuate 
or fall, then I might agree that the 2009  annual statement ought reasonably to have alerted him 
that he had cause for complaint. However, that isnt what  Mr T has complained  about. 
Any concerns that Mr T had about the sharp  drop in the value of the transfer plan in 2008 as 
the markets fell would probably  have been assuaged in 2009 when the markets rose 
significantly. The short-term fluctuations  in the value of the policy  would not, and more 
importantly should  not, have given  Mr T cause for complaint about  the advice to transfer  out. 
I therefore do not agree that the annual statements that Mr T received ought reasonably to 
have given him cause  for complaint, not in isolation  or as part of an ongoing accumulation of 
knowledge that ought to have led him to suspect the original advice  to transfer had been  
unsuitable.
The review  letter in September  2008
I have considered again whether the letter sent to Mr T in September  2008  would have given  
him cause  for complaint  as the business  has argued.
This five page letter  from Ellis Bates to Mr T explained the reasons why it had recommended 
that Mr T transfer. I have  summarised these as:
Ability to access tax free cash.
Ability to control investments.
A distrust of the former employers OPS.
The former employers OPS was underfunded and is still underfunded.
The letter explained briefly  that the former  employers scheme was a final salary scheme 
and these were thought  to have been the most secure arrangements in the past.  However in 
recent years many of these final schemes had failed to provide the benefits that were 
promised. The Pension Protection Fund (PPF) had been set up to help trustees  of schemes  
where the employer  could  no longer afford to provide the promised benefits.
The review  letter stated  that all of the risks under the Income Drawdown arrangement fell on 
the policyholder  whilst under the OPS  arrangement  the risks fell on the employer. There was 
however no quantification  of the risks involved.
The letter explained that under  the drawdown  plan the level of income selected was 
guaranteed for five years after which it would  be expected that the income would  increase  
(this was not guaranteed).
Ref: DRN324564814A key part of the letter was the table comparing  the pension income that would be payable 
from the OPS and the benefits that would be payable  from the income drawdown 
arrangement both from age 51.
This table  indicated that the drawdown plan would provide much greater benefits.
My view of the 2008 review letter remains  as I set out in my provisional  decision. Mr T was 
aware there  was some risk and that the amount of his pension  income was not guaranteed, 
but I remain of the view that reading  the review letter in its entirety, I dont  believe it gave Mr T 
cause for complaint or ought reasonably to have done  so. The letter  did largely  reiterate the 
reasons for the transfer and indicated  that his pension income would be greater after the 
transfer. I dont think this letter and the statements he received afterwards, combined or on 
their own,  ought reasonably to have led a reasonable person to have realised the original 
advice to transfer might have been  unsuitable.  
Mr Ts knowledge  of pensions
The business has also said I have mischaracterised  Mr Ts understanding  of his pension  
arrangements. It says Mr T was, and is, financially astute  and is running  his own investment 
portfolio with a third party. While  I have  considered  that point, I have also considered that he 
seems to have had no particular pensions or investment knowledge  or experience  in 2007, 
certainly none recorded on the fact find. 
Mr T seems to have followed the advice  of the business in 2007  and 2009 without question 
and I do not think  it was unreasonable for him to have relied on the expert advice he was 
receiving. 
The 2009  transfer
The business has argued that Mr T transferred  his PPP from the initial provider  to a new 
provider in 2009 because he was unhappy  with the investment returns  being  achieved 
and that he would (or should)  have been aware  that he had cause for complaint.
This argument was addressed by the earlier ombudsman who noted the transfer to the 
new provider had been proposed by Ellis Bates and not by Mr T. I agree with the earlier 
ombudsman that the transfer to a new provider  would not necessarily have been because 
Mr T had any cause for complaint. I have seen  little to persuade me the transfer was due 
to concerns with the advice he had received from Ellis Bates in 2009.
Indeed it appears  that the transfer  was arranged by Ellis Bates  to allow Mr T to benefit 
from a marketing uplift that was being applied by the receiving provider and to have the 
option of securing a guaranteed  income within the drawdown contract. There  is no mention 
of Mr T having any concerns about the investment performance of his existing plan or 
about the original  advice  to transfer  out of the OPS.
Ref: DRN324564815The business hasnt  made material new arguments  on this point,  although it did request a 
hearing to ask the consumer questions about  his motives for switching PPP providers  in 2009. 
I remain of the view expressed in my provisional  decisions, that I have enough evidence to 
fairly decide this point  and that the evidence shows Mr T switched providers at the suggestion 
of the business.  The documents from 2009 indicate the business proposed the transfer so that 
Mr T could benefit from a marketing uplift that was being  applied by the receiving provider and 
to have the option of securing a guaranteed income  within the drawdown contract. There is no 
mention at that time of Mr T having  any concerns about either the investment performance of 
his existing plan,  or about the original  advice to transfer out of the OPS.
The recommendation report dated  26 November  2009 states that the proposed transfer to a 
new provider was to take advantage of the marketing uplift being offered to new investors  and 
to have the option of securing a guaranteed income within the drawdown  contract.  I note that 
there is no mention  about being unhappy  with the investment performance being achieved  on 
the policy with the current pension provider.
Cumulative Evidence of Actual or Constructive Knowledge
In any event, even  taking into account  the above  matters in the round as opposed to 
individually, I remain persuaded that the various pieces of information  that were  available  for 
Mr T to review  would  not have led him (and could not have been expected  to lead him) into a 
position where he knew or ought  to have  known that he had cause for complaint more than 
three years before he referred  the complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Analogous Decisions
I have previously set out it is not appropriate  for me to consider the outcome of previously 
decided cases.  First,  ombudsman decisions are not legal documents.  They  set out decisions 
and explain  them. They do not act as binding precedents on ombudsmen when deciding later 
complaints. 
As I have explained, each  complaint  is looked at taking into account its particular 
circumstances. Two cases that can appear similar may get different answers due to the 
particular circumstances  of that complaint which the ombudsman  would need to consider in 
each case whether that is in relation to the fact finding going  to jurisdiction or merits. 
It is important  to highlight  as a matter of fact the distinctions between  the findings I have made  
and those the ombudsman made in the cases  which  have been brought to my attention  by 
Ellis Bates, but that is only to the extent it demonstrates  that I have carefully considered  the 
circumstances of the complaint before me. It is not appropriate for me to comment  on the 
conclusions of the ombudsman in a previous  case.  The business has limited its response to 
just one of the decisions  it originally cited as being  similar/relevant and which I differentiated in 
my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN324564816The business says the ombudsman, in that other case, pointed to the loss of a third of a funds  
value more than three  years before  the complaint was made, as being the main reason for 
determining it had been brought to us too late. But the ombudsman  also concluded that it did 
cause the consumer concern in the particular facts of that case  and it was this concern that led 
to a switch in providers for the consumers  PPP. That is not my view of Mr Ts case and the 
circumstances are different. 
The other ombudsman  found the individual in the other complaint was aware that his fund had 
fallen in value  and was so concerned it appears  that he replaced his adviser. The new adviser 
did not comment on the earlier transfer  that had taken place but had just recommended 
moving to a new pension provider. The ombudsman  considered that the actions of replacing 
an adviser and transferring the funds to a new pension provider was enough to say that the 
individual was (or should have been) aware that there was cause  for concern about the 
original advice to transfer.  
The simple  fact that the outcome is different to other  decisions does not mean  jurisdiction has 
been wrongly decided in this case, and by highlighting these distinctions I hope the business  
can understand why I have reached the outcome  I have  even if they may be unhappy with it. 
In short,  I have concluded that the decision I have reached on jurisdiction is appropriate  given 
the circumstances of this case.
Consideration of the merits of the complaint
Attitude to Risk (ATR)
The business has pointed  out that in the provisional  decisions  there  is a discrepancy in the 
attitude to risk that Mr T was recorded as having. It noted that I had referred  to Mr Ts ATR as 
being below average in one place and yet average in another. It considered  that this was 
significant and indicated that the provisional  decision  was unsafe.
I note the February  2007 fact find records Mr Ts attitude to risk as average, The suitability 
report, dated later in November 2009 records Mr Ts attitude to risk as prudent. The 
adjudicator in his view dated 11 October 2017 referred to Mr T having a below average 
attitude to risk.
Whether Mr Ts attitude to risk was prudent or average doesnt materially  affect  my view that 
the risks associated with the transfer were  greater than the risks Mr T indicated he was willing 
to take. Given the very high investment returns required just to match  the benefits being  given  
up because of the underfunding in the OPS, the transfer represented more  than a prudent or 
average level of risk. In my opinion the transaction was high risk. That I if it went ahead there  
was a high probability that the benefits  that Mr T would receive  on retirement from the PPP 
would be lower in value from those of the OPS.
Ref: DRN324564817As this decision does not depend on whether the ATR of Mr T was medium,  prudent or 
average I do not propose to consider this issue further.
 
Suitability of Advice.
I note that, notwithstanding the above arguments, the business considers that the advice that it 
gave Mr T to transfer out of a significantly underfunded OPS  into a PPP with a financially 
strong PPP provider  was appropriate  and that there was a possibility that the PPP could 
provide greater benefits than the OPS.
I disagree and remain  of the view that the advice  to transfer was unsuitable. I note the OPS 
was underfunded  and it was not certain  that it would  be able to pay the full benefits due to the 
members. However whilst the scheme  actuary  had stated that it was unlikely that an 
unreduced transfer value would be available before 31 March 2009.  He did not confirm  when 
unreduced transfer values might be available.
It is important  to note that it had been announced  before  the advice was given by Ellis Bates  to 
Mr T to transfer that the Pension Protection  Fund (PPF) would accept the OPS  in the event 
that the trustee was unable to provide the benefits  due after the additional  payment that had 
been agreed with the former  employer  had been received. In the event that the OPS  was 
admitted to the PPF the benefits  for the members would be reduced. The benefits would 
however be guaranteed.
After the transfer  from the OPS to the PPP the benefits on retirement would depend  upon  the 
initial transfer amount  invested, the investment returns achieved and the annuity rates 
available at retirement.
As part of the advice  process, I consider that the business should  have determined  what rate 
of return would be required  to be achieved on the reduced transfer value available  to match  
the value of the benefits that would have been provided to Mr T by the PPF.
In this case the critical yield required to be achieved just to match  the OPS benefits was not 
produced by the business, seemingly because  it was aware  the reduced transfer value offered 
(there was a 20% reduction) was going to make the required  return too high to make the 
advice to transfer out appropriate. That is, on retirement after the transfer,  it would have been 
expected that the benefits that Mr T would receive would be lower from the PPP than those 
provided by the OPS.
The business has argued that it would  be possible  that after transfer the benefits  from the PPP 
could be greater than those provided  by the OPS and that Mr T would benefits from the 
financial security of the PPP provider. Whilst, I agree this is possible,  it would have  required 
exceptional investment  performance,  well above  the upper  rate of return the regulator required 
regulated businesses to use to illustrate potential returns.
Ref: DRN324564818Given the transfer values on offer were being  reduced by 20% higher returns would be needed 
to provide benefits on retirement of equal  value to the benefits that would  have been  provided 
from the OPS. I consider  that in my opinion it was very unlikely the higher returns required 
would be achieved. I believe that most  experienced pension professionals would have realised  
that it was much more  likely, after transferring out of an OPS  with a significantly reduced  
transfer value,  that the benefits  on retirement  would be lower than they would have been from 
the OPS.
I know in this case that the OPS had a significant deficit  and was trying to reduce this by 
means of superior investment returns. It was not certain that the new investment strategy  
would work.  In the event that the investment strategy failed it would have been expected that 
the fund would have to seek  admittance  to the PPF.
As benefits from the PPF would be considered  fully secure there would be no difference  in the 
security offered to the members having their benefits paid by the PPF or by an insurance 
company. Both organisations could be considered  as financially secure.
The business could  have determined the required return  to match  the benefits on the 
assumption that the OPS was admitted to the PPF and benefits were reduced.  However,  it did 
not do this as it considered that even  this would be too high to make the advice to transfer to a 
PPP attractive.
While the business  says the advice  to transfer  was suitable and it could have led to the PPP 
substantially outperforming the OPS  thereby increasing the value of Mr Ts pension, this was 
unlikely and was, for the reasons highlighted above,  a high-risk strategy. Since Mr T was not a 
high-risk investor, I do not think this advice  was suitable for him.
For these reasons and the reasons contained  in my provisional decisions I therefore conclude  
that the advice  to transfer out of the OPS  was inappropriate for Mr T and I uphold  this 
complaint.
  
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint, and I consider that a fair and reasonable outcome would be for Ellis 
Bates Financial Solutions Limited to put Mr T, as far as possible, into the position he would 
now be in but for the unsuitable  advice.
Ellis Bates Financial Solutions Limited  must undertake a redress  calculation  in line with the 
pension redress methodology as amended by the Financial Conduct Authority in 
October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of the final decision and using the most  
recent financial assumptions published (at the date of that decision). In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate  provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ts acceptance of the decision.
Ref: DRN324564819Ellis Bates Financial Solutions Limited  may wish to contact the Department  for Work and
Pensions (DWP) to obtain  Mr Ts contribution history to the State Earnings Related
Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These details should then be used to include  a SERPS 
adjustment in the calculation,  which will take into account the impact  of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Ts SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  in respect of any past loss 
(i.e. extra  net income or tax-free  cash Mr T would already have received from the occupational 
scheme) should be paid to him as a lump sum.
The compensation in respect  of any future  loss should if possible be paid into Mr Ts pension 
plan. The payment should allow for the effect  of charges  and any available  tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If payment of the future loss into the pension isnt possible  or has protection  or allowance 
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr T as a lump sum after making a notional  deduction  
to allow for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
For example, if Mr T would have been  yet to take a tax-free cash  sum from the occupational 
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the future  loss adequately reflects this.
But if a tax-free cash sum from the occupational scheme has already been taken into 
account in the payment for past loss above,  the remaining future loss is in respect  of taxable 
income only. So it would be appropriate to make a notional deduction of 20%.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr T 
within 90 days of the date Ellis Bates  Financial  Solutions Limited receives  notification  of his 
acceptance of my final decision.  
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple  
from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days,  
that it takes  Ellis Bates Financial Solutions  Limited to pay Mr T this compensation.
Its possible  that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual  time taken  
to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of 
time where  the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from DWP 
may be added  to the 90 day period in which interest  wont apply.
I also direct that Ellis Bates Financial Solutions  Limited pay Mr T £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience that he has suffered.
Where I consider that total fair compensation requires payment of an amount  that might  
exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the business pays the balance.
Ref: DRN324564820determination  and money award:
I am minded  to require Ellis Bates Financial Solutions Limited  to pay Mr T compensation as set 
out above, up to a maximum of £150,000.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to 
Mr T within 90 days  of the date Ellis Bates Financial Solutions  Limited receives notification  
of his acceptance of my final decision.
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes Ellis Bates Financial Solutions  Limited to pay Mr T this compensation.
Its possible  that data gathering for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual  time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding  item required  to undertake  the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont apply.
recommendatio n:
If the amount produced  by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I
also recommend that Ellis Bates Financial Solutions  Limited pays  Mr T the balance.
I further recommend interest  to be added  to this balance at the rate of 8% per year simple
for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes Ellis Bates  Financial Solutions  Limited  to pay
Mr T from the date it receives notification of his acceptance of the decision, as set out above
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2019.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3245648