K820x#14complaint
Mr T1 and Mr T2 are the executors of the late Mrs Ts estate. They  have complained on 
behalf of the late Mrs Ts estate that Scottish  Equitable plc (Aegon):
- has said it must deduct a tax charge of 45% from the lump sum available under two 
drawdown plans  the late Mrs T held;  and, that it
- failed to explain that an intended survivor  nomination wouldn't  qualify and the 
benefits would be paid as a lump  sum.
background
In 2004 Mrs T applied for a phased retirement plan with Aegon.  There  were  two structures 
within the plan.  The first was a phased plan. Money  in this plan was invested  until Mrs T 
wanted to start taking  an income from it. The required  amount  was then moved across to a 
Retirement Cash Account, an income  drawdown vehicle. Both plans  were  written under 
trust.
Some of the money  Mrs T transferred  in was put into a Retirement Cash Account (RCA)  for 
immediate drawdown.  
Mrs T transferred around £24,550 into the phased plan. It appears this money  was pre1997  
protected rights from Mrs Ts late husband's drawdown plan with another  provider.
The remaining  balance of Mrs Ts late husband's drawdown pension plan £135,660.35 was 
held in the RCA. Mrs T took an income  from this plan.
The Declaration of Trust form completed  in 2004 set out that the benefits from the late Mr T's 
policies were to be used to secure income withdrawal for Mrs T. Mrs T and her sons, Mr T1 
and Mr T2 were the trustees.
In 2007, Mrs T instructed Aegon to move the phased fund into an RCA to allow  tax-free cash  
to be paid. A total of £31,119.43 was transferred to a RCA and around £7,700 tax free cash 
was paid to Mrs T.
In January 2013, Aegon received  a Death benefit instruction form from Mrs T. The 
instruction said that any lump sum on her death  should be split equally between her sons. 
Mrs T also completed a survivor nomination  form with the same  beneficiary details. 
A valid survivor  nomination would have allowed the parties nominated  to continue to receive 
a drawdown income  after the plan holders death.
In May 2016, Aegon received a form amending  the nominations made  in 2013. Both the 
death benefit nomination  and the nominated  survivor were  made solely  in favour of one of 
Mrs Ts sons,  Mr T2. 
Aegon acknowledged receipt of the form. It set out that on Mrs T's death,  if there  was a 
qualifying nominated survivor, the options would be:
- pay fund as a lump  sum (with a 45% tax charge if Mrs T was over 75 years);
- Use of fund to continue  drawdown; or
- Use of fund to purchase an annuity. 
Ref: DRN39139762The letter also set out that if a nominated survivor didn't qualify, the only option was the lump  
sum.
Sadly Mrs T died in December 2017  aged 79. Mrs Ts son (Mr T2) then contacted  Aegon  to 
make a claim on the plans.
Aegon then said that under its scheme  rules,  the only option available  was a lump  sum less 
the tax charge. It also said that as both plans were held under trust,  the lump  sum would be 
paid into the trust.
Mr T2 queried this as he felt the benefits  should be paid directly  to him rather  than into the 
trust. He explained that he had been  financially  dependent on his late mother.  And he said 
he would  prefer for the income drawdown option to continue.
In February 2018  Aegon wrote to Mr T2. It explained that as the plans the late Mrs T held 
were set up using death benefits from her late husband, there could be no valid survivor  
nomination. It explained  that its pension scheme rules  don't allow  for a drawdown plan to be 
set up using the benefits remaining from a previous  drawdown plan which itself was set up 
using death benefits.
It also explained that as the RCAs  were  set up under trust, it was required to pay the 
benefits into the trust. 
Mr T2 was not satisfied  with Aegons  response  and complained. 
Aegon didnt uphold  the complaint. It said that as the plans Mrs T held had been set up using 
death benefits, the only option on Mrs T's death  was a lump  sum payment on a discretionary 
basis, or to a trust.  It said that although  it had told Mrs T that its records  had been updated, 
as the plans were  held in trust,  no survivor nomination would have been valid.
It also explained that as Mrs T was over 75 when she died the lump sum was taxable. It 
explained that this was an HMRC  requirement.
The executors werent satisfied with Aegons response and brought  their complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator said he didnt think the complaint could  be upheld. He noted that the 
executors felt that Aegon  should have explained  to Mrs T that the survivor and death benefit 
nominations were not valid. 
But he said that although he agreed the letters sent to Mrs T acknowledging the nomination  
could have been clearer, they did include warnings  about the survivor and death benefit 
nominations.
The executors did not accept our investigators  view.  They  said that they felt Aegons 
scheme administrators could use their discretion in this matter.  They  said they felt that their 
late mothers intentions had been  clear. 
They reiterated that they felt the letters Aegon had sent in 2013  and 2016 acknowledging 
receipt of death  benefit nominations were misleading. They  said they did not see how Mrs T 
could have been expected to know that the nominations werent  valid.
Ref: DRN39139763They said that if Mrs T had known that the nominations werent valid she would have 
taken action to remedy the situation  and reduce any potential  tax bill by transferring  the 
funds to another company  or withdrawing the funds.
They said that they felt that as a result  of Aegons  misleading letters  Mr T2 was now facing 
an unnecessary Tax charge of £46,964.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, although I am sympathetic to the executors position I dont think this 
complaint can be upheld. Ill explain why.
As Aegon has explained, its pension scheme rules don't  allow for a drawdown plan to be set 
up using the benefits remaining from a previous drawdown plan, which itself was set up 
using death benefits. As this is the case,  I cant require Aegon set up a drawdown plan for 
Mr T2.
Aegon can only administer its plans in according with the scheme rules and regulatory and 
HMRC requirements.
If no trust was in place,  Aegon  would have been able to use its discretion when settling  the 
plans. But the scheme rules would have prevented it for setting up a drawdown plan from the 
proceeds for Mr T2. 
I asked Aegon to provide  a copy of its scheme  rules. These set out:
Section 9.8
If a dependant dies after sums or assets within his or her dependant's fund have been 
designated as available for the payment of dependant's drawdown pension,  the relevant  
dependant's drawdown pension fund or dependants flexi-access  drawdown  fund shall be 
applied as a lump sum (a drawdown pension fund lump sum death benefit or flexi-access  
drawdown fund lump sum death benefit) in accordance with rules  10.8 to 10.10 but as if
a. The reference  to the member's death in rule 10.8(3) (a) and rule 10.10 were  a reference 
to the dependent's  death':
b. All references to the member in rule 10.8(3) were references to the dependant"
c. All references to the members fund' in rule 10 were references  to 'the dependant's 
drawdown pension  fund or dependants flex-access  drawdown fund relating to the 
dependant; and
d. Where there is more  than one dependant to whom this rule 9.8 applies, rules  10.8 to 
10.10, as modified above, shall apply separately  to the dependants drawdown pension  fund 
or dependant's flexi-access  drawdown fund in relation to each  such  dependant.
I have very carefully considered whether Aegon should have done more  to make Mrs T 
aware that the survivor  and death  benefit  nominations she made in 2013 and again in 2016 
were not valid. I appreciate that the executors feel it should have done  more to alert Mrs T.
Ref: DRN39139764The letters Aegon sent acknowledging the nominations were generic and did not refer to the 
fact that Mrs Ts plans were held in trust. Aegon did not advise Mrs T on the nominations she 
made, or whether they would qualify. Its letters did, however, make clear that 
If a nominated survivor does not qualify, the only option currently  available  would be;
Lump sum (without any tax deduction  if planholder is under 75 years old or with a tax charge 
if planholder is over 75 years old), payable to a beneficiary of beneficiaries chosen at 
AEGON's discretion  as scheme  administrators.
I appreciate Mrs T though  her nominated survivor would  qualify but it is not clear to me 
whether Mrs T had received advice on whether her understanding was correct.  
Had Mrs T received advice on this in respect of her drawdown plans I would have  expected 
the adviser to have  noted that the plans were  held in trust. And as this was the case this 
would take precedence over the death benefit nomination, unless the trust was removed.
But even if the trust had been removed, as Aegon has explained,  its pension  scheme rules 
don't allow for a drawdown plan to be set up using the benefits remaining from a previous 
drawdown plan which itself was set up using  death  benefits. 
As this is the case, I cant require Aegon set up a drawdown plan for Mr T2.
Likewise I cannot  require it to waive the tax charge as this is an HMRC requirement.
I do appreciate that this is not the decision that the executors were  hoping for. But having 
carefully considered  all the information  available I cannot require Aegon  to waive  the tax 
charge or to allow Mr T2 to use the funds to set up a drawdown plan.
my final decision
My decision  is that, for the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of 
the late Mrs Ts estate to accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3913976