K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (Tesco) have rejected a claim she has 
made to them  under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section  75).
background
Mrs C purchased some hearing aids from a company Ill call S in April 2017.  She paid 
£1,245 towards  the bill using her Tesco credit card and also used another credit  card to 
complete the payment.
Mrs C explained she has a problem  with the drainage  in her ear that means wax builds up in 
it. She therefore says S were wrong  to persuade her to exchange her NHS hearing  aids for 
new ones that, unlike  the NHS set, had a filter in them which  would get blocked. 
She says she was persuaded to buy the new hearing aids because S explained the phone 
applications that could be used with them  and because they were rechargeable. But she 
says S should have  explained that the phone applications were  also available  on the NHS 
hearing aids she already  had and that if shed known  that she would not have  proceeded 
with the sale.
She complained to S but they rejected her claim as they said shed been given a 90 day no 
quibble return period and had seemed happy with the product initially. They  noted  it took 
Mrs C 161 days to complain about  them. They didnt think there was evidence  that theyd 
been mis-sold to Mrs C. They said the hearing  aids were appropriate for the job and fit for 
purpose.
A report was provided from the British Society of Hearing Aid Audiologists  (BSHAA).  In their 
independent view they thought that all the aids Mrs C had been provided with had been fit 
for purpose.  They didnt think there  was evidence the products had been mis-sold. They 
thought that Ss willingness to offer a 90 day no quibble return  was very fair and they didnt 
think S had done  anything  wrong.
So Mrs C made  a claim to Tesco who provided some of the credit  and with whom she said 
section 75 entitled  her to make a like claim.  But Tesco  rejected  Mrs Cs claim. They werent 
persuaded that thered  been a breach of contract  as they noted the BSHAA  had said the 
aids were appropriately  prescribed  and the loss in function was due to them needing  
cleaning. They didnt  think  S had to explain the availability of phone applications and they 
didnt think this was a reason to suggest the hearing aids had been mis-sold to Mrs C.
So Mrs C referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
didnt think there was evidence that S had breached  its contract with Mrs C. He explained 
that the independent report  from the BSHAA had suggested the functioning  had been 
impaired by a lack of cleaning and that they were persuaded that the correct hearing  aids 
had been prescribed. So he didnt think Tesco needed to take any further action.
But Mrs C disagreed with the investigators view and she therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN38705482I know it will disappoint Mrs C but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. 
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs C made  a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. 
I dont think theres evidence that the hearing aids Mrs C bought were misrepresented  to her 
or that theres been  a breach of contract. 
misrepresentation
Mrs C says that the products are wrong  for her as they have a filter that will get blocked. 
I think its fair to say that the BSHAA  are experts  in these issues.  So Im persuaded by their 
view that the aids were appropriately  prescribed.  
They dont support Mrs Cs argument  that an alternative product should have been 
prescribed so it would  not be fair of me to suggest S have done anything  wrong.
Mrs C also says that S should  have explained  the use of phone applications but I dont think 
it was incumbent on them  to explain the functionality  or potential  of other devices. 
breach of contract
I can see that S offered a 90 day no quibble money back  guarantee.  The BSHAA suggest 
this is ample amount  of time for a consumer to notice any faults with a product. Mrs C didnt 
complain about  the products until much later than the 90 days. I think  if thered  been a 
problem with the devices she would have  been  more likely to complain earlier and Im 
therefore not persuaded there was a fault with the hearing  aids or that there has been a 
breach of contract.
Overall, Im not persuaded that it would be fair to ask Tesco  to take any further action.
Ref: DRN38705483my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3870548