K820x#14complaint
Miss D complains that AXA Insurance UK plc declined her home  insurance  claim and about 
its service. My references to AXA include its claims handlers.
background
Miss D had a home insurance policy with AXA as the insurer.  
Miss Ds front door handle along with part of the locking mechanism came off in her hand as 
she was trying to lock the door. Its a composite  door about four years  old. She paid a 
locksmith £276 to replace the lock.
Miss D claimed on her policy. AXA sent her a text saying that after deducting the £100 policy 
excess it would send  her £176. But later that day AXA left her a voicemail  saying it wouldnt 
pay anything because  the damage  was consistent with wear  and tear which the policy 
excluded.
Miss D complained to AXA. It apologised for wrongly telling her the claim money would be 
paid. It sent her £25 compensation for her distress  and inconvenience. Miss D complained  to 
us. She wants her claim  paid.
Our investigator thought there wasnt enough evidence to show  the problem occurred due to 
anything other than wear  and tear or manufacturing  issues. Both are excluded  under the 
policy.
Miss D disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. In summary, she says:
The lock and handle  were in good working order before the accident.  The lock has 
been replaced and the handle is still working
She wasnt expecting  the lock to break.  It was an accident
The lock mechanism became faulty  when she accidentally broke it 
AXA assured  her it would cover  her claim so she was confident  to spend the little 
money she had 
AXA changing its mind is extremely poor customer  service
The whole process has caused her significant  stress and inconvenience.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
The policy covers accidental damage of a door if Miss D bought that optional cover. AXA 
hasnt said Miss D hasnt got the accidental damage cover.
I cant see that the policy defines  accidental  damage and AXA hasn't referred to a policy  
definition. So I think its reasonable for me to consider the ordinary, everyday meaning. For 
accident we say that means something  unforeseen and unintentional.  Damage means  an 
item has been harmed.
Ref: DRN34376692So I think the damage to the door/locking mechanism  can reasonably be considered 
accidental damage   it was unforeseen and unintentional  damage.
But importantly there is a policy exclusion that says accidental  damage doesnt cover 
damage: 
by or arising from faulty workmanship, defective  design or use of defective materials.
It's clear from AXAs file that it considered  that exclusion  was relevant to Miss Ds claim as 
well as the wear and tear exclusion it referred to in its letter  to her.
AXA spoke to Miss Ds locksmith who said there was a fault with the mechanism and that's 
why Miss D had the problem. Miss D sent us information from the locksmiths business 
which said the locksmith  found:
the mechanism was faulty and he changed  the gearbox. This was due to the mechanism 
becoming faulty and could  not have been  faulty  from the beginning as it would not have 
operated. 
The information the locksmith gave to Miss D supports what s/he said to AXA.
The evidence is that even though the fault didnt show from the beginning there  was a fault 
with the mechanism that caused the damage. Ive seen no evidence that supports Miss Ds 
suggestion that the mechanism only became  faulty  when the items came  off in her hand. 
From what  the locksmith said its more likely than not that there  was an existing fault with the 
mechanism for the items to have come off in her hand.
AXA has to show that an exclusion applies  on the balance of probabilities (that it was more 
likely than not). Im satisfied AXA could  decline  the claim on the basis  of the accidental  
damage being caused by faulty workmanship, defective design or use of defective  materials.
As I think  AXA can fairly decline the claim on the basis of the above exclusion I dont need to 
consider if it can also decline the claim on the basis of the wear and tear exclusion.  It doesnt 
need to pay the claim.
I understand Miss Ds frustration and annoyance at AXA first telling her the claim was 
covered and then telling her it wasn't. That was poor customer  service from AXA. But it 
doesnt need to pay the claim just because it made that error.
I cant say Miss D paid for the door to be repaired because  AXA gave her the wrong 
information as shed already had the repair  done before she contacted  AXA. 
Miss D had a loss of expectation. She said that thinking shed get the claim money she spent 
money that she wouldnt have done. But AXA told her it wouldnt be paying the claim later 
the same  day it had told it would pay. So it corrected its error quickly.
Im sorry  to see Miss D says the whole process has caused her significant  stress and 
inconvenience. But I dont  generally award  compensation just because a consumer had to 
complain to us, and there's no reason to do so in this case.
Ref: DRN34376693AXA paid Miss D £25 for the distress and inconvenience it caused by wrongly telling her it 
would pay her claim. For the reasons  above I think thats a reasonable amount. AXA doesnt 
need to do anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3437669