K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that St. Jamess Place Wealth  Management  Plc (SJP)  should pay 
their total and permanent  disability  (TPD)  claim from 2012,  and not 2018.
As our contact has mostly  been  with Mrs B, to keep things simple Ill refer mainly  to her.
background
Mr and Mrs B wanted protection for their mortgage repayments, so in 1999 they took out a 
joint life assurance  policy  with SJP. As well as critical illness cover (CIC), the policy  
included total and permanent disability benefit  (TPD) and waiver of premium  benefit 
(WoP). The sum assured at that time was £50,000  but the policy was investment based 
and the policy terms and conditions said On the Review Date,  a Review of your Plan will be 
carried out to establish  whether your Contributions, now and in the future, will support the 
level of Benefits you have  selected.
In 2004 Mrs B wrote to SJP to say shed changed address. And later that year she wrote to 
SJP asking it to ensure  that her premiums didnt increase  SJP acted on this request and 
sent an acknowledgement to Mrs B. 
In 2009 SJP reviewed  the policy, and wrote to Mrs B to say the premium was enough  to 
cover the sum assured  of £50,000. In 2014 SJP reviewed the policy again. This time, the 
premiums werent enough to cover the sum assured. SJP wrote to Mrs B to let her know and 
ask whether she wanted to increase her premiums or reduce the sum assured. SJP said that 
if it didnt hear back from Mrs B, it would assume  she wanted to reduce the sum assured. 
SJP says Mrs B didnt respond, so in December 2014 the sum assured reduced to £21,209. 
In 2012 Mrs B was diagnosed with ulcerative colitis (UC), a long-term  condition  in which the 
large bowel becomes inflamed. Mrs B says this left her too unwell to work in 2012. 
In 2018 Mrs B called  SJP,  because she realised she might be covered under this policy. 
After finding the policy  documents and assessing  the claim, SJP said it would pay WoP 
benefit from 2012, when Mrs B stopped  work. And that it would pay TPD from 2018, as thats 
when it thought Mrs B met the policys  TPD criteria.  The sum assured at that time was 
£21,209. 
Mrs B thought SJP should pay her £50,000,  as that was the sum assured when she stopped  
work in 2012.  She also thought SJP had given her poor customer  service  and taken  too long 
to provide the policy information shed asked for. So she complained to SJP.
In the final response  it sent to Mrs B, SJP said it was correct to pay her £21,209  because  it 
had reviewed the policy in 2014  and written to her about her options. It said it understood 
Mrs B had changed address and not received  the documents  it sent in 2014, but that it had 
written to Mrs B at the address it held for her and it was for Mrs B to tell SJP about  any 
address changes. As SJP hadnt  received any response from Mrs B, it had reduced the sum 
assured because it couldnt increase the premiums without Mrs Bs permission. But SJP 
accepted there had been delays in giving  Mrs B information, and it offered her £500 
compensation for that.
Mrs B still felt it was unfair for SJP to offer her £21,209 instead of £50,000, so she asked our 
service to investigate.  She said SJP should pay both TPD and WoP  from 2012, as thats 
Ref: DRN35216872when she became unable to work, which her doctors had confirmed. Mrs B says she 
changed address  over the years, most recently  in 2010, and that she called SJP to tell it.
After looking into things,  our investigator  said the policy documents made  the policy review 
process clear. And that the sum assured was reduced in line with the policy terms and 
conditions. She said the medical evidence suggested Mrs B wasnt totally and permanently 
disabled prior to the sum assured being reduced  in December 2014. So she didnt think it 
would be reasonable to ask SJP to pay the original sum assured of £50,000.
Mrs B disagreed. She said again that her doctors  had confirmed  she stopped work in 2012. 
And she explained further about the impact of her conditions as well as the financial and 
other health difficulties  she had. Because Mrs B disagreed, her complaint  has been passed  
to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. I realise  this will be very disappointing to Mrs B, but Ill explain my reasons. 
review of policy
Ive seen that the terms of Mrs Bs policy clearly set out that SJP would review things 
periodically to make  sure the premiums would continue to cover the sum assured. And if 
they didnt, the sum assured would be reduced  unless Mrs B chose to increase her 
premiums. The terms also explained that this was because how much it cost to cover the 
sum assured could  be affected by things  like inflation and the performance of the investment 
underlying the policy.
I think its likely Mrs B received a copy of the terms at the start of the policy. I say that 
because SJP wrote to Mrs B on 17 November  1999  to confirm the actions agreed at their 
recent meeting,  and to confirm that The Key Features Booklets and the Illustrations which  
we discussed  at our meeting contain  a full explanation of the Plans.  These were left with you 
for your information. And on 27 November 1999  SJP wrote to Mrs B to say her application  
had been accepted and the policy documents would be sent to her soon. Mrs B hasnt told 
us she didnt receive these. 
So for these reasons I think SJP was entitled to review Mrs Bs policy  and took reasonable 
steps to make her aware this was something  it would do.
review letters
Mrs B says she received  the review letter SJP sent her in 2009, but didnt receive the review 
letter it sent her in 2014  the review  in which things changed. Mrs B says she moved house, 
most recently in 2010, but called SJP to let it know.  She says shes still in touch with the 
owner of her previous house, and they would have  passed any post on to her, but that there  
was nothing from SJP.
While I can see Mrs B wrote to inform SJP of a change  in address in 2004,  Ive not seen 
anything in SJPs  contact notes to suggest  she told it about her change  of address in 2010,  
or that the letter it sent Mrs B in 2014  was returned to it. For those reasons, Ive not seen 
enough evidence  to say SJP knew Mrs B changed  address  in 2014. So when SJP reviewed 
Ref: DRN35216873Mrs Bs policy in 2014, I could only reasonably expect it to write to her at the address it held 
for her at the time. And Ive seen  thats  what it did.
sum assured
The letter SJP wrote to Mrs B on 27 October  2014 explained that the period of cover shed 
taken out in 1999 would soon expire, and that if she wanted her cover  to continue  shed  
need to choose whether to pay the same premiums for a reduced sum assured of £21,209,  
or whether to pay higher  premiums to keep the original sum assured of £50,000. The letter 
said that if SJP didnt hear back from Mrs B it would assume she wanted to pay the same  
premiums for a reduced  sum assured of £21,209.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mrs B expressed  a choice  to pay increased  premiums to keep 
the original sum assured  indeed, as Ive said, Mrs B says she didnt  receive this letter.  And 
SJP has said it couldnt just take higher premiums  from Mrs B without her express 
permission to do so. Based  on this, I dont think SJP acted unfairly  in reducing the sum 
assured in 2014.
claim 
Im sorry  to hear of Mrs Bs difficulties and I dont  doubt shes had to give up her profession. 
But the issue here is whether she meets the criteria under which  the policy  will pay out. The 
policy says it will pay the WoP benefit  if Mrs B is suffering a period of incapacity. Since the 
medical reports from Mrs Bs doctors  confirm Mrs B has suffered a period of incapacity  
caused by UC since 2012, I think its reasonable for SJP to pay the WoP benefit from 2012.
But Mrs B must meet different policy criteria  to receive the TPD benefit. The policy says 
Critical Illness Benefit will be payable if the Life Assuredbecomes  totally  and permanently 
unable, through  accident  or illness, to follow the occupation in which  he/she was engaged 
immediately before the accident or start of the illness. So Mrs B must  be not just unable  to 
work in her profession,  but be totally and permanently unable  to work in that profession.
SJP says Mrs B met this criteria in 2018. But Mrs B says she met the criteria in 2012, when 
she stopped work. So the question here is when the TPD claim should  be paid from. To 
decide this, Ive considered Mrs Bs medical information. It suggests  the severity  of Mrs Bs 
UC symptoms has varied  over the years:
Mrs B first saw her general practitioner (GP)  about her symptoms  in 
September 2012, and was diagnosed with UC in November 2012. 
Between March  2013 and January 2014  Mrs Bs symptoms  were  flaring up. A step 
up in treatment was considered but Mrs B was apprehensive and wanted to explore 
alternative treatment options.  
By May 2014  Mrs B was responding well to medication and so no further 
investigations were  carried  out at that time. 
Around September 2014 Mrs Bs symptoms  worsened. 
By November 2014 she was responding well to treatment,  with many of her 
symptoms improving.  
In February 2015 its noted that Mrs Bs UC wasnt  well controlled, and she was also 
developing pain in her joints, so further investigations were planned. 
By July 2015 things  had improved and Mrs Bs consultant noted shed responded 
well to current treatment, which should  continue and be reviewed  later. 
Ref: DRN35216874In December 2015 Mrs B was struggling with her symptoms, and an adjustment to 
her medication was recommended. 
In July 2016 Mrs B had a colonoscopy and her consultant noted she was responding 
well to treatment. In December 2016 Mrs B had stopped taking her prescribed  
medication and was taking an alternative remedy instead,  and she reported  generally 
feeling very well in terms of most of her symptoms.
In August 2017 Mrs B was taking an alternative  remedy instead of prescribed 
medication and, while  she still had some symptoms, she reported  feeling dramatically 
better.
By January 2018 Mrs B was struggling with her symptoms, and began again  taking  
some prescribed  medications.  
In February 2018 Mrs Bs consultant  noted she was coping and generally better, and 
that her symptoms flared when stressed.  The consultant also noted  that while Mrs B 
wanted to continue with the current treatment, a step up in treatment  could be 
considered if needed.
In April 2018 Mrs B was struggling with her symptoms and so a step up in treatment  
was being considered.
In June 2018 Mrs Bs GP and consultant completed medical reports  at SJPs request. 
One of the questions  asked was whether Mrs B had been  totally  unfit for work since 
September 2012. Both her GP and consultant answered no, and both noted the 
progressive nature  of UC and that Mrs B currently had severe symptoms. When  
asked questions about whether Mrs B could work  at the moment,  her GP said no 
and her consultant  said it was difficult  to answer  because UC symptoms can 
fluctuate, but that Mrs B had frequently described difficulties in working because of 
them. 
In August 2018, Mrs Bs consultant confirmed a step up in treatment wasnt  a 
reasonable option for Mrs B at this stage, because significant  side-effects were likely.
So Mrs Bs medical records show her symptoms fluctuated  over the years and that while 
there were certainly times her symptoms  affected her greatly, there were also times  when 
they responded to treatment and she felt better. Based on this, I dont  think it was 
unreasonable for SJP to conclude that Mrs B wasnt totally and permanently  disabled either 
in 2012 or prior to the sum assured decreasing in December 2014. 
SJP accepts Mrs B is now unlikely to be able to work again in her chosen profession,  and 
that a step up in treatment isnt a suitable  option for her. And so its agreed to pay her TPD 
claim from the date Mrs Bs consultant confirmed that, which  is August 2018. In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  thats an unreasonable date for SJP to pay TPD from. So Im not 
asking SJP to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 December 2019.
Ailsa Wiltshire
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3521687