K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy 
when he took out a credit card with Capital  One (Europe) Plc (Capital  One).
background
Mr C took out a credit card in 2001 and he took out a PPI policy alongside it. The PPI cost 
£0.89 per £100  of his outstanding balance. It paid out 10% of his monthly balance if he 
wasnt able to work due to sickness, accident or unemployment for up to 12 months.  It also 
had life cover that paid off the total balance.
Mr C has said it wasnt made clear  to him that PPI was separate  product from the card. He 
also said he wasnt given much information  about the policy,  for example the main features 
of it.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed and asked for the complaint to 
be looked at by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Having done so, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
The sale took place  in 2001  when  Mr C filled in a postal application form. On the form there 
is a section titled Additional Information  which dealt with PPI as well as several  other 
options. There were two equally prominent choices  for PPI, one to take it out and one to 
decline it. I can see Mr C ticked to take out PPI. So I think  the PPI was presented  as optional 
to Mr C and he chose  to take the policy out. 
Mr C has said he thought  the print on the application was too small for him to read properly, 
so he was unaware what he ticked.  Having looked  at the application  form Im satisfied the 
part dealing with PPI was clear enough for someone  to decide whether or not they wanted to 
take it out. The type was the same  size as the parts dealing  with Mr Cs personal details and 
asking about his employment and it appears he was give the required details without any 
problems.
As Mr C filled in a form and posted it back to Capital One, I dont think a recommendation 
was given. So Capital  One didnt have  to check whether or not the policy  was suitable for his 
needs. But it did have  to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him.
I dont think Mr C was given all the information  about  the PPI policy  as clearly as it could 
have been  for example  the information about the full costs  and benefits  wasnt set out on 
the application form. But he chose to take out the policy so it appears that he wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, it doesnt look like 
he was affected  by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. 
Ref: DRN36285042At the time he took out PPI, Mr C has said he was entitled to between three and six months  
of sick pay from his employer and he didnt say he had any savings. But the PPI would have 
paid on top of any sick pay and for longer, should he have needed it. Mr C has said he could 
have got some help from his family  if he needed  to make repayments,  but I dont think  that 
would have been guaranteed at the time he needed it. And theres  nothing  about Mr Cs 
circumstances which suggests  it wasnt affordable.  I dont think  there is anything in the 
information he didnt  have that would  have put him off taking it out. So I think that he would 
have taken it if he had all of the right information and I dont think  that Mr C is worse off as a 
result of anything that Capital One did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint against Capital One (Europe) 
Plc.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3628504