K822xComplaint
Mrs C complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) refused to allow  a third 
party mandate (TPM) for her son, on her current account. She said this led to her being 
unable to manage her account effectively leading to overdraft charges.
Background 
Mrs C had a current account  with First Direct.  She explains  that due to bereavements,  
including the loss of her husband, she suffered from mental ill health.  Her son, who acted as 
her representative, explained how Mrs Cs husband used to manage their finances which  
added to Mrs Cs difficulty in managing by herself. It was for these reasons that Mrs C asked 
First Direct  to accept a TPM  for her son.
First Direct  agreed the TPM for Mrs Cs son in July 2016, but cancelled it in 
September 2016.
First Direct  said that in September 2016 Mrs Cs son requested overdraft charges back  for 
Mrs Cs account. Mrs Cs son provided  First Direct with medical evidence  of Mrs Cs poor 
mental health. First Directs customer notes stated that because Mrs C had mental ill health, 
possibly affecting  her ability to make  decisions  about her money, the TPM wouldnt be 
acceptable. Mrs Cs son was called  and informed of the decision to remove the TPM. The 
note indicated that he was advised about  using a power of attorney instead, or that the bank 
could look at other ways  of helping Mrs C with payment of bills direct  from her account. 
Certain overdraft charges  attracted  during  that period were paid back to Mrs Cs account.
Mrs C complained to First Direct  because she felt that she was being  treated unfairly.  Mrs C 
said that the overdraft  fees she incurred could have been prevented if her son had a TPM for 
her account.  She felt that First Direct should  refund her overdraft fees.  Mrs C then wished to 
switch accounts.
In their response to Mrs Cs complaint, First Direct  explained that they couldnt give Mrs C all 
the reasons that they cancelled the TPM  for her son. They explained that they wouldnt 
reinstate it. They suggested  that an alternative person could be named if Mrs C wished. 
First Direct  acknowledged  that Mrs C had expressed  the wish to change banks to one which 
would allow a TPM for her son. First Direct wouldnt refund overdraft fees because  they said 
they were applied fairly. As a gesture  of goodwill though, First Direct offered to cancel  
Mrs Cs overdraft balance, so that she could then switch to another bank as shed requested.
Mrs Cs son brought the complaint to us on Mrs Cs behalf.
Our investigator said that First Direct acted fairly in the way theyd treated Mrs C. He thought 
that First Direct were entitled to decline the TPM.  He didnt think  that First Direct needed to 
do anything further  to address Mrs Cs complaint.
Mrs Cs son didnt agree. He reiterated that Mrs C was a vulnerable  customer and wanted all 
charges to her account refunded.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision to let Mrs C and First Direct know  what my thoughts were and 
give them  a chance to respond.
Ref: DRN36686372In my provisional decision I said:
TPMs can be used  to provide an easy way to help customers  at times where they need  
anothers help managing  finances. They may not be suitable in all circumstances though.  
Because a TPM  is an agreement with the bank I think its fair that a bank must be certain 
that the customer has the mental ability to make  the instruction, and that the person chosen  
is suitable. First Direct  had a responsibility  to look after Mrs Cs account and had to be 
comfortable with allowing  a third party to access it.
First Direct  explains that their criteria for a TPM werent met in Mrs Cs case, so they couldnt 
continue with it. I think that First Direct  were  correct in saying they were entitled to make  this 
decision. On balance, I think that their decision was fair in the circumstances.
I can understand Mrs Cs frustration that First Direct wouldnt change their mind  and couldnt 
tell her the reason for their decision.  But I can also understand that First Direct couldnt  
necessarily share the reasons for their decision and still comply with their obligations under 
Data Protection law. I dont think that First Direct needed to provide a detailed explanation 
why the TPM was cancelled, as long as they made  it clear that it had been.
Having cancelled the TPM in September 2016, I think that First Direct should have contacted 
Mrs C to find out what her financial position  was. Theyd  returned  certain  charges  in 
response to potential financial difficulties and knew she wanted a TPM. I therefore  think  
First Direct  should have been aware that Mrs C was a vulnerable customer with financial 
difficulties and may have  been able to help her.
Mrs Cs bank statements show that from June  2016 to April 2017  a regular monthly source  
of income stopped. Her monthly  income  was reduced by around  £1900  during that time. If 
First Direct  had contacted  her in September 2016  when  I think  they should have, I think they 
could have identified  this as a cause  of short term financial difficulty. I think that First Direct 
missed an opportunity to offer Mrs C options to assist her in managing  her account when 
she was in difficulty. Had they made meaningful contact with her about her income  and 
expenditure they may have decided  that her overdraft was no longer affordable, and may 
have considered freezing charges or interest  whilst it was paid back.
First Direct  didnt  contact Mrs C about  her overdraft  until August 2018.  By that time 
First Direct  decided  that her disposable income meant  the overdraft was affordable. I looked 
at First Directs decision and compared it with the accounts statements. I think  it was a fair 
and reasonable decision  for First Direct  to have  reached at that time.
For the above reasons I dont think that First Direct treated Mrs C fairly after they cancelled  
the TPM. No income  and expenditure check was carried out with her in 2016 but I think  that 
her expenditure was likely  to have been  broadly similar to what First Direct found when they 
looked at it in 2018. Given the reduction  in her income I think it is fair to say that Mrs C would 
have been hundreds of pounds worse off each month. She reports having struggled to meet  
bills and buy food.
To put things right, I considered whether I could say that First Direct were responsible for the 
overdraft charges. Mrs C wants all her overdraft charges refunded.  For the reasons Ive 
given I dont think that would be fair. I cant say that First Direct were responsible for Mrs Cs 
use of her overdraft outside  the dates I have identified. Mrs Cs account was in a position  
that she was always  at or exceeding her overdraft  limit every month before her loss of 
income and emotional  difficulties. This makes  it hard to say how much  her change in 
circumstances contributed to the charges and interest in between June 2016 and April 2017. 
Ref: DRN36686373First Direct  suggested repaying Mrs Cs overdraft with no note on her credit file to enable her 
to close her account and move to another bank. I think that this would be a fair way for them 
to rectify the mistake that was made  and enable  Mrs C to switch her account.  Her overdraft 
was around £550  being  just over her agreed  limit of £500, so I think it would be appropriate 
to repay  her overdraft up to the amount she was overdrawn at that time.
I have considered the impact on Mrs C from being left in a position of financial hardship 
without support. This is not about the rejection of the TPM but rather  that First Direct  missed 
the opportunity  to help her. She says that she had several months of struggling financially at 
a very difficult time, and that may have been alleviated.  For the upset this caused I think 
First Direct  should pay Mrs C £100  in compensation.
The response  to my provisional  decision
First Direct  responded, accepting my decision.  Mrs C was unhappy with the decision and 
didnt think that Id addressed the issue of First Direct refunding  overdraft charges. No further 
evidence was offered  for me to consider however.  Mrs Cs son, on her behalf, has pointed 
out that Mrs C was a vulnerable customer who was deaf so should have been  treated with 
more sympathy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also considered the responses 
from both sides to my provisional decision.
My decision  remains unchanged. Whilst Im upholding  her complaint in part, I understand 
that Mrs C will be disappointed that its not the outcome she wanted.
For the same reasons  as I explained  above,  I dont think its fair to say that the overdraft 
charges accrued on Mrs Cs account  were the fault of First Direct.  The way in which  the 
account was managed  over a long period of time meant that the overdraft was regularly 
used and Mrs C had the benefit  of that. The fact that fees were accrued appears mostly  
down to the way Mrs C managed her account. It was originally  Mrs Cs argument that the 
rejection of the TPM was a contributing  factor to her overdraft charges.  But Ive explained 
why I dont think First Direct acted unfairly in the way they dealt with the TPM, so havent 
considered redress  for that.
Mrs Cs son highlighted Mrs Cs vulnerability. I am sympathetic of Mrs Cs circumstances 
and considered those when looking into her complaint. I looked  very closely  at what  Mrs Cs 
financial position was around the time the TPM was cancelled. For the reasons given in my 
provisional decision I think First Direct should have done more to offer help when they were 
aware of her circumstances. If they had followed up the cancellation of her TPM  they may 
have been able to alleviate her difficulties  in the period where her income was reduced. 
Because they didnt, Ive looked  for the most  appropriate redress  to deal with that mistake. I 
believe that a fair resolution is for First Direct to repay Mrs Cs overdraft as explained above  
and pay compensation for the upset  caused  by their failure to intervene when I think they 
should have. 
Ref: DRN36686374My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct 
HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) to do the following:
Repay Mrs Cs overdraft up to a value of £550.
Pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3668637