complaint
Mr V complains about a total of 8 payday loans CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as QuickQuid) 
gave to him. Mr V has said the loans were  unaffordable.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 February  2019.  In my provisional 
decision, I set out a detailed background to this complaint and that decision is attached  as an 
appendix to my final decision.
In summary,  I concluded that QuickQuid shouldnt have given Mr V loan 2 and loans 4b to 8 
and as I was making a new finding  on the complaint,  I gave both parties  the opportunity to 
provide any further  comments they wanted me to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Mr V responded to my provisional decision by saying  he had nothing further to add however, 
QuickQuid provided  further comments it wanted  me to consider. QuickQuid provided a table 
with figures on the monthly estimated disposable income (EDI)  it used to make its lending 
decision and attached its 13 page  document with its generic lending  process  post March 2015.  
In summary,  the lender said:
It didnt think Mr V was dependent on the loans  from loan 3 onwards  and there were  
some breaks in the lending history.
It wasnt fair to look at the total repayment  Mr V was required to make  on his loans as 
the loans are similar to giving Mr V an advance  on his income.
As the loans were  due to be repaid over 2  3 pay periods, this gave Mr V the 
opportunity to regain  his financial footing.
It couldnt reasonably  have  found out about Mr Vs gambling or that he had other short 
term loans.
In my provisional decision I explained  that from loans 3 onwards, Mr Vs loans were lent at a 
time when  the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator for lenders such as 
QuickQuid. And under  the relevant regulation at the time, QuickQuid needed to carry out 
borrower focused checks to satisfy  itself that Mr V could sustainably afford to repay the loans. 
I wasnt intending on upholding Mr Vs complaint about loans 1, 3 and 4a and as neither party 
has raised an objection  to my provisional  findings on those loans, I dont see the need  to depart 
from my line of thinking in relation to those  loans.
QuickQuid concedes that it shouldve done  more before lending  loan 2 and has agreed to 
refund the interest and charges on that loan.
So the loans  that remain in dispute are loans 4b to 8.
QuickQuid has said Mr V wasnt dependent  on the loans as there was an 18 day break 
between loans 5 and 6 and a 95 day break  between loans 7 and 8. Ive carefully considered 
these breaks and having done so, I dont  consider  that they were long enough to break Mr Vs 
lending chain. I say this because for the breaks to make a significant impact  on Mr Vs 
situation, I think it needed to be long enough so that it was reasonably  likely Mr Vs finances 
had improved. In my opinion, these breaks werent  sufficient  to make QuickQuid reasonably 
believe that Mr Vs financial circumstances had sufficiently changed for the better.
Ref: DRN3885387It then follows because  Mr V was coming  back regularly for loans, he was likely to be 
dependent on these loans  and from the time he took loan 3 for the best part of the next two 
years, he was either borrowing  or repaying  QuickQuid  for the loans.
QuickQuids response  says it wasnt fair to consider the capital repayment  alongside  the 
interest charged to determine whether the loan was responsibly lent. However,  I disagree  with 
this because Mr V had to make the total repayment from his available income  and each 
repayment had to be assessed  as sustainable  in Mr Vs personal circumstances. So even if I 
accept QuickQuids argument that the loans were  an advance  on his income,  the total 
repayments and not just the interest  had an impact on his income. Not taking into account the 
full repayment  would  be incorrectly reducing the actual burden  Mr V had on his income. Also, 
QuickQuids correspondence with Mr V took into account the capital repayments when it 
structured the loan repayments and so in my opinion,  its fair that the loan repayments are 
considered in the same way.
Ive also considered the new estimated disposable  income figures that QuickQuid has 
provided. And I can see that after Mr V made the repayments on his loans,  he was left with little 
or no income. This wasnt a sustainable  position  as I already explained in my provisional 
decision.
In the time of Mr V borrowing from QuickQuid, he was left with such  small  amounts  of 
disposable income that I think  he needed to borrow again to meet  the need the repayments left 
in his finances.
QuickQuid has made  an argument about giving Mr V the opportunity  to regain his footing with 
the structure of the loans  being repaid over 2  3 periods. But it still hasnt been able to tell 
me why in Mr Vs particular circumstances it believed this would be reasonable. In my 
provisional decision I said:
If QuickQuid felt Mr V needed to take some extra action to meet his loan repayments  when  
they were due, this suggests that it understood that there was a risk that he wouldnt be able 
repay the loan the way it was structured  unless preventative action was taken. It then left this 
to Mr V to address. It didnt, for example,  offer to structure the loan repayments to reflect its 
expectations of Mr Vs money management.
QuickQuid seems to be suggesting  that for the loans where the final balloon payment 
exceeded or took up most of the disposable income, Mr V would have saved over the 
previous months  before he needed to make  the balloon repayment. But it hasnt specifically 
said why it thought this would be reasonable in Mr Vs specific  circumstances.
Ive also gone  into quite some detail in my provisional decision about  QuickQuids  13 page 
document and I dont  intend to repeat my findings here. But I essentially explained that the 
document appeared to be QuickQuids  generic  approach to making lending decisions but it 
wasnt specific to Mr Vs complaint and how QuickQuid  made  its decision to lend to him s. As
I explained above, the relevant regulatory guidance expects that lenders carry out borrow 
focused checks and so the checks should  take into account the circumstances of the specific 
consumer.
In my provisional decision,  I reconstructed  Mr Vs circumstances at the time of the loans using 
his credit file and bank  statements. I also explained that QuickQuid wasnt required to use 
Mr Vs bank  statements  but it had to show  that it took reasonable steps  to independently  verify  
what it was told. QuickQuid has said its unlikely to have seen the gambling  transactions from 
the bank statements and unless the short  term loans were in arrears  it wouldnt have been 
flagged up. But I did find Mr Vs gambling transactions on his bank statements and the 
transactions werent encrypted  as QuickQuid says.  In any event, had QuickQuid carried  out 
what I consider to be proportionate  checks,  its likely to have seen a substantial amount  of 
outgoings and even if it wasnt clear that there  gambling transactions or short  term loan 
repayments, I think it would have been reasonable for QuickQuid to query what those 
outgoings were  before  for making its lending decision.
Ref: DRN3885387While I understand that my findings would be disappointing for QuickQuid, after carefully 
considering its further comments, I still think it shouldnt have given Mr V loans  2 and loans 4b 
to 8. And it needs  to put things right.
putting things right
For each  of those  loans (2, 4b to 8), QuickQuid should;
 refund  any interest and charges  Mr V paid towards these loans.
 add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*
 remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Vs credit file in relation to these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest. QuickQuid must 
give Mr V a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Vs complaint  in part and require CashEuroNet  UK LLC to put things right as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3885387appendix
Provisional decision
complaint
Mr V complains about  a number of payday loans CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid) 
gave to him between December 2011 and August 2017. Mr V has said the loans werent  
affordable and QuickQuid  shouldnt have given them to him.
background
Mr V borrowed a total of eight payday loans from QuickQuid. The loan amounts varied from
£50 to £300. From the information QuickQuid  has provided, the loans were as follows:
loan number date taken amount date repaid
1 07/12/11 £200 31/01/12
2 02/02/12 £300 30/03/12
3 03/02/16 £150 29/02/16
4a 18/08/16 £50 30/09/16
4b 21/08/16 £50 30/09/16
5 13/10/16 £150 30/11/16
6a 18/12/16 £100 28/02/17
6b 11/01/17 £50 28/02/17
7 04/03/17 £200 28/04/17
8 01/08/17 £150 22/01/18
Mr V requested additional  borrowing on loans  4 and 6 before he had repaid any of the original 
principal. When Mr V complained  to QuickQuid, it didnt uphold his complaint. It said it didnt think Mr V 
was dependent on these loans and that it carried  out sufficient checks before lending to him.
Unhappy with the response, Mr V referred his complaint to this service  where it was looked  at by one 
of our adjudicators. Our adjudicator thought that QuickQuid shouldnt have  given Mr V loan 2 and 
loans 5 to 8 and recommended that Mr Vs complaint  about  those loans should be upheld.
QuickQuid disagreed with the adjudicators findings and asked for this complaint to be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman. And so this complaint has been passed to me - an ombudsman  for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant  regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time the loans  were offered. When  loans 1 and 2 were  given, these  
loans were regulated by the Office of Fair trading (OFT) but from loans  3 onwards, these loans were  
regulated by The Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA).
K800x#10
Ref: DRN3885387Under both regulators, QuickQuid was required  to lend responsibly. It needed to make checks to see 
whether Mr V could afford to make each loan repayment before it lent to him. So, in making this 
decision Ive first considered whether QuickQuid did everything  it should  have when assessing  Mr Vs 
credit applications. And, if it didnt do everything it should have done, Ive thought  about whether any 
assessment failings resulted in QuickQuid agreeing to lend to him when it should  have known that it 
would be difficult for him to repay.
QuickQuid has said it searched Mr Vs credit file before agreeing to lend and although  it hasnt 
provided this service with the full results of its searches, it has provided a summary. So I dont know 
exactly what  its checks showed. Mr V has also provided a copy of his credit file and from what I can 
see, there were no defaults  or county court judgements  (CCJs)  recorded  on Mr Vs file.
QuickQuid also said it checked Mr Vs income  before lending each loan and checked his expenses 
before agreeing to lend loan 3 onwards.  It says from loan 3 onwards, it used the income confidence 
factor (ICF) to gauge the accuracy of Mr Vs declared income and that it compared his declared 
expenses with the average expense  data published by the Office  of National Statistics  (ONS). It also 
says it validated the data given to it by Mr V to determine
his estimated disposable  income and lent on the basis that the total loan repayment was less than 80% 
of the estimated disposable  income.
At the time of loans 1 and 2, Mr Vs declared his income  to be £1,440. Loan 1 was for £200 which  Mr 
V could repay over two months with a maximum  repayment of £259. As this was Mr Vs first loan and 
the maximum repayment  was relatively  low compared to his declared  income, I think QuickQuids  
checks far enough for this loan.
Mr V took out loan 2 within  two days of repaying loan 1 and he was now requesting £300  a larger sum 
compared to his first loan. Again, this was a loan he could  make in two repayments with the maximum 
repayment of £388.50. Given this amount and how quickly
Mr V asked for this loan after repaying loan 1, I think QuickQuid should have had some concerns about  
lending to him without further checks. The repayment amount was a greater proportion of his declared  
income and QuickQuid should have wanted to know about  his normal living costs and regular credit 
commitments he may have had. So I dont think QuickQuids checks for this loan went  far enough.
Sufficient checks before lending loan 2 are likely to have shown that Mr V couldnt afford  the maximum  
loan repayment of £388.50.  Mr V has provided copies of his bank  statement and Ive used these to 
reconstruct his circumstances  at the time. And from what I can see, his living costs including  were over 
£950  Ive taken into account a reasonable cost for food and transport. And his regular credit 
commitments were around £80. Bearing in mind his declared income of around £1,440,  he wasnt in a 
position to sustainably repay this loan.
As stated above, from loan 3 onwards,  these  types of loans were regulated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The FCAs Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)  is the specialist  sourcebook for 
credit-related regulated activities. It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer  credit 
providers, such as QuickQuid. At the time,  these required lenders to take reasonable steps to assess 
the customers ability  to meet repayments under  a regulated credit agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.- 
CONC 5.3.1G (2).
Ref: DRN3885387CONC 5.3.1G (6) defined sustainable as being able to make  repayments without  undue difficulty. 
It went  on to explain that this means the customer should be able to make repayments.
I agree with QuickQuid that the checks werent  prescriptive  but QuickQuid needed  to carry  out 
customer focussed checks  to satisfy  itself that Mr V could afford to sustainably  make each loan 
repayment when it fell due.
QuickQuid in its response to our adjudication said that this service  was imposing a
mandatory obligation on it to consider  disposable  income and this was contrary to what  CONC  5 
provided for. It included a link to the FCAs common misunderstanding questions and answers 
document. Ive considered this carefully and as stated above, CONC 5 refers to the consumer  being 
able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments;  and without having  to 
borrow to meet the repayments. The FCA document QuickQuid referred this service to states that It is 
open to a lender to assess creditworthiness  by other means, provided that they can demonstrate if 
asked that their policies and procedures  are effective  in mitigating  the risks of unaffordable  borrowing  
and treating customers fairly.
Where a firm lends to the consumer  and repaying the loan would  leave the consumer with such  a little 
amount that makes it likely the consumer  will experience  significant adverse circumstances or undue 
difficulty for example being  unable to meet personal  or home emergencies as a result. The fact the Mr 
V had income left over in pounds and pence  calculation  doesnt on its own, effectively  mitigate the risk 
of the loan being unaffordable. So while I agree  that CONC isnt prescriptive, QuickQuids checks 
needed to focus on Mr Vs ability  to repay the loan sustainably.
QuickQuid also sent this service a 13 page documents predominantly detailing its general approach 
to lending  after March 2015. The document isnt specific to Mr Vs complaint and doesnt show me its 
specific assessment  for Mr Vs loan application
With this document, QuickQuid seems to be saying  that because it reviewed its processes  and 
incorporated regulatory changes as it was required to, all loans for all customers  granted from 1 March  
2015 onwards were  granted responsibly.
I dont agree with this argument. It doesnt follow that a firm cant  have treated any consumer unfairly 
simply because it has been authorised and is regulated by the FCA.  This assumes  that an authorised 
firms regulated activities are always  implemented in a way that results  in fair outcomes for all 
consumers. This isnt always the case and my statutory role requires me to look what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Mr Vs complaint.
Turning to the loans  QuickQuid lent to Mr V after March 2015, QuickQuid recorded
Mr Vs monthly outgoings  at the time of loan 3 as £850 and his income was £1,440. Given the length of 
time that has passed between when Mr V repaid loan 2 and when he borrowed loan 3, I think the 
checks QuickQuid carried out went far enough. The loan repayment  was around £187,  which I think  
was a small amount compared to his declared  income. Mr Vs declared monthly expenses and income 
suggest he was in a position  to sustainably  afford  the loan repayment.
Ref: DRN3885387From loan 4a onwards, Mr Vs recorded income had increased to £1,700 and his expenses were  now 
£1,500 per month. When he took out loan 4a, he was due to repay a maximum of around £62. Again I 
think the checks QuickQuid carried out before agreeing to lend was 4a. This is because  the loan 
amount was relatively low compared to his income  and his previous  lending history hadnt raised any 
concerns  this was his second loan since the break in lending. From  the information QuickQuid  
gathered from Mr V, it couldve reasonably believed that Mr V was able to sustainably afford  this loans 
maximum repayment.
Mr V requested loan 4b just three days after borrowing  loan 4a and he hadnt repaid  any of the capital 
on the previous loan.  This meant that he was due to repay around £124 for this loan. Although 
QuickQuid checked Mr Vs income and monthly expenses before lending, these  checks showed that he 
would have been left with around £76 after repaying  the loan. QuickQuid should have taken steps to 
react to what its checks showed. I dont  think this was a sufficient  amount to satisfy QuickQuid that Mr V 
could sustainably afford to make this loan repayment.  This is because the amount Mr V would  have 
been left with after repaying the loan was quite low, its likely he would  have had to borrow or gone 
through some other form of undue hardship to repay it.
Mr V was in a similar position when he took out loans 5, 6a and 6b as QuickQuids  own checks  
suggested that Mr V wasnt in a position to sustainably repay the loans he was given. And I think this 
should have prompted QuickQuid to do more  before lending to Mr V. QuickQuids  checks show that Mr 
V had £200  left after his outgoings had been paid. The maximum repayments due for loans  5, 6a and 
6b were around  £186, £124 and £184  respectively. After making these repayments, Mr V would have 
been left with low sums of disposable income  after repaying these  loans in some cases with less than 
£20. Here there was a high risk that Mr V wouldve been unable to sustainably repay  these loans.
By loan 7, QuickQuids checks  didnt  go far enough and the checks  it did carry out showed that Mr V 
couldnt afford  the loans. And had QuickQuid been concerned about  his ability to repay and taken  
steps to get a clearer picture of his circumstances  and independently verified  some of the information 
before lending loans 7 and 8, its likely to have found that Mr V was in fact unable to sustainably  
repay these  loans.
To reconstruct his circumstances at the time Ive used Mr Vs bank statements and credit report  but Im 
not saying QuickQuid  had to request  Mr Vs bank statements, it couldve  requested other documents  
like payslips. At the time of these loans, Mr V was in at least two repayment plans, he was borrowing 
from other short term lenders and he was gambling. For loan 7, Mr Vs loan repayment was almost 
£290. His living costs and regular credit commitments  were  over £1,250  and at the same time he had 
borrowed around  £350  from other short term lenders that remained outstanding. Taking  into account 
his income of
around £1,796, Mr Vs outgoings exceeded his income. This position wasnt sustainable and from what 
Ive seen Mr V was using  short term loans  to substitute his income.
Mr V was in a similar position when he took out loan 8  his income was similar and his living costs and 
credit commitments were  more than £1,000. I can see that Mr V was borrowing from at least three other 
short term lenders had more  than £1,850 outstanding. Mr V continued to spend  significant amounts on 
gambling. I can see that around this time he spent more than £1,000 on gambling.
Ref: DRN3885387Id have expected QuickQuid  to follow  its own internal  process; it has said the loan repayments wouldnt 
exceed 80% of the estimated disposable income.  Although  QuickQuid hasnt  told this service  what  the 
estimated disposable income  it found  for each of these loans or how it in fact worked  out this estimate,  
on the surface Mr V was unable to afford these loans. And apart from loans 4b and 6a, the maximum 
repayment of the loans exceeded 80% of Mr Vs known disposable income. And whether or not 
QuickQuid followed its internal process, these loans were still unaffordable  for Mr V.
Loan 7 exceeded Mr Vs disposable income of £200 as the maximum repayment was £290.  In 
QuickQuids 13 page document,  it says that where the final balloon payment of the loan exceeds the 
validated estimated  disposable income  for that last month, the customer  must  read and check  a box 
that advises  them  of the fact that they may need to save income from the previous months in order to 
have sufficient  funds to pay the final payment.
The declaration states:
By checking this box you acknowledge  you can afford to make a repayment  of [£X] on [date]  and [£Y] 
on [date]. You acknowledge that you understand your final repayment is greater than you[r] normal 
disposable income  and you may need to save money over the life of the loan in order to make the final 
repayment out of disposable  income.
I dont know the context  within which this statement  appeared,  or how prominent it was. But 
irrespective of this, advising  Mr V that he may need to take some action in order to be able to make a 
repayment that is more than the money he would usually  have available to him does not take away 
QuickQuids own responsibility to assess whether  or not the loan was going  to be sustainably 
affordable for Mr V.
CONC 5.2.1(2)  (b) R stated  that a creditworthiness  assessment needed  to consider the ability of 
the customer  to make  repayments as they fall due over the life of the credit agreement
If QuickQuid felt Mr V needed to take some extra action to meet his loan repayments when they were  
due, this suggests  that it understood  that there was a risk that he wouldnt  be able repay  the loan the 
way it was structured  unless preventative action  was taken. It then left this to Mr V to address. It didnt, 
for example, offer to structure the loan repayments to reflect its expectations of Mr Vs money 
management.
QuickQuid seems to be suggesting that for the loans where the final balloon payment exceeded or 
took up most of the disposable income, Mr V would have saved  over the previous months before he 
needed to make the balloon repayment.  But it hasnt specifically said why it thought this would be 
reasonable in Mr Vs specific circumstances.
Given what QuickQuid knew about Mr V and what it ought to have known, as a responsible lender, it 
shouldnt have lent him loans 2 and loans 4b to 8.
Ref: DRN3885387K821x#15proposed way of putting things right
As I dont think QuickQuid should have given Mr V loans 2, 4b to 8. So for each of those loans, 
QuickQuid should;
refund any interest and charges Mr V paid towards these loans.
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*
remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Vs credit file in relation to these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest.  QuickQuid must 
give Mr V a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN3885387