K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1997 alongside  a mortgage. Mr P says Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax at the time) 
mis-sold him the policy. 
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer to Bank of Scotland (BoS) throughout this decision rather 
than Halifax.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   including all of the complaint points 
made by Mr P.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ps case.
And having done that, Ive decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold.
Mr P says he wasnt told the policy was optional. BoS says it was made clear to him that he 
didnt have to take PPI if he didnt want to. And I think thats  probably  what happened.  
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Ps mortgage application.  In that document,  at the 
bottom of page 2, there is a section called Accident, sickness and unemployment 
insurance. And in that section theres  the statement: Yes, I would like to take advantage of 
Mortgage Repayments Insurance. As Mr P signed just below  this statement, and signed a 
separate Mortgage Repayments Insurance Application, Im satisfied that he agreed to take 
the policy knowing that he had a choice  when doing so  especially as there isnt any other  
persuasive evidence  to suggest  otherwise.
Mr P also says that he was pressured  into taking the policy. Pressure  is a subjective area. 
So, while I accept its possible that BoS made him feel as if he had to take the policy 
notwithstanding the choice before him, its also possible  that he was simply encouraged to 
reflect on whether he was able to maintain his mortgage repayments if something  went 
wrong  and, in turn, protect  his home.
It isnt possible to know what actually  happened. But it is possible to weigh up whats  likely to 
have happened  given the information available. And while I dont doubt the honesty of Mr Ps 
recollection, he hasnt  told us in any detail about  what was said and/or done to make him 
feel pressured  which, while  not surprising or unreasonable given  how long ago the event in 
question took place, does play its part when weighing things up. As a result, Im not 
persuaded I can reasonably conclude he was pressured all that time ago on recollection 
alone when there isnt any persuasive evidence to suggest thats what happened.  
BoS says that it recommended  the PPI to Mr P  which means  it had to make sure that the 
policy was right for him. And based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time, 
I think that it was. I say this because  he wasnt  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  
on the cover  and it looks like he had a need for the policy. 
I know Mr P says that he had some  savings he could have used to keep  up with his 
repayments. But he was taking on a significant  and long-term financial commitment  secured 
against his home. The mortgage repayments  would have been important repayments  to 
Ref: DRN37797552maintain in the event he found himself  out of or unable to work. And as the policy would 
have helped him to keep  up with the repayments  in that situation over a reasonable period of 
time instead of having to rely on the savings, which he could have used  elsewhere,  Im not 
persuaded the savings rendered the recommendation unsuitable.
As well as making sure the policy was right for Mr P, BoS also had to give him clear 
information. So thats what Ive looked  at next.
Its possible the information given to Mr P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it should have 
been. But, for the same reasons I think the policy was suitable  overall,  Im not persuaded 
better information about the policy would have led him to make  a different decision and not 
take the cover as it looks like it would  have been useful.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Morgan Rees
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3779755