K820x#14complaint
Miss G, who is represented by her father,  Mr G, complains that Volkswagen Financial  
Services (UK) Limited (VFS) terminated her agreement unfairly.
background
In September  2017 Miss G bought a second hand  car with hire purchase  funding provided 
by VFS. Miss G also paid a deposit.  It was three  years old and had done some  51,570  miles. 
In March 2018 the car broke down and was towed  to an Audi dealer. Miss G says that it sat 
there for five weeks and was then taken to the dealer which had sold her the car. She says it 
took some  three months to repair the fault.
She says that she was told that VFS would cover her monthly  payments while she was 
without her car. She also says that she called VFS on 1 May and informed it that her car was 
in the garage  and that the dealer  had told her the April and May payments  would  be 
covered. She stopped her direct debit to VFS. 
VFS wrote to her to say that it hadnt received her monthly payments, but Miss G says she 
didnt get these letters. Mr G has explained that there have been  problems  with post not 
being delivered to their house. The address on the HP agreement is correct save  for the fact 
that it doesnt contain the house  name.  It does have  the correct  number and post code, but I 
gather another property was built next door with three flats which use the same number and 
this can cause confusion.
She says she was unaware that she had fallen  into arrears and was surprised to discover  
VFS had terminated the agreement. Mr G stepped in to pay the outstanding sum to prevent 
his daughter losing the car and her credit rating being affected.
VFS says Miss G contacted it in late October  2017 to change  the date of payment to 1st of 
the month and agreed to pay any arrears by 31 October. On 13 April she called regarding  
January arrears and explained she had changed  job and need to change  her payment date 
to 25th of the month. It then sent arrears letters on 22 March and 6 April.
It agreed to change the payment date.  On 1 May it spoke with Miss G and says it told her 
that it wouldnt waive the payments for the period the car was being  repaired and that she 
needed to pay the outstanding sum. On the same  day it received request from the dealer on 
behalf of Miss G seeking reimbursement. It wrote to her on 2 May to reject  her complaint and 
refer her to the dealer. 
It says that on 9 May Miss G asked for an indemnity via her bank for the May payment. VFS 
continued to send reminders and then it defaulted  the account. 
Miss G brought her complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted  some nine payments had been 
made leaving four unpaid  between 15 October  2017  and 6 December 2018. 
He thought letters and notifications sent to Miss G had been addressed correctly  and they 
should have made her fully aware  of the consequences of not paying off her arrears. He 
noted Mr G had said some post had been  delivered  to neighbours, but he didnt think VFS 
could be held responsible for the non-receipt of mail.  He added  that it wasnt  required to 
send email notifications.  
Ref: DRN31644332He couldnt say what Miss G may have been  told by the dealer, but he thought  it was 
unreasonable to cancel  the direct debit  in the circumstances. He said that he would expect a 
customer to honour the contractual  payments in accordance with the signed  agreement.  This 
agreement contained  the following: 
Missing payments could  have severe consequences and make obtaining credit  more 
difficult. It may lead to a serving a default notice on you, on the expiry  of which  we may 
terminate the agreement.
He concluded  VFS had acted fairly.  Mr G had suggested that VFS should  reinstate the loan,  
but the adjudicator said he couldnt  require a lender  to grant a loan. That was a commercial  
decision it would have  to make. He also identified that the outstanding balance being sought  
by VFS of £252  was for the collections agents fee and it was entitled to recover these costs.
Mr G didnt agree and said VFS should  have used  email  to make contact with his daughter.  
He explained  that his daughter hadnt appreciated that the dealer and VFS were not the 
same and had presumed  they would have been liaising with each other. He also pointed out 
the order form contained the full address and he could  see no reason for VFS not using the 
full address. He also suggested that as VFS were  owners of the car it should compensate 
her for the period  it was being repaired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should make it clear that the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  is to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  I do not perform the role of 
the industry regulator and I do not have  the power to make rules for financial businesses  or 
to punish them.
While I can see Miss G presumed that each party would liaise with the other and that VFS 
would be bound by what a member of staff in the dealer allegedly  told her that is not the 
case. The dealer and VFS are separate  entities. However, even if the dealer  had told her 
that she didnt  need to pay for the period  the car was being repaired I am satisfied that she 
was told this was wrong  when she spoke  to VFS on 1 May. 
Having been told that her monthly payments hadnt been waived I am surprised that she 
didnt reinstate her direct  debit or ensure  payments were resumed. The next VFS heard from 
her was via her bank  when it sought  an indemnity. It seems she was in arrears before she 
had problems with the car and these only built up after it was taken in for repair.
As for the issue of the address it is unfortunate  that the details given to VFS didnt  include 
the house name. As Mr G has said he has had problems with mail and I presume  his 
daughter was aware of that and I believe it is reasonable  to expect her to have  ensured  the 
correct address was used. I appreciate  she was relatively young when she took out the 
finance, but I cant hold VFS responsible for relying on information given to it. I also think it 
unfortunate that so many  letters from VFS went astray, even in the circumstances Mr G has 
outlined.
Ref: DRN31644333I dont believe the HP agreement  required  VFS to waive  payment while a car is being 
repaired. Miss G is responsible for the care of the car and only if it was deemed to have  
been faulty at the point sale can it be said that VFS has any responsibility for its repair. The 
car was still under warranty and as I understand it was repaired at no cost to Miss G. I also 
gather she was provided with another car for part of the time hers was unusable. 
I see her credit report shows the loan as being  settled which means that her credit rating 
should not have been damaged. I appreciate  this is because her father stepped in to pay her 
debt. He says she was naive and that may be true, but I cannot conclude  that VFS did 
anything wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept or reject my decision before 19 
July 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3164433