K820x#14complaint
Ms A is unhappy that Admiral Insurance Company Limited will not deal with a claim on her 
motor insurance policy.  
background
Ms A says she bought a car at between 9 and 10 am on 14 December 2017. And she took 
out motor insurance  with Admiral on that date at 10.42am. She says straight afterward when 
driving home  she was involved  in an accident.  Shes unhappy that Admiral repudiated the 
claim, withdrew indemnity and has sought  to recover its outlay  from her. She also says she 
is the victim of racism.
Admiral said in its final response that as the accident time was reported as being  only 18 
minutes after the policy inception it had investigated  it. It obtained  statements and evidence  
from other people and Ms A, and there are discrepancies over the time of the accident. Ms A 
had also said in her first call that the accident  occurred at 11am  on 14 December 2017 but 
her later statement confirmed it was at 12 noon. The other  people  involved had also said the 
damage was found before  11am and one said he found damage at 10.40am  and this was 
corroborated by the time of a phone call he made.  As there  are two independent witnesses 
who confirm the accident happened before  the policy was incepted, Admiral has repudiated 
the claim and withdrawn its indemnity. Its also entitled to recover  its outlay from Ms A.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  She said:
Ms A took out the policy  at 10.42am and in her first call to Admiral  she said the 
accident occurred  at 11am some 18 minutes later. She also said it happened at 12 
noon. A third party said damage was found  at 10.40am and another said prior to 
11am.
The policy terms say, amongst other things, that if a fraudulent claim is made  or false  
information is deliberately or recklessly provided  when  taking  out the policy, it may be 
voided or cancelled. And Admiral says it will in the circumstances seek  to recover  
any costs its incurred.
Overall she is satisfied Admiral didnt make an error when it repudiated Ms As claim 
and requested reimbursement from her for its costs.  She also hasnt  seen anything  to 
suggest it discriminated against  Ms A. 
Ms A remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Its not our role to decide when an accident  occurred or who was at fault. But we can look 
into whether Admiral conducted  a reasonable investigation into a claim and decision to 
repudiate the claim and seek  to recover its outlay from Ms A.
Ref: DRN32657422In this case given  the issues  about  the timing  of the accident so soon after the policy  was 
incepted I think Admiral  was entitled to carry  out further investigations and to take into 
account the evidence it obtained including from Ms A and independent third parties. 
Overall I think  Admiral  has investigated  matters reasonably  and given the discrepancies in 
the evidence,  and what Ms A said at various times,  I think  it acted reasonably  when deciding  
to repudiate the claim and withdraw  indemnity. Furthermore under the terms of the policy  
Admiral is also entitled  in the circumstances to seek to recover  its outlay from Ms A.
Ms A may disagree with Admirals interpretation of the evidence, decision to repudiate  her 
claim and seek recovery  from her but I dont think its failed to comply with the policy terms 
or exercised its discretion  unfairly or unreasonably.
Its also not for us to decide if Ms A has been discriminated against. Thats a matter  for a 
court.
I understand Ms As frustration. But taking everything into account I dont think Admiral has 
done anything  wrong. And I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require it to anything  more 
or differently. 
I dont see a compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3265742