K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  about  how Great Lakes Insurance SE (GLI) has handled  a claim 
under her mobile  phone  insurance.
background
Miss S took out a phone contract in January 2019.  Shortly after receiving the phone, Miss S 
found that it didnt work properly and returned it to the retailer for repair.  No fault was found 
and it was sent back to Miss S, but she says she didnt receive it.
Miss S made a claim on her insurance policy. This was rejected by GLI because the phone  
didnt have an active functioning SIM card. Miss S appealed against  this decision but GLI 
didnt change its position. So, Miss S brought a complaint to us.
Our investigator upheld  Miss Ss complaint as he wasnt  satisfied that GLI provided  enough  
evidence to justify  rejecting  the claim. He recommended that GLI should  put things right by 
reconsidering the claim. GLI wasnt happy with this pointing out several  inconsistencies in 
statements from Miss S. So, GLI asked for a decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the first instance,  Ive considered whether a theft has taken place. The policy sets out 
several conditions  that have  to be met. The first is for a police crime reference. Ive seen 
evidence that the theft was reported to the police  and that Miss S has provided  a police 
crime reference number.  The second is that the phone has to be fitted with an active 
functioning SIM. This is important as its the reason why GLI declined Miss Ss claim. So, 
Ive looked carefully  at this issue. 
GLI has not provided  any evidence  that the phone didnt  have  an active functioning SIM in 
the phone  when it was returned  for repair. Its possible  that Miss S took the SIM card out of 
the phone  before sending  it for repair. I think this would be reasonable in the circumstances 
as the SIM card may have contained  personal  information. The phone  wouldnt be in 
Miss Ss possession and she wouldnt have control  over who might  access  that information.
On the other hand, theres evidence  that the phone was used the day after Miss S says she 
sent it for repair. Its possible Miss S simply got the dates mixed up. Even if she did, I dont  
think it would  be fair and reasonable for GLI to insist  on there  being  a SIM card in the phone 
when sent for repair as the SIM card may have held personal information. And theres no 
evidence who used  the phone; its possible the repairer could have  used the phone  to test it. 
As the phone cant be used without a SIM card, I think  its most likely that there  was one in 
the phone  when Miss S sent it for repair.
Its possible that the SIM card was removed by the repairer before being returned  to Miss S. 
But this would be outside Miss Ss control  and I dont think  it would  be fair for GLI to decline 
the claim in these circumstances.
In terms of the policy I think Miss S has proved her loss. Shes  provided  a police crime 
reference and on the balance of probabilities,  I think there was a SIM card in the phone  
Ref: DRN39044802when it was sent for repair.  Even  if Miss S did remove  it before sending  the phone for repair, 
I think this would be a reasonable  thing to do in the circumstances.
In replying to Miss Ss claim,  GLI mentioned several  inconsistencies in her statements.
The first discrepancy mentioned by GLI concerns return of the phone to Miss S. Miss S says 
that she didnt  receive  it. GLI says that it was delivered and signed for. GLI also say there is 
GPS tracking information showing  that the courier was at Miss Ss address on the day 
scheduled for delivery. On this basis, it is reasonable to assume that the phone  was at Miss 
Ss property.  The phone was signed  for by someone  using the name SIGN, which  is not 
Miss Ss surname. Its possible that the phone was signed for and then stolen by someone at 
Miss Ss property or the delivery driver. Either way, theres  no evidence that Miss S signed 
for the phone.
GLI also noted  that Miss S gave  contradictory answers in different conversations when 
asked about who lived at her property. GLI says that Miss S told them  that property is shared 
with family  members, then a multiple occupancy residence, and finally that there  is a tenant 
renting a room  in the property. I think its likely that Miss S became confused when 
answering these  questions.  Having  more than one person living  in the house makes it 
multiple occupancy,  so I dont see any contradiction here. And whether there  is a tenant at 
the property isnt relevant to Miss Ss claim.
Miss S told GLI that the device was blacklisted in February 2019. GLI says that when it 
checked in March 2019, the phone wasnt blacklisted. But Ive seen evidence that this was 
due to an error by the network provider  and the phone had been blacklisted in February 
2019. Once again, this is outside Miss Ss control  and she shouldnt be disadvantaged 
because of this.
Im not persuaded that, taken as a whole, the inconsistencies provide enough reason to 
decline Miss Ss claim on the basis that there wasnt an active functioning SIM in the phone.
Taking everything into account,  I conclude that GLI acted unfairly in declining  Miss Ss claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I uphold  this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE is to 
settle Miss Ss claim subject to the remaining  terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 December 2019
Geoff Pearson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3904480