K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about a data breach by National Westminster Bank Plc.
background
Mr H applied to NatWest  for a mortgage.  Hed separated from his wife (who  Ill refer to as 
Mrs H) and was in the process of agreeing a divorce settlement. NatWest  gave the 
surveyor the wrong address. As a result it sent a letter to the wrong  address and it was 
opened by a member  of Mrs Hs family. Mr H says due to the information in the report  Mrs H 
changed her mind about paying him a £20,000  lump  sum as part of the divorce settlement.  
NatWest accepts it made an error and paid compensation  of £500. Mr H says this isnt 
sufficient.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said there 
wasnt enough evidence  that it was NatWests  error  that was the reason Mrs H decided not 
to pay the £20,000. Our investigator said the error would have caused Mr H upset and 
trouble, but NatWest  had offered fair compensation for this.
Mr H didnt agree, so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Theres no dispute here that NatWest made  an error.  It gave the wrong address to the 
surveyor. The surveyor sent its terms and conditions for the valuation report  to this address 
on 25 March 2019. The letter was addressed to Mr H and gave the address and agreed 
purchase price of the property Mr H intended to buy. A member  of Mrs Hs family lived at this 
address. NatWest says no other correspondence  was sent to this address.
Mr H and Mrs H were in the process  of agreeing  a divorce settlement. I can appreciate  that 
Mr H was upset that a letter  with information  about the property  he planned to buy  was 
sent to Mrs Hs family. I think its right that NatWest paid compensation for the trouble and 
upset this caused to Mr H. I think £500  is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
Mr H says the surveyors letter was opened by a member of Mrs H family. Mr H says the 
information in the letter led to Mrs H changing the terms of the divorce settlement and he lost 
£20,000. 
Ive considered the evidence Mr H provided to support  this. Mr H provided  copies of letters  
and emails between  his solicitor and Mrs Hs solicitor. Mr H made a settlement proposal in 
February 2019 which included a payment of £20,000  from Mrs H to him. However,  its clear  
from the later letters that, despite a number of reminders, Mrs H didnt  confirm  she accepted 
this proposal.
Ref: DRN33483842On 26 March 2019 Mr Hs solicitor wrote to Mrs Hs solicitor with an alternative proposal. 
This didnt  include  a £20,000  lump  sum payment. Mrs H accepted the proposal.
I havent seen  evidence that Mrs H ever agreed  to pay £20,000 to Mr H. Nor have I seen 
evidence that she changed her mind  about  this due to the information in the letter from the 
surveyors. I dont think theres  sufficient evidence that NatWests error caused Mr H any 
financial loss. In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require NatWest 
to pay further compensation to Mr H.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I find the compensation paid by National 
Westminster Bank Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3348384