K820x#14complaint
Mr Rs complaint is that Santander UK Plc used some of the compensation it offered him for 
a mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) to clear the outstanding balance on his loan. 
Mr R wants Santander to pay the full amount of the compensation directly to him.
background
Mr R took out a personal loan with Santander in 2002. At the same  time he was sold a PPI 
policy.
Around 2009 Mr R began  experiencing financial difficulties  and got behind  with the loan 
repayments. In 2011  Santander  wrote off the balance which stood at £16,078.19. Although  
Santander wrote off the balance it still remained a debt which  Mr R owed to Santander.
In 2018 Mr R complained  to Santander about  the sale of the PPI. 
Santander agreed the PPI had been mis-sold  and made Mr R an offer of compensation.
Santander offered  a refund of PPI premiums totalling £6,669.32. It also offered to refund 
interest charged as a result of those  premiums, this totalled £8,848.51. 
Santander also added compensatory interest calculated at 8% simple for the time Mr R had 
been out of pocket. After tax of £1,688.00 had been  deducted the net amount of 
compensatory interest  was £7,312.34.
So, the total Santander offered Mr R was £22,830.17.  But Santander used £16,078.19  to 
offset against the outstanding balance on Mr Rs loan account.  It paid the remaining 
£6,751.98 directly to Mr R.
Mr R asked Santander to pay the full amount to him. He did not dispute the outstanding debt 
but said he was experiencing severe financial difficulties, had health issues  and was in 
danger of being  made homeless.
Santander replied  to Mr R to say it would not pay the remainder of the compensation directly  
to him, so Mr R asked this service  to step in.
An adjudicator from this service thought it was fair for Santander to use part of Mr Rs 
compensation to clear  the outstanding debt. Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators  findings  
and has asked for an ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Santander has agreed to uphold  the complaint about the mis-sale of the policy. So I wont  
look into how the PPI policy  came to be sold to Mr R. In this decision I am deciding if it is fair 
for Santander to use some of Mr Rs compensation to offset against the outstanding balance  
of his loan.
Ref: DRN31292132Ive first looked at the way Santander  calculated the compensation it offered Mr R.
When a PPI is found to have been mis-sold Id expect the business to put the consumer in 
the position they would be in if the PPI had not been  sold.  This usually means the business 
must refund all the premiums paid plus any interest and charges associated with the PPI. Id 
also expect the business to pay compensatory  interest calculated  at 8% simple  for the time 
the consumer  has been out of pocket.
In this case Santander has been generous in the way it has calculated  the offer.  For 
example, it has refunded  PPI premiums of £6,669.32. It did this as its calculation assumed 
Mr R continued to be charged for PPI until 2011. In fact, from the transaction history of the 
loan account,  I can see Mr R stopped paying  premiums in 2009  when he had only ever been 
charged premiums totalling around £4,500.
In addition, Santander has assumed that Mr R would have been  charged £8,848.51 in 
interest on those premiums. But as he stopped repaying the loan in 2009 he never actually 
paid that interest.
In its calculation Santander has assumed Mr R repaid the loan in full in 2011 but in reality, 
Santander wrote off the outstanding balance. As Mr R didnt  repay the full amount he was 
not out of pocket for the premiums or the interest  charged on them. It follows  that Santander 
did not have to pay £7,312.34 compensatory interest to Mr R for the time he was out of 
pocket.  
So having  looked at the way Santander  calculated the offer it is my view that the overall offer 
of £22,830.17 is substantially higher than the offer Id expect it to have made.
Mr R has said that the PPI premiums themselves were the cause of him falling behind  with 
the loan and if the PPI had not been  charged  then he would have been able to manage  his 
finances. Ive thought  about this but from what Ive seen of the transaction history of the 
account I dont  think the PPI premiums were the major factor which  led to Mr Rs financial 
difficulties. Even if the loan had been  sold without PPI, I still think  it is likely Mr R would have 
fallen behind  with the repayments.
Mr R has told us in some detail of the financial  situation he now faces as well as his medical 
condition. He says that if Santander paid him the remainder of the compensation it would 
enable him to re-build his life. I do sympathise with the situation  Mr R faces, however in 
deciding what is fair I must  take into account that Santanders offer was calculated  in a way 
that was generous towards Mr R bearing  in mind the actual figure  the PPI cost him.                
If Santander paid the full amount to Mr R it would  in effect be refunding PPI premiums  and 
interest on those premiums which Mr R had never paid, and that would not be fair.
It follows that I do not think it would be fair to direct Santander to pay the remaining 
compensation to Mr R. 
Santander has already made payment of £6,751.98 directly to Mr Rs bank account. And I 
note that as a non-taxpayer Mr R may be able to claim back a further  £1,688.00 tax which  
Santander deducted from the compensatory  interest. If he hasnt already done so Mr R 
should contact  HMRC to reclaim the tax.
Ref: DRN31292133my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
I find Santander UK Plc acted fairly when it used part of Mr Rs compensation to offset 
against the outstanding  loan balance. I make no further award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3129213