K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains about the way esure Insurance Limited (esure) handled her claim under 
her car insurance policy. She is represented by her personal representative.
background
In January 2019, Miss M was involved  in a car accident. She contacted  esure to make  a 
claim and esure told her to drive  her car to their approved repairer, K. Three  days after the 
accident, esure and K told Miss M that her car was a write off, partly  in view of pre-existing 
damage. She was sent a cheque in "full settlement of claim".
In late January, Miss M complained, disputing the settlement  figure. She asked for details of 
how the figure had been arrived at. esure explained  how her car was uneconomical to repair.  
So, theyd pay her the market value as outlined in her policy  terms.
Miss M disputed the valuation of her car and esure paid out a further  sum.  She then spoke to 
the engineer and asked  for details  of the pre-existing  damage . Miss M said her own research  
indicated that the correct  valuation figure  for her car was at least  £1,000 higher.
Miss Ms personal  representative then contacted esure, disputed the valuation and 
complained about esures complaints process . In January, esure replied  with their final 
response letter. They provided further  details  in response to the questions raised and 
explained the approach  they take to ascertain current market value. And after a deduction 
had been made for pre-existing damage, they reached  a final valuation  of £2,373. They  also 
offered £50 Miss M compensation for not following their complaints process properly.
On 31 January, Miss Ms representative  said that esure had only provided a global figure 
rather than a breakdown.  She also raised  further ancillary issues  including why esure had 
initially said their cheque  was in full settlement when  it was only an interim payment, and 
why hadnt a claim form been sent to Miss M at the outset. Miss Ms representative  said the 
£50 esure  had offered by way of an apology was inadequate.  
In February, esure responded  by providing  further detailed  explanations  to Miss Ms 
representative. But they wouldnt raise their compensation. Then  in March, esure sent 
another final response letter.  But, in the absence of an agreed valuation, Miss Ms 
representative and esure were  unable to reach a settlement.
In May, Miss M complained to us through her personal representative  She has asked  that 
her car is valued correctly at £3,735.  And she would like £400 in compensation for distress 
and inconvenience.
In November, our investigator sent his view. He explained that rather  than there  being  an 
'independent valuation' as such,  valuations are done  online. And that when Miss Ms car was 
written off, her policy said the settlement of her claim  would  be based on the market  value. 
He said this was based on research from motor  trade guides  and explained  how the process  
worked. And because  esures liability was limited to the market value prior to the accident  
they could deduct the cost of any pre-existing damage from the notional value to reach  the 
market value. He said esure had done more than expected and could have made  further 
deductions if theyd  wanted to. And, he said, the terms of the policy  allowed esure to settle 
the claim as they saw fit. So, it was a fair outcome under the circumstances.
Ref: DRN33100752He also told Miss M that complaint handling  isn't something our service is able to consider. 
And because esure had effectively finished dealing with her complaint by the end of January, 
we couldn't consider what happened after that point.
Miss Ms representative responded. She didnt agree and asked for the case  to be 
considered by an ombudsman. Although she noted  that complaint handling was not within 
our remit.  So, now the case has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A great many points have been raised by Miss M and her representative. Ive focused  on 
those things Miss M complained about  in her complaint form because theyre the main things 
she asked us to consider.  But Ive also considered  everything else thats happened because 
thats all part and parcel of the main complaints. And, Id like to reassure Miss M that Ive 
considered all of the submissions made  before arriving at my decision.
Valuation and removal of the car
Ive listened to Miss Ms first notification of loss call and two subsequent calls.  esure  were  
entitled to write off Miss Ms car and Miss M has never disputed this decision . She was 
informed it was being moved, and this was referenced in one of the calls, and she didnt 
object. So, I think its clear  that Miss M simply wanted to ensure she was not being 
disadvantaged financially. And at no point  did Miss M herself ask to retain  the car. esure has 
told us that if shed wanted to obtain  her own estimate or independent inspection, they would 
have allowed this. But the question wasnt raised. And by the time it was first raised, by 
Miss Ms personal  representative on 28 January,  the car had already been removed 
elsewhere.
That said,  esure could  still have offered Miss M the option of having her car inspected  at 
their own salvage  dealers. Because though  it was fine for them to have moved the car, they 
should have made it accessible if Miss M wanted to arrange an inspection because  she 
disputed the value. While I dont think this warrants compensation  for distress and 
inconvenience, I do think esure could have offered Miss M this option.
So, whats  in question  here is whether esure  used  the right market  value for the car under 
the terms of Miss Ms policy. esures policy definition of market  value is what  Miss M would 
have got if shed sold the car herself.  Although Id expect them to pay what she would have 
had to pay to replace  it, as this is what Id consider to be good industry practice  and so fair 
and reasonable.
Ive seen esure and Ks explanation of their valuation of Miss Ms car. Ive seen their 
reference to several  motor trade  guides  and their methodology as to how they arrived at a 
market value of £3,350 . And Im satisfied  this would be the price  Miss M would have had to 
pay for a comparable vehicle, without damage,  immediately  before her own car was 
damaged.
Miss M complains that esures figure is lower than some of the prices  she was able to find 
online. But these figures are often inflated as the seller may have built in a margin  for 
Ref: DRN33100753negotiation. Ive checked the guides to see esures  valuation was based on the correct 
make, model and mileage,  and Im satisfied it was.
Ive also considered the amount esure deducted for pre-existing damage. Ive looked at their 
breakdown and costs  of repair of £1,953.02, provided to Miss M in February. This was set 
out in detail and supported by a report and photos. And, I note that esure, only deducted 
£977 providing Miss M with a final settlement figure of £2,373.
I think this figure is fair because Im satisfied there was pre-existing damage and that this 
deduction was reasonable. Thats because I can see the evidence of it and of the detailed 
repair estimates in terms of parts and labour, which I think are reasonable. And our normal  
approach is that its fair for an insurer to make an appropriate deduction for pre-existing 
damage. This is because while in reality it would  be very difficult to buy a replacement with 
the same  sort of damage, if it were possible it would clearly cost less to do so.
I do think esure could have provided  the valuation and damage breakdown figures  to Miss M 
more promptly. And when she asked for a full breakdown  she should have been given this, 
not just the overall figure. And I cant see she was ever provided with one, which  is why 
esures case handler had to ask for one when Miss M came to us. This would have given her 
the option of getting her own estimate. But an insurer isn't required to go into that level of 
detail. And I think its unlikely that another estimate would have shown significantly lower 
repair costs. I also note from the file that Miss M had been provided with a hire vehicle for 
the duration of her claim  and I also think her case was handled in an efficient and timely  
way.
So, overall, Im satisfied that esures  figures and approach are sound, and their final 
valuation was reasonable. And I think the amount  it has paid in settlement of Miss Ms claim 
is fair and reasonable.
I can also see how when esure provided a figure  which  stated it was full and final, Miss M 
was confused, but they have since explained  this process is an industry-wide standard.  So I 
am satisfied  they have  adequately addressed this issue too. 
Complaint handling
Miss M and her representative also complained  specifically about the handling  of her 
complaint. But this isnt something Im able to consider.
my final decision
So, for the above reasons, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 August 2020 .
Simon Stanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3310075