K822xcomplaint
H, a limited liability partnership, complains that National Westminster  Bank  Plc made  errors 
with its bank account resulting in financial loss and inconvenience.
background 
H wanted to make a payment by CHAPS  for a property  purchase on 9 July 2018. It was told 
that it did not have  sufficient  funds to make this as a cheque it had paid in on 5 July 2018  for 
£40,000 had been returned. The impact of that cheque  being returned had been counted 
twice by branch  staff and the CHAPS  payment could have been made on time.  H said the 
paying bank for the cheque told it NatWest had said that the cheque  would be credited by 11 
July 2018 but this did not happen. So H also had to arrange for an additional £40,000 to be 
paid into the account to make payments relating  to the property purchase.  The original 
cheque was credited  on 17 July 2018  and the funds then withdrawn. H said that the delay in 
the property purchase  had resulted  in late completion costs of £420. NatWest agreed  to pay 
this and also £200 for the inconvenience  caused.  H did not accept this as sufficient to reflect  
the time and impact  of what happened.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said that he had not 
seen sufficient evidence  to demonstrate the H made any additional financial loss. And he 
thought that the compensation was reasonable.
H did not agree. It said it had three  other projects and the partner involved in dealing with 
this complaint was diverted from other important work. H estimates  he spent nine hours  in a 
branch trying  to resolve this and then followed this up with calls over the period until the 
cheque was found. H estimates  that based  on his time at £50 an hour it has lost 40 hours  of 
contribution and so wants  compensation  of £2,000.  It adds that he suffered  an enormous 
amount of stress.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 11 February  2020  and I set out below 
what I said.
As I understood it there were two errors here.  First NatWest told H that it did not have the 
funds in its account to make an important payment. And second  a cheque that H had paid in 
was somehow lost between the branch and the voucher processing team. The only 
explanation for that from NatWest was human error. These are interconnected but in my 
view had an ongoing effect for H.
I was struggling to see how branch staff could have  made a mistake  and deduct  this cheque  
twice from the available balance. It seems it was returned on the day that H wanted  to make 
the CHAPS payment. And H was wrongly prevented from having access  to all the money  in 
the account. I accepted what H says and that it took some time in branch to resolve. And my 
understanding is that the payment was not sent until 4:30 pm which was after the cut off time 
and so was received the following day.
H seemed to think the funds from the cheque  would be available  by 11 July 2018. It says 
that was third hand information through the paying  bank for the cheque. In any event it 
should have been available in line with the normal clearing cycle  and it wasnt.  I didnt see 
that NatWest says otherwise than that this was its error and it seems that the cheque was 
Ref: DRN34599412eventually found  and paid. H did take mitigating  steps to arrange for another payment into 
the account to cover  costs which I understood to be stamp duty on the purchase and legal 
and other  costs. Those payments  were made  before  the cheque was credited on 17 July 
2018. I was not clear  from the evidence Ive seen whether H received value for that cheque 
on that day. But I can see that it arranged to pay back the other  £40,000 it had credited in 
two parts  with £20,000 on 20 July 2018  and £20,000  on 23 July 2018.
H says it had to pay late completion fees which have been accepted as a direct loss. While  it 
has said that a partner had to deal with this for some time and this affected other projects  I 
was not satisfied it has shown evidence of that. Its not enough  to say that this must have 
been the result as one partner was doing something  else.  I needed to be satisfied of a 
tangible and unavoidable  impact. I appreciated thats hard to evidence but in order  to require 
NatWest to make any such compensation I would have needed to have seen that direct  link.
I also couldnt take account of the stress of the partner in a complaint by H which is a 
separate legal  entity. And we dont tend to make  awards for time spent and if we were to that 
would only be at a modest  rate. What I needed to think about is a reasonable amount of 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  to H by these errors. I didnt think that the 
current award has recognised the two errors caused here. I took the view that had this been 
the CHAPS error only the compensation might have  been sufficient. But there was also the 
error with losing the cheque and the need  for H to take mitigating actions. So I considered in 
my provisional view that a reasonable total payment for inconvenience  here is £400  and so 
that means an additional £200 for H. I said I saw no basis for the higher payment requested 
by H for the reasons  Ive given. I was not clear if anything has yet been  paid to H so I 
included in my award the refund of the late completion fee of £420. I said NatWest can 
clarify whether thats been paid in its response. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
NatWest asked for some additional time to consider its response and then said it agreed with 
my findings.  It did not clarify what had been paid to date to H.
H did not agree. It said that my award does not compensate it for the reduction in cleared 
funds. It is not looking  for financial gain but to be reimbursed for the partners time spent in 
resolving the errors as he had to constantly chase this up. H wanted to make clear that there 
were sufficient cleared  funds to complete the purchase on time and NatWests  errors caused 
the delay. The partner also said he was embarrassed in front of the sellers  and the solicitors  
involved.
I understand Hs strength of feeling  about what happened. I think  that I dealt with the points 
now raised in my provisional  decision. I am looking at what happened to H the complainant 
here so I cant take into account the effect  on the partner through  stress and 
embarrassment. And I explained why Im not looking at units  of time spent but at the overall 
position and I looked at the earlier request for compensation  of this nature.
I have reconsidered  my assessment and Im afraid  that I remain  of the view that the 
compensation I set out in my provisional  decision remains appropriate based on the reasons 
Ive given. And so I wont be increasing  it now.
Ref: DRN34599413my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require National Westminster  Bank  Plc 
to pay H total compensation of £820 as explained  above and which  should be adjusted to 
take account of anything  that has already been  paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020. 
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3459941