K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that he was mis-sold a used car via a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No.1 Limited. He says the amount of the monthly payments werent what had 
been agreed and the car wasnt fit for purpose. Mr M wants  to reject the car and end the 
agreement. 
Ref: DRN30098672background
In August  2018  Mr M entered into a 42 month conditional sale agreement for a used car. The 
car was eight years and had a mileage of around  80,000.
Mr M says that as the car had an issue with the clutch, and the dealership were aware of 
this, it was agreed the price would be reduced  and Mr M would arrange himself  to get that 
part fixed. He says it was agreed  that the repayments would be £250 per month.
However, when the financial  documents were  received in the post by Mr M they showed the 
repayments had been set at £349  per month.  Mr M says he also discovered that all four of 
the tyres  were illegal due to their tread and that the DVLA advised him not to drive it. He 
says he stored the car at a compound  at his work.
Mr M says he raised the issues  with the agreement and with car with the dealership and it 
was agreed he could return the car. He also contacted Moneybarn and said he wanted  to 
reject the car. Moneybarn  said it was happy for Mr M to unwind the agreement if the 
dealership had agreed with this course of action.
Mr M returned the car to the dealership  at the start of October 2018. Moneybarn didnt 
receive any confirmation that the dealership had agreed to unwind the contract and so 
requested that Mr M make the monthly  payments as set by the agreement. Mr M complained 
as he said it had been agreed he could  return the car.
Moneybarn didnt uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  It said that Mr M had signed the conditional sale 
agreement in August  2018, together with the direct debit mandate, and this had clearly  set 
out the amount of credit, interest rate and the monthly payments of £349.  Moneybarn also 
said a Welcome Pack had been  sent out to him in September which set out the monthly  
payments so it thought Mr M was aware  of the amount of the monthly instalments. 
Moneybarn said that it had asked Mr M to supply information about  the condition  of the car 
but he hadnt done so. It said that the dealership had taken  the car to an independent 
garage when Mr M had dropped it off in October  2018. This garage had confirmed there 
were no issues with the car and it was of satisfactory quality. Moneybarn noted  that the tyres 
had been changed even  though they had been  legal at the point of sale It said there  wasnt  
enough evidence  to say the car wasnt roadworthy  or fit for purpose.  Mr M was advised  to 
collect the car back from the dealership.
Mr M says that he tried to collect  the car but it wasnt  at the dealership  as it was being stored 
somewhere else. He says that when he got the car back it was dirty, had rubbish inside and 
a large number of miles had been  added. He complained again to Moneybarn.  
Moneybarn said it had fully investigated his complaint  as to whether he was entitled to reject 
the car and there was no evidence to support a rejection. It said the dealership had stored 
the car in a more secure location and hadnt been  expecting Mr M when hed gone to collect  
it. The car had since  been returned  to him. It didnt uphold his second complaint.
Mr M complained to this service. He also said that the agreement set out that hed paid £400 
as a deposit but he hadnt and he thought this indicated a fraud  had taken place.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She said shed seen 
the signed agreement and this set out both the deposit and the amount of the monthly 
instalments. Our adjudicator said this showed Mr M had agreed  to the terms.
Ref: DRN30098673Our adjudicator said there was no evidence that the dealership  had agreed  that the car could 
be rejected by Mr M so she didnt  think she could fairly find that the dealership had said this.
Our adjudicator said that the car had been inspected by another garage  in October 2018 and 
it hadnt found that the clutch was faulty.  What the engineer had noted was that there  was a 
slight noise from the dual mass (flywheel).  The garage had said the car was fit for purpose.  
An invoice had also been  provided by Moneybarn stating that the tyres  had been changed at 
Mr Ms request in mid-September 2018.  
Our adjudicator said she didnt think Moneybarn had acted  unfairly in not allowing Mr M to 
reject the car.
Mr M disagreed with our adjudicators view.  He said he could supply proof that the 
dealership had agreed the car could be rejected. Mr M has supplied  a number of text 
messages between himself, the dealership and finance broker.
As the parties werent able to agree the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen a copy  of the conditional sale agreement together  with the direct debit mandate. 
Both of these documents were  signed on the same day in August  2018. I think the 
agreement sets out clearly the price of the car, the credit amount and the interest rate. It 
says that the monthly repayments would  be £349.
Ive seen a text that Mr M sent to the dealership in mid September  querying the monthly  
repayment figure. Mr M is told that he will receive  a call back. However I have no evidence 
that the dealership agreed there was an error with the monthly repayment amount recorded  
in the agreement. And I dont think I cant reasonably go behind  this signed  agreement.
Mr M says that the agreement is also wrong because it says he paid a £400  deposit. But this 
is inconsistent with what is recorded  in the contact notes made by Moneybarn. Moneybarn 
has noted that Mr M told it hed been  reimbursed his £400 deposit by the dealership when 
hed taken the car back in October  2018.  He said this was evidence  it had been  agreed he 
could reject the car. 
So Im unclear about this deposit  and whether  Mr M paid this figure or whether it was 
something the dealership put towards the car. But I dont think  that, although  there is a query 
about this deposit, its enough  for me to say that the signed agreement  Ive seen isnt what 
Mr M agreed  to in August 2018.  I think its more likely than not that Mr M may have 
misunderstood what had been discussed  when he was at the dealership.
Mr M says the car wasnt fit for purpose  due to the faulty clutch  and tyres. And that this was 
another reason why the dealership agreed  he could reject the car. He says it was due to a 
relative posting a poor review that led to the dealership changing its mind.
I have read the texts  provided by Mr M but I cant say that they show that the dealership  
agreed to Mr M rejecting the car. It appears it was agreed Mr M would take the car back into 
the dealership  but it doesnt  show what purpose  was of taking the car back.. And Ive seen 
Ref: DRN30098674that the dealership took the car for an inspection at another  garage in October 2018. That 
garage found the car was fit for purpose. The only issue noted was a slight noise from the 
dual mass  but that part was still considered to be serviceable. The tyres were also checked 
and all found to have legal tread.  
So I dont  think I can reasonably say without any supporting  evidence  that the dealership 
agreed Mr M could reject  the car.
Ive also seen via an invoice that the back tyres were replaced at the start of September 
2018 at the request of Mr M. Mr M says that he suffered  a puncture due to the tyres poor 
condition and Ive seen a text he sent in late September to the dealership about that. But Ive 
also seen that in October the tyres were found  to be legal by the independent  garage.  So 
without other  evidence I cant reasonably find that the tyres were  defective at the point of 
sale. However, even if the cars tyres had been  defective I dont  think  this alone  would justify 
Mr M having the right to reject the car.
So I dont  think I have  enough evidence to say that the car was mis-sold to Mr M and that the 
payment terms of the conditional sale agreement were altered after Mr M had agreed to 
purchase the car. I also havent seen enough  evidence to say the dealership had agreed to 
Mr M rejecting the car due to its faults  and/or the changes  to the monthly  payments.  The 
evidence I have seen  shows  that the car was of a satisfactory condition  and fit for purpose at 
the point of sale. I cant reasonably say that Moneybarn has acted unreasonably in not 
allowing Mr M to reject  the car and unwind the agreement.  Im not upholding Mr Ms 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3009867