K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains about additional interest Everyday Loans Limited has charged him on his 
loan. He also complains  that he was charged  a higher direct debit amount than he agreed to.
Background
Mr W took out a loan for £12,500 in June  2016  with Everyday Loans. The loan agreement  
set out that it would be repaid over 36 months and had an interest rate of 30.6% APR. 
Mr Ws monthly repayments were £512.04.
Mr W explained to Everyday Loans  that he was in between jobs at the start of the loan and 
asked for the first two loan repayments to be deferred to the end of the agreement. Everyday 
Loans agreed to this. It sent him a letter in October 2016 which said the arrears had been  
deferred to the end of the loan, the final instalment date would be moved to August 2019, 
with interest calculated daily on the amount outstanding  on the loan.
Mr W called  Everyday Loans  in 2019 and asked  for an early  settlement figure. He was given 
two different figures.  He raised a complaint as he worked out that hed be paying more  in 
interest than his loan agreement  says.  He also complained that his direct  debits  have been  
£512.34 every month, so hes been paying 30 pence per month more than he should have 
been. Mr W also said he received poor customer service during a call.
Everyday Loans  explained that the settlement amount differs  depending on when it is 
requested, and that the deferred arrears would have been  attracting interest  daily since  they 
were due to be paid at the beginning of the loan. It said the settlement amount was accurate 
and in line with the agreement. Everyday Loans  did say that he was charged an additional 
30 pence per month in error. It offered Mr W £50 compensation  for this to cover  the 
additional charge and to compensate  for the trouble and upset  caused.  It said it couldnt  find 
the call where Mr W says he received  poor customer service.
Our investigator didnt  feel the complaint should be upheld. He explained that the deferment  
of the arrears wouldve attracted additional  interest over the term of the loan, and that this 
was mentioned in the letter from Everyday Loans. He also said that had it not been 
explained properly,  Mr W would still have  had to defer the first two payments as he wasnt in 
the position to repay them  at that time.  Our investigator also said he felt the £50 
compensation was enough to cover the small overpayment and to recognise the trouble and 
upset this, and any possible  poor service,  caused.
Mr W disagreed  and said he felt Everyday Loans  should have  been  more transparent about 
the additional interest. So, he asked  for an ombudsman to reach  a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Settlement amount
Mr Ws main complaint  point is that he wasnt told he would have to pay more interest than 
his agreement states. I can understand why hes upset about this. But I dont think  Everyday 
Loans has done something  wrong. When Mr W took out his loan,  he couldnt make  his first 
Ref: DRN38826812two repayments  as he was in between  jobs. So, his loan was in arrears. But Everyday Loans 
agreed that Mr Ws arrears could be deferred to the end of his loan, and it allowed him to 
pay these arrears in monthly instalments by moving his last instalment date. When  Everyday 
Loans agreed to this, it sent Mr W a letter which said:
Since interest is calculated daily on the amount outstanding on your account,  this deferment 
may result in a balance  which  will become due on the same  day as the final instalment. 
Please contact us before  the final instalment is due to confirm the amount of payment 
required to close your account. If you are able to pay additional amounts to clear  the 
deferred instalment(s) at an earlier opportunity this will reduce any final interest balance.
I think this indicates  that Mr Ws deferred  arrears  would  attract  interest daily,  and that he 
may have  to pay something different at the end of his loan to what he was expecting.  Ive 
also seen that Mr Ws loan agreement  states  that interest will be calculated  on the daily 
balance outstanding on the loan,  and that the interest will continue to be applied to any sums 
unpaid under the agreement.
I understand Mr W only wants to pay the interest  set out in his agreement, but his deferment 
didnt just move the loan end date, the two payments due in 2016  have had interest applied  
daily until the end of the loan. So, I dont think Everyday Loans  has done  anything wrong in 
applying more interest than originally stated  on Mr Ws loan agreement.  And I can see it has 
applied this interest in line with the conditions of the loan. 
Direct debit  and poor service
Everyday Loans  has said that it charged Mr W 30 pence more  per month than it should  have. 
This comes to less than £11 over the course of the loan. Everyday Loans also said it couldnt 
find the call where Mr W said he received poor customer service. But it offered Mr W £50 to 
cover the loss caused by the direct  debit error and any poor customer service he received.
As the call hasnt been located, Im unable  to say what was said,  but Mr W has said he was 
concerned over the staff member laughing at the situation. I imagine this wouldve been  
frustrating for Mr W, but I dont think it would have  caused such  an impact  that would  lead 
me to awarding any additional compensation. I think the £50 offered already covers  the 
financial loss and any potential trouble  and upset Mr W experienced from the error and 
customer service.
I can see Mr W made all his payments on time after the two initial  missed  payments, and I 
dont think the additional 30 pence  he was charged caused him any difficulty. So, I wont be 
asking Everyday Loans to offer anything more.  It is up to Mr W to decide whether  he accepts 
the offer of £50.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mr W to decide 
whether to accept  the offer of £50 that Everyday Loans Limited  has already made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3882681