K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that the letter he received from Leeds Building  Society  misled  him into 
thinking that he would receive money from a matured saver account  earlier  than he actually  
received it. 
Mr G would like £11 for lost interest, phone  calls that he had to make and the distress and 
inconvenience caused to him by this incorrect information. 
background
Mr G held a regular savings account with Leeds  Building Society. He received a letter saying 
that it would  mature  on 1 February  2019. 
Mr G says that he expected the money  to be in his account on 1 February 2019. But Leeds 
Building Society wrote to him and told him the money would be in his account on 4 February 
2019 which was the next working day after 1 February  2019.  
Mr G raised a complaint  with the building society. 
Leeds Building Society wrote to him on 1 February  2019 saying that they didnt agree with 
Mr Gs complaint. They said that they had told him that the money would be in his account 
on 4 February 2019. 
Mr G didnt agree so he brought the complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought that the building society  had told 
Mr G that the money would be in his account on 4 February 2019 and it was. 
Mr G wasnt happy with this outcome so the complaint  has now come  to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid Mr G wont  be happy with my decision. I think  that Leeds Building  Society  did 
make it clear  that Mr G would receive  the money on 4 February 2019 so I wont be upholding 
the complaint.  I will explain why. 
In their letter dated 23 January 2019,  Leeds  Building Society state:
Our aim is to process all instructions on the day of maturity,  which is confirmed 
below. If the maturity  date falls on a weekend or a bank  holiday then your instructions 
will be processed  on the first available working day:
External Transfer
Date: 01/02/2019
To me, this suggests that perhaps the money  wouldve  been  processed on 1 February 2019.  
But, the sheet  referred  to in the letter and attached to it clearly states:
Ref: DRN38564682If you have requested an external transfer, this will be processed  using electronic 
funds transfer.  Your funds will be in the account requested by 5pm on the next 
working day. For transfers to accounts held with the Society , funds will be credited to 
your account on the day of maturity.
From this, I think  that Leeds  Building Society  made  it clear  that the money would be in 
Mr Gs account by 5pm on 4 February 2019  which was the next working day after 1 February 
2019. 
Im sorry  that this isnt the outcome that Mr G was hoping for. I hope  that I have clearly  
explained my reasons  for this decision.  
my final decision
I think that Leeds Building Society  paid the money into Mr Gs account when they said that 
they would. So, I dont require them to do anything else. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3856468