K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr B took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1997. Mr B paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his mortgage payments in case he 
was off work  sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr B, I have not found that this PPI policy  was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
Neither side have  the documents  from the sale, which is understandable given just how long 
ago it was, and given that the account has long since  closed. Indeed,  under data protection  
regulations Halifax  were required to dispose of Mr Bs data rather  than hold onto it for too 
long. Mr B doesnt remember choosing to buy PPI, but I also think thats understandable  
since it was so long ago, and since buying  insurance is not often memorable. Ive thought 
carefully about whats most likely  to have happened  with the limited  information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have added  the policy without Mr Bs 
permission, or to have  pressured him into taking  it and making him feel he had no choice. 
But I have no evidence  to show thats what Halifax did here,  and its too long ago for the 
bank to reasonably  be able to produce evidence to defend itself.  And I havent  seen  any 
wider problems with Halifaxs sales process  from the time. So on that basis, I cant fairly 
conclude that its most  likely Halifax did something wrong  here. I think its more likely that it 
followed a standard  process, gave Mr B the option  to buy PPI, and that he chose  to take it at 
the time  though I can certainly understand if he no longer remembers  doing so. 
Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr B or not. The requirements were  
stricter on Halifax if it did, so to be fair to Mr B, Ive assumed it did. That means  Halifax had 
to check the policy was right for Mr B  and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time,  I think it was.
Ref: DRN36400392For example, Mr B doesnt seem to have  been affected by any of the policys  main 
exclusions or limitations. While he had some sick pay through work, the PPI covered him 
more comprehensively,  especially  when his sick pay reduced to just half pay  a serious  
drop in income.  Further, the PPI paid out on top of his work benefits, so he could use them  
for other things. And importantly, Mr B doesnt  seem  to have had any other cover in case  he 
lost his job. Its worth bearing in mind that this mortgage was Mr Bs sole responsibility, and if 
he fell behind on his payments he risked  losing his home. So I think the PPI couldve really  
been useful for him in protecting his home  and giving some  peace of mind.  
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr B about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve  
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  his 
mind. But as I explained above,  Mr B wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover, and it couldve  really  been useful for him in case  something went wrong. The 
policy was not bad value given how much  it would pay out in a claim, and it doesnt look like 
it was unaffordable.  Then if Mr Bs circumstances changed, he could cancel the PPI at any 
time without  a penalty. So overall, I dont think that better information was likely  to have put 
him off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3640039