K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him an 
Advantage Gold account. He says he was sold the account on the basis  that if he did so, 
hed get a reduced interest rate on a personal  loan. 
Mr K has also complained that NatWest changed  his account to a Select  Platinum account  
without his consent.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and she didnt  think NatWest had mis-sold 
the Advantage Gold account or had acted incorrectly when Mr Ks account was changed to a 
Select Platinum account.
Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators findings  and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by 
an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  mis-sold packaged  bank  accounts  on our website and Ive taken that into 
consideration when looking into this complaint.
Mr K has said that the account was mis-sold because  he was told that hed get a lower rate 
of interest on a personal loan if he upgraded his account to a fee-paying Advantage  Gold 
account. However what Mr K has said is correct   the Advantage Gold  account  did provide a 
reduced rate of interest  on personal  loans. And Mr K benefited from a lower interest rate on 
a £15,000 loan that he took out around the same time his account was upgraded  as well 
as on another  loan he took out in 2014. So Im satisfied that what NatWest  told Mr K was 
correct.
Mr K has said that he doesnt  use all the benefits of the account. But it was sold as a 
package, so he was unable to pick and choose what it came with. And from the available 
evidence, I think the account was sold to Mr K on a non-advised basis. This meant  NatWest  
didnt have to check if the account  was right for Mr Ks circumstances. But it did have to give 
him the important information about  the account  so that he could decide for himself  whether 
to upgrade or not.
I think its likely that, in making the account  appear  as attractive as possible to Mr K, 
NatWest wouldve explained what the features of the account were. And its clear that Mr K 
was told about  the reduced loan interest  benefit of the account. Mr K has also said that he 
was aware of the monthly fee as well as the breakdown cover that came with the account.  
So he was clearly  given  some information  about  the account when  it was sold to him and he 
was aware of how to use the benefits it provided.  
I appreciate that Mr K might not have been  given  all of the important information  about the 
account during  the sale. But Ive not seen anything about Mr Ks circumstances that makes  
me think he wouldve  been put off from agreeing to the account,  had NatWest  given him 
more information  about it. Afterall it seems  that he agreed to it mainly for the savings hed 
receive on his loan. I therefore  dont think it was mis-sold to him. 
Ref: DRN32440902I understand that Mr K is also unhappy that the cost of the account has increased  over the 
years and that his account was changed  to a Select Platinum account in 2015 - without his 
consent. 
The account  terms and conditions allowed NatWest to make changes  to the account - 
providing it gave  notice of the changes. And when the account was changed  in 2015, this 
was because NatWest  had withdrawn its Advantage Gold account  from its range of accounts 
and so transferred  all account  holders  onto an account that most closely  matched the 
benefits of the Advantage Gold account  which at the time was the Select Platinum 
account. 
NatWest no longer has a copy  of the letter it says it sent to Mr K. But it has provided  a 
sample letter of what  wouldve  been  sent. And this made it clear that the account was 
changing, but also gave the account holder the option to choose  another  type of account if 
they were unhappy  with the changes being  made  to the account.
Looking at the evidence provided by NatWest, I can see that Mr K was sent a variety of 
notices informing him of changes  that were being made to the account. For example, he was 
sent a notice in January 2013  because of a change in supplier of the mobile  phone  
insurance benefit and another one in November 2013 about  a change to the travel  insurance 
terms and conditions. And he was sent annual eligibility statements after his account was 
changed to the Select  Platinum account  as well. 
Mr K also ordered National Trust passes - which wasnt  a benefit of the account when it was 
sold and was added at the same  time the account cost increased to £15 per month. So, Mr K 
was clearly being kept up-to-date with the changes being made to the account, including  the 
increase in the monthly fee.
Having considered everything  that has been said and provided, Im satisfied that NatWest  
was keeping Mr K informed of the changes being  made to his account, over the years that 
he had it. And it was up to Mr K to contact NatWest  if he was no longer happy with it.
So Im not persuaded that NatWest  did anything wrong by making those changes.  I therefore  
think it would  be inappropriate to require NatWest to refund Mr K the account  fees hes paid 
for either the Advantage Gold or Select Platinum packaged accounts.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3244090