K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Nationwide Building Society  (NBS) mis-sold them a Payment 
Protection Policy (PPI).
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint were set out by the 
adjudicator and dont appear  to be in dispute. So briefly:
Mr and Mrs L took out PPI with a further advance  to their existing mortgage in 2007.  Both 
the further advance and the PPI were  taken out by phone. The policy covered Mr L only. 
At the time both Mr and Mrs L were employed in full-time permanent roles and both were 
entitled to sick pay and redundancy pay. They  also told us they had some  savings they 
couldve used to make  the repayments  on their mortgage if either  of them  was unable to 
work. Mr L said he had a medical condition at the time of the sale.
The adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld.  They  said there wasnt 
enough evidence  to show that PPI was optional. They also said they thought the information 
NBS gave Mr and Mrs L about the policys exclusion for existing  medical conditions  wasnt  
as clear as it should have  been. And because Mr L had an existing condition at the time of 
the sale they thought Mr and Mrs L had lost out as a result of NBS failings.
NBS disagrees. In summary it says Mr and Mrs L consented to take out PPI and theres 
enough evidence  to show that it was optional. It also says because  Mr Ls existing medical  
condition didnt have  a significant impact  on him it didnt think  Mr and Mrs L had been 
disadvantaged.
The complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI on our website and Ive taken  into account all that is relevant here in deciding this 
complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold this complaint. My reasons are set out below.
NBS had to make it clear  to Mr and Mrs L that they had a real choice about PPI. And Im not 
persuaded that NBS did do this based  on the available  evidence  in this case.
This was a sale by phone. NBS doesnt have a call recording  of the sales call  and this isnt 
necessarily surprising given the passage of time.  But it does mean  I dont know  for certain 
how PPI was introduced  and presented  to Mr and Mrs L. NBS also hasnt provided a call 
script, so I dont know how PPI was meant  to be introduced  and presented.
NBS has provided a copy of a PPI illustration dated 4 September 2007, which appears to be 
the date of the phone call during which Mr and Mrs L applied  for their further advance. This 
illustration sets out the details of the policy including the level of cover  and the cost.  NBS has 
relied on this as evidence that Mr and Mrs L wanted PPI.
Ref: DRN39984372But NBS has also provided a copy of Mr and Mrs Ls further advance application, 
presumably produced  to reflect what was discussed  during the phone call. Looking  at this I 
can see there is a separate section  Section 8  titled Mortgage Payment Protection  
Requirements. And this records the following:
No, we do not want to protect our mortgage payments against accident,  sickness and 
unemployment...
So the documentary  evidence  the evidence which I think its reasonable to place the most 
weight - records that Mr and Mrs L said they didnt want PPI. And Mr and Mrs L signed and 
dated their application 6 September 2007,  which is two days after the phone  call. NBS says 
they must have changed  their mind...  But the dates suggest  the further advance and PPI 
were both discussed during the same  phone call on 4 September 2007  theres no 
evidence of a subsequent  phone  call. If Mr and Mrs L had chosen  and agreed to take out 
PPI, I wouldve expected this application to say so. Or if they had changed  their mind, I think 
Mr and Mrs P wouldve written on it and amended the PPI section to reflect any change  in 
their decision. But it doesnt.
Yet somehow Mr and Mrs L ended up with PPI. But its unclear what  happened and how this 
came about.  Theres certainly no documentary  evidence to show that Mr and Mrs L chose 
and agreed to PPI  the available evidence is that when asked about  it they said No to 
taking it out. So it would  appear  the optionality of the cover was undermined.
Ive thought about everything NBS has said  the fact that Mr and Mrs L didnt  take out PPI 
with their original mortgage in 2003;  they were sent an end of free period  letter telling them  
what the premium would be; and that they were sent annual review letters each year.  But 
these things dont  change my conclusions about  what I think is fair and reasonable in this 
case. Taking everything into account,  I dont think NBS acted fairly and reasonably towards  
Mr and Mrs L when it sold them PPI. Based on what Ive seen Im not persuaded NBS gave 
Mr and Mrs L a real choice about  PPI or that they agreed to it on this basis. And it is for this 
reason that I uphold  this complaint.
The adjudicator also recommended  the complaint should be upheld because  of Mr Ls health 
status at the time. But I dont need  to make a finding on this point  Ive already given 
sufficient reason to uphold this complaint as Ive detailed above.
putting things right
NBS should put Mr and Mrs L in the financial position theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  
out MPPI.  The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt been cancelled  already and NBS 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L the amount they paid each month for the MPPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  NBS can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them. It can also deduct any amounts 
its already paid regarding commission and profit share.
Ref: DRN39984373 HM Revenue & Customs requires NBS to take off tax from this interest.  NBS must give Mr 
and Mrs L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint  and make  an award 
in favour  of Mr and Mrs L. To put things  right Nationwide Building  Society  should  pay Mr and 
Mrs L compensation using the formula Ive set out above. I make no other  award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3998437