K821x#15complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the advice he was given  in 2010 to transfer the benefits from his 
final salary occupational pension scheme into a self-invested personal pension  (SIPP). His 
pension was subsequently invested in an unregulated overseas farmland scheme that has 
since become illiquid. Quilter Financial Limited is now responsible  for the advice, and for this 
complaint, so it is Quilter  I will be referring to in my decision.
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Quilter advised Mr M against transferring  the benefits from his occupational pension 
scheme. It did so in a recommendations  report dated 6 July 2010. Mr M nevertheless wrote 
back saying he still wanted to proceed. Quilter repeated its advice to not transfer but it said it 
would treat Mr M as an insistent client. It also provided further advice for Mr M on the various 
types of pension he could transfer  to. Mr M went ahead with the transfer. His occupational 
scheme benefits, valued at £55,731,  were  transferred to a SIPP with £50,000 of this then 
invested in the overseas farmland scheme. The investment has since become illiquid.  
Mr M complained to Quilter  in 2018  about  being advised to transfer  and about the suitability 
of the underlying investment. Quilter  said, in brief, that it advised  against the transfer  but 
Mr M decided to go against that advice and proceeded on an insistent client basis.  As such,  
it doesnt think its responsible for the transfer or for any losses that resulted. Mr M referred  
his complaint to us.
In my provisional decision I said Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.  I referred  to Quilters 
July 2010 recommendations report which advised Mr M against  transferring. But I pointed  
out that Quilter  didnt  say anything about  the suitability of the investment  Mr M wanted to use 
his transferred funds  for. I thought this was a significant omission because  Quilter had a duty 
to act in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 2) and give suitable advice (COBS 9). I concluded 
Quilter couldnt have done either without considering the overall  transaction,  including  the 
suitability of the transfer and the investment strategy that the transfer  was taken out to 
facilitate. And if it had been  more thorough in its advice, I thought Quilter would have found 
the investment   and therefore  the whole transaction  to have been unsuitable for Mr M 
given his circumstances. I thought  if Mr M had been  advised along these lines,  he wouldnt 
have proceeded.
I went on to consider whether the fact that Mr M went against  Quilters advice (insufficient 
though it was) showed he was determined to proceed and would have done so whatever 
Quilter said. However, the key reason why Quilter advised against the transfer  was because 
the returns needed to make  it worthwhile were unrealistic. I didnt think  achieving  high 
returns would have  been a concern for Mr M given he was under the impression that his 
proposed investment was an attractive  one. So I thought Mr Ms actions were 
understandable in this respect.  I thought if he had been advised that his proposed 
investment carried with it a number  of substantial risks that could  result  in a significant loss 
of capital, he would have taken this on board  especially as his attitude to risk was 
moderate and his occupational scheme  benefits  represented a significant proportion  of his 
financial wealth. I saw no persuasive reason why he would have proceeded with the transfer, 
and investment, in those  circumstances. 
Ref: DRN30340922In my provisional decision,  I also noted  my concerns about  Quilters insistent client  process. 
In particular, it seemed  to me that Quilter made it markedly easy  for Mr M to go against its 
own advice. However,  given that this advice was insufficient anyway, I didnt  think what 
happened thereafter was critical to the outcome of the complaint  Quilter had already failed 
in its responsibilities.
 
I asked both parties for their comments on my provisional decision. Neither party provided 
me with any further  substantive evidence or comments  on my findings. Mr M did, however, 
comment on my proposed compensation, which I address below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  satisfied that 
Mr Ms complaint should be upheld  for the same reasons as given in my provisional  decision 
 especially  as neither party provided  me with any further substantive evidence  and 
arguments in response  to my provisional  findings.  Quilter should therefore compensate Mr M 
in line with the approach detailed below.
Fair compensation
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible,  
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the occupational scheme. Quilter must therefore undertake  a redress calculation  
in line with the regulators pension review guidance  as updated by the Financial Conduct 
Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most  
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.
Quilter may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). These 
details should  then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should, if possible, be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should allow for the effect  of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement   presumed  to be 20%.  So making a notional  deduction of 15% overall  
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
Ref: DRN30340923The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date 
Quilter receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be 
added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes Quilter 
to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from the DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest  wont  apply. 
My aim is to return Mr M to the position  he would have been in but for the actions of Quilter.  
This is complicated where an investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the 
open market), as its value  cant be determined. That appears to be the case  here.
To calculate the compensation, Quilter should agree an amount with the SIPP  provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP  plus any costs,  and take ownership  
of the investment. If Quilter is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for 
the purposes of calculating  compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations 
should include anything  Quilter has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to 
be applied  to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, Quilter  may ask Mr M to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive  from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. Quilter will need to meet  any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If Quilter asks Mr M to provide an undertaking,  payment  of 
the compensation awarded may be dependent upon  provision of that undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment (and therefore only exists because  of 
Quilters actions). In order for the SIPP to be closed and further SIPP  fees to be prevented,  
the investment  needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Quilter taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr M can discuss  
with the SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.  
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Quilter  pays Mr M an upfront lump  sum equivalent  
to five years worth  of SIPP fees (calculated  using  the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP  to be closed.
I note Mr M wants to ensure he can assign  the rights  to the proceeds  from the underlying 
investment to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). He says this will allow 
the FSCS  to investigate  a case against his SIPP provider  and, potentially, allow  him to 
recover the full extent of his losses  should this be necessary. However, my remit only 
extends as far as this complaint and what compensation Quilter has to pay as a result  
(taking into consideration our award limits).  Beyond that, it is for all relevant parties to agree 
a way forward with regards to any further claims Mr M may have against the SIPP  provider. I 
should also point  out that the award  may well be below £150,000.  
Ref: DRN30340924my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mr Ms complaint. 
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  compensation to be paid by a financial business of 
up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or  costs  that I think  are appropriate. If I think  that fair 
compensation is more  than £150,000,  I may recommend the business  pays the balance.
Determination and award : I uphold this complaint. I require Quilter Financial Limited to pay 
Mr M compensation as set out above, up to a maximum  of £150,000 plus any interest as set 
out above. 
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation is more  
than £150,000, I recommend that Quilter  Financial Limited pays  Mr M the balance.  
This recommendation is not part of my determination or award.  Quilter  Financial Limited 
doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr M can accept my decision and go 
to court  to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to get independent legal advice before 
deciding whether to accept  this decision.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2021.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN30340925COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about  the advice he was given in 2010 to transfer the benefits from his defined  
benefits occupational  pension scheme into a self-invested personal  pension (SIPP). His pension was 
subsequently invested in an unregulated Australian farmland scheme that has since  become illiquid.
Mr M was initially contacted  by an unregulated introducer  firm, but it was Bridgewater Financial  
Services Ltd that ultimately advised him. Quilter Financial  Limited is now responsible for that advice, 
and for this complaint,  so it is Quilter  I will be referring  to in my decision.
background
Mr M met with Quilter  in January 2010. A fact-find was completed along with a client agreement  and a 
pension transfer attitude questionnaire. All three documents  were signed by Mr M on 22 January. A 
pension transfer analysis report, dated 5 July, was produced by a third party.  Quilter then sent Mr M 
its recommendations report, which was dated 6 July. It enclosed the transfer analysis report. Quilter 
recommended that Mr M shouldnt transfer. Mr M sent Quilter a hand written (undated)  letter to say he 
nevertheless wanted to proceed. Quilter wrote  back, reiterating that it had advised  against the transfer 
but would treat Mr M as an insistent client. It also provided further advice for Mr M on the various 
types of pension  he could  transfer to. 
Mr M signed the application  form to set up his SIPP on 15 July. His occupational scheme benefits, 
valued at £55,731,  were transferred to the SIPP  shortly  afterwards with £50,000 of this then invested 
in the Australian farmland scheme. The investment has since become illiquid. Mr M complained to 
Quilter in 2018 about  being advised to transfer and about the suitability of the underlying investment.
Quilter said it hadnt done anything wrong. It said, in brief, that it advised against the transfer but Mr M 
decided to go against that advice and proceed on an insistent client basis.  As such, it doesnt think it 
should be held responsible for the transfer of Mr Ms occupational scheme  benefits  and any losses 
that resulted. Mr M referred his complaint  to us.
An investigator upheld the complaint. He had a number of concerns about Quilters insistent client 
process. He was also concerned about the advice  that had been given  which downplayed the relative 
importance of Mr Ms occupational scheme benefits and made no comment on the suitability of 
Mr Ms proposed investment.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending  to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My starting point here is Quilters recommendations report,  prepared for Mr M on 6 July 2010.  It 
advises Mr M against transferring his occupational  scheme benefits. However,  as our investigator 
noted, the report  doesnt say anything about the suitability of the proposed  underlying investment  in 
fact it doesnt mention the investment at all. I consider  this to be a significant  omission because  
Quilter had a duty to act in Mr Ms best interests (COBS 2) and give suitable  advice (COBS 9). Im 
satisfied it couldnt do either without considering the overall transaction, including the suitability  of the 
transfer and the investment strategy that the transfer was taken out to facilitate.  
Ref: DRN30340926The regulator  covered this issue  in 2013 when it issued  an alert reminding advisers that when 
advising on a transfer to a SIPP, consideration  should be given  to the suitability of the SIPP wrapper 
as well as the intended underlying investments:
The FSAs  view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration of the other 
investments held by the customer  or, when  advice is given on a product which  is a vehicle for 
investment in other products (such as SIPPs  and other wrappers), consideration of the suitability of 
the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected  underlying investments  in unregulated 
schemesFor example, where a financial adviser  recommends a SIPP knowing  that the customer  
will transfer out of a current  pension  arrangement to release funds to invest  in an overseas property 
investment under a SIPP, then the suitability  of the overseas property investment must  form part of 
the advice about whether the customer should transfer into the SIPP.
Clearly, Quilters advice came  before  this alert.  But the alert was issued  because the regulator  found  
issues with how some  advisers were operating  in this area. So the alert was a reminder of existing 
obligations stemming from COBS. It did not introduce a new set of obligations. 
I take the view that the investment in question  (unregulated overseas farmland) would have  been 
found to be unsuitable, especially given Mr Ms attitude  to risk which was assessed as being 
moderate. My view is that Mr M, who was recorded  as being an inexperienced investor,  would have 
taken such advice seriously and wouldnt  have proceeded with the transfer as a result.  
I recognise Quilter  told Mr M that the government wouldnt likely allow his occupational scheme to 
become insolvent  an apparent concern of Mr M at the time. Quilter also told him the returns  needed 
to make the transfer worthwhile looked unrealistic and the transfer would, therefore, be unsuitable.  
Even so, Mr M went against that advice. So there is an argument  that he would have proceeded even 
if Quilters advice had been more thorough. 
However, I can see why Mr M acted as he did. Mr M was under  the impression  his proposed 
investment was an attractive one. So I dont  think Quilters advice, which focussed  on the strong 
returns Mr M needed,  would have been a concern for him. However, if Mr M had been told that the 
transfer was unsuitable and that his proposed  investment carried with it a number of substantial risks 
that could result in a significant loss of capital, then I think this would have made  a difference. After  
all, Mr Ms attitude to risk was moderate.  And he was planning to invest a substantial proportion of his 
financial wealth into the investment in question. In this light, I see no persuasive reason why Mr M 
would have wanted to proceed.    
I note that the recommendations report says Mr Ms transferred pension  was only going  to be a 
minor part of his retirement  income. It looks like this was based on his wifes pension  being  
significantly larger than his own. But Ive seen no evidence to substantiate the size of Mrs Ms 
pension. And the fact-find doesnt record Mr and Mrs M as having  any other substantial  assets 
beyond their (mortgaged) home. So Im not persuaded Mr Ms pension  with a transfer value of over 
£50,000, representing 14 years of service  was unimportant in the overall scheme  of things. And Im 
not persuaded  Mr M would have been comfortable using his pension to invest in an unregulated  and 
speculative overseas  farmland venture if he had been advised properly about the potential  drawbacks 
of doing so.
As our investigator pointed out, there were  also issues here with the insistent  client process. For 
instance, Quilter seems  to have made it particularly  easy for Mr M to ignore its own advice because 
its suitability report concluded with step-by-step instructions on how Mr M could continue  with the 
transfer as an insistent  client. And its arguable Mr M even followed  these instructions given his 
insistent client letter didnt include all the points  Quilter  had asked for. However,  I dont need to make 
a firm finding  on whether  Quilter should have treated  Mr M as an insistent client. For the reasons 
given above, its clear  Quilter gave Mr M incomplete advice. Had Mr M been given advice on the 
transfer and his proposed  investment, I see no reason  why he would have wanted to proceed any 
further. As such, Quilters  insistent client  process  isnt a necessary  consideration for the purposes of 
Mr Ms complaint.
Ref: DRN30340927It follows from the above that I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint. If I do uphold  Mr Ms complaint, 
Quilter should  put things  right in line with the approach outlined below.
Fair compensation 
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would  have remained in the 
occupational scheme. Quilter must therefore undertake  a redress calculation in line with the 
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority  in October  2017.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most recent 
financial assumptions  at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this 
should be undertaken  or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following  receipt  of notification 
of Mr Ms acceptance  of the decision.
Quilter may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme  (SERPS or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account 
the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation  should, if possible, be paid into 
Mr Ms pension plan.  The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. 
The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications,  it should be 
paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making  a notional deduction to allow for income tax that 
would otherwise have been paid. Typically,  25% of the loss could  have been  taken as tax-free cash 
and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement   presumed  to 
be 20%. So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall  from the loss adequately reflects  this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps above is the compensation amount. The compensation  
amount must  where possible  be paid to Mr M within  90 days  of the date Quilter receives notification of 
his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added  to the compensation amount at 
the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement  for any time, 
in excess of 90 days, that it takes Quilter to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean  that the actual time taken to 
settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any period of time where 
the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data from the DWP  may be added  to 
the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
My aim is to return Mr M to the position he would have been in but for the actions of Quilter. This is 
complicated where an investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open market), as 
its value cant be determined.  That appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, Quilter should agree  an amount with the SIPP provider  as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs,  and take ownership of the 
investment. If Quilter is unable to buy the investment,  it should give it a nil value  for the purposes of 
calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used  in the calculations  should include anything  
Quilter has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied to the SIPP should be 
deducted.
Ref: DRN30340928In return  for this, Quilter  may ask Mr M to provide  an undertaking to account  to it for the net amount of 
any payment  he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should  allow for the effect  of any 
tax and charges on what he receives. Quilter will need to meet  any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking. If Quilter  asks Mr M to provide an undertaking, payment of the compensation  awarded 
may be dependent  upon  provision of that undertaking.
The SIPP only exists  because  of the illiquid investment  (and therefore  only exists  because of Quilters  
actions). In order for the SIPP to be closed  and further SIPP fees to be prevented,  the investment 
needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Quilter taking 
over the investment, or this is something that Mr M can discuss with the SIPP provider  directly. But I 
dont know how long that will take.  
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power  to tell them  what  to do. To provide certainty to 
all parties, I think its fair that Quilter pay Mr M an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of 
SIPP fees (calculated  using the previous years fees). This should  provide a reasonable period for the 
parties to arrange for the SIPP  to be closed.
Recommendation
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can award  fair compensation to be paid by a financial business  of up to 
£150,000, plus any interest and/or costs/ interest on costs that I think are appropriate.  If I think  that 
fair compensation is more  than this, I may recommend that the business  pays  the balance.
If I uphold this complaint, and the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation outlined 
above, is more than £150,000  I will recommend Quilter pays Mr M the balance.  This recommendation 
will not be part of my determination or award. Quilter doesnt have  to do what I recommend. Its 
unlikely that Mr M can accept my final decision and go to court to ask for the balance.  Mr M may want 
to get independent legal  advice  before deciding  whether  to accept a final decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, and subject  to any further comments and evidence I may receive, I 
intend to uphold this complaint. 
If I do uphold this complaint, I will be asking Quilter Financial Limited  to calculate and pay 
compensation as set out above.
Ref: DRN3034092