K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that, when they reached the end of the term on their secured 
loan, Prestige Finance  Limited told them there  was still an outstanding balance.
background 
On 7 August  2008 Mr and Mrs H took out a secured loan with another lender (not Prestige). 
They borrowed a total of £32,875 over a term of ten years. The loan is secured as a second  
charge on their property.  Ownership of the loan has changed hands from the original lender. 
On 4 December  2015 it was transferred to Prestige.
When the term was reaching its end in August 2018,  Mr and Mrs H were told by Prestige 
that they still owed over £5,700. They complained to Prestige.
In its final response letter  dated 10 September 2018 Prestige explained that, because of 
previous arrears, fees, charges  and interest had also been incurred, which had not been 
cleared by the monthly payments. 
Prestige confirmed that since it took over the account annual  statements  were sent showing 
the account balance and transactions for that year.  Prestige acknowledged it had 
inadvertently sent a copy of another borrowers statement, for which it apologised.
Dissatisfied with Prestiges response, Mr and Mrs H brought  their complaint to us. They say 
that, although theyve requested a full breakdown  of the figure which Prestige claims they 
owe, theyve never  received it.
An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think he should be upheld. He said 
Prestige didnt have  copies of all the historic  documents  and statements.  But he was 
satisfied that Prestige hadnt done anything wrong since it took over the account.   Mr H, who 
has dealt with the complaint throughout, asked for an ombudsman  to review the complaint. 
He insists hes made all payments  on time and in full over the ten-year  term of the loan.
On 3 December  2019 Mr H asked for a three-week extension  so he could  provide  further 
information, but nothing further has been received.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I confirm Ive read everything Mr H and 
Prestige have sent us.
The loan was originally  taken out with a different business and was taken over by Prestige 
on 4 December 2015. This means that I can only consider whats happened  on this account  
after Prestige took it over. Prestige is not responsible for the actions of any previous 
businesses which owned the loan.
I must also explain  that the Financial Ombudsman  Service doesnt audit accounts. What  I 
have done is to review  the information provided, not to carry out my own reworking of the 
account. 
Ref: DRN33539262The crux of the complaint is that Mr and Mrs H say they have made  every  payment required 
under the loan agreement. Mr H says he can prove he didnt  miss a payment over the entire 
ten-year term.  Given  this, they cant understand why Prestige is claiming they owe over 
£5,700 at the end of the term.  Here I note that in early December 2019  Mr H asked for a 
three-week extension  to give him time to cross-reference the statements Prestige had sent 
him against his bank  statements so he could prove  hed never missed a payment. But I have 
received no further  evidence  from Mr H. 
Ive reviewed the account statements  including the historic records provided from the 
previous lender. The historic records show that the account was in arrears from at least 2010 
(the date of the earliest record we have).  Interest is charged on missed  payments, which  
increases the account balance. The previous lender added  arrears administration  fees to the 
account, upon which interest  also accrues. 
When a monthly payment  is missed, it doesnt just put the loan into arrears  by the amount 
missed. Because  the monthly payment  is made up of both interest  and an amount to reduce 
the capital, failure  to pay means the overall  loan balance wont reduce as it should. As a 
result, the balance  is higher than it ought to be the following month   meaning more interest 
is charged, the balance goes up again,  and then more interest is charged the following 
month. Consequently,  over time,  where a loan has been in arrears  because payments arent 
being made, the balance  will go up, even if the arrears have been paid off. 
Furthermore, theres less time left to pay off the balance before the scheduled  end of the 
loan term. So even  where the borrower  has paid off the arrears, unless additional 
overpayments are made the full balance wont be cleared by the end of the term. Thats 
because clearing the arrears isnt enough  by itself to pay off the additional interest, or any 
fees and charges added  to the account,  which also attract interest. I note Mr and Mrs H were 
paying more than the monthly instalment, but this hasnt been sufficient to clear the full 
amount outstanding. 
Having reviewed the account statements both from before the time Prestige took over the 
loan and since, Im not persuaded that there has been any error made  by Prestige in its 
administration of the account since it took over the loan on 4 December 2015. Im also 
satisfied that the explanation provided by Prestige of why there  is an outstanding balance  is 
reasonable.
If Mr and Mrs H are experiencing financial hardship  as a result  of the outstanding balance, 
they might  find it helpful to speak to one of the free debt advisory services such as Citizens  
Advice, Shelter or StepChange. We can provide Mr and Mrs H with contact details for those 
agencies, if they would  like us to.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33539263
Ref: DRN3353926