K821x#15complaint
Mr W says that Provident Personal Credit  Limited, trading as Satsuma, lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Satsuma approved 6 instalment loans for Mr W between  August 2017 and September 2018.  
Mr W said that he was in financial difficulty and had issues with gambling and the lending 
made his difficulties worse. 
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Satsuma shouldnt  have continued  
to lend to Mr W from loan 4 onwards as he was reliant on this type of credit and essentially 
using the loans to supplement his income.  The adjudicator thought  that by this point Satsuma 
should have realised that further borrowing wasnt sustainable. Our adjudicator recommended  
that Satsuma put things  right for Mr W by refunding all interest and charges incurred on loans 
4 to 6 and removing all information  about  these loans from Mr Ws credit file. 
Satsuma didnt reply to the adjudicators  opinion and so as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN38226602I think its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish whether 
Mr W could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
As Satsuma  hasnt replied  to the adjudicators opinion I dont know  what it disagrees with. I 
have seen the checks it did before lending to Mr W. It asked  Mr W for details of his income  
and normal expenditure. And Satsuma carried out checks on Mr Ws credit  file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Satsuma to give Mr W loans 1 to 3 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Satsuma to agree to lend.  As Mr W 
hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to loans one to 
three, I dont  think that I need to say more  about  them.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ws lending with Satsuma to see if there  was a point 
at which  Satsuma should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma shouldve realised that it wasnt reasonable to lend more  
money to Mr W.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ws case,  I agree with the conclusions of the 
adjudicator and I think that this point was reached  by loan four. I say this because:
when Mr W took out loan four, hed been  borrowing consistently for around 9 months  
and wasnt making  any inroads in to the amount  that he owed.  At the point of loan 4 Mr 
Ws borrowing  was showing an increasing  trend. I think this pattern of lending shouldve  
alerted Satsuma at the point of loan 4 to the likelihood that Mr W was having  problems 
managing his money and wasnt borrowing sustainably.
Mr W continued to borrow  and the amounts increased. Mr W took out loan 5 whilst loan 
4 was still running.
I think that Mr W lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards. This is because:
the number of loans  that Mr W had taken from Satsuma was likely to have had negative 
implications on his ability  to access mainstream  credit.  This kept Mr W in the market for 
these high-cost loans.
These loans had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ws indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit  intended for short term use over an extended  period  of time.
Ref: DRN38226603So Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint about loans 4 to 6.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
A.Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans, not including  anything it has already refunded.
B.Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr W which  were  
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr W originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C.The overall pattern  of Mr Ws borrowing for loans 4 to 6 means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so these loans should be removed from Mr Ws 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma 
must give Mr W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and direct Provident Personal  
Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3822660