K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc hasnt  reduced the amount of interest  due on his 
personal loan.
background
In February 2017  Mr W applied for a personal loan from HSBC. He borrowed £18,600 at an 
APR of 6.7%. The total amount repayable including interest was £23,548.82 over 90 months. 
The first monthly repayment  was for £261.97,  and the rest were  set at £261.65.
In February 2019  Mr W made  an extra repayment  of £4,000. He says the loan capital 
decreased and HSBC  recalculated the number of monthly repayments due. But the amount 
of interest it said he owed didnt change. So hes still due to repay the full amount of interest 
calculated at the start of the loan agreement.  
Mr W feels this means hes being  charged a higher  interest rate on the remainder of the loan 
than was agreed. He says that if he continues to make the repayments HSBC are asking for 
he would  repay  it £1,212  more than he thinks is due. 
When he complained  to HSBC it said that the repayment figures  it had given him were  
correct. It explained  that the calculations Mr W had provided to support his complaint didnt 
reflect the way it calculated interest. And said that when  his loan has been  repaid in full its 
system will recalculate the amount of interest paid and he may be due an interest rebate. It 
also gave him a settlement quote  letting  him know what  the interest rebate would be if he 
was to pay off the loan in full as at the current date, which  at that time was 10 April 2019.
Our investigator didnt  think there was any evidence HSBC had acted unreasonably or 
unfairly in connection with the loan. He didnt think the remaining interest due was calculated  
in the way Mr W had suggested  it should  be. And he said HSBC  were  entitled to charge  the 
interest agreed at the outset of the loan as the agreement was for a fixed  sum. But that it 
would calculate  a rebate of interest  when the account was settled and refund any money due 
to Mr W at that time.
Mr W still feels its unfair that his overpayment hasnt reduced the total amount repayable  to 
the bank. So the case has been passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr W will be disappointed,  but Ive reached  the same  conclusions as our investigator 
did here. Ive looked carefully at the terms of his loan and Im not persuaded that HSBC  has 
acted incorrectly in how its applied  interest  or recalculated his repayments. 
Ref: DRN35548012The fixed  sum loan agreement that Mr W entered into explains  that We (HSBC) charge a 
fixed amount of interest which  we add to the loan when we open the loan account. The total 
amount payable by you is the sum of interest  and the loan. Although  it is added  up front we 
work out interest  (and the APR)  as if the loan amount was reduced by each projected 
repayment, using  the interest  rate, the number of monthly repayments and the period of the 
loan. For these purposes, we assume  we provide  the loan one month (or, if you have an 
initial payment  holiday;  three months) before the first repayment date.
This means  that in the earlier stages  of the loan term a higher  portion of the monthly  
repayments goes  towards  paying interest, because  interest is calculated on the outstanding 
balance. Over time as the balance reduces so does the interest outstanding, and the 
monthly repayments start to pay off a higher  amount of the capital.
This isnt an unusual way for loans like this to operate.  It also means  that the remaining 
unpaid interest on the loan cant be accurately calculated by applying  the APR figure  to its 
balance part way through the repayment schedule.  Because  the interest isnt paid off at an 
even rate throughout the duration of loan. 
I can see the loan agreement goes on to say that If you repay part of the loan early,  your 
monthly repayment will stay the same  but you may repay the loan more quickly.  So Im 
satisfied HSBC is acting  in line with this agreement  when its asking Mr W to keep  making 
monthly repayments of £261.65 until the total amount payable,  £23,548.82, has been repaid. 
And I think the key points  of the loan agreement also make it clear  the loan operates  in this 
way. They  state  that The total amount you will have to pay is £23,548.82.  This loan may not 
be right for you if you want more flexibility in the amount you borrow  or repay.
Mr W feels that the total amount of interest he has to repay HSBC  should be reduced  
following his overpayment. Hes told us he wouldnt have  made  it if hed known this wouldnt 
be the case. And hes directed me to consider another statement in the key points document 
that says If you repay  part of the loan early, the overall cost will usually  be reduced. I 
appreciate Mr W doesnt feel the cost of the loan has been reduced  for him here. But HSBC  
has explained that it cant recalculate the interest due on his loan until it has been settled in 
full. At which  point its system will assess whether he is due an interest rebate. 
Mr W has told hed prefer to have this money now. And I can understand why its frustrating 
that HSBC isnt able to confirm what, if any, rebate hell be due at the end of his revised 
repayment term. But Im satisfied HSBC is acting in line with its terms and conditions. So I 
cant fairly say that its done anything wrong here.  Its not the role of this service  to ask 
HSBC to change  its terms and conditions, or the way its systems work. 
Ref: DRN35548013my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.  
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3554801