K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about the administration  and management of his investments by St Jamess 
Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP). Hes particularly unhappy about the following issues:
the transparency surrounding  fees;
not receiving the 2013 suitability letter until 2018; 
not being told about the 5% ISA fees which is likely to have had an impact on his 
investments performance; 
the explanation for why his ISA wasnt performing as well as his bond  despite being 
invested in the same funds but having a different fee structure and taxation;  
being misinformed about  what happens to his investments upon death;
not being provided  with adequate clarification/explanation of key information provided; 
the independence  of wealth managers  at SJP, whether theyre  free to invest  in any 
fund they like.
breach of Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) guidelines; 
involvement in fraud as evidenced by the medial  reporting.
Hes also unhappy with the redress offered by SJP and says hes suffered substantial 
financial loss as a result of its poor service. He doesnt  believe the compensation offered by 
SJP goes anywhere near the level of trouble and upset hes suffered. 
background 
SJP partially upheld the complaint and offered  Mr T some compensation as a good will 
gesture which  he rejected. Instead  he counter proposed a compensation package that he 
thought was fair and reasonable in the circumstances, but the business didnt agree.
In the course  of the correspondence Mr T also discovered contents  which  were  new to him, 
including the 2013 letter which he says he hasnt received, access  to the online  features, 
and the adviser  being self-employed. 
In a final response letter dated  22 November  2018 SJP offered to waive  any early withdrawal 
charges (EWC) and make an ex-gratia payment of £5,000  equal to the 5% ISA fees (with  
interest), and the balance  as compensation for trouble  and upset. 
The complaint was in due course referred  to our service, and Mr T amended what  he 
thought would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. He also decided to transfer his 
holdings, away from SJP.  
In the process  of the complaint being  considered by an investigator,  Mr T made  some  
additional points  about the bond and taxation, as a result of which  he felt SJP was unfairly  
holding his money, despite undertaking  to waive any EWCs. And that it was unfair  for him to 
have to pay this. 
The business in response to being made  aware  of the additional  issues  made a new (without 
prejudice) offer which  was amended to include Mr Ts tax bill, but Mr T rejected this.  
Our investigator having considered the complaint thought it should be upheld. He wasnt  
satisfied that SJP had treated Mr T fairly but had by now addressed the thrust of his 
concerns. He also thought the latest offer by the business was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN34267062M T disagreed with the investigators conclusions and articulated his concerns  with 84 
separate points  (not including numerous  sub points) which  he said he would like addressed 
separately. He doesnt believe the complaint has been looked at fairly  and doesnt  believe 
that the investigator has at any point disagreed with what the business has said. Mr T said 
that he would like the following which he feels is fair and reasonable in the circumstances:
The most  senior  person in the ombudsman service  who is proficient and 
experienced in FCA regulations  to review his complaint 
A breakdown in the calculation of the £2,646 offered by the SJP as a refund of the 
ISA fees. 
SJP to provide gross and net figures for the graphs it sent showing the growth of his 
investments
Compensation for his cash ISA and savings account by the amount the SJP bond and 
ISA rose.
£2,000 compensation for the cheque he had to collect and then find time to go and 
deposit. 
£7,000 for the loss of investment growth  between 5 January 2019  and when the bond 
was supposedly  cashed in.
£2,500 compensation for the growth  of his funds  between  5 January 2019 and a 
month later when SJP continued to invest his funds  and illegally (fraudulently) 
retained the profits.
£2,500 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, and a further £1,000 from our 
service for covering up the fraud.
£5,000 compensation for the unsuitable  advice to invest  in the bond including  wasting 
his time and loss of earnings. 
£5,000 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by Mr T having to pursue  this 
complaint in respect of issues that shouldve  been resolved in 2013. 
£5,000 compensation for the time taken to locate  and move to another  investment 
firm  particularly  as his trust has been ruined by SJP.  
£1,000 compensation for not providing him with full online materials  which  SJP 
shouldve from the beginning. 
£500 for two letters sent to him from the service  centre containing inadequate 
information such that he was unclear why hed received  these letters.
£300 compensation  for the investigators erroneous approach about a business  not 
being able to do wrong because its governed  by rules  and regulations. 
Refund of all taxes that hes incurred moving his bond to a new investment firm  or 
find a way so he doesnt have to pay tax  as this situation wouldnt have arisen had it 
not been for the investment structure set up by SJP.  
Waiving all early exit fees. 
£2,000 for not providing clarity  about  the fees charged.  
£10,000 compensation  for providing  an inappropriate six-month time limit within  which 
to accept SJPs offer when he had six months  to refer his complaint to our service. 
This was an attempt to blackmail him into accepting  its offer. 
£15,000 compensation  for Mr T not having access  to his funds (over £70,000) during 
this complaint. He had planned to buy a house.  
A response addressing ALL  of his points and not wasting his time providing  a 
summary because the pertinent  points  will be missed.  
The sum compensation sought  is less than £150,000 and therefore within  our 
services remit.
Ref: DRN34267063Hed also like his request to be passed on to SJP if it agrees even though our service  
doesnt.
Should our decision be substandard, biased and unfair, with no substantial  increase 
in the compensation offer, he will seek legal advice  to expose the cover-up.   
£2,000 compensation for the trouble and upset having to respond  to the investigators 
conclusions. 
SJP has declined to increase its offer and feels its offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Our investigator having considered the additional points wasnt  persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he reiterated  that he had considered  all the points and having done  so he 
has upheld the complaint  in favour  of Mr T. However, notwithstanding  the points made in 
response to his view he felt the redress offered  by the business  was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. 
Im going  to partially uphold this complaint as Im not satisfied that the business  has 
treated Mr T fairly. 
However, on the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite what Mr T says,  Im satisfied 
that the compensation most recently  offered by the business  as shown below  is broadly 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances:  
o£5,000 ex-gratia payment  comprised of:
a refund  of £3,576.  36 (equivalent to the 5% ISA fees) with 8% simple interest;
a payment  of £1,423.65 for trouble and upset. 
oA refund of any EWC.
oA refund of any tax liability arising from early encashment of the bond.   
But before I explain  why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the 
strength of feeling  Mr T has about this matter.  
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised under a separate  subject  
heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. I appreciate  
this can be frustrating, but it doesnt  mean Im not considering the pertinent  points. 
I appreciate Mr T feels our service  thus far has been biased towards the business, but I dont  
agree and Im sorry he feels that way. My role is to consider  the evidence  presented  by him 
and SJP, and reach  what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on 
the facts of the case, rather than take any sides. 
Ref: DRN34267064Its not my role to punish the business  for any regulatory breaches, thats the role of the 
industry regulator the FCA.  My role is to address  compensation  for any financial losses for 
which SJP is responsible and/or compensation for any trouble and upset caused. This isnt 
the same  as offering Mr T compensation just because the business  has breached a 
regulation as thats not within my role.    
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation  and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal  Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been  given, whats more likely  than not to have  happened.  
It may be that a court in due course  reaches a different decision because it has a different set of 
rules. That doesnt  mean  our approach,  or my decision, is wrong. 
Im aware Mr T has numerous  questions about  why the business acted in the way that it did, but 
my inability to answer these questions doesnt  prevent  me from reaching a decision in this case 
either. It also doesnt mean that I or the investigator thinks Mr T is a problem or that hes 
incapable of understanding whats going  on.  
Im aware that the business  has principally  upheld the complaint. It broadly accepts that it 
hasnt provided  Mr T with a service  he could expect and has in response, without prejudice 
offered a compensation package. 
I also note that Mr T has made  a service complaint in respect of numerous issues which  is 
being dealt with separately. I dont intend to deal with or comment  upon  those issues  here.  
2013 suitability  letter and fees
I appreciate Mr T says he didnt receive  the August  2013 suitability  letter. On balance  Im 
satisfied that the letter   produced shortly  after his meeting with SJP in 2013  and correctly  
addressed to his address at the time  was more likely (than not) to have  been  sent.  I dont 
think proof of dispatch is necessary. 
  
Of course,  its possible the letter wasnt sent,  but I think its unlikely that the letter  wouldve 
been produced  and then not sent. I think its likely  that Mr T didnt receive the letter, as letters 
can go missing in the post. But I cant  hold the business responsible for the shortcomings of 
a third-party postal service, if thats indeed what caused the letter to go astray.  
I dont know why SJP didnt mention the 2013 letter or the 5% fees in respect of the ISA all 
this time that Mr T has been asking about  fees.  I dont think  I need to answer that question in 
order to reach a decision in this case.  But in my opinion,  this isnt evidence  that SJP 
fraudulently produced the letter in 2018. The reason  it doesnt have the advisers  signature  is 
because it isnt a copy of the actual  letter sent from the adviser.  
 
The point is that it didnt refer to this letter  and is one of the key reasons why I think this 
complaint should  be upheld   because it failed to provide  clear  answers  to Mr Ts questions  
thus significantly adding  to his trouble and upset, and feelings of being  turned away  with 
inadequate answers. 
That notwithstanding, on balance I think SJPs offer to refund the fees charged  on Mr Ts ISA 
 equivalent to the 5% fees with 8% simple interest, is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Ref: DRN34267065Mr T refers to 49.4% as the loss of growth of investment, but thats not what Im looking at 
here. The 8% is a simple  interest payment  in line with our civil court system  which is for 
Mr Ts lack of use of this money, its not compensation for investment growth.  But  like the 
investigator Im not persuaded that even if Mr T had received the 2013  letter  or the 2018 
explanation sooner, he wouldve done anything differently. 
Providing that SJP has kept an accurate record of its accounts  as its generally obliged  to 
under FCA guidelines  I dont think it should be difficult for it to provide  Mr T with answers to 
his questions about the fees in respect  of the bond and ISA, or provide an explanation of 
how its calculated the refund of ISA fees even though it may not have a single document 
that does that.
I appreciate that Mr T isnt so much concerned about the level of fees, and he appreciates 
that fees can be higher or lower depending on the business, but he feels that there are other 
fees that havent hitherto  been disclosed.  
I cant say that the fees were unlikely to have had an impact on the growth  of the ISA, but 
the complaint  isnt upheld on the basis of the fees being applied  incorrectly or unjustifiably 
but on the basis that perhaps fess couldve been made clearer and sooner. And on this basis  
the business has offered  as a goodwill  gesture  to refund the fees with interest which I 
dont think is unreasonable. 
Im aware that the Retail Distribution Review (RDR) was a review  by the FCA that among  
other things,  sought  to improve  transparency in the communication  of investment charges. 
As a result, financial  advisers were  required to provide upfront information about fees for the 
service they provide. On balance, Im satisfied SJP did this with its 2013  letter but obviously 
hasnt been sufficiently clear enough in answering Mr Ts questions  since then and he 
remains unhappy. 
SJP advisers, fund managers and the administration centre 
I understand that the advisers are tied to SJP  commonly  referred  to as tied advisers   so 
unlike an independent financial adviser (IFA),  they cant advice on the products available  on 
the wider market. In other words, they can only sell their own products. This didnt prevent 
Mr T going elsewhere if he wanted  to. 
Fund managers on the other hand manage  the investment in line with what  was agreed  with 
the adviser/investor, in the clients best interest. Based on that mandate  fund managers can 
choose the funds they invest in and thats what theyre paid to do. If Mr T wanted more 
control over the specific funds his money  was invested in, I understand the only way he 
could do this with SJP, bearing  in mind it cant speak for other businesses, is through  its 
Discretionary Fund  Management  or brokering service but it would mean  a lot more 
responsibility for him. 
I appreciate Mr T wants to know about  the qualifications of the advisers/fund managers, it 
may be that SJP is able to assist, its certainly not our role to act as a post box or obtain  this 
information for him. 
Im unable to say that Mr T was in any way misled about the business structure and operation 
of SJP. The information regarding this issue was available on its website for Mr T to view. 
Despite Mr Ts concerns back offices  are generally there to support its advisers if possible. 
Ref: DRN34267066I appreciate Mr T was sent correspondence  that wasnt  to the standard  he could expect  
one letter had no contact  details and the other  letter was confusing as Mr T was expecting  a 
letter from someone else. In the circumstances I appreciate it will have caused him trouble 
and upset but I dont think this warrants a compensation payment of £500 for the letters.
Mr T may very well disagree with SJPs business set up and structure, but that doesnt mean 
its done anything  wrong. Theres nothing that Ive seen that means its wrong  to have 
partners. I appreciate he refers to the smaller businesses that get a higher commission for 
using the businesses brand  whether this is correct  I know that Mr T is already aware that 
the business charges higher fees than many  other  businesses. But that doesnt  mean  the 
business is wrong, but its set up may explain why its not been so easy  and straightforward 
for it to explain its workings  and fees structure  in a way thats acceptable  to Mr T.  
Investment performance
On the face of the evidence it seems  that the investment bond performed  differently because 
the contribution  time was different.  In other words, investing different amounts at different 
times had an impact on the investment which  I dont think is an unreasonable  explanation. 
Even if both were invested in funds that were similar  and therefore were expected to 
perform in a similar  way  I understand that different funds are charged and taxed differently 
and therefore  this is also likely to have had an impact on the overall investment returns even 
if the funds had generally behaved in a similar  way.  
Considering the points  made by Mr T I think this information couldve been provided to him 
sooner and therefore is likely to have had an impact on the level of trouble  and upset he was 
facing. This might be one of the reasons why Mr T feels that SJP hasnt been  forthcoming or 
upfront about  the issues surrounding  fees and charges, and therefore takes a dim view on its 
ability to be fair.   
I note the points Mr T makes  about  the graph/data depicting  performance, but despite 
criticising the investigator for accepting the data on face value, he hasnt provided any 
information about why the investigator was wrong to do this. 
I can see that Mr T wants this data and despite requesting this information hasnt been provided  
with it. If its able to, I think the business should  provide  this information to satisfy  any concerns 
he has about the performance of the investment. Again  Im conscious  that Mr T has moved his 
investments away from the business.
EWC
Given that Mr T rejected  SJPs offer of compensation as full and final settlement of the 
complaint, and there wasnt an option to partially accept the offer.  It simply did what it was 
entitled to do as part of its terms and conditions  and that was to apply the EWC on the bond 
that was being encashed in early. 
If Mr T decides  to accept the offer of compensation, the business  has offered to refund  this 
charge in its entirely which  I think is fair and reasonable.   
Ref: DRN34267067Money not invested 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  Mr T says,  Im not persuaded that 
SJP is responsible for any financial loss he may have sustained.  
Notwithstanding his reservations/loss of trust issues, he chose  not to invest his money 
because he had concerns about SJP. That decision was made of his own volition. This 
doesnt mean the business is responsible for the consequences of his decision. 
I appreciate the points  Mr T makes but Ive no way of knowing what  he was likely to have 
done with his money, but in the circumstances Im unable to say he was more  likely than not 
to have invested in the SJP bond. Ive seen no evidence of Mr T attempting  to invest  his 
money in this way. I agree  with the investigator that if he wanted  to invest  his money the 
opportunity was there, but he chose not to. 
Clarity of general information 
SJP was happy to transfer Mr T to a new adviser  because he was unhappy with his current  
adviser. Im satisfied it did its best to clarify the issues  including death benefit  certainly  
make clear  the correct  position  but I dont think Mr T deserves any compensation for this or 
the time hes spent  looking  for a new provider for his investments because he no longer 
wishes to be with SJP.  Im not persuaded that hes suffered any financial  loss in this regard 
for which SJP is responsible.  And  certainly no obvious adverse consequence from the initial 
advice he was given  about whats likely to happen upon his death.  
Taxation on investment bond 
Just because there were  other options available  that couldve meant the bond  was taxed 
differently doesnt  mean that the bond was mis-sold  or was unsuitable for Mr T. It certainly 
doesnt mean it was mis-old because of the taxation  it might  be liable to upon  encashment.  
 
Nevertheless, I think the business latest offer to pay any tax liability that arises as a result of 
encashing the bond early  is fair and reasonable, subject to evidence  of liability. Even  if I was 
to find the business was responsible for the taxation issue,  I wouldnt ask it to do anything 
differently to what its offered to do. 
Online portal  
I appreciate Mr T didnt have access to the performance section of his investment portal 
online. But I note it was something  that neither he, nor SJP,  were  aware of until recent 
conservations with SJP.  So, despite the points he makes about what  he couldve done  if 
only he had access to the other feature   he does so only with the power of hindsight.  
Nevertheless, he still had access to the value of his investments and other facilities and so 
any trouble and upset  wouldve been  limited. 
But I also note that there  was some confusion about  why his bond  value wasnt showing 
when he though it should. Given everything Mr T was going through  I think  this was likely to 
have added to his trouble and upset. But I understand  there were some  earlier  issues 
regarding the instructions  to transfer  from his new business  that could only come from Mr T 
and when that was sorted  SJP had encashed  his bond and that may possibly explain why it 
wasnt showing.
Ref: DRN34267068I appreciate Mr T thinks that this is evidence of a fraud  and of SJP illegally profiteering from 
an investment that it said had been closed but was still there. Despite Mr Ts take on the 
matter, in this instance and based  on this alone  Im unable to safely  say that this was 
fraudulent rather than an oversight on the part of SJP.
I understand that SJP in the absence of any specific instructions and in an effort  to resolve  
matters quickly paid the proceeds in a cheque to the address that it had on file. I understand 
that Mr T had moved, and so had to take time out to collect the cheque and pay it in 
elsewhere. Whilst Mr T might not  given the breakdown in the relationship  feel it necessary 
to update SJP with his new address, I cant blame SJP for doing  what  it did in the absence of 
any instructions from Mr T. There was no reason for it not to pay the money by cheque. 
Media 
I appreciate the points  Mr T makes about the news articles regarding SJP.  But Im not 
looking at whether (or not) theres any substance to these allegations.  Im only considering 
the complaint  points  made by Mr T against  SJP regardless of the headline international 
news it may (or may not) be making.  
So, in conclusion, on the face of the evidence, and on balance,  I dont think  the business has 
treated Mr T fairly. I think the business couldve provided a better service and has failed to 
do so. I also think it couldve been clearer and more to the point in its correspondence  with 
Mr T over the course of the years. Evidently Mr T is very upset  and feels  that hes getting 
nowhere and thats one of the main  reasons  that hes decided to move  to another  business,  
and consequently his relationship with SJP is over.  
In the circumstances overall,  on balance I think the business most recent offer is fair and 
reasonable. I think it broadly places him in the position he wouldve been in had the business 
done things properly. I also think £1,423.65 compensation for trouble and upset is broadly 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  
I appreciate Mr T will be thoroughly unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what he wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate  his 
deep frustration  and anguish, Im not going  to ask the business to do anything further than 
pay its recent proposed  redress.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to give Mr T what  he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I partially uphold this complaint. However,  I think  the 
compensation offered by St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc is broadly fair and 
reasonable. 
In the circumstances, if Mr T accepts the offer made  by the business,  St. Jamess Place 
Wealth Management Plc should pay Mr T the following  redress:
o£5,000 ex-gratia payment  comprised of:
A refund of £3,576.  36 (equivalent to the 5% ISA fees) with 8% simple interest.
A payment of £1,423.65 for the trouble and upset caused. 
oA refund of any EWC.
Ref: DRN34267069oA refund of any tax liability arising from early encashment of the bond.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3426706