K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  that Virgin Money  plc set up a direct  debit  to collect payments from her 
business account despite her not being a customer. 
background
On 31 December 2018 Virgin Money  collected  £25 via direct debit from Miss Js business 
current account. Miss J noticed on 9 January  2019 and cancelled the direct debit instruction 
with her bank. She went on to contact Virgin Money to ask why it had taken a payment from 
her. 
Miss J was passed to a fraud team and it began  an investigation. Miss J was told she would 
be notified of the outcome but Virgin Money didnt follow  up with her after its investigation 
was completed.  Virgin Money says the direct debit instruction  was set up in error due to the 
way an account  number was keyed. 
On 7 February 2019 Miss J called Virgin Money  as she hadnt heard anything further. During 
the call Miss J was advised  to contact her bank and raise a direct  debit indemnity claim. 
Miss J says she asked the call handler  to raise a Data  Subject Access Request (DSAR) and 
they agreed to call her back  later that day. But no DSAR  was raised and no call back was 
made.
Miss J complained and Virgin Money  responded on 14 March 2019. Virgin Money  explained 
that its investigation hadnt found any evidence of fraud. It provided information about  how 
direct debits are set up and said the instruction used to collect £25 from Miss Js business 
account had been arranged in error.  Virgin Money  said it would transfer Miss J the £25 if her 
bank hadnt already completed a direct  debit indemnity claim and offered a further £75. 
Miss J referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator.  The 
investigator upheld  the complaint and asked  Virgin  Money  to increase the compensation 
offered from £75 to £225. Virgin Money didnt  accept so Miss Js complaint has been  passed 
to me to make a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Miss J is upset at Virgin Moneys actions. An unrecognised payment 
was taken from her business account and has caused an unnecessary amount of worry. 
That was compounded when Virgin Money failed to contact Miss J with the outcome of its 
investigation as promised or deal with her DSAR.  Im pleased Virgin Money has accepted 
that the payment it took wasnt due and sent Miss J a cheque  to repay the £25 it took.  
As Virgin Money accepts  the direct debit  was set up incorrectly and that the payment it took 
wasnt due, I now need to decide how to fairly  resolve this complaint. Miss J has given us a 
lot of detail concerning how the issues shes raised impacted her. Shes told us that the 
funds were taken from her business account  and that shes  previously been a victim of 
fraud. As a result, whilst she was waiting  for Virgin Money to tell her what  happened she 
took the step of checking her account  several times  a day which caused stress and anxiety. 
Ref: DRN36020902Miss J explains that she was anxious and concerned that she didnt hear back  from Virgin  
Money as promised. I appreciate that £25 is a reasonably modest amount but I find Miss Js 
comments compelling. I can understand how an unrecognised payment, regardless of the 
amount, would cause  serious concerns about fraud. And the fact Virgin Money wasnt  able to 
immediately explain what had happened  heightened Miss Js concerns. 
Miss Js upset was compounded when Virgin Money  decided  not to inform her of the 
outcome of its investigation. I appreciate  there was no fraud in this case, but Virgin Money 
owed Miss J an explanation of why it had taken £25 from her and should have taken steps to 
reassure her that she hadnt  been a victim  of fraud. From what Ive seen, its clear the impact 
of the situation  was significant for Miss J and made worse by delays. 
The investigator upheld  Miss Js complaint and asked Virgin  Money to increase  the 
compensation offered to £225.  Virgin Money didnt agree and said it thought the existing £75 
offered was fair and reasonable. But it didnt say why it thought  the £75 figure was fair. Ive 
thought carefully  about everything Miss J has told us while setting  out how the payment  and 
subsequent investigation impacted her. I agree with the investigator that £75 isnt fair. Im 
satisfied the £225 figure  they recommended more accurately  reflects the impact of the 
issues raised on Miss J. As a result, Im upholding Miss Js complaint and increasing the 
award. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Virgin  Money plc to pay a total of £225 
in addition to the £25 payment it has already refunded. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3602090