K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that his insurance broker, Devitt Insurance Services Ltd (Devitt),  misled
him into believing that his motorbike insurance  policy would automatically renew without any
further action  being  needed  on his part when the previous years policy came to an end.
This didnt  happen,  so that when his motorbike was stolen some  three  months later he found
that he was uninsured. Mr S is represented in bringing this complaint by his solicitor whom
Ill call Ms K.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 April 2019, a copy  of which is 
attached to, and forms part of, this decision.
Mr S said that he accepted my provisional  decision.  Devitt responded to say, in summary, 
that:
it thought Mr S should have noticed the premium as high as £486.84  not being taken 
from his credit card account;
it provided a recording  of another phone call which it said indicated that Mr S was 
expecting further documentation once the policy renewed; and
it said details of the claim and police report hadnt been provided  so normal  
investigations hadnt taken place to validate,  or not, the claim.
I allowed  Devitt a further period of 21 days to provide  me with any evidence that the claim 
would have been turned  down if the policy had been  in force.  Devitt  has now confirmed to us 
that the claim would  have  been accepted as valid if the policy  had been in force.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I remain of the view that it wasnt unreasonable of Mr S not to notice the premium  hadnt 
been taken from his credit card account.
Ive listened to the further phone recording Devitt sent us. Devitts  operator was ready to take 
the premium there and then. But she made  a mistake about one matter, which she 
acknowledged. So Mr S said he wanted to see the details of what  he was covered for. He 
checked he could  cancel within the cooling off period after he had read the detail.
Also the figures  for the compulsory excess didnt tally with what  Mr S was expecting  and had 
discussed previously.  Devitts operator said she would discuss this with Devitts  
representative J and ring him the next day.
As Devitt has said, it tried to ring Mr S the next day, but couldnt  get hold of him. However 
the next thing  that happened  was that on 17 March 2018 Mr S received the letter  from Devitt  
with the revised  renewal  notice which was all as he was expecting.
Ref: DRN34893172He relied on the wording  of this letter that he didnt need to do anything and his insurance  
would then renew automatically  on 26 March  2018.  Nothing in this further phone  call makes 
me think it was unreasonable for Mr S to do this. 
So I still think Mr S acted  reasonably in relying  on the 17 March  letter  he received from Devitt 
to conclude that his policy had been  renewed automatically and that no further action was 
required on his part.
I think its fair and reasonable that Devitt  pays Mr S:
compensation of £10,898.16, being £11,885, less the policy excess of £500  and the 
premium of £486.84;
interest on £10,898.16 from 29 April 2019  until settlement to compensate  Mr S for the 
further delay while Devitt considered if there  was any evidence that would have led to 
a claim being turned  down; and
£350 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience its error has caused him. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint, and order Devitt Insurance Services  Ltd to pay 
Mr S:
1.compensation of £10,898.16, being £11,885, less the policy excess of £500  and the 
premium of £486.84;
2.interest on £10,898.16 from 29 April 2019  until settlement for the reason I have 
mentioned above (1); and
3.compensation of £350 for the distress and inconvenience Devitts error  has caused 
Mr S. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
(1)   If Devitt  considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr S a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue  and Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN34893173COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION  OF 15 APRIL 2019
complaint
Mr S complains that his insurance  broker, Devitt Insurance Services Ltd (Devitt), misled him into 
believing that his motorbike  insurance policy would automatically renew without any further action 
being needed  on his part when the previous  years policy  came to an end.
This didnt happen, so that when his motorbike was stolen some three months later he found that he 
was uninsured. Mr S is represented in bringing  this complaint by his solicitor whom  Ill call Ms K.
background
Mr S had arranged insurance for his motorbikes  though  Devitt  since 2013.  In early March 2018 Mr S 
received a renewal  notice  from Devitt. In previous years his policy had renewed each year 
automatically, and Devitt  held his credit card details to enable this to be done. 
This year, the renewal  notice  said his premium  would  increase by £450 to over £1,300 for his two 
bikes. Mr S went  online and found he could insure his bikes for less than this, including by insuring  
with Devitt online. So he rang Devitt and asked what it was prepared  to do. He said he didnt  want to 
renew policy automatically at the quoted figure, which Devitt acknowledged.
On 14 March  2018,  Mr S was phoned by one of Devitts  representatives whom Ill call J. He told Mr 
S that he could arrange renewal with the same underwriters as previously at a premium of £486.84.  
He asked if Mr S wanted  to renew  over the phone there and then. 
Mr S wanted  to check the terms offered and also look at alternatives.  J said that was fine. He would 
put a quotation in the post. If Mr S wanted  to accept it he should get back in touch. In the meantime 
he said the policy would  not renew  automatically.
On 17 March  2018,  Mr S received a revised  renewal notice from Devitt dated  
14 March  2018. Because of the importance of this, I set it out in full below:
Dear Mr S
Your Motorcycle Insurance is due for renewal on 26th March 2018...[in bold type]
Thank you for choosing xxx xxxx to Insure you over the past 12 months.
We are unable  to offer renewal from your existing insurer. However, as we constantly check our panel  
of insurers  to find our customers  the best deals,  we are pleased to tell you that we can offer you a 
renewal price of 486.84.
Have you checked that your Insurance cover still meets your needs?  You may also consider shopping 
around to find the best deal and cover for you.
What you need to do now [in bold type]
 NOTHING - Your  policy  will automatically  renew on 26th March 2018 by collecting payment  7 
working days prior to your renewal date 
Important: In the event that the payment  declines  your policy will not be automatically renewed, if your 
card details have changed,  please contact us
Ref: DRN34893174 If you do not want us to proceed, please call us on the above number as soon as possible
 Policy documents  are enclosed for your reference - please  check  that all of the information  is correct 
and ensure that you read your policy  Terms  and Conditions
A full breakdown of this year's renewal price and last years premium  taking account of any changes  
you have made during the year can be found  on the next page. If you have any questions about  your 
renewal then please call our Customer  Service
Team on the above number and they will be happy to help you.
We look forward to Insuring you again - thank you for choosing xxx xxxx.
Yours sincerely
Mr S took this letter at face value  as an offer to renew  his insurance for the premium quoted that 
Devitt would  proceed to process unless he now rang it to say he didnt want  it. As he was now happy 
to proceed he did nothing more and assumed his insurance had been  renewed.
Unfortunately, in early  July 2018 one of Mr Ss bikes was stolen and hasnt been recovered. When  he 
rang Devitt to make  a claim he found that the policy  hadnt been renewed. His previous policy had 
lapsed on 26 March 2018, and so the theft wasnt covered by any policy. 
Mr S complained to Devitt. He said its letter  dated  14 March 2018  had led him to believe his policy 
would be automatically renewed. So he thought his claim  should be covered. 
Devitt didnt  accept his complaint. It said the phone conversations on 14 March 2018 made  it clear 
that the policy  wouldnt auto renew,  and Mr S needed to contact Devitt if he wanted to accept the 
amended quote. It said:
Whilst our letter dated 14" March stated that we were going to automatically renew  your policy this 
crossed with the discussion you had with us about your policy and request not to auto renew.  Due to 
this payment was not collected, based on the requirement of you having to contact  us.
Mr S complained to us. He asked for:
1.A declaration that the policy  should  have  been  auto-renewed;
2.A direction that Devitt  place Mr S back into the position he would  have been in if the policy 
had been incepted in accordance  with the terms of the 14 March 2018 Renewal Notice; and
3.Compensation of £14,000 being the sum which  would  have been paid to Mr S under the 
terms of the policy of insurance (less any excess under the policy and the policy premium of 
£486.84).
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld  for the following  reasons:
Devitt had followed  what it had agreed with Mr S in cancelling autorenewal;
she said in previous  years at renewal Mr S had received two sets of papers. The first before 
renewal set out the quotation for renewal. The second, after renewal, confirmed  the policy 
had been renewed and include the certificate of insurance.
In 2018, Mr S only received  the first set, not the second. Although the two sets of papers  were 
similar, there were  differences between them;
Ref: DRN34893175Devitt sent an email  to Mr S on 28 March 2018 notifying him that his policy  had lapsed.  Mr S 
said he hadnt  received  this but the investigator was satisfied that it had been sent;  and
Mr Ss credit  card statement showed that no payment had been  taken by Devitt for the 
renewal premium in March  2018. The investigator said this would have been  another  
indication that the insurance hadnt  renewed.
So the investigator  thought  that in spite of sending  the letter saying Mr S needed to do nothing,  
Devitt hadnt made an error for the reasons  she had set out.
Ms K responded to say, in summary, that:
although Mr S agreed during the phone conversations  on 14 March 2018 that the policy 
shouldnt be renewed automatically, this was superseded by the later renewal  notice he 
received on 17 March  2018 offering renewal at a much  lower premium and saying he need do 
nothing for renewal to proceed;
the onus following  the letter of 14 March 2018 was on Devitt to take the premium from Mr Ss 
credit card account.  Mr S wasnt obliged  to check his account to ensure  this had been done;  
and
the email that Devitt claimed  to have sent on 28 March 2018 was addressed to an old email 
address of Mr S. Mr S had previously advised Devitt of his new email address. Mr S had 
arranged for his old email  address  to be checked and there  was no trace of the email being  
received, or indeed any emails from Devitt since 2014.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In responding to Mr Ss complaint Devitt  said the 14 March 2018 renewal letter  crossed  with the 
discussion between  Devitt  and Mr S about not renewing  the policy automatically. I dont think thats 
quite correct. I think the discussion took place  on 14 March 2018. J said he would send the revised 
quotation to Mr S. Mr S received it on 17 March 2018.
In Mr Ss mind this was a new offer. It said that to accept it he needed  to do nothing. The policy 
would now automatically renew  with the new offer. So he took the letter at face value  and thought  the 
policy would now renew. I dont think this was an unreasonable decision for Mr S to take in the 
circumstances.
Mr S said he checks his credit card statement online, principally to see nothing  is there that shouldnt 
be. I think it is harder to notice that a payment  is missing  than to see an additional payment that 
shouldnt be there. So I dont think  any weight should be attached to the fact that Mr S didnt notice 
that some £400 hadnt been taken from his credit card account.
Devitt says it sent notice to Mr S by email that his policy  had lapsed. I would  have expected it to tell 
Mr S this in the circumstances. But having listened to the phone calls between  Devitt and Mr S, its 
clear that Devitt didnt send  the email  to the address  Mr S gave it.
Instead it seems to have sent it to an old email address of Mr S. Mr S has since had this checked, and 
theres no trace of it having arrived. So I find that Devitt didnt notify Mr S that the policy  hadnt 
renewed.
I agree that the second set of papers  confirming the policy had been renewed didnt arrive. But all the 
information Mr S was expecting was in the first set. To a layman,  the two sets of papers are very 
similar. So I cant say the absence of the second set should have put Mr S on enquiry.  
Ref: DRN34893176I conclude that the letter Devitt sent Mr S, which he received on 17 March 2018, wrongly  said his 
policy would renew automatically,  and he needed  to do nothing. It wasnt unreasonable for Mr S to 
accept what the letter said and take no further action to renew his policy. And nothing happened after 
that which  reasonably should have  put him on enquiry about the policy.
I cant  at this stage require the policy  to be set up. However I can require Devitt to compensate Mr S 
for the loss its actions in sending an incorrect letter have caused him. Im not aware  of any reason 
why the policy wouldnt  have covered  Mr S had it been in place. So if the policy had been renewed, 
Mr S would have been able to claim  under the policy for the loss of his bike.  The amount of his claim 
would have been the market value  of the bike on the date it was stolen.
Mr S assesses the value of the bike when  it was stolen at £14,000. I asked the investigator to check  
the value of a bike of the same make, specification, age and mileage as Mr Ss bike with the trade 
valuation guides.  These are based on likely retail transactions conducted for such bikes at the 
relevant date. In our experience, these provide the most reliable evidence  of valuation.
One guide  gave a value  of £11,850, and another, a value  of £11,920. Taking  the average of the two 
figures, I asses the market value of Mr Ss bike when  stolen at £11,885.
So I think its fair and reasonable that Devitt pays Mr S £11,885, less any policy excess and the 
premium of £486.84. I think it should pay him a further £350 as compensation  for the distress and 
inconvenience its error  has caused him. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments and evidence I receive from 
either Mr S or from Devitt  by 29 April 2019, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend to order Devitt 
Insurance Services Ltd to pay Mr S:
1.compensation of £11,885 (less any policy  excess and the premium  of £486.84) for misleading 
him into thinking  on 17 March 2018 that his policy would  now renew  automatically; and
2. £350  as compensation for the distress and inconvenience its error has caused him. 
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3489317