K820x#14Complaint
Mr P complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) has not met his claim for a damaged 
laptop under  his travel insurance  policy, and with its handling of his claim.
Background
Mr P has a policy of travel  insurance underwritten by Aviva.  Any reference to Aviva in this 
decision includes its agents.  
Whilst on an adventure trip abroad Mr P has explained his laptop stopped  working 
periodically and then completely. When Mr P returned, he called Aviva to make a claim for 
accidental damage  to his laptop.  Mr P explained he didnt  know  what had happened to his 
laptop or what the problem was, but it was no longer working.  Mr P said it might be a 
software issue or a virus and the laptop may not be damaged at all.
Mr P was told to get a damage report and took his laptop to a repair  shop, which said it had 
a faulty motherboard and memory socket.  
Aviva rejected Mr Ps claim. It said the laptop had suffered a technical  fault and there was no 
evidence that a specific incident  caused  the damage. In response Mr P said he had twice 
dropped his rucksack  containing his laptop  while  on holiday and it stopped  working after this. 
Mr P said he hadnt mentioned this previously because he wasnt  asked. Aviva  maintained  
the damage wasnt caused by a single incident.  It also set out the fraud condition in the 
policy and claimed  Mr P said the laptop  had been  dropped to get cover  under the policy.  
When Mr P brought his complaint  to this service, he said the laptop repair company hadnt 
told the truth and may have  tampered with his laptop.
Our investigation so far
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ps complaint. He said the damage to Mr Ps laptop wasnt 
accidental and Aviva  acted reasonably in quoting the fraud  condition.  Mr P didnt  accept the 
investigators opinion  and asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  
Anthony Coyne  issued  a provisional decision on 24 January 2020. In summary, he said 
Aviva acted reasonably  in not meeting Mr Ps claim. Aviva had relied on evidence  from an 
engineer which confirmed the problem  with Mr Ps laptop was technical.  The ombudsman  
went on to say that Aviva should not have  referred  to the fraud  condition.  He accepted Mr P 
was never  asked if there had been a specific incident causing damage and said he didnt 
know how the damage occurred. He went on to say it was understandable Mr P told Aviva 
his bag had been dropped when his claim was declined. But by this stage Aviva  knew the 
laptop wasnt working because of a technical issue. Ive set out below the findings in Mr 
Coynes provisional  decision.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I intend not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint.
Mr P has asked  that we dont issue a decision yet, he states that he needs more  time to
communicate his side of the case. In mid-2019 Mr P asked for an extension,  which was
granted. Towards the end of 2019, Mr P asked for a further extension. I asked Mr P to
provide me with further information  by early January 2020.  Mr P has now asked  me to
Ref: DRN36611402provide him with more time. I must  be fair to both sides and Aviva would like this matter  to be
resolved just as much  as Mr P does.  I must  treat both parties  the same, if Aviva were looking
for ongoing extensions, I would also have to consider  if that was fair to Mr P. In this case  I
believe that Mr P has had enough time to provide any further information that he would like
me to consider before I issue this provisional decision.
Ive reviewed the evidence and considered the accounts and arguments of both sides,  but
Im only going to address those issues that I think are important in deciding  the actual
complaint about  whether Avivas decision to decline the claim was fair.
Ive reviewed the case notes, calls and communications between Mr P and Aviva,  this has
given me a good understanding of the timeline of events and communication between Mr P
and Aviva.
Mr Ps complaint relates  to his laptop  and the personal possessions  section of his travel
insurance policy. Mr Ps policy with Aviva says:  Laptops are considered as valuables.  And
Aviva will cover you for loss, theft or accidental damage to your Baggage, including
valuables.
Aviva said that the laptops technical fault wasnt covered under the terms of the policy,  as it
wasnt accidental damage. I think Aviva  acted reasonably here.  In his first call to Aviva, Mr P
is very clear that he doesnt know what happened  to the laptop.  He specifically says that the
laptop isnt damaged and that it may be a software  issue. A computer engineer confirms that
it was a technical fault. This confirmed that the laptop issue  was a technical fault and not
accidental damage,  Aviva  informed Mr P that they would not be able to cover his claim.  Im
satisfied that Avivas decision to decline the claim was fair and reasonable in this case.
It was after Aviva declined  Mr Ps claim that he said hed dropped the laptop  twice during his
trip. Aviva said that if this had happened, he would have told them this during the first call.
Mr P is unhappy that Aviva drew his attention to the fraud condition of his policy. This section
states; If your claim is in any way dishonest  or exaggerated, we will not pay any costs or
benefits under this policy and we may cancel this policy  immediately and backdate the
cancellation to the date of the fraudulent claim. Aviva said that it was clear that Mr P had
introduced the laptop dropping on the floor, in order to try and obtain cover  under the policy,
as he knew the laptop had suffered a technical fault.
I have listened  to both calls between Mr P and Aviva. In the first call Mr P was asked Can
you explain  to me what happened?. Mr P explains that he doesnt know what happened.
However, at no time in the call is Mr P asked  if the laptop had been dropped  or if there  was
an incident.  In the second call with Aviva  around six weeks  later after his claim had been
declined, Mr P stated that hed dropped  the bag containing his laptop twice  during his trip.
Aviva asked Mr P why he hadnt mentioned  these  incidents during his initial call, when he
first registered his claim. Mr P said that Aviva hadnt  asked him if there had been an incident.
And that he hadnt  mentioned dropping the bag containing the laptop as he wasnt  100%
certain that these drops had caused the damage. Mr P goes on to say that he cant  say for
certain at what point during the trip the damage  occurred as the bag containing the laptop
was potentially dropped and bounced on a number of occasions. Mr P says that hes not an
expert and could not be 100% certain  what caused  the laptop to stop working.
Although Mr P has introduced this new information  about dropping the bag containing the
laptop, hes still saying  hes not sure if this caused the issue  or if it was something else. Of
Ref: DRN36611403course, we now know from the engineers evidence that the issue  was a technical fault. Mr P
is not saying that dropping the bag containing  the laptop caused  the laptop  issue.  He is
saying that its possible  that this caused the laptop issue.
When his claim  was declined due to there being no specific incident, I can see how this may
have prompted  Mr P to tell Aviva about  the incidents  that had potentially in his mind caused
the laptop issues. At this time, we already knew that the laptop issue was a technical fault
and wasnt accidental damage,  so Mr Ps claim was never going  to succeed from that point
and his new account wasnt going to assist him in any event. I think its more likely  than not
that Mr P was just relaying that facts  as they came  to him. I dont think that Aviva  should
have introduced the fraud clause into the argument.
However, Aviva have confirmed that they havent  recorded any fraud markers against Mr P
or added Mr P to any fraud database  for this claim.
As Ive said,  Ive reviewed  the case notes, calls and communications between Mr P and
Aviva. Aviva  investigated  the circumstances thoroughly and rightly declined  the claim. Aviva
made enquiries with Mr P and with the laptop  shop to find out what had caused  the issues
with the laptop. Im satisfied that their enquiries  were  proportionate, timely and relevant and 
they were entitled  to decline Mr Ps claim under the terms of the policy.
Aviva responded to the provisional  decision and said they had nothing further to add. Mr P 
didnt accept the provisional decision. He said:
-Some of the information in the background to the provisional decision wasnt 
accurate.
-The information Aviva  provided to this service and Mr P was incomplete and had 
been manipulated. 
-Aviva  hasnt provided a written  report on Mr Ps laptop as required by the policy. Mr P 
says the conclusions in the provisional decision are based on a report  that doesnt 
exist.  
-In response to a subject access request  the laptop repair  company appeared to say 
they had never spoken to Aviva in January 2019 and Mr P says the date of the call 
was falsified.
-He has other technical evidence to show the laptop repair company made  
deliberately false  verbal statements. Mr P would like a written report  that could be 
used in court  to explain what the repair company did with his laptop.  
-A laptop can be damaged without showing any physical signs  of damage.
As Anthony  Coyne has now left the service, Ive reviewed the complaint again to reach  a 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
Ref: DRN36611404conclusion as the ombudsman who issued the provisional decision and broadly for the same  
reasons. 
Mr Ps travel  policy says,
We will cover you for loss, theft or accidental damage to your :
(a)Baggage, including valuables .
Laptops are included in the definition of valuables  in Mr Ps policy.
The term accidental damage isnt defined  in Mr Ps policy.  This service says that when a 
term isnt defined, we apply a common interpretation and say the damage  should result from 
a single incident and be unforeseen, unintended and cause physical damage.
To conclude Mr P has a valid claim I need  to be satisfied its more  likely than not that Mr Ps 
laptop stopped working properly as a result of accidental damage.  Like Avivas  claims 
handlers Im not an expert, and so must  rely on evidence from someone who is. Mr P 
provided Aviva with emails hed exchanged  with the laptop repair  company about his laptop.  
These show that in November 2018 the repair company told Mr P his laptop needed a 
motherboard repair and could be fixed in 2/3 days for £145. Later, the repair  company told 
Mr P it had been able to repair his laptop and get it powering up, but it had a faulty  memory 
socket. The laptop repair company said it couldnt further repair  Mr Ps laptop. 
Aviva called the repair  company in January  2019 to establish  if Mr P had a valid claim for 
accidental damage and spoke to an assistant and then to the engineer who looked at Mr Ps 
laptop. Ive listened to the call and Mr P has been sent a copy  of it. Having done  so Im 
persuaded that on balance an accidental  incident (or incidents) didnt cause Mr Ps laptop  to 
stop working properly. The assistant explained  that they initially thought  they could repair  Mr 
Ps laptop, but it still didnt work well, and the repair  needed wasnt cost effective, so Mr P 
took the laptop  back. Aviva then spoke to the engineer, who was asked if some  sort of 
incident would cause  the problem with Mr Ps laptop. The engineer  confirmed  it wouldnt and 
that it wasnt  something that would happen  if the laptop was, for example, dropped.  There 
was also no physical damage to the laptop.
Given the available evidence I dont  believe Mr P has demonstrated  he has a valid claim for 
accidental damage. Mr P has stated Aviva  is required  to provide  an official written insurance 
report  to support its decision  on liability. Nowhere  in Mr Ps policy  does it state that Aviva 
must provide such a report. In fact, Mr Ps policy says, 
Youmust pay for any certificates,  information and evidence, which we may need.
So I dont  agree that Aviva has breached its policy terms by not providing a written  report, as 
Mr P suggests. And whilst  I accept Mr Ps policy says Aviva  may ask a policyholder to send 
it a broken item,  this doesnt  mean  it must. 
Although Mr P has said Aviva manipulated information he hasnt explained  how,  and I cant 
see that this is the case. I appreciate  Mr P is unhappy with the evidence from the repair  
company, but he hasnt  provided any evidence to contradict it or any other evidence that 
satisfies me on the balance of probabilities  his laptop was damaged accidentally.  He has 
also alleged that the repair company deliberately  or accidentally  damaged  his laptop,  but 
there is no evidence  to support this allegation. 
Ref: DRN36611405I agree with Mr Coyne  that Aviva shouldnt have quoted policy  wording relating to fraud  to Mr 
P as he wasnt asked about a specific incident or incidents that may have caused his laptop  
to stop working  when  he reported the claim.  
The investigator issued  an opinion in this case on 14 June 2019 and following requests for 
extensions of time a provisional decision was issued in January 2020.  After the provisional 
decision had been issued Mr P said he would obtain a written report  that could be used  in 
legal proceedings, which hed share  with this service.  Mr P has not yet obtained such  a 
report, he says largely  due to the impact of coronavirus, but that in any event we have 
enough evidence and the report would simply be the last nail in the coffin  to commence  
Court action against Aviva.  I consider  Mr P has been given sufficient opportunity to provide 
any additional  evidence he wishes to provide  to this service and has chosen not to get his 
own report. 
Mr P says Aviva has failed to provide all the information he requested in his Data Subject 
Access Request  (DSAR). He has provided  details of data sent by this service and data sent 
by Aviva and pointed out that Aviva hasnt provided a call recording and hasnt given clear 
information about when the calls it provided started and ended, including  the date, time and 
length of the call. It seems that the missing recording may relate to a call in which a 
message was left by Aviva, but I cant  be sure.  I agree Aviva should have provided all call 
recordings and should have given  further information about the date, time and duration of 
the calls provided. But I dont  think Mr Ps ability  to bring  his complaint to this service  has 
been affected by Avivas mistakes. This complaint revolves around whether its more likely 
than not Mr Ps laptop was accidentally damaged while he was abroad. I consider Mr P has 
been provided with the evidence Ive relied on in reaching my decision. 
Mr P sent a DSAR  to the repair company, following which  he says it appears the repair  
company had no contact  with Aviva. I dont  think this is what the repair company meant 
when they said to Mr P,
We have no record of you at this company. If you have had a laptop  in with us, we delete all 
telephone numbers and email addresses  once the machine is collected.
We hold no personal  data in any shape  or form once  the laptop  has been  collected.
The repair company didnt say they didnt communicate with Aviva,  but that they dont hold 
any records once  a laptop  is collected. And Ive listened to Avivas  call with the repair  
company so am persuaded  it did communicate  with the repair  company.
Overall, I consider Aviva acted reasonably in not paying Mr Ps claim for accidental damage 
to his laptop, but that it shouldnt have quoted the fraud condition in the policy. 
Ref: DRN36611406My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3661140