K820x#14complaint
Mrs Y complains that Nationwide Building Society misled her about  the rate of interest it 
would pay on her ISA. 
background
On 21 June 2019 I issued a provisional  decision saying that subject to any further comments 
or evidence  from Mrs Y or Nationwide, I intended to uphold  this complaint. I outlined the 
background of Mrs Ys complaint  as follows:
Mrs Y said she went to her local branch on 20 June 2018  to sort out her late mothers 
affairs. She wanted to roll over an ISA and says the branch assistant told her the rate was 
2%. But when she received the certificate it said the rate was 1.75%. If shed been told it 
was 1.75% she wouldnt have gone ahead as she knew another  building society was offering 
2%.
Nationwide said Mrs Ys ISA was maturing on 29 May 2018 and it sent her a maturity  letter  
with the various  options she had. But by the time Mrs Y took the forms into her local branch 
the deadline for the 2% interest had passed  and so it could only pay her 1.75% because  the 
preferential rate was withdrawn on 31 May.  It said this was discussed with her at the meeting 
in branch. 
The adjudicator didnt think Nationwide had done anything  wrong.  He said the 2% interest 
rate had been withdrawn by the time Mrs Y visited the branch and completed her application. 
So he thought Nationwide wouldve told her it was now 1.75%.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings based on the evidence available at the time were as follows:
The maturity letter Nationwide  sent her on 11 May 2018 says If you need a little more time 
to make your decision or we dont hear from you by your maturity  date, your account will 
automatically mature into a Fixed Term ISA Maturity account.  Key features of the account  
and the Interest rate payable can be found in the Summary Box and terms and condition 
enclosed. 
I asked Nationwide  to send me a copy of the Summary Box so that I could consider whether 
it had brought  Mrs Ys attention to the interest  rate of the Fixed  Term  ISA Maturity account it 
mentioned as the default account if Mrs Y didnt do anything. It referred me to page  2 of the 
letter. Having looked carefully at that I cant see it gives any information about interest rates.
Mrs Y signed the form to reinvest her ISA and to add another  £10,000. The form is headed 
Fixed Term ISA  maturity  instruction  form and says the maturity  date is 29 May 2018. 
Under Section  C  Please  choose  your new Annual  or Monthly  ISA Product one of the 
options is an Instant  ISA Saver 14 for 5 years and the interest  rate is given as 2%.
Ref: DRN31909402I asked Nationwide  to explain  how Mrs Y would know that the 2% interest rate mentioned on 
the form wouldnt be available  to her after the end of May 2018. It said the maturity  
instructions have to be returned before the maturity date. The Maturity Letter confirms that if 
we do not hear from a member the account will become Fixed Rate  ISA Maturity account.
Nationwide says its assistant told Mrs Y the form was out of date and that the rate had been 
reduced to 1.75%. It says he processed  the form through its system which didnt require a 
signature. He was a trainee who has since left. But Nationwide says its confident he would 
have given Mrs Y the correct information.
Mrs Y is adamant Nationwide  didnt tell her the interest rate of the ISA she was investing her 
money into was now 1.75% and not 2%. She says she wouldnt have tied her money  up for 5 
years if shed have known. 
Where there is conflicting evidence, as there  is here, I have to make a decision on what  I 
think is most likely  to have happened. 
I think the maturity letter  Mrs Y received was unclear about the interest rate she could expect 
if she didnt reinvest before the date of maturity. The form she signed and took into the 
branch still had 2% on it. Nationwide couldnt  explain  to me how she wouldve known, before 
going into the branch, that the 2% interest rate wasnt available  after the end of May 2018.  
And I dont  think saying that what would happen by default after the maturity date was 
sufficiently clear.
Ive also taken into account Mrs Ys particular circumstances at that time. She was dealing  
with the death of her mother so it was a difficult time for her. And Nationwide  was aware  of 
that. She went into the branch to deal with her mothers affairs. And at the same time she 
reinvested the funds  from her matured ISA. But she didnt just reinvest  those funds. She also 
added another  £10,000.  And I dont  think its likely  she wouldve done  that if shed been  
aware the ISA she was investing in had an interest  rate of 1.75% and not 2%.
So Im not satisfied Nationwide did what it reasonably could to ensure Mrs Y knew that, 
when she reinvested  the funds  in her matured ISA account and added  another  £10,000, the 
interest rate was 1.75%  and not £2%.
I cant tell Nationwide  to transfer Mrs Ys funds into an account which pays her 2% interest. 
But I can tell it to award her compensation for the distress this has caused her. Looking at 
the impact this has had on her I think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide to pay her 
compensation of £350.
I asked both parties to respond to me with any comments or evidence  by 21 July. Mrs Y 
didnt respond.  Nationwide said it accepted my decision  in principle. But it said it wanted 
confirmation of the Building Society  which was offering 2% interest  so it could verify it. And it 
said the rates had changed at the time the correspondence was sent to Mrs Y. Ive 
considered these points but they do not change my decision. My decision wasnt based on 
whether there was another  building society offering 2% interest or whether correspondence 
was sent to her after the change in rates. My decision is that Nationwide didnt reasonably 
make it clear  to Mrs Y, in her particular circumstances,  that when she reinvested  her 
matured funds and added  another £10,000  the interest rate was 1.75% and not 2%.
Ref: DRN31909403my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. To put matters right Nationwide  Building  Society  
must pay Mrs Y £350 compensation  for the trouble and upset  its caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3190940