K822xcomplaint
Mr W says that he was contacted by Hoist Finance UK Limited (trading  as Robinson Way 
Limited) about a debt he did not recognise. He adds that, after discussing the matter  with 
him, Robinson Way agreed not to contact him again  about this debt. 
Mr W complains that, despite agreeing not to do so, Robinson Way continued to contact him. 
This caused distress  and inconvenience, for which he wants compensation.
background 
Documentation from Robinson Way and Mr W shows:
Robinson Way received an email from Mr W in September  2018   Mr W said this 
was in response to a letter he received from Robinson Way about  a debt he did not 
recognise
Mr W received  another letter about  this debt in October 2018  He phoned Robinson 
Way, saying he was advised in a previous call that the account  had been closed
Robinson Way apologised and stated that the account had been closed  Mr W 
asked to be sent a letter, confirming this statement
A Notice of Assignment  was posted to Mr W two days  later
Mr W phoned Robinson Way six days later (in early November 2018)  he 
complained that he was continuing to receive correspondence, which indicated that 
the account was active (and did not confirm,  as requested, that the account was 
closed)
Mr W asked  for substantial compensation
Robinson Way posted a final response letter to Mr W in early  February  2019   it 
apologised, but it said the correspondence  he had received was a statutory letter  
which it was obliged  to send,  and so it was unable to uphold his complaint
Mr W then referred  his complaint to us. Robinson Way told us:
When Mr W was advised that the account was closed and he would not receive any 
further correspondence, he should have  been advised that he would not receive any 
more debt collection letters
The correspondence Mr W received was informative, and it was not contacting him 
with the intention of collecting debt
A decision had been  taken that pursuing the debt in this account was not 
commercially worthwhile
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said the correspondence Mr W 
had received stated  the account had an outstanding  balance or an amount due of well 
over £700.  He also noted that Robinson Way had acknowledged that Mr W has been 
incorrectly advised that he would not receive  any further correspondence.
Our investigator recommended that Mr W should  receive compensation of £100  from 
Robinson way, in recognition of its error.
Mr W agreed with our investigators conclusion, but disagreed with the amount of 
compensation recommended. Robinson Way said it would consider  a higher figure than 
£100, if there was evidence of lost opportunity, financial loss or material impact. 
Mr W explained that he and his family had been seriously distressed and aggrieved.  He 
asked for compensation of £300.
Ref: DRN32347942Robinson Way responded, saying that it agreed with our investigators recommendation. And 
so this complaint  was referred for review by an ombudsman.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusion as our investigator, for similar reasons.
There are technical notes about  distress and inconvenience on our public website,  in which  
we describe:
how we decide whether to award  compensation for distress, inconvenience,  trouble, 
upset, damage to reputation, pain and suffering
how we decide what to award, where compensation is appropriate
cases where we have awarded  compensation
I sympathise with Mr W. But I feel that compensation  of £100 in this instance (as 
recommended by our investigator) is appropriate,  given the circumstances of his complaint. 
It is consistent with our approach to awarding compensation, and with those case  
descriptions and awards.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and 
final settlement of it, I order Hoist Finance UK Limited (trading as Robinson Way Limited) to 
pay compensation of £100 directly to Mr W.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3234794