K820x#14complaint
Mrs L has complained  about  a number of issues arising out of her commercial banking with 
Svenska Handelsbanken  AB (Publ) (referred to here as SHB). In particular,  as set out on 
her complaint form, Mrs L is unhappy about  the following matters:
she was misled by SHB that the seven mortgages she has taken  out since  2010 
were buy-to-let  (BTL) loans rather than commercial loans;
she was not sent facility letters  for several of the mortgages;
she was provided  with incorrect and conflicting information about  the loans, in 
particular that she was in breach of covenant;
the way the loans  were structured were unfavourable  to her;
SHB surreptitious  lowered loan-to-value  (LTV) ratios, forcing her to find a further 
£100,000 at short notice;
she failed to receive critical letters;
SHB colluded with her solicitors behind her back.
Mrs L is asking SHB to pay compensation of £175,000 for her financial loss, excessive  
payment of interest  due to the unfavourable loan terms, accountant and solicitors fees, and 
associated anxiety and health repercussions.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in my own words, and in rather less detail than 
theyve been presented.  No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal  
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my 
decision is published
Im also conscious that on 7 December 2018  the adjudicator wrote very detailed  account of 
what has transpired, dealing step-by-step with each  part of Mrs Ls complaint. Because both 
parties have a copy of this letter,  theres  no need for me to repeat the full history of what has 
happened  particularly as doing so is more likely to identify Mrs L.
The events can be summarised as follows. Over a period of six years, beginning in 2010, 
SHB has provided a total of nine loan facilities to Mrs L, of varying  amounts but on similar  
terms. The initial loan in 2010 was to refinance  existing borrowing  from a BTL mortgage  
lender. The purpose  of the later loans  was to enable Mrs L to purchase properties for the 
rental market. The majority  of the loans have  been repaid in full by Mrs L, but three remain  
outstanding. These total £880,000 (not including  interest). 
Mrs L bought  five more properties and SHB provided commercial loans to enable her to do 
so. Mrs L says these were at different interest rates and different  LTVs. Mrs L says she was 
unaware of this because she was never provided with any facility letters until she requested 
them in 2014.  
Ref: DRN35696412Mrs L also says that it was only in 2014 that she was told by SHB that what  she thought  
were BTL mortgages were commercial  loans. Mrs L says she received  incorrect  and 
conflicting information about this and that several  important letters from 2015 were  never  
sent to her. 
Mrs L says she was forced to seek costly  advice from lawyers, accountants and mortgage 
agents to clarify  the position. Mrs L says shed expected there  to be uniformity  in the 
interest rates and the period over which the loans ran, but none of this information was given 
to her until 2017. Mrs L says that, as a result  of SHBs failure to provide  her with this 
information, she has been paying higher interest  rates than she should have for many years.
In 2016 Mrs L says she was told by SHB that it wouldnt renew her loan facilities  when they 
matured. As a result, Mrs L had to seek expensive mortgages elsewhere.  After finding 
suitable products,  SHB delayed in providing  valuations of her properties and contacted her 
solicitor direct without her consent. Mrs L says that, as a result of the delay, this ate into her 
very expensive two-year  mortgage  for two properties. Because SHB unilaterally changed the 
LTV for these two properties from 70% to 60%,  she had to find an additional  £100,000,  
which caused her considerable difficulty and anxiety.
In November 2017 Mrs L complained to SHB. In its response dated  5 December 2017, SHB 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mrs L complained to us in June 2018. An adjudicator  considered 
the complaint  but didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs L has asked for an ombudsman  to 
review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My role is to review  the complaint, not to re-investigate  it. And as Ive explained  above,  Ill be 
concentrating on the issues  I consider  relevant. So although Ive read everything  Mrs L and 
SHB have provided (which runs to over 1,500 pages  of documents), as explained above, I 
wont be commenting on each and every point raised by Mrs L. I also note Mrs L has put a 
number of questions  to the adjudicator which she wanted her to answer. But we dont allow  
either complainants or the businesses they are complaining about  to direct the course of our 
enquiries; were we to do so it would compromise our independence and impartiality. 
I acknowledge Mrs L feels very strongly  about  this matter and I have read all the letters, 
emails and enclosures shes sent us. But, as Ive already  explained, Ill be confining this 
decision to the pertinent  issues rather than focussing on minutiae. 
The starting point  is that SHB is a commercial bank, and it offers  products tailored to 
business customers. I appreciate that it was only as a result of tragic circumstances that 
Mrs L found herself in the position  of needing  to earn a living.  Although she describes herself  
as an accidental landlord, she has in fact chosen  to make her living  by purchasing and 
renting properties.  It is to her credit that she has been very successful  and has built up a 
portfolio worth several millions of pounds. But it is in this context that I must  view the 
complaint  where both parties have  entered into a commercial relationship, at arms length,  
and on terms which Mrs L was free to reject,  had she not considered them to her liking,  after 
undertaking her own due diligence and taking advice from her own professional  advisers.
Ref: DRN35696413The initial loans in 2010  and 2011 were  arranged for Mrs L via a broker.  SHB doesnt  offer 
BTL mortgages, only commercial loans  and this is apparent on its website where there  is 
no mention about  BTL mortgages. 
No advice was given by SHB about  any of the loan facilities. It was the role of the broker  and 
Mrs Ls solicitor  to explain to Mrs L, a commercial customer, the nature and effect of the 
facilities she was asking  SHB to provide. This includes  the terms and conditions of the loan, 
including the portfolio nature of the borrowing.  This is the position, not only in respect of the 
initial facilities in 2010 and 2011, but also in relation to future borrowing.
So if Mrs Ls position is that the terms and conditions  werent  explained to her, shell need to 
raise this with the parties whose role it was to provide her with professional advice. The 
facility letters  set out the terms and conditions in plain English, so Im satisfied  Mrs Ls 
advisers would, or should, have been able to explain them  to her.
The facility  letters were  addressed to Mrs L at her home address. Even if one had gone 
astray in the post, I think its unlikely that so many  letters werent  received  by Mrs L. But in 
any event, any communication from SHB,  according to the facility letter, shall be deemed to 
have been received by post on the second business day following the day on which it was 
sent by first-class post. Im not persuaded Mrs L was never  sent copies of the facility  letters  
by SHB or that she remained ignorant  of the terms of her borrowing until 2014.
The terms under  which  SHB is prepared to lend are determined by the risk to which it is 
prepared to be exposed. In relation to borrowing  against property, SHB is entitled  to decide 
the maximum LTV across a portfolio. There is nothing untoward about this, and it is 
explained in the facility  letters at Schedule  5.
SHB is also entitled  to determine the rate of interest it is prepared  to lend at, and again this 
is explained in the facility  letters. Mrs L was under  no obligation to accept these terms if she 
felt the interest  charged by SHB was excessive or unfair. It was open  to her to look to other 
lenders to finance her business  if she didnt  like the terms offered by SHB.
I note that in 2014 Mrs L spoke to another mortgage adviser, who told Mrs L (incorrectly) that 
she wouldnt  be able to release individual properties from the portfolio. SHB isnt responsible  
for advice  given by a third party.
In 2016 SHB wasnt intending  to renew  some  of Mrs Ls loan facilities.  But in order  to release 
its security over the properties  subject to those facilities,  it would require sufficient funds to 
ensure that the LTV ratio across the portfolio remained at the required level which was, 
according to the facility  letter, no more  than 70%. 
I appreciate this caused Mrs L some difficulty,  as she then had to find a further £100,000 in 
order to comply with this term of her borrowing. But it was a term to which she had agreed 
and Im not persuaded SHB treated her unfairly or unreasonably in expecting her to remain  
within the terms of the facility.
Im also not persuaded that SHB colluded with Mrs Ls solicitor. SHB was asked by Mrs Ls 
solicitor to provide  a redemption figure  for one of the properties.  This is within  the normal  
parameters of property  transactions. The evidence  doesnt persuade me that SHB has acted 
inappropriately here. If Mrs L considers her solicitors to have acted against her instructions 
she will need  to take that up with them.
Ref: DRN35696414Ive looked at the expenses Mrs L is claiming SHB should  be responsible for when she was 
refinancing part of her borrowing from SHB to other  lenders.  Im not persuaded SHB should  
be responsible  for these.  They  appear to be the normal expenses  incurred in relation to 
refinancing rental properties. I can see no basis upon which  I can fairly hold SHB 
responsible for these.
Overall, Im not persuaded SHB has treated  Mrs L unfairly,  or that it has administered her 
loan facilities incorrectly or outside  the terms of the facility  letters.  SHB didnt  owe Mrs L any 
duty of care in relation to the provision of commercial  lending for business purposes. It was 
up to Mrs L to undertake  her own due diligence and obtain her own independent advice. It 
follows that I will not be ordering  SHB to pay compensation.  
I would also add that Mrs Ls grievances  involve  a mis-sale allegation  by the broker  firm and 
allegations of misconduct  against her solicitors.  We cant consider a complaint against a 
broker about unregulated commercial loans. And we cant consider a complaint about  
Mrs Ls solicitor.  Furthermore, the level of compensation  Mrs L is claiming  exceeds  our 
maximum award for a complaint brought to us in 2018 of £150,000  (this has recently 
changed but doesnt apply retrospectively).  If Mrs L rejects this decision she will be free to 
pursue her grievances  against SHB, as well as any other third parties  not covered by our 
jurisdiction, in court
my final decision
I know Mrs L will be disappointed, but my decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3569641