K820x#14complaint
Miss K has complained  that One Call Insurance Services  Limited  didnt pass on information  
she gave about  her driving  history to her insurer. Miss K says this resulted in her insurer 
cancelling her car insurance policy as if it never  existed. 
background
Miss K bought  a car insurance policy online through a broker, One Call in May 2015. The 
start date for the policy was June 2015.
In October  2015 Miss K made a claim under her policy  which involved a third party.  Her 
insurer told One Call that it found Miss Ks named driver had received a motoring conviction  
in 2013 which she hadnt told it about.  So the insurer said it would void Miss Ks policy for 
misrepresentation. This meant her policy was cancelled  as if it never existed   also known 
as voidance. 
Miss Ks insurer told her that if it paid the third party claim under the policy, she would owe 
the full years premium.  And if the costs of the claim exceeded this sum, it would look to 
recover this amount from her.
Miss K said that in May 2018 she was contacted by solicitors acting for the third party. As it 
had settled the third partys claim,  it looked  to recover the claim costs  from Miss K. 
In June 2018 Miss K complained to One Call. She said One Call told her in 2015 that if 
Miss K paid the additional  premium the insurer asked for because  of the motor conviction; 
she wouldnt  be responsible for any third party  costs  as her policy would continue.  Miss K 
wanted One Call to cover the third party costs of the claim.
But One Call said it had no record of telling Miss K this. And as it didnt  provide  advice  during  
the sale of the policy,  it said it wouldnt have been  able to tell Miss K this in any event. 
One Call explained  that the decision to void her policy  and any issues regarding  the claim 
 were a matter for the insurer. So it said Miss K would need to make  a separate complaint 
to the insurer  if she remained unhappy. 
In July 2018 Miss K asked us to look at her complaint. She said that she wrote  to One Call 
within two weeks of buying the policy and disclosed  the motoring conviction  and following 
a series of phone calls between her and One Call, it was agreed that if Miss K paid the 
additional premium  the insurer asked for, her policy would remain in place and valid.  
As Miss K agreed to pay the additional premium,  she said she believed her policy had been 
in force  and so the insurer would meet the claim.
Our investigator didnt  recommend Miss Ks complaint  should  be upheld.  He didnt think  
there was enough  to show  One Call received a letter from Miss K in June 2015 where she 
told it about the motoring conviction.  
Miss K didnt agree. Shes unhappy  that we havent accepted  the proof shes  provided  to 
show she sent a letter to One Call and that it was signed for on 10 June 2015.  
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN39713722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss K has provided a copy of a receipt from the Post Office  dated 8 June 2015 with the 
business name and postcode for One Call as the delivery address. Shes also provided a 
printout from Royal Mail which shows that the same referenced item was signed  for on 10 
June 2015 by One Call. Miss K is very unhappy  that we havent  accepted  the evidence  shes 
provided to show she told One Call about  the conviction.
One Call said Miss K didnt mention this letter when  she complained  to it in June 2018. Its 
able to see that it received other  tracked mail on 10 June 2015. But it has no record of 
receiving this item. We thought perhaps  the items Miss K had sent in June 2015 included  
verification documents which the insurer needed. But One Call has provided its system 
notes which  show that it received  the verification documents it needed on 29 May 2015. It 
said it then had no contact with Miss K until the insurer contacted  it in October 2015  to report  
the misrepresentation following the incident.
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Ks letter of complaint to One Call dated 2 June 2018.  She wrote  
that shed contacted One Call a few days after the incident  which was on 19 October 2015 
 and that One Call told her that because her named drivers driving history hadnt  been fully 
disclosed - if she paid an additional premium to the insurer  - the claim would be covered.  
Miss K didnt mention the recorded delivery  letter  which she told us she sent to One Call 
disclosing the conviction in June 2015.  
One Call said that it didnt deal with any issues regarding the premium  Miss K paid to her 
insurer. 
Weve checked  the Royal Mail tracker  online.  Unfortunately it doesnt confirm  that the item 
was successfully delivered to One Call. We contacted  Royal Mail. It said it couldnt trace  
anything from the reference number Miss K provided to us.
We asked Miss K to provide any proof of calls she says she had with One Call. Miss K hasnt  
replied. From the information Ive seen,  I cant safely decide that One Call received a letter  
from Miss K in June  2015 where she disclosed  her named drivers motor  conviction. And so I 
cant conclude that One Call is therefore responsible for the events that followed. 
I understand Miss K will be disappointed with my decision. But I dont  think One Call has 
done anything  wrong. So Im not asking it to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN39713723Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3971372