K820x#14Complaint
Miss A complains  about the way Assurant General Insurance  Limited  dealt with a claim 
made under her mobile phone insurance  policy.
Background
Miss A has a gadget insurance  policy  underwritten  by Assurant, which  covers  her mobile 
phone amongst other things.
The policy says that when a mobile phone breaks  down, Assurant will either repair  it or 
replace it. If they can do neither, theyll offer an alternative settlement to the customer.
In April 2019, Miss A returned her mobile to Assurant because  it had become faulty.  Nine 
days later she received a replacement.
Miss A was unhappy  with the fact the phone became faulty  this was the sixth time her 
phone had been replaced by Assurant within a few years. 
She was unhappy  with the delay in getting  the replacement  and the way Assurant had 
chosen to deliver  it to her. And she said shed been told when she contacted Assurant that it 
would be with her much  sooner.
She complained to Assurant, who agreed  the phone was faulty. They  accepted Miss A had 
been misled when she called them about  when the phone would be delivered. The agent 
said it would  arrive the next day. He should  have said the next working day  the call was 
made on a Friday.
Assurant offered Miss A £50 compensation for her trouble  and upset. But they said any 
further delays  werent  their responsibility. They also said they werent at fault for using their 
usual delivery contractor, despite the fact Miss A had complained  about  their service in the 
past.
And they offered Miss A £160 as a cash settlement for the faulty phone.
Miss A wasnt happy with this outcome and complained to us. She wanted more 
compensation for the many  faults shed had with phones  repaired or replaced by Assurant 
over the previous years. And she said £160  wasnt enough for her to properly replace her 
phone using a reputable  supplier.
Our investigator looked into it. When she contacted  Assurant, they offered a further £100 in 
compensation  bringing the total offered to £150.  
They also agreed  that we could look into a further  complaint about a replacement  phone 
provided to Miss A after she complained  to us. Theyd provided a replacement  after Miss A 
rejected their cash settlement offer, but Miss A had then reported the replacement as faulty.
Assurant had then offered  Miss A £180 as a cash settlement to enable her to replace the 
replacement phone.
Our investigator thought the £180 cash settlement offer was fair. And she thought the 
revised compensation offered to Miss A - £150  was also fair.
Ref: DRN35594982Miss A disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to be very clear  at the outset about what exactly Im considering  when I make  this 
decision.
Miss A has made two previous complaints  to us  about the way Assurant handled a claim 
relating to her iPad and about the services  theyd used to deliver repaired or replacement 
items.
Those complaints  have  been looked into and decisions made.  Im not therefore allowed to 
re-open those  complaints  now or look again  into the same issues.
I say this because  Miss A has raised  again  issues with her iPad during the course of her 
current complaint to us. 
Those issues have been  dealt  with in our previous decisions. If Miss A has had further 
issues with her iPad - above and beyond those  we considered in our previous investigations 
- she needs  to raise  those  with Assurant first before  she makes a further complaint to us.
I should also be clear  that Im not looking at the history of previous repairs and/or 
replacements Miss A has had. They were  not part of her complaint to Assurant  and they 
werent part of her initial complaint to us.
So, what  I am looking at here is the claim made  by Miss A in April 2019 and her problems 
with the way Assurant handled that. And because  and only because  Assurant  have 
agreed, I can also look at the problems Miss A has had with her latest replacement phone, 
which Assurant provided after she first complained to us.
Im sorry  if this seems complicated   and/or unreasonable  to Miss A. We are bound by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) dispute resolution (DISP) rules, which give us our powers 
to investigate complaints.  We can only look into complaints that a customer  has raised with 
the financial business first  unless we have consent  from the business  to do so. 
Ill focus now on the issues I can consider.
Miss As mobile phone became  faulty. Assurant accept this was the case. In line with the 
terms of Miss As policy,  they asked her to send it to them, examined it, decided  they 
couldnt repair it and sent a replacement.
Theres nothing unfair or unreasonable  about  that. Mobile phones do become faulty from 
time to time. Thats why people buy cover for them. Assurant  are, by definition,  only asked to 
become involved  when something  goes wrong.
I can understand Miss As frustration, especially given the history of faulty  phones  shes 
experienced over the last few years, but Im satisfied Assurant dealt with her claim in line 
with the terms of the policy.
Ref: DRN35594983Theyve admitted  Miss A was given misleading  information over the phone - and that there 
was some small delay at their end. Theyve now offered  £150  for Miss As trouble and upset.
I dont think Assurant were responsible for the whole of the delay in delivery of the 
replacement phone. Some of this appears  to be due to Miss A wanting to change  the 
delivery address  so she could pick up the phone from a shop. 
Theres nothing wrong with that, of course, but it appears the shop refused the delivery 
because they hadnt been made  aware the phone  would be coming  to them.  And this was 
because Miss A didnt  follow the process  to change the delivery  address.  
Im not blaming Miss A for that  these things can be confusing   but Im not going to say 
Assurant were responsible either.
Even if I did think Assurant were responsible for the entire delay  which amounted to a few 
working days  I think £150  would be reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset 
Miss A experienced due to any delays and the poor service on the phone call.
Whilst Miss A may have had some trouble with a driver working for the delivery service in the 
past, I dont think its unreasonable for Assurant  to use their normal  contractor to deliver  the 
replacement phone. 
So, in summary,  up to that point, Assurant have replaced Miss As faulty  phone  in line with 
the policy terms and conditions. Theyve  admitted a small  delay and poor customer  service 
and theyve offered  to provide £150  compensation for that. All of which is perfectly  fair and 
reasonable, in my opinion. 
Miss A says the replacement phone provided in early May 2019 was also faulty. It was the 
seventh replacement  phone Assurant had provided within a few years. On a couple of those 
occasions the same model wasnt available and Miss A had what amounted to a free 
upgrade.
Given the background, Assurant offered Miss A £180 as a cash  settlement to allow her to 
replace the phone herself. She says this isnt enough.
As I said,  Assurant could have refused to allow us to look into this aspect of Miss As case.  
All of this happened  after her complaint to them - and her complaint to us. Im pleased 
Assurant agreed with our investigator that it would  cause  unnecessary  delay  and be 
unhelpful to Miss A  if they insisted she make a fresh new complaint  to them.
Miss A wants enough money to buy a replacement from one of the phone manufacturers 
preferred suppliers. Because  the same  model  is no longer available, those suppliers would 
only offer what amounts  to an upgrade. 
Weve done the research  and it is possible to buy a refurbished phone of the same  make 
and model from a reputable supplier for well under the £180 Assurant have offered. The 
policy is clear  that it doesnt offer new for old replacement of mobile phones.
So, I cant conclude that the cash settlement offered by Assurant is unfair or unreasonable 
when I consider the terms and conditions of Miss As policy.
Ref: DRN35594984I am going to uphold  Miss As complaint.  When she first complained to us, Assurant had 
offered only £50 compensation for Miss As trouble and upset  and £160  to replace her 
phone. But I think  what theyve offered after we became involved is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Miss As complaint. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited must  pay Miss A:
£180 as a cash settlement to replace her phone; and 
£150 compensation for her trouble  and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2020.
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3559498