K822xcomplaint
Ms H and Mr F have complained about the administration of their secured loan by Target 
Servicing Limited. Ms H has dealt with the complaint throughout. 
background
Ms H is unhappy about the following matters:
Target has started charging interest on the loan balance, even though the original 
lender, Welcome Finance, had agreed  to freeze interest;
the loan was sold to another lender in February  2018 without their agreement;
they werent told the loan had been sold until May 2018;
the loan was changed from a secured loan to a mortgage;
Target ignored their complaint made in August 2018.
Ms H claims the loan is statute-barred.
An adjudicator looked at the complaint. He didnt think Target had done anything  wrong.  He 
explained to Ms H and Mr F that the sale of the loan to a new lender was nothing to do with 
Target, but that lenders  are allowed to do this. He also explained that a secured loan and a 
mortgage are the same  thing.
The adjudicator also noted that no interest had been charged since Target took over the 
loan. He was also satisfied that a final response letter  had been  sent to Ms H and Mr F dated 
12 September 2018. He didnt think it was Targets fault if they hadnt  received it.
Finally, the adjudicator noted that, at the same  time Ms H and Mr F had complained to 
Target in August 2018, theyd also asked  for information about the account. Target didnt 
respond to this request and has acknowledged its mistake. It offered £100  as a gesture of 
goodwill for this. The adjudicator thought this was fair.
Ms H replied  to say that she didnt agree with the adjudicators findings.  She said that she 
hadnt received  the final response letter and said that the letter from the lender about the 
sale of the loan should have been sent by recorded  delivery. Ms H is also unhappy that 
shes not received  a copy of the original  agreement.  Ms H also says that its unacceptable  
for the adjudicator to say that the terms and conditions would allow  for the sale of the loan 
without seeing  the loan agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, for largely the same  reason.
The loan was sold by the original lender to a new lender in February 2018. The new lender is 
an unregulated  business based outside  the UK  and so its not subject to the rules and 
jurisdiction of the Financial Ombudsman Service. There is nothing  wrong  with this, but for 
regulatory purposes the loan has to be serviced by a business which is regulated   in this 
case, Target. 
Ref: DRN32809262As the lender isnt covered by our rules, I cant comment on any activity carried out by that 
lender. This includes the transfer of the loan to the new lender, or the letter from the lender 
confirming it had taken  ownership of the loan sent to Ms H and Mr F in May 2018. 
Im satisfied that since Target  took over administration of the loan, no interest  has been 
added to the loan balance. So Im satisfied that there  has been no detriment to Ms H and 
Mr F since February 2018.
A secured loan and a mortgage  are essentially the same thing. The only difference (until 
recently) was the regulatory framework  under  which each fell.  From 16 March  2016 the 
regulation of second charge secured loans was moved into the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys 
regulatory framework for mortgages, although the provisions of the Consumer  Credit  Act 
1974 would  still apply to those loans.  
Im satisfied Target wrote a final response letter in September 2018,  and that this was 
addressed correctly. Theres no requirement for Target to send  letters by recorded  delivery.  
But even though Ms H says she didnt  receive  the letter, this didnt prevent her from bringing  
her complaint in October 2018.
I note Target has offered  £100 as a goodwill gesture  for not responding to a request for 
information made in August 2018.  I think this is fair for this type of customer  service failing 
and I dont require  Target to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that, in full and final settlement of this complaint, Target Servicing Limited  
must pay Ms H and Mr F £100 compensation for poor customer service  in failing to reply  to 
an information request.  I note Ms H and Mr F are no longer together.  If Ms H and Mr F 
decide to accept this decision in full and final settlement of this complaint, Target Servicing 
Limited must  send  Ms H and Mr F £50 each.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 April 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3280926