K821x#15complaint
Mr R complains about the compensation that hes been offered by Lex Autolease Limited  for 
issues that hes had with his cars infotainment system.
background
A new car was supplied  to Mr R under  a hire agreement with Lex Autolease  that was signed  
in December 2017. He says that the infotainment  system didnt  work  but he didnt return  the 
car to the dealer until May 2018.  The dealer wasnt able to fix the problem so Mr R 
complained to Lex Autolease the following month.  It agreed to pay him £50 compensation 
(and said that it would  pay him a higher amount if the dealer was unable  to fix the fault).  The 
fault was fixed  in September 2018  and Lex Autolease agreed to also pay Mr R £20 for each 
of the five months since the dealer had been  aware  of the fault. But Mr R also wants 
Lex Autolease to reimburse him for the £59.70 that hes paid to insure a courtesy  car that 
was provided to him when his car was with the dealer for repairs.  And hes complained to 
this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He thought that it was 
fair that the cost of the insurance  be compensated to Mr R because he was without a car 
when his car was in for repairs for those six days as the car was faulty. So he recommended 
that Lex Autolease  should pay to Mr R the £150  that it had already offered him plus £59.70 
for the six days insurance.
Lex Autolease has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  It says, in 
summary, that Mr R opted for an agreement where  he was responsible for maintaining the 
car, no replacement car was guaranteed by the contract and hes expected to pay for and 
organise any maintenance.  So it says that Mr R would always need  to lose his car for a few 
days here and there to get services,  MOT  tests  etc completed on the car  and the prospect 
of not having adequate insurance cover  for a hire car was always  a possibility and 
something that Mr R shouldve anticipated. And it says that it has no control  over what 
insurance cover (if any) the dealer offered to Mr R.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A new car was supplied  to Mr R under  a hire agreement with Lex Autolease  that was signed  
in December 2017. He says that the cars  infotainment didnt  work  but he didnt contact the 
dealer about that issue until May 2018.  The dealer was unable to repair the fault so Mr R 
complained to Lex Autolease. Lex Autolease offered him £50 compensation. The dealer then 
repaired the infotainment system in September 2018  and Lex Autolease agreed to pay Mr R 
a further £100 compensation  (which  was £20 for each of the months from May to 
September 2018 that hed not been  able to use the infotainment  system). And I find that it 
would be fair and reasonable for Lex Autolease  to pay to Mr R the £150  compensation thats  
its offered him.
But Mr R says that he had to pay for six days insurance cover  for the courtesy  car that was 
provided to him by the dealer when his car was being repaired  and he says that 
Lex Autolease should  reimburse him for those costs.
Ref: DRN33612632Those insurance costs  were incurred because Mr Rs car was faulty when it was supplied  to 
him. The dealer  provided him with a courtesy  car but he had to pay for the insurance cover 
to be able to use the courtesy car. If Mr Rs car hadnt been  faulty  he wouldnt have needed 
to pay for the insurance cover. So I consider that the insurance costs are a direct 
consequence of a faulty car being supplied to Mr R. And I find that, in addition to the 
compensation referred to above,  Lex Autolease should also pay £59.70  to Mr R to reimburse  
him for the insurance  costs that hes incurred. I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Rs complaint. And I order  Lex Autolease 
Limited to:
1.Pay to Mr R the £150 compensation that its offered to him.
2.Pay £59.70  to Mr R to reimburse  him for the insurance costs that hes incurred.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3361263