K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains he was mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) by Nationwide 
Building Society (Nationwide).
background
I set out the full background to Mr Bs complaint in my provisional decision which  I issued in 
March 2020. Its attached  here and forms part of my final decision.
Both parties  were invited  to make further comments on my decision, or to provide any further 
evidence they wished me to consider.
Mr B agreed with my decision. Nationwide asked to see a copy  of the letter  of 31 September  
1993 [sic]. Having  been provided  with this letter Nationwide  didnt respond further. Given  
current pressure on businesses in light of Covd-19 I allowed a further 10 days for its 
response but have  not received any further communications.
my findings
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen  anything which would change my thinking in relation to Mr Bs complaint, so I 
see no reason to change my provisional decision to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
my final decision
I am upholding  Mr Bs complaint and direct  Nationwide Building Society to pay compensation 
as described in putting things right in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN32215542Provisional decision
complaint
Mr B complains he was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) by Nationwide Building  Society 
(Nationwide).
background
Mr B took out a mortgage with Nationwide in 1993. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy which 
would have covered his mortgage repayments for up to 24 months at a time if he couldnt work due to 
an accident, sickness  or involuntary  unemployment.
Mr B says it wouldnt have been any use for him as he was self-employed and didnt think  hed be 
able to make  a successful unemployment claim.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. Mr B disagrees, so his complaint has 
been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im considering upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill 
explain why.
There arent many documents still available  from the time of sale,  which isnt surprising given it took 
place over 26 years ago. In Nationwides response to Mr Bs complaint to it in 2019 it stated:
 Although your PPI policy was arranged  during a period when PPI was sometimes a condition of 
some Mortgages being granted  e.g. high levels of borrowing and certain fixed  rate deals, our records 
would suggest that your policy wasn't a requirement.
It goes on to state that even if it had been a requirement  that it wouldve been clearly detailed in 
the Mortgage Offer. As the Mortgage completed, this would indicate  all Mortgage conditions were 
acceptable to you.
But this isnt the case. Mr B has supplied  a copy of his mortgage offer which shows that the PPI was 
compulsory. So Nationwides records are wrong here. 
If Mr B knew before his mortgage application that the PPI was compulsory and still chose to go 
ahead, then Nationwide would  be right  it would have been  up to Mr B to decide whether to accept 
the condition or go elsewhere for his mortgage. It wouldnt have been enough  to tell Mr B after hed 
made his application  that is, in this case, at the point he received his mortgage offer.
Its sometimes difficult to conclude  whether  the consumer was told in advance  of their mortgage 
application about the PPI condition. But in Mr Bs case Im satisfied that he wasnt told in advance. Mr 
B has provided a copy of a letter he sent to Nationwide  on 31 September  1993. This followed his 
receipt of the mortgage offer dated 24 September 1993, which included the requirement  to buy and 
maintain the PPI throughout the course of his mortgage. 
In this letter  Mr B formally complains that he wasnt told before he received the mortgage offer about  
the requirement. He explains that as he was told so late he wasnt in a position to change his mind 
about the application as it would have meant the chain involved in his property purchase would  
Ref: DRN32215543collapse. He also explained  with considerable  clarity  why he wouldnt  have taken  the PPI if hed been 
given a choice or pursued the mortgage  application  if hed understood that it was a condition  of the 
lending.
Mr B says that he didnt get a response this letter. 
I think  its clear that PPI was a condition of Mr Bs mortgage and that he wasnt told this at the point  of 
application. So I dont  think  he was given a fair choice about taking the PPI. And I dont think hed 
have bought it if he had been given a fair choice. So Mr B lost out as a result of what Nationwide did 
wrong.
putting things  right
Nationwide should put Mr B in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled  if it hasnt been  cancelled already and Nationwide  should:
Pay Mr B the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  he paid it until he gets it back. The rate of interest 
is 8% a year.
If Mr B made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what he got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes him.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must  give 
Mr B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
I understand Nationwide has already paid Mr B some  compensation in relation  to excess commission  
and profit share. Nationwide can take off the sum it has already paid from the money  it owes Mr B.
my provisional  decision
I am currently intending to uphold  Mr Bs complaint.  However, I will consider any further 
representations or evidence either  party chooses  to provide before 9 April 2020, which may mean that 
I change my decision.
If my decision becomes final I will direct Nationwide  Building Society to pay compensation as 
described above.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3221554