K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs C says MBNA Limited (MBNA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background
Mrs C bought the policy in 2001 over the telephone  after shed taken the credit  card.  Our 
adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. The 
adjudicator upheld the complaint and MBNA  disagreed with that opinion. So the complaint 
was passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 23 May 2019, a copy of 
which is repeated  below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision 
I set out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 23 June 2019.  Mrs Cs representative has acknowledged  that they 
have received the provisional decision and at the time of writing I have received no further 
submission from them.  I consider that they have had sufficient time to make a submission 
had they wanted to, so I am proceeding to my final decision. At the time of writing  MBNA has 
responded and said it had no further  submissions to make. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Ive decided  the policy wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think MBNA made it clear  that Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this, many  years later. I 
say this because  Ive been given  a copy of the script the representative  was supposed to 
follow at the time and I can see that the representative was supposed to only add the 
cover if they got the consumers agreement. And in asking for that agreement they were 
supposed to do so in a way that made it clear the cover  was optional.  I havent seen 
sufficient evidence  to find that this guidance was not followed in this case.
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs C got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information MBNA gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy  would cost and the benefit it 
could have provided. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it seems she 
was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover. 
Ref: DRN30223572And I think Mrs C could  have found the policy useful. Ive considered that Mrs C told us 
she had no sick pay. MBNA has provided  a transcript of a telephone call it held with 
Mrs C at the time of the complaint. It records Mrs C saying she had no savings or 
investments but she could  have relied on her husband for support. In bringing her 
complaint to us Mrs C completed  our questionnaire saying that she had other means she 
could have relied on and that her Husband would have made payments if necessary. 
But in disagreeing with our adjudicators first assessment Mrs C told us she had savings 
and so didnt need the PPI. But there has been  no evidence provided  that supports that 
testimony.
There is a lack of clarity about what other  means Mrs C may have been able to rely on at 
the time.  On balance  I think it most  likely that she didnt have savings  as thats what  she 
told both us and MBNA.  This policy could have paid out for up to 12 months  in the event 
Mrs C was off work through illness, or if she lost her job, and so reduce her reliance on 
any help her husband may have been in a position to provide. So I think the policy would 
have been useful to her if something went wrong, even at this low level of benefit. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI and its cost would have put her off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means MBNA doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But MBNA has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C because: 
When the policy was sold,  MBNA  expected to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mrs C about that. 
Because MBNA didnt tell Mrs C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, MBNA has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold   so MBNA Limited doesnt  have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But MBNA Limited has already paid back to Mrs C any commission  and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. So I intend to make no further award  against  
MBNA Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  1 August 2019.
Ref: DRN30223573Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3022357