K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained that Carole Nash Insurance Consultants Ltd required  him to pay a 
cancellation charge plus some  further  premium when he cancelled  his motorcycle  policy  
before the end of the policy year.
background
Mr K believes the cancellation  charge is a penalty, as since he sold his motorbike he 
consequently had to cancel his policy.
Carol Nash said that as Mr K paid his premium by instalments  there is still some premium  
owing due to Mr Ks time on risk. It also said its cancellation charge was clearly laid out in its 
terms of business  and is a standard industry term when a policy is cancelled mid-term.
Mr K remained unhappy  and brought his case to us. The investigator didnt think  Carole  
Nash had done  anything wrong. Mr K didnt agree so his complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
This service doesnt regulate how insurers and brokers  like Carole  Nash  operate. Thats for 
the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  to do. And essentially cancellation fees and paying 
premium by instalments  is permitted  by the FCA. Our remit consequently is to ensure  the 
cancellation charges were  brought to Mr Ks attention  before  deciding to buy the policy  and 
that he wasnt singled out and treated differently to anyone else in the same circumstances.
Here as fully detailed by the investigator, the £50 cancellation charge  was clearly detailed  in 
the terms of business  by Carole Nash which was available  to view before Mr K bought  his 
policy. I consider thats appropriate. 
The investigator asked  Carole Nash to justify  the amount  of £50. It said in cancelling  a policy 
mid-term it must inform several  other entities namely  the underwriter, the Motor Insurers  
Data (MID), the finance provider (since  Mr K opted to pay his premium  in instalments) and 
indeed Mr K. I consider  a fee of £50 to do all that is reasonable  and not at all excessive.  
Further, Carole Nash confirmed it applies this fee to anyone  who cancels outside of the 14 
day cooling  off period. That shows me Mr K wasnt singled out or treated differently. 
Paying an insurance  premium by instalments is a concession by the insurance industry.  By 
law, an insurer is entitled to be paid the whole premium upfront  for agreeing  to take on the 
risk. However, the industry recognises in many cases that causes affordability issues so now 
its commonplace to permit payment of the premium  by instalments. That usually involved a 
credit agreement with a finance company,  which is the case here for Mr K. 
When a policy is cancelled mid-term like Mr Ks, the cost of time on risk is calculated having 
regard to the full premium  (plus the interest  payable given the instalment plan)  and the 
amount of time of the policy  year Mr K was insured.  Mr K, like every other policyholder,  will 
Ref: DRN30682132be required  to pay for the time he had on cover to include any non-refundable  charges or 
additional extras. 
Since the finance cover provided  the premium to Carole Nash,  when Mr K cancelled his 
policy, the finance company has to be refunded the premium. Carole  Nash  and the 
investigator detailed  the full breakdown for Mr Ks cancellation so I wont  repeat it here. It 
clearly showed Mr K had paid £73.22  whereas the total cost of the time on cover including  
non-refundable charges  and extras was £93.90 leaving a shortfall  of £20.68  plus Carole 
Nashs cancellation fee of £50 making the grand total of what  Mr K had to pay to be £70.68. 
I consider this to be factually correct, in line with the policy terms and terms of business  and 
therefore wholly appropriate.
Consequently, I dont consider Carole Nash has done anything  wrong  in asking Mr K to pay 
this for the benefit of his insurance policy for the time he had it. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3068213