K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that The Share Centre Limited (TSC) should honour the contract  note he 
holds for the sale of 3,509 shares.
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which was sent to both parties.
In summary,  in June  2017, Mr M held 3,509  shares  in a company Ill refer to as C. He held 
these shares in a TSC stocks and shares  ISA account. On 5 June,  C carried out a 
consolidation exercise. This corporate action meant that shares for all shareholders reduced 
by a 4:1 ratio with a corresponding rise in share  price. So on this date,  Mr Ms shares in C 
were due to reduce from 3,509 to 877 with his total shareholding value remaining broadly the 
same.
Mr M looked to sell the shares  on 5 June unaware  of the share  consolidation.  TSC agreed to 
the sell the shares   but Mr Ms account still showed  him holding 3,509 shares at the post-
consolidation share price. And this was the number of shares TSC sold on Mr Ms behalf. 
Mr M was paid £12,332 from the sale which  he withdrew  on 7 June.
Seven months  later, in January 2018, TSC notified  Mr M of this error.  It explained  that at the 
time of sale,  Mr M was only entitled  to sell 877 shares. Therefore the trade  needed to be 
reversed and Mr Ms account restored to the correct position. TSC said the correct  position  
was that Mr M shouldve received the sale proceeds  from 877 consolidated  shares.  This 
wouldve given him £3,082 rather than £12,332 which  is what  he received  from the sale of 
3,509 non-consolidated shares. TSC said Mr M needed to repay the difference  of £9,250.
TSC said it didnt adjust  Mr Ms shareholding  on 5 June  because C was a foreign listed  
company which  resulted  in TSC receiving late notification of this corporate action. This gave 
Mr M time to sell the shares before TSC had an opportunity to adjust his shareholding. TSC 
said it only identified the error several months later whilst completing  an internal 
reconciliation exercise.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service. Our investigator concluded that it should  not be 
upheld. He was satisfied that as Mr M did not hold 3,509 shares on 5 June  he could not sell 
this amount. Therefore not withstanding that Mr M was in possession of a contract note 
confirming the sale and had received the proceeds of sale several months  before, it would 
be unfair to require TSC to stand  by that contract  note. Mr M did not agree with the 
investigators view and wanted the matter  passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision which concluded that I didnt  think  that TSC had acted  
unreasonably by asking for the money back that had been paid to Mr M in error.  But I noted 
that as Mr M had suffered a loss of expectation  and because  it took TSC several months to 
discover its mistake, that I was intending to award Mr M £250 for the distress and 
inconvenience that this had caused  him.
TSC accepted  my findings  and had nothing further  to add. Mr M made a number of 
comments which I thank him for.
Ref: DRN37443532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In my provisional decision,  I said the following:
Before I begin  my decision, I acknowledge how strongly Mr M feels about  his complaint. And 
that he has asked  for reassurance that I will consider the legal  requirements  of the London 
Stock Exchange (LSE)  and TSCs regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) before 
reaching my decision. I can only reassure  all parties, that whilst I cannot say what a court of 
law may decide in this situation, in reaching my decision as to what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances,  which is the remit of our service, I will consider all relevant laws and 
regulations as well all the key arguments  and evidence submitted by both parties. And whilst 
I may not discuss every point raised  by either  party in detail, I have considered all relevant 
evidence in reaching my determination.
Mr Ms complaint originated from the sale of 3,509 shares in C. In my view,  this trade should 
not have been permitted  by TSC. Mr M did not have  3,509 shares in C to sell after the share 
consolidation  he only owned 877 shares. 
TSC said it did not receive notification of the consolidation of Cs shares until after Mr M had 
instructed it to sell the shares. On 5 June 2017, Mr M instructed TSC to sell his shares at 
9:27am and he received confirmation of the sale at 9:33am - TSC only stopped the trading of 
Cs shares once it was notified of Cs corporate action at 10:50am on the same day. So the 
sale of the shares  before  this time was an error.
TSC confirmed it didnt  notify shareholders  in advance of the consolidation as they did not 
know about it until it was too late. But it says there was enough information available to Mr M 
for him to be suspect  there  was something  wrong. In particular, it says the increase  in Mr Ms 
shareholding within a short space of time shouldve led to him making  some  inquiries.  TSC 
records show that Mr M logged into his account on 27 May 2017  his account gave a value 
of his shareholding in C of around £3,158. When he logged into his account again on 
5 June, the share price in C had risen  in price sharply  around  four times in price from the 
previous week. So Mr Ms total shareholding value in C increased by a similar ratio to 
£12,332.
I agree  that its unlikely  that Mr M wouldnt have noticed such a large price increase. And I 
think, under  normal  circumstances, this mightve  led to him making some inquiries. But I also 
understand that Mr M needed the money  urgently  and that this was a strong  motive  for him 
selling his shares quickly.
Overall, I dont  think there is sufficient evidence  to show  that Mr M was aware of the 
consolidation process or that he knew there  was an error on his account.  But whilst I accept 
this is the case,  and that when Mr M placed the trade  he may not have been aware that he 
held 877 consolidated shares  as opposed to 3,509  unconsolidated shares, the fact remains 
that he did not own 3,509 shares in C on 5 June to sell.
So in my view to allow Mr M to benefit from such an error would amount to unjust enrichment  
because he is effectively  asking me to order  TSC to allow him to keep the sale proceeds  of 
shares he never owned. I do not believe,  in the particular circumstances of this case, this 
would be either  fair or reasonable.
Ref: DRN37443533I appreciate that Mr M is in possession of a contract note which  he submits TSC are legally  
obliged to honour  he points to the rules  of the LSE and FCA to support this view. But as 
Ive said, whilst I cant say what a court of law may decide, Im satisfied that TSC simply 
made an error when  it accepted Mr Ms request to sell the shares.  By cancelling the trade  
and paying Mr M the difference between  what he did own (877 shares) and what  he didnt 
own (3,509  shares), I think this effectively puts Mr M back in the position he wouldve been  in 
if TSC had refused the trade until after the consolidation, as it says it shouldve done,  rather  
than accepting it at that time.
Ive considered whether the delays  in notifying  Mr M of the mistake has led to him altering 
his financial position  in such a way that he was disadvantaged to an extent it would be 
difficult for him to pay back  the money   in these circumstances  it might  be unfair for TSC to 
ask for all or some of the money back. But I can see that during the seven months  before  he 
was notified, Mr M has the same  level of funds in his TSC account totalling  around £9,400. 
So Im satisfied that he has not suffered  financially as a result of the delay.
However, I do think its likely Mr M wouldve suffered a loss of expectation  on realising that 
TSC wanted to reclaim  a large part of the funds back following the sale of the shares. And I 
think that the delay in notifying him of the mistake  also contributed  to the level of 
disappointment he must  feel. TSC have accepted that their delay in communicating  with 
Mr M was poor. So in my final decision, Im intending to award Mr M £250 for the distress  
and inconvenience  thats been caused.
TSC say they wish to exercise  its right of set off to recover the debt owed by Mr M and wants  
to recover its losses  through keeping or to selling  Mr Ms current  investments until the 
amount owed by him is paid is full. I think as it took TSC seven months to discover the error 
and then to ask Mr M for the money  back,  it should  consider giving Mr M more time.  TSC 
said it is willing to give Mr M twelve months  to do repay the money owed. And I think this is 
fair. I will simply leave  it to Mr M and TSC to decide how best to repay  the sum owed.
Having reviewed everything again,  including  Mr Ms further comments in response to my 
provisional decision, Im satisfied that the above holds true. Mr Ms various complaint points 
about the legal requirements of LSE and FCA were points I considered when he first made 
his complaint. I took all of this into account as I explained in my provisional decision.  But as 
the payment was made in error, I dont think it would  be fair to ask TSC to allow  Mr M to 
benefit from its mistake. As I explained in my provisional decision, to do so would amount to 
unjust enrichment.  So I dont think that in this particular case this would be fair or 
reasonable.
I do appreciate how frustrating this has been  for Mr M. As I noted  in my provisional decision, 
I know he feels strongly about his complaint and considers he is legally entitled  to the money  
that was paid to him by mistake. But for the reasons given above, I dont think TSC has 
acted unfairly by asking  for the money  back.
That said,  I acknowledge that TSC couldve  contacted  Mr M sooner. And because of this, I 
think that it has caused some inconvenience  to Mr M. So I think it should  pay him £250  for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.  I will not be asking it to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN37443534my final decision
Im upholding this complaint in part and require The Share Centre Limited to pay Mr M £250 
for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3744353