K820x#14complaint
Its agreed  in this case that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in 
my decision.
Ms O says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In June 2002 Ms O opened a store card account  but didnt take out PPI at that time. In 
October 2002 PPI was added to her account.
Our adjudicator felt we should uphold the complaint. Based on information Ms O had told us, 
including how much sick pay she thought she wouldve got at the time,  our adjudicator  felt 
Ms O probably wouldnt have needed the policy enough to make its benefits  worth what  it 
cost her, and so wouldnt have bought it. 
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Ms O told us that PPI wasnt brought to her attention when she took out her store card and 
she didnt know shed  taken it out. She also told us that she had very good sick pay from her 
employer so she wouldnt have taken the PPI if shed  been given the option.
Ms O took her card out in the store. Ive seen her completed application form and it looks like 
she didnt apply for PPI then. And so her card account was opened without PPI. 
FICL hasnt  been  able to provide a call recording or a copy  of the call script used at the time. 
But Ive no reason to think  that FICL  is mistaken when it says this is the way it sold Ms O the 
PPI. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Ms O to remember exactly  what  was discussed when 
she took out PPI so long ago. So I have to look at everything and decide  what I think  is most 
likely. What Ms O says isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  her complaint. 
I dont know what FICL  said to Ms O when  the policy was sold. But, given that PPI was 
added some months after shed taken out her store card, I think  Ms O wouldve understood 
that her card had been operational without PPI for some time. So she wouldve been aware 
that PPI was optional and that it was up to her to say if she wanted  PPI added on to her 
account. 
She wouldve been able to see PPI appear  on her account statements  shortly after the 
phone call. So I think its more likely  that she wouldve queried this at the time if it wasnt  
something she had asked to take out. 
On balance, I think its likely that during the phone call Ms O decided  she wanted  to protect 
her card monthly  repayments by taking out the PPI offered and she chose to buy the policy.
Ref: DRN30638792Based on what this service knows about  the way FICL sold PPI I dont think its likely that 
FICL personally advised Ms O to take out the PPI. But it still needed to make sure it gave 
Ms O enough clear information for her to decide if the policy  was right for her, taking into 
account her personal  circumstances.
Its possible the information FICL  gave Ms O about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Ms O wouldve acted differently,  and not bought the policy,  if 
better information had been provided.  
On balance I dont think better  information  wouldve stopped Ms O taking out the PPI.
Ive not seen the particular policy she took out. But Ive looked at a policy document from 
FICL that provided  Account  Cover for this sort of account around the same time. I think its 
reasonable to assume that these  terms are the same as, or very similar to, those that 
wouldve applied to Ms O. 
As far as I can see she was eligible for the cover. 
Ms O has told us that when she took out the PPI, her sick pay entitlement  at the time was full 
sick pay for 6 months then half pay for the next 6 months. But she also told us that shed  just 
been in that particular job for only 6 months.  FICL has said that its experience of people  
working in the sort of role Ms O had probably  wouldnt  have got such generous  benefits  if 
theyd only worked  in the role for as long as Ms O.
I think thats a reasonable point to make   and one of our adjudicators asked Ms O to let us 
have more information about exactly when  shed started work in this role. We also asked  her 
if she had anything she could send us to show that shes correctly remembered what shes  
told us about her sick pay. 
Ms O responded to another  enquiry, but she didnt provide any more  information about her 
job role or answer any of the questions we put to her about this. So I dont know  exactly 
when Ms O started work  in the role she was doing when she took out the PPI. And I dont 
know anything about her work history,  or what job (if any) she was doing  before this one. 
Based on all the information Ive seen so far, I havent seen enough  to be able to say its 
likely that her employer  wouldve paid Ms O sick pay for longer than she had actually worked 
in that role if shed been off work sick after only 6 months in her job. And whilst she may well 
be right when she says that the role offered full sick pay for 6 months then half pay for the 
next 6 months,  I think its likely there wouldve been  a qualifying period before she couldve 
depended on getting this full amount of benefit.  I think its more likely  that she wouldve had 
less sick pay than this when shed only worked in the role for 6 months. 
The policy wouldve paid out 15% of the outstanding card balance owing at the start of a 
claim if Ms O couldnt work as a result of accident, sickness  or unemployment.  It couldve 
covered her monthly repayments  on the card until the outstanding balance  was cleared if 
she wasnt able to go back  to work.  It wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay from work  
providing a useful benefit at whats likely  to have been a difficult time  especially if she had 
extra costs  as a result of being sick or disabled.  
Relying on other  people to help out in the event of money problems  isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly.  
Ref: DRN30638793So I think Ms O couldve  benefitted  from having PPI if shed needed to claim.  
 
Ms O wasnt  affected by any of the main conditions that mightve limited the policys  benefit  
to her. So, even  if these  werent mentioned, I dont think having more  information about 
these policy  terms wouldve changed her mind about taking it out.
I dont think its likely  that FICL gave Ms O clear enough information  about the costs of the 
policy. But she chose to take it out when  she didnt have to  so she seems to have wanted 
it at the time, even  if shes forgotten this now. It doesnt look like she had any other way of 
making the monthly repayments on her store card if she wasnt  working. And as this was a 
policy that Ms O paid for each month,  she couldve  cancelled it without further  cost if her 
circumstances changed or she decided she no longer wanted the cover.    
Based on all the information Ive seen so far, given the benefits PPI offered Ms O and what  
shes told us about her circumstances, I think it unlikely she wouldve made a different 
decision at the time if better information  had been  provided. On balance I think shed still 
have taken out the policy.
This means  that, even if FICL didnt provide all the information it shouldve done, as things 
stand, I dont think that Ms O lost out as a result of anything that FICL  did wrong. So I dont 
currently intend to tell it to do anything to put things right. 
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Neither party has made any further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint for the reasons 
I explained in my provisional decision.  
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN3063879