K820x#14complaint
Miss K has complained  that Automotive Compliance  Ltd. (ACL) didn't give her enough 
information when  she bought a guaranteed asset protection  (GAP) policy.
Reference to ACL includes its agents.
background
When Miss K bought  a car with finance,  she also took out a GAP  policy.  Her car was 
deemed a total loss following an accident.  She claimed on her GAP policy for the shortfall  on 
her finance,  of around £1,600, after the other  drivers insurer had settled her total loss claim 
for the market price of her car. The GAP insurer turned down Miss Ks claim because she 
didn't have comprehensive insurance for her car.
Miss K complained that ACL hadn't told her that she needed to have comprehensive 
insurance in order  to benefit from the GAP policy. ACL didn't think  it had done anything  
wrong so Miss K brought her complaint to us.
Our adjudicator thought ACL had dealt with Miss K fairly. Miss K didn't agree so her 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Miss Ks policy says that, in order to benefit from it, at the time of the loss of her car it 
needed to be covered  by comprehensive motor insurance. But Miss K didn't have 
comprehensive insurance for her car; instead she had third party  fire and theft cover. So the 
GAP insurer turned down  her claim.
Miss K says ACL didn't  make it clear when she bought  her policy  that she needed  to insure  
her car under a comprehensive insurance policy. She says that if it had done so, she 
wouldnt have taken  out the third party cover.
Clearly I wasn't there when ACL sold Miss K her GAP policy,  so I can't be certain exactly  
what was discussed.  That means  that I need  to reach my conclusions  after weighing  all the 
other evidence that is available  to me. Having  done so, the paperwork doesn't support 
Miss Ks memory of events.
Ive seen that, four days before she collected her car and bought the GAP policy,  ACL 
assessed Miss Ks insurance requirements  and filled-out a demands and needs statement  
(the statement). That said that ACL had asked Miss K if her car would be covered by 
comprehensive motor  insurance. And its noted  that she said that it would be. I understand 
that Miss K doesn't remember  answering that question but Im not persuaded that means it 
wasn't asked.
When she later went to collect her car she signed the statement, which  says that in order to 
be eligible for the GAP  policy she needed  to have her car insured  under a comprehensive 
policy. Similarly the policys key facts said that she needed to have comprehensive 
Ref: DRN39615352insurance. It also explained that any claim  wouldn't be paid if the car wasn't  comprehensively 
insured. So while I accept that Miss K can't  remember the precise questions she was asked, 
the answers she gave,  or exactly that she was told I think its likely that ACL did enough to 
bring the requirement for comprehensive insurance to her attention  at the time.
Miss Ks said that she had to provide her insurance  certificate when she collected the car. 
And as she only had third party insurance ACL should have realised  that she didn't have the 
appropriate insurance to claim on her GAP policy. Neither Miss K nor ACL has kept a copy  
of the insurance  certificate or cover note Miss K provided when she collected her car. But 
while I don't  know  exactly  what information  Miss K gave ACL, Im aware  that insurance 
certificates aren't required  to show the level of cover provided.  That is they won't usually say 
whether cover is provide on a third party  or comprehensive basis. So ACL wouldnt 
necessarily have known  that Miss K didn't have fully comprehensive  insurance at the time. 
And, in any event, Miss K was only required to show  that the car was insured so that ACL 
could tax it. The proof of cover wasn't required to see if she was entitled to claim under the 
GAP policy. So I wouldn't necessarily have expected  ACL, at that stage, to examine the 
insurance certificate to see if it matched the terms of the GAP policy,  as that wasnt why ACL 
asked her for it.
Miss K also said that if ACL had made it clear that she needed comprehensive insurance 
then she wouldn't  have  bought a third party fire and theft policy. But from the information 
shes given us it appears that she bought  the third party  policy to cover  her previous car, 
which presumably she then changed to cover her new car. So it seems that shed already 
bought the third party policy before she took out the GAP policy. So I don't think  the fact she 
had a third party policy is evidence that ACL didn't give her enough information about the 
requirements of the GAP  policy
I understand Miss K is very disappointed to be out of pocket because  the GAP  insurer didn't 
pay her claim. But, on balance, Im satisfied  ACL gave Miss K enough information to let her 
know that she needed to have comprehensive  insurance in order to claim on the GAP  policy. 
So I don't thinks  ACL did anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3961535