K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains on behalf of his wife, Mrs B, that AvantCredit of UK, LLC (Avant)  refused her 
credit when they shouldnt have. Because  of this, she had to apply for credit  elsewhere that 
cost her more. 
Mrs B would like Avant to give her a loan to consolidate the loan that she has had to take out 
plus the higher  costs  that she has had to pay. 
background
Mrs B applied for a home improvement loan from Avant for £7,000. As she had been pre-
approved for the loan, she didnt think that there  would  be a problem  with her application. 
But, Avant thought  that the loan wasnt affordable  for Mrs B so they turned her down in 
February 2019. 
Mrs B thought that Avant  had miscalculated her income. In particular, she thought  that Avant 
had incorrectly counted only 80% of her dividend income when they shouldve used the full 
amount. This was because the dividend  had already been taxed before it was paid to her. 
Mrs B also thought that Avant had deducted too high an amount from her income  for the 
mortgage that she held jointly with her husband.  She said that there shouldnt have been  any 
deductions for the mortgage as her husband  paid this whilst she paid all the bills. Avant had 
deducted 70% of the mortgage from her income. Mrs B thought  that, at the very least, 50% 
wouldve been fairer.  
Avant didnt  agree with Mrs B and stood by their decision  of finding that the loan was 
unaffordable. 
Mrs B wasnt  happy with this outcome so she came  to us. 
Our investigator found that Avant had been entitled  to find that the loan was unaffordable. 
Mrs B didnt agree with this decision so the complaint has now come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im afraid that Mrs B wont be happy  with my decision. I dont think  that Avant have  acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in deciding that the loan was unaffordable to Mrs B. I will explain 
why. 
I can see why Mrs B thought that her full dividend income shouldve  been taken into account  
when assessing  affordability.  She supplied  information showing the tax that was deducted 
for the last tax year from her dividend  income.  Also, she said that a certain amount of tax is 
deducted before the dividend is paid to her. But, I think that Avants  decision to deduct 20% 
of the income  is a business decision that I cant interfere  with. I know  that it mightnt seem 
fair in this case,  but I can see that it would be sensible to deduct a further  20% in case  
someone becomes,  or is, a 40% tax payer, for example. It is for Avant to exercise their 
Ref: DRN34275132discretion in cases such as this to allow, for example,  for a lower amount to be deducted. But 
I cant make  them do this. So, as the rule to deduct 20% of the income  has some merit, I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Avant to apply it here. 
Im afraid that Avants decision to take into account 70% of the mortgage is also a business 
decision that I cant interfere with. Although Mr B is a joint mortgage holder, in theory,  the 
mortgage company  could  pursue Mrs B for the full amount.  I think  that Avant  are entitled to 
protect their finances. So, they can take into account  70% of the mortgage  as an expense.  
Im afraid that it is for the FCA to regulate  any business  decisions made.  I cant  interfere with 
them in this case.
Im sorry  that this isnt the decision that Mrs B was hoping for. I hope that Ive clearly 
explained why Ive reached this decision.
my final decision
I think that AvantCredit of UK, LLC were entitled to find that the loan to Mrs B was 
unaffordable. So, I dont  require them to do anything else.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Rita Parmar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3427513