K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the refurbishment  charges  Vauxhall Finance plc, trading  as GMAC 
(Vauxhall,) have asked her to pay since she returned a car she was financing  through an 
agreement with them.
background
Mrs C took receipt of a new car in March 2016.  She financed  the deal through a three year 
conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall.  She returned the car early  under her voluntary 
termination rights but she was upset to be given an invoice from Vauxhall  for £924 to fix 
some damage they said was beyond reasonable wear and tear and therefore  chargeable.  
She complained to Vauxhall as she said shed  had some refurbishment  done before she 
handed the car back. Vauxhall  agreed to waive some of the charges but insisted £406 was 
still payable to refurbish:
a dent on the bonnet
a scratch on the front door 
So Mrs C referred her complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided his opinion. He 
reviewed the damage against the industry  guidelines provided  by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing association  (BVRLA) and he thought both panels were  damaged  beyond  what  
was considered normal wear and tear. He noted that Mrs C had expressed concerns that the 
car hadnt been refurbished but had been sold at auction and he explained  that Vauxhall 
were allowed to do this. He reviewed the price Vauxhall had managed to get for the car and 
noted that it had sold for £4,883 but that its CAP clean value (that he said was the value  the 
business wouldve  expected the car to sell for) was £5,930.  So he thought that even with the 
refurbishment costs taken in to account  it was clear  Vauxhall wouldve lost out on the deal. 
He therefore didnt think it would be fair to ask them to take any further  action.
But Mrs C disagreed. She said that car auctions were  a gamble it was wrong to suggest  the 
loss in any value  the business could have achieved for the car was a result  of any perceived  
damage to the car. She said the loss could  have been due to the deflated  pre-holiday  car 
market and she disputed  the amount Vauxhall had quoted to have the car fixed. She 
suggested she couldve had it done  cheaper  herself  but was deprived of an opportunity  to do 
so. Mrs C therefore asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN38404212Vauxhall were entitled to charge for any refurbishment they considered necessary to return  
the vehicle to a good condition.  This was set out in sections 15.3 and 20.2 of the finance  
agreement.
The refurbishment charges were  meant  to compensate them  for any loss of value resulting 
from the car being  returned in a lesser condition than was expected when the finance  
agreement was established. As the car sold for less than the CAP clean value, commonly  
used by the industry to estimate resale  values, I think reasonable charges to recover  the loss 
in value would be merited.
Here there are two disputed charges. The BVRLA  provide the industry guidance on fair wear  
and tear and thats the standard  Id expect Vauxhall  to inspect the car to. That standard  says 
that dents on bodywork  shouldnt be in excess of 10mm and having looked at the 
photograph in the inspection report Im persuaded that, irrespective of any repairs  Mrs C 
may have  completed, the dent in the bonnet  when she handed the car back  was in excess of 
the standard and refurbishment  is fairly chargeable. Vauxhall are free to set their own level 
of charges but Id expect them to be reasonable. And here I think the charge  theyve  made to 
refurbish the dent is broadly in line with other charges Ive seen from their competitors so I 
think they have  been reasonable.
The BVRLA guidance says that scratches that are greater than 25mm are chargeable and 
that they shouldnt penetrate through to the primer. Ive reviewed  the photograph  in the 
inspection report and I think  its clear  the scratch is in excess  of the standard  and is therefore  
chargeable> And again, I think its a reasonable charge for the same reasons Ive given 
above.
I dont think Vauxhall had to present Mrs C with an opportunity to take the car for her own 
repairs. That opportunity  had passed and any delay in the inspection  would have  resulted  in 
a charge to re-arrange it and potentially to an extended lease charge. So I think, even if 
Vauxhall had allowed  Mrs C to affect her own repairs, the costs in doing so would have been 
likely to be prohibitively expensive. 
So overall, I dont  think Vauxhall need to take any further  action here.
Ref: DRN38404213my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3840421