K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says Financial Insurance  Company  Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy  alongside a store card. 
Mrs L has been represented throughout her complaint.
background
Mrs L applied for a store card in 1995.  At the same  time she was sold PPI. 
Mrs L complained that the PPI had been  mis-sold. FICL disagreed. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ls case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ls complaint because:
Mrs L was sold PPI in store. Mrs L says she unaware that the PPI had been added. Ive 
seen a copy of her store card application form. There  is a separate  section solely for the PPI 
which Mrs L has ticked to confirm she wanted PPI. 
Im satisfied that the form made it clear  that Mrs L didnt have to take out the PPI and that 
she chose to take it out. - although I can understand why she cant remember this as 
completing a form in store over 20 years  ago is unlikely to be a memorable experience.
Mrs L has said that she also completed the form in a rush and was only taking  the store card 
for the discount.  But Mrs L was signing a credit agreement.  So there was also an onus on 
her to ensure she was aware of what she was signing up to  including the various  options  
chosen on the form including PPI.
Mrs L has suggested that it could be possible that the sales assistant might  have ticked  the 
form after it had been handed back. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was the case, 
and as explained above, it is just as likely Mrs L could have ticked for PPI and simply forgot 
about it. I cant fairly assume  something went wrong when I have no evidence  that it did.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  FICL assessed  Mrs Ls individual needs, such as her employee 
benefits and made a formal recommendation for PPI, so I think its unlikely that it did. This 
meant it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Mrs L got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Ref: DRN35627712Mrs L was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look as if she was affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover. So, I dont think having more information about  the policy 
exclusions and limitations would have made any difference to Mrs Ls decision  to take out 
PPI. 
I note our adjudicator  asked some questions around  a medical condition that Mrs L had. This 
was because the adjudicator wanted  to know more  about Mrs Ls condition to see how it 
affected her on a daily basis, and whether it had caused her to take any time of work. This is 
because the policy might not have paid out for the condition  that Mrs L had at the time of 
sale. 
I appreciate Mrs L provided lots of detail about  her medical condition, and I would like to 
thank her for that. Having that information allowed the adjudicator  to determine whether 
having the medical condition would have changed  Mrs Ls mind to take out the PPI. Had 
Mrs Ls medical condition,  for example, previously kept her from work  for over 30 days (the 
policys waiting period)  then it might have been  the case that the policy wasnt right for her. 
As Mrs Ls medical condition was controlled and hadnt caused her to take any time of work 
our adjudicator thought Mrs L would have still gone  ahead with the policy. I agree with our 
adjudicator on this point. I appreciate it was frustrating for Mrs L to provide a lot of 
information for it to not make a difference. But I hope she understands why we asked the 
questions we did. 
Mrs L told us she had a good stable job and she would  have received around three months  
sick pay if she was off work due to an accident or sickness. So Mrs L says had she been 
aware of PPI she wouldnt have taken it. 
The policy would have paid out a benefit if Mrs L couldnt work  as a result  of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. It would have covered 15% of what Mrs L owed on the card at 
the point of claiming  and would have carried on paying this amount  each  month until Mrs L 
returned to work or the outstanding balance had been cleared.  It would  have also paid out 
on top of Mrs Ls sick pay. This could have been  a useful benefit at whats  likely to have 
been a difficult  time if Mrs L needed to claim.
I appreciate that Mrs L has said she could have relied on her friends and family to help meet 
any repayments. But peoples circumstances can change  and they might  not have been in a 
position to help when needed. Insurance is there  to protect against  the unforeseen and 
having it in place meant that Mrs L wouldnt have needed to rely on her friends or family.
I dont know if FICL  explained  the cost of the policy clearly enough for Mrs L to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for her. But I think  if Mrs L had properly  understood the 
cost and benefit provided she still would  have thought the policy potentially useful. Ive seen  
nothing to suggest that paying for the PPI was a problem for Mrs L  and Im satisfied its 
likely she took it out when she didnt have to. 
Looked at overall, I dont  think having clearer information would have put Mrs L off taking out 
the policy, given  her situation at the time.
This means  that, even if FICL didnt give Mrs L all the information it should  have done  when 
it sold her the policy, I dont find that Mrs L has lost out as a result of anything  FICL did 
wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right. 
Ref: DRN35627713Ive taken into account Mrs Ls comments in response to our adjudicators  opinion,  but for 
the reasons above, these points dont  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3562771