K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  sold by Lloyds Bank 
plc, trading at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G). Mrs L says this cover  was mis-
sold to her.
For consistency Ill refer to C&G in my decision.
background
These events took place  a long time ago and relate to two MPPI policies that were sold 
alongside mortgages. Mrs L took out an initial C&G  mortgage February 1994 and took out 
MPPI to help protect  the mortgage in the event of being unable to work or losing her job. She 
borrowed more money in September 1994 and extended the MPPI.
One of our adjudicators looked  into this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. But 
Mrs L disagreed and so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. 
I would like to stress  that I certainly dont doubt that Mrs L herself genuinely  believes the 
cover could have been  mis-sold to her. Shes told us she had no idea that the MPPI had 
even been added on to her mortgage and the whole process felt rushed. Of course,  these 
events were 27 years ago now and so remembering  what  happened  will no doubt be difficult.  
I say this not least because I see Mrs L used a complaints company to help bring  her 
complaint to us. It told us she was pressured into the MPPI sales. But Ive found this 
somewhat contradictory  as clearly, Mrs L couldnt  have been pressured  into buying  the 
policies if she had no idea theyd been added. And to uphold her complaint Id also need  to 
think this happened  twice  once when  taking out the mortgage, and again whilst  borrowing 
more money. Im afraid  I find that scenario quite unlikely.
I have nevertheless looked very carefully  at everything weve got and drawn on my 
experience of these  sales. My general  experience of these is that consumers were usually 
asked to provide  consent by firstly agreeing to the MPPI on the mortgage application. They 
were then asked to fill out another  form, specifically for the MPPI.  I think Mrs L would have 
also needed to complete  an authorisation  to have the monthly premiums drawn from her 
bank account   again shes  have  probably  needed to do this twice.
All this means I think the evidence is much  more suggestive of Mrs L agreeing to buy the 
cover, although I completely accept she may not remember this after so long.
Its not disputed  that the MPPI  was recommended  each  time to Mrs L as part of advised  
sales. This means C&G  had a duty to ensure the MPPI was suitable  for her. I think  it was.
Ref: DRN36664072She was eligible for the cover and not caught  by any of the major exclusions we tend to see 
in these types of policy.  And while Mrs L may have  had some sickness  protection  provided  
through her job, this doesnt necessarily mean the cover  wasnt of use. The mortgage(s) 
were secured against her home and so the consequences of not being able to make the 
repayments could  have been  serious. In the event of a successful claim, the MPPI would 
have paid out a monthly  sum for up to 12 months. I therefore dont think  C&G recommending 
MPPI was unreasonable and I think the cover was suitable for Mrs L.
C&G also had to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm now what would  have been  said to Mrs L and its possible C&G could have done  a 
better job in explaining things. But I think she would  have  met with a mortgage adviser each  
time who would  have assessed her financial situation and provided  enough  information  for 
Mrs L to make an informed decision.  Theres nothing to suggest that more, or better, 
information would have changed what she did.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs L but I dont think  the policies were mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint.  And I dont direct Lloyds 
Bank plc, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester, to do anything  to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3666407