K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr S took out a mortgage in 1994  and he took out PPI to protect his mortgage monthly 
repayments in 1996.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. 
Mr S didnt agree with our adjudicators view. Mr S mainly says he cant remember  
discussing PPI and didnt  know  he was paying for it. Mr S also told us it wasnt something he 
needed as he had other ways to cover his mortgage repayments. The complaint came to me 
to decide. I issued a provisional decision.  
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Halifax  cant tell us how the policy was sold. And Halifax hasnt been  able to provide any 
documents from when  the PPI was taken  out. But I dont think  thats surprising given that the 
mortgage account closed almost 19 years  ago. I wouldnt expect Halifax  to have kept 
records about a closed account  for so long.  And its completely understandable  that Mr S 
told us he couldnt  recall much about  the sale either. In any event, it wouldnt be reasonable 
to rely just on what Mr S might be able to remember about the sale after so long.  
So Ive got very little information about how Mr S came to buy the PPI policy.  But it looks as 
if Mr S had held his mortgage without PPI for some time before he took it out. So, he 
wouldve had to apply  separately to take out the insurance  otherwise his mortgage 
wouldve just continued without it. On balance, I think its likely  that Mr S decided he wanted 
to have the benefits the policy offered and he chose to buy the policy.  
To be as fair as possible  to Mr S, Halifax has looked at this complaint on the basis that it 
advised him to buy the PPI. So Ill approach it the same way. If a financial business  makes a 
recommendation about PPI it has to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommends is suitable, as well as giving important policy information in a clear way. 
I dont know what steps Halifax took to do that. But in any event, I think the policy wouldve 
been suitable for Mr S.
Thats because from what Ive been told about his circumstances at the time, Mr S was 
eligible for the insurance and the policy terms wouldnt  have made it particularly difficult for 
him to make  a claim. Mr S wasnt  affected by any of the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
So as far as I know he couldve benefitted  from everything the policy offered.
Ref: DRN31177002Mr S told us he wouldve  got 6 months full pay followed by 6 months  on half pay if he was 
off work sick. But I think PPI still couldve been  useful. It wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 
months per claim in the event of accident  or sickness.  So the PPI provided better protection 
than he couldve relied on getting through his employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of 
his sick pay, providing  Mr S with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if he had 
some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled.  
PPI wouldve  also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mr S lost his job and 
became unexpectedly  unemployed. And it wouldve paid out in addition to the redundancy 
money hes told us he wouldve got, giving Mr S some additional financial security  in those 
circumstances.
Although Mr S had some life insurance, PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in 
different circumstances. So that doesnt  affect my decision.
Mr S told us he had savings invested in a share scheme  and he made regular monthly  
payments which  increased the value of his savings between  1996 and 1998. But having  PPI 
meant he wouldnt have  been forced to sell any shares, which  I think he probably  wouldve 
either preferred to keep as a long term investment and/or sell when he could be sure of 
getting a good price. I think  that having  cover in place so he couldve continued to make  his 
monthly mortgage repayments without having  to sell investments and use his savings 
wouldve provided a useful extra benefit  to Mr S if he couldnt work
Ive also taken into account that Mr S told us there was a possibility he couldve got a 
discretionary enhanced  pension paid before retirement in the event of ill health. But I think 
its fair to say that all Mr S could safely rely on when he took out the PPI was his guaranteed  
pension terms. Hoping that pension trustees  might  agree to an enhanced pension 
arrangement if ill health  had forced him to retire early isnt as dependable as taking  out PPI, 
which guaranteed a monthly benefit in the event  of a successful claim. 
Mr S had borrowed a large sum for a long period, secured on his home, so the effects of not 
keeping up the repayments couldve been serious for him. Mr S couldve made repeated  
claims on the policy, giving him long term protection whilst he was paying his mortgage. So, 
although Ive thought  carefully about everything Mr S told us about the other  ways  he 
couldve covered  his mortgage monthly  repayments,  I still think PPI was suitable for him. 
I dont know if the information  Halifax gave Mr S about the PPI costs was as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it appears that he chose to take out the policy, when he didnt have to, 
so he seems to have wanted  it. It seems to have been affordable  for Mr S at the time  and 
he couldve  cancelled it without further  cost if his circumstances  changed or he no longer 
wanted to pay to keep the policy running. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr S still wouldve  decided  to buy the policy if hed been better informed as the policy  
gave him useful protection in his particular situation.
Looked at overall, based on all the information  Ive seen and been told so far, it doesnt look 
to me as if Mr S has lost out as a result of anything Halifax  mightve  done  wrong.  
So, as things stand,  Im not planning on telling Halifax that it needs to do anything to put 
things right.
Ref: DRN31177003Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was not to uphold  this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
In summary,  Mr S has told me that he doesnt remember  any interviews or correspondence 
with Halifax although  he does recall wanting  to keep his costs  down at the time, so he thinks 
it unlikely he wouldve taken out PPI voluntarily. 
Hes also mentioned having other successful PPI complaints when  his circumstances were 
the same. And hes checked with his pension company and received assurances about 
getting his pension if hed retired early through  ill health.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
I appreciate Mr S taking  the trouble to respond  in detail to my provisional decision.  Ive taken 
carefully into account everything  that hes said. But theres nothing hes said that makes me 
want to change anything  Ive said in my provisional decision. 
In my provisional decision Ive already dealt with the main points hes raised  that have an 
impact on the outcome  of his complaint.  
Id like to add that having to rely on pension trustees discretion isnt as dependable  as taking 
out PPI which  guarantees protection in the event of a successful claim. And having 
protection for his mortgage  monthly repayments in the event of early retirement through ill 
health wouldve  provided additional  financial security  in what  wouldve likely been difficult 
circumstances.
And Ive also taken into account what  Mr S said about the way different  PPI cases have 
been dealt with. But each complaint is looked  at on its own merits - Ive looked at the 
circumstances that apply in this particular  case and what happened on other cases doesnt 
change my conclusion  here.  
So, after thinking  about everything thats  been said in response to my provisional decision,  
I still think its fair not to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained  in my provisional 
decision. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels very strongly  about this complaint and that its frustrating for him 
that theres only limited  information now available. And I understand that what  Ive said will 
come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help 
explain how Ive reached my decision.
Ref: DRN31177004my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN3117700