K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained about Acorn Insurance & Financial Services Ltd. He isnt happy about  
the documentation he was provided when he took out his commercial  taxi insurance policy.
background
Mr A took out taxi insurance through his broker in May 2018. And he was provided with his 
policy documentation  including  his insurance certificate. He was stopped by his local 
authority taxi licensing team and prevented from driving his taxi for a short  period of time. 
This was because he didnt have the appropriate taxi insurance certificate displayed  in his 
taxi.
Mr A asked Acorn about this after he was stopped, and it provided a further certificate in 
November 2018.  Mr A complained to Acorn and then this service. He wanted  compensation 
for the time he wasnt  able to work, a refund of premium and an apology.  
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. She thought  that 
Acorn had provided  taxi insurance as he requested and the supporting policy  documentation  
and certificate of insurance. And it provided the additional certificate  that Mr A required when 
he asked for it. She didnt  expect Acorn to know the requirements of Mr As particular  
licensing authority.
As Mr A didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I have some sympathy with Mr A, and I agree that in an ideal world Acorn would have known 
his particular requirements. And sent him the additional copy  insurance certificate for 
display. But Acorn wasnt obligated  to do this, it had placed Mr A on cover and ensured the 
policy met his requirements  and that he was indemnified.  And I cant  tell it how it should  and 
shouldnt operate  or interfere with its commercial  decisions. 
Mr A makes  the point  that Acorn should  know his requirements as it is a taxi specialist. But it 
operates in a different  part of the country  to Mr A and I wouldnt expect it to know  every  local 
councils requirements.  But I would expect Mr A to know what was required of him under his 
taxi licence. And given  the importance of licencing  in his line of work I wouldve expected 
Mr A to be aware of what was required of him and ensure that he had the appropriate 
documentation in place.
As such,  I cant say Acorn has done anything wrong. It insured Mr A as he requested and 
provided him with the necessary documentation at the time of insurance. And when  he 
requested the additional  document  Acorn sent it and I dont think that is unreasonable.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN30560512Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3056051