K820x#14complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited wont pay his claim for theft 
under his home insurance.
background
In April 2018 Mr W bought  a property and took out insurance through Lloyds. After a couple 
of months he started carrying out some modernising work to the property  which consisted of 
a new kitchen, bathrooms, heating system and the addition  of a new stud wall in the lounge. 
He worked away but said that he came back to stay at the property at least  every other 
weekend, sleeping on a camp-bed. At the end of August 2018 while Mr W was working  
away, his son told him that the property had been  burgled, and a number of tools  and other  
items stolen.  It appeared that the burglars had got in through a window and exited by forcibly  
breaking the garage door.
Lloyds assessed  the matter and said that Mr W wasnt occupying  the property  it didnt  
accept that occasionally sleeping on a camp-bed  was sufficient. It further said that had it 
known about the works  carried out, it wouldnt have issued a policy.  As it became aware of 
the work  midway through the policy year, it applied endorsements to the policy,  including 
one where theft would only be covered where there  was forcible or violent entry  to or exit 
from the property. The endorsement further  said that if the property was unfurnished there 
would be no theft cover in place at all.
As it said Mr W should have told it of the alterations being carried  out, the policy 
endorsement would have applied and, as the home is unfurnished, no theft cover would 
have been in place. So it advised Mr W it wouldnt pay the claim.
Mr W was unhappy with this  he said he hadnt  received  the policy documents as they were  
sent to the wrong address. He further  said that there were no substantial alterations taking 
place and that the work came under ordinary maintenance and decoration.
I initially found that, as the alterations werent  structural that Mr W wasnt obliged  to advise 
Lloyds of this. I did say that Lloyds didnt appear to have raised the fact that the property was 
unoccupied at the time of the theft until after the matter was referred to us, so it couldnt 
raise that argument.  It pointed out in response that it had raised  the fact of the property  
being unoccupied in writing to Mr W in an email from its personal claims consultant (PCC)
I issued a further decision in the light of that. I said that as Lloyds had raised that point  to 
Mr W before  it was appropriate to consider whether the property was unoccupied at the time 
of the theft. I said that I thought it was and that in that event Lloyds was entitled to apply  an 
endorsement to the policy which would have  excluded theft if the property  was unfurnished.
Mr W doesnt feel that the property was unoccupied.  He believes he kept within  the 
guidelines and that after he started the alterations the property was considerably more 
occupied than it was before,  when he was frequently away  on business.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN36657722These were  my provisional findings  on the question of whether the property was unoccupied  
at the time of the theft:
Lloyds has drawn my attention to a letter its PCC  wrote to Mr W on 1 October  2018  after 
visiting his property. In that letter it stated:
In addition, a property will only be considered occupied if it is lived in by you or a member  of 
your family and contains essential items for normal living  purposes, for example cooking 
appliances, sanitary fittings and beds. Your property does not contain these items whilst  you 
are carrying  out its full renovation, and so it is considered  unoccupied  and unfurnished.
So, whilst it didnt raise that argument in its final response letter, it had formally  advised 
Mr W that it considered the property  to be unoccupied. So I think  it appropriate for me to 
consider that argument. 
The policy terms require the policyholder  to tell Lloyds about changes  during the policy, 
specifically if the home  was to become unoccupied. And the policy defines unoccupied in 
the terms set out in the PCCs letter. I know Mr W says he didnt receive the policy 
documents and says they were sent to the wrong  address.  Nevertheless  he says he 
assumed the policy documents would  be available online, as he had online banking with 
Lloyds. The basic details  of his insurance would  have  been available online  it would have 
been open to him to request the printed  documents. He didnt do so.
Mr W says that he occasionally  stayed  at the property one or two nights  a week.  He had a 
camp bed (described as a garden  chair by the PCC). He also had a fridge,  kettle, 
microwave, running water and a toilet. I note also that his girlfriend  lived nearby and that he 
stayed there.  Having looked at the photos of the property as taken by the PCC,  the walls  and 
floors appear to be completely stripped out, there is no furniture  there. I dont think that 
occasionally sleeping on a camp bed means  that the property was lived in, in accordance  
with the policy definition of unoccupied.
Mr W feels this is unfair, as the property was less occupied before he started  the alterations,  
as he was frequently away on business. He made arrangements  with his work  so that he 
could be at the property while the work  was carried  out and says he was there  every  day. 
But as I noted  provisionally, Mr W earlier in the claim  said he stayed at the property one or 
two nights a week.  I think  it reasonable to accept Mr W's earlier answer on this issue  which  I 
think shows his occupancy was, at best,  infrequent. All home insurance policies that Im 
aware of allow  for a policyholder to be away without their property being  said to be 
unoccupied. This would account for holidays and work. So as long as the property is 
normally occupied and the being away doesnt  extend usually more than 30 days then the 
risk is normally covered  the property is not viewed as unoccupied.
In Mr Ws case  Im afraid that being  at the property doing work on it during the day and 
occasionally sleeping on a camp bed doesnt in my view mean  the property was occupied  in 
accordance with the guidance in the policy. An empty house  where  only occasionally there is 
someone present  at night represents a greatly increased risk. I note also that the main items 
stolen were the tools.
Mr W has repeated  that he didnt receive the policy. I dealt with this in my provisional  
findings (as set out above). But whether  or not he had read the policy terms he was still 
bound by them. And the policy,  in common with most household policies excludes liability  for 
theft when the property  is unoccupied. I note that he says he changed his working  
Ref: DRN36657723arrangements but in view of the work he was carrying  out at the property I think it would 
have been reasonable  to inform Lloyds, if only to check whether he was complying with the 
terms on occupancy.
My provisional findings concluded as follows:
Im also mindful  that Id initially found that, going forwards, Lloyds could apply the 
unoccupancy endorsement. The reason why I thought was fair was because  I thought it 
reasonable for Lloyds to regard the property as unoccupied  at the time of the theft.
Unfortunately that means that the cover for theft would  have been excluded if the property 
was unfurnished  (this is explained  as does not have  enough furniture for normal  living  
purposes). That in turn means that Lloyds can fairly  and reasonably  decline the claim for 
theft. I appreciate  that this will come as a disappointment to Mr W after my initial findings. 
However, I cannot ignore the evidence  of the letter as drawn to my attention by Lloyds.
So overall I havent been persuaded to change my provisional findings as set out above  and 
those findings  are now final. This means  that I think it was reasonable of Lloyds to decline 
liability for the theft, and to apply the endorsements to the policy  concerning unoccupancy.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3665772