K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about Lloyds Bank General Insurance  Limited  (Lloyds) for the way 
it handled their claim. Mr and Mrs P want Lloyds to fully compensate  them for their damaged 
item, and for their distress and inconvenience. 
background
Mr and Mrs P held a joint insurance  policy for their home contents. This was underwritten by 
Lloyds. 
In late 2018, Mr and Mrs P reported  accidental damage to a television at their property when 
the screen was cracked. The television was wall mounted and was high specification,  with 
features including 3D, a built in camera and paper thin screen. The television was also 
synchronised with Mr and Mrs Ps other devices of the same brand to improve  usability. Mr 
and Mrs P had purchased  the television around a year and a half earlier  for around  £3000.
Lloyds appointed a third party agent  to validate their claim and advised  that the agent would 
contact Mr P later that day or the following day. 
The third party agent contacted Mr and Mrs P and offered settlement based on a 
replacement television it had identified. The replacement offered was available on sale for 
around £700 and had different features to Mr and Mrs Ps damaged television. It also had a 
thick plastic surround  to the screen and fewer  HDMI ports than Mr and Mrs Ps original 
television. 
Mr and Mrs P argued that the settlement offered was not comparable  to their damaged item 
and was inferior. Mr and Mrs P spoke with a number of agents and were assured  that they 
would receive returned  calls. Mr and Mrs P submitted a complaint regarding  the service  they 
received. 
Mr and Mrs P researched  comparable models of television and identified  that the closest  
model available was currently on sale for £1760.42.
Lloyds then offered  to settle the claim based on the television that Mr and Mrs P had 
identified. Lloyds sent Mr and Mrs P £1460.42, reflecting the cost of the replacement, minus  
the policy excess of £300. 
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and were concerned that their television had been 
considered beyond economic repair without Lloyds ever having inspected it, and they felt 
that Lloyds agents had misled them on what was available  under the policy.  Mr and Mrs P 
were also upset that, in replacing the television, they were left out of pocket  by £300. 
Lloyds responded to Mr and Mrs P, upholding the complaint. Lloyds accepted that the 
settlement initially offered  by their agent  was not suitable, and that calls which  had been 
promised were not returned. Lloyds apologised that Mr and Mrs P had had to research 
replacement themselves, and offered them £100  to reflect their distress  and inconvenience 
in pursing their claim. 
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy and contacted us. 
Ref: DRN31522882One of our investigators  has looked  into the complaint and has set out their views to the 
parties. This was that Lloyds agents had provided  a poor service  in respect of not returning 
calls, and in offering a model which was not comparable. Our investigator considered, 
however, that Lloyds  had ultimately  settled  the claim based on the like for like model that Mr 
and Mrs P had found, and that the offer of compensation for distress  and inconvenience  that 
Lloyds had made was in line with other  awards  that we would make in similar circumstances. 
The investigator therefore considered that Lloyds had acted reasonably in its response to the 
complaint and did not ask Lloyds to do anything more. 
Mr and Mrs P did not accept this view and asked for an ombudsman  decision. They 
submitted that if the compensation was increased to £175,  and Lloyds also reimbursed them  
for a wall bracket which no longer fitted  the replacement television,  then this would resolve 
the complaint.  The complaint has therefore been  referred for an ombudsman decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs Ps frustration  at their experience  when submitting the claim, and 
that they have  ultimately suffered a loss of money in replacing  their television. 
I also understand why Mr and Mrs P were upset when offered a settlement by Lloyds 
agents, which was based upon  a model which was not comparable  to the damaged item. Mr 
and Mrs P feel that this was deliberate,  and was an attempt to palm  them  off with a less 
valuable item, to the benefit of the business.  
Lloyds has accepted that the settlement initially offered was inadequate,  and it asked its 
agent to look at this again. The agent then offered settlement on the basis  of the comparable 
model that Mr and Mrs P had identified. I note that this took longer than it should have done, 
and that Mr and Mrs P were caused  the inconvenience of researching alternative  models,  
but I consider  that the ultimate settlement offered was reasonable
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that they remain out of pocket by the amount  of their excess. I 
appreciate this, but their insurance  policy was not intended to completely protect them  from 
loss in the event of accidental damage. The excess was always going to be deducted  from 
settlement of the claim and this was quite  proper in the ultimate  resolution  of the claim. 
I think it is appropriate that Lloyds paid some  compensation to Mr and Mrs P for their 
inconvenience, and I agree with the investigator  that £100  is in line with awards that we 
would make in similar  circumstances. This is because, although Mr and Mrs P were  caused 
inconvenience, this was relatively short lived and the claim was reasonably  resolved  by 
Lloyds. 
I therefore agree that the settlement offered by Lloyds is reasonable, and I do not ask Lloyds 
to do anything further. 
Mr and Mrs P have  indicated that they want to be reimbursed for a wall bracket which  no 
longer fits the replacement television.  This was not part of his initial claim and so is not 
something I can consider  within this complaint.  If Mr and Mrs P wish Lloyds to consider  this 
they will need to contact Lloyds. 
Ref: DRN31522883I understand that this decision will be disappointing  to Mr and Mrs P, but I hope that it clearly 
explains why I have  reached this decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint, as I consider that 
Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited has made a reasonable  offer of settlement. I do not 
ask Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 July 2020.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3152288