K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limited in relation  to a rent guarantee 
policy they held with it and utilised in 2014/2015 when they had to evict their tenant.
background 
In 2014 Mr and Mrs Bs tenant stopped  paying rent. Ageas covered the lost rent as provided 
by the policy.  Eviction proceedings  took place and, as part of those proceedings, Ageas 
asked for the rent it had paid to be awarded against  the defendant (tenant). Judgment  for the 
eviction and arrears  was awarded  in February 2015. 
Around this time Mr and Mrs B became aware the house was damaged. They  thought Ageas 
was tacking the damage claim onto the eviction  proceedings (the policy gave cover for legal 
expenses incurred in relation to pursuing  claims for breach of tenancy). But Ageas only 
became aware  of the damage in September 2015. Whilst in 2016 Ageas recovered most of 
the rent arrears  awarded, the damage claim was never pursued.  In late 2016 and early  2017 
Mr and Mrs B complained to Ageas and ourselves.  They felt Ageas had misled  and failed 
them and, as a result, it should pay the cost of repairing the damages.
I considered Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in 2017.  I issued  a final decision in September  2017.  
In that decision  I explained that I couldnt award  the cost of repairs  to Mr and Mrs B because, 
although I felt Ageas had failed them, it wasnt clear if its failure had prejudiced them   
meaning that but for its failure they would  have received payment for the cost of the 
damages. I said, amongst other things, Ageas should pursue the claim now.
In January 2018 Mr and Mrs B complained to us again, Mrs B said she wasnt happy with 
how Ageas  had acted  since my 2017 decision. Ageas had said it wouldnt issue proceedings 
as there  was no prospect of success. Mr and Mrs B noted this was different  from what  had 
happened in 2016 (when the judgment  had been successfully enforced). They  felt it was now 
clear that Ageas delay had prejudiced their position.
Our investigator considered legal opinion provided  by Ageas, and took into account the 
differences in risk that exist between enforcing  a judgment already obtained and embarking 
on legal  action in the hope  of a successful claim which can then also be enforced. She felt 
Ageas not pursuing matters now was fair and that it likely would never have pursued 
matters, or had any reasonable prospect of success even if it had acted earlier  in 2016.  
However, she did think Ageas had caused  delays since September 2017.  On the suggestion  
of the investigator  Ageas  agreed  to pay £250 compensation.
Mr and Mrs B noted that Ageas legal opinion  (which wed shared with them), said the 
prospects of success in 2016 (for enforcement of any judgement only,  assuming one had 
been made in favour of Mr and Mrs B) had been  no better than 50%.  Mrs B said she felt this 
was a reasonable chance after all Ageas  delay  so it should have pursued maters  and as it 
hadnt it should pay them at least half of the damage  repair cost. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31124372I understand why Mr and Mrs B are frustrated at the outcome that has now been reached.  
But the difficulty with their complaint has always been that it wasnt  clear what would have 
happened if Ageas  hadnt  failed them. 
Following my decision in September 2017 Ageas needed to pursue a claim for the damages,  
it did that in a rather delayed fashion which it has accepted and offered compensation for. 
I think that offer of compensation is reasonable. 
The policy Ageas was acting under says it will only pursue claims if there is a reasonable 
prospect of success.  So the first step in pursuing  any claim is to check  if there is a 
reasonable prospect of the claim succeeding. Sometimes that would be an assessment of 
the evidence and a legal  opinion on the likely outcome a court  might find. Here  Ageas ran a 
trace to see if it could  find the defendant and if he had any assets. The trace  for assets came  
back negative.  This would mean  that even if Ageas was successful in obtaining a legal 
judgment against the former tenant,  it would be difficult  at best to enforce it, thereby 
obtaining the monies awarded. That is all still part of the prospects of success.  Not gaining 
the awarded monies means the claim hasnt been successful. I think  Ageas acted fairly and 
reasonably in deciding not to pursue the matter  following receipt  of the trace  information.
I know Mrs B has found informal evidence about  her former tenant which suggests he does 
have assets, but the formal traces, which are what would be used in any enforcement  action, 
didnt support those  findings. I note though that the trace in 2016 had slightly  different results 
to that completed  in 2018. There were still no assets found but in 2016  it was confirmed that 
the former  tenant  was self-employed. 
Ageas then considered whether that difference in information at that time would have meant  
the prospects  then would  have been any different. The legal opinion received was that there 
was still, at best, only a 50% chance  any award  could have been  enforced.  We know Ageas 
did enforce the award for lost rent. But it is clear that it didnt achieve all of the lost rent back. 
The award was for £2,589.25 and Ageas received £2,327.00. The amount for the damage 
claim Mr and Mrs B were seeking was over £6,022.89. So, even if there had already been a 
judgment in place at that time which just needed  enforcing, Im not persuaded its likely  that 
any of the £6,022.89 wouldve been achieved on top of the £2,327.00 that was obtained. 
Added to that, in 2016 this was never just about enforcing a judgment that had been made 
regarding the damages.  Rather  Ageas would actually have had to have instigated  
proceedings at that time. Can I reasonably conclude that it should  have done so based  on a 
trace that had found the defendant was self-employed but with no assets? I dont  think I can. 
Not when taking  into account the added cost of issuing and taking  part in a claim.
All of which,  unfortunately for Mr and Mrs B, means that the delay that has bought  us to this 
point doesnt make any difference to the outcome. Thats because  Im considering what 
Ageas should  have  done then, based  on detail available then. I appreciate its disappointing 
for Mr and Mrs B, and likely hard to accept, but Im not persuaded that Ageas  failure  to act 
earlier has placed them  in any different a position  than they always would have  been   
having to fund repairs from their own pocket. 
Given the policy that was in place  and what always, Im satisfied, should have happened,  
Ive no fair or reasonable grounds to make  Ageas cover  the loss Mr and Mrs B have 
suffered. Ageas  did delay matters post 2017 and for that Im satisfied  it should  pay £250 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by those delays. But Im not 
persuaded it reasonably has to do anything more.
Ref: DRN31124373my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Ageas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B £250 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 March  2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3112437