K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Pepper (UK) Limited  (trading as Engage  Commercial) wanted  to 
instruct an asset  valuation  for the commercial mortgage that they held.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a loan facility in August 2007, with a different  business. This loan was 
later sold on. The current owner of the loan isnt a regulated business so it employed  
Engage to administer  the loan.
In July 2017, Engage wrote to Mr and Mrs M explaining that they were  going to instruct an 
asset valuation  for the loan that they held. Engage arranged various quotes for this valuation 
and the lender wished to appoint the most  competitive  one, at a cost of £1,845  (plus  VAT).
Mr and Mrs M objected  to the cost of the valuation due to the low loan to value ratio and the 
amount of the loan. They said the payments being made towards the loan would mean it 
would be repaid within or around 15 months.  Mr and Mrs M also gave details of the surveyor  
who carried out the valuation of the property for the previous lender. This surveyor quoted  a 
cost of £1,200  (plus  VAT) for the valuation.
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with Engages decision to request  the valuation  and the cost of 
it so they decided to repay the outstanding balance and redeem the loan.
At this stage, Engage asked Mr and Mrs M to provide proof of their identification  along  with 
other information, to satisfy the lenders Know Your Customer (KYC) policies. 
Mr and Mrs M were  concerned about this as they said they had recently  provided  proof  of 
address information  to Engage. They didnt think  that this information  was necessary as the 
loan was being repaid.
Engage responded to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. They said they were obliged  to facilitate 
the lender with the requested valuation and that the valuation  process  has been followed in 
line with the terms  of the facility agreement. They  referred to clauses 5.1 and 6.3 of this 
agreement.
With regard to the KYC procedure,  Engage said that the lender was acting in line with their 
legal and regulatory requirements.  Engage also referred to the clauses set out in the facility  
agreement.
Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy with what Engage had said so they referred the complaint  to 
our service  where it was looked at by one of our investigators. He thought that the complaint 
should be upheld.  He didnt think that Engage  acted  reasonably in asking for a valuation to 
be completed knowing what  they knew about the loan to value and other  factors. But the 
investigator was satisfied with what Engage had done with regards to KYC requirements.
Ref: DRN35478932Engage didnt agree with what the investigator  had said. They  made the following 
comments:
an internal business  decision was made by the lender to request a valuation not just 
for Mr and Mrs Ms loan, but for their entire portfolio
its the industry norm  for property portfolios to be re-valued approximately  every  36 
months and the previous valuation was carried out in October 2014
Mr and Mrs Ms monthly  payments towards  the loan have no bearing  on the lenders 
requirements for a valuation as the monthly payment is an obligation  of the loan 
the loan wasnt  due to expire for over 12 months so it was reasonable for 
Mr and Mrs Ms asset to be re-valued in accordance  with the original Facility 
Agreement for which  legal advice has been  received in relation to this matter
Engage asked for this case to be reviewed by an ombudsman  so it has come  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While I appreciate that Engage will be 
disappointed with my decision, I do agree with what the investigator has said for broadly the 
same reasons. Ill explain why.
As Ive already  mentioned  Mr and Mrs M took out a loan facility in August 2007, with a 
different business.  This loan was later sold on and the current owner of the loan isnt a 
regulated business so it employed Engage to administer the loan  on behalf of Pepper.
Although this credit agreement and the current owner of the loan is unregulated, Pepper is 
carrying out the activity of debt administration on behalf of the current  lender.  Legislation 
allows us to look at these activities.
KYC requirements
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs M have said about the need to produce identification 
when they said they had provided it previously. But Engage are entitled to ask for this. While 
I appreciate it may have  been frustrating for Mr and Mrs M to have to provide this 
information, I do understand  why Engage requested  this. Checks like these are normally  put 
in place by lenders to protect them and their customers. So Im satisfied that they acted 
within their requirements.
For these reasons, I wont be asking Engage to do anything further  in relation to this.
Ref: DRN35478933the valuation
I firstly set out below  the clauses and relevant definitions of the facility agreement  dated 
2 August 2007  that Engage have relied  on when making their decision.
clauses:
Clause 5.1: The Borrower will, on demand  pay to or reimburse the Bank  on a full indemnity 
basis for all legal, valuation, documentation  and other fees, costs and expenses (including  
any applicable  VAT) incurred by the Bank in connection with the Relevant  Documents, 
including in respect of any amendment of any Relevant Document or any waiver, 
enforcement or preservation of the Banks rights under  any Relevant Document.
Clause 6.3: The Borrower will promptly deliver  to the Bank,  on request, such  information  
about the Partnership, any Relevant Person or the business, operations, assets, financial 
condition or prospects of any Relevant Person  as the Bank may reasonably  require.
definitions:
Definition Relevant  Document:  means (1) this letter (2) each other  document under which  
any person (including  the Borrower) grants security or issues  a guarantee In respect of the 
Borrowers obligations under this letter and (3) each letter or agreement varying, amending, 
supplementing, restating,  substituting or novating this letter  or such Document.
Definition Relevant  Person: means  (1) the Borrower (2) any other person which enters into a
Relevant Document  and (3) where a person enters into a Relevant Document in its
capacity as a partner of a partnership, that partnership.
Ive thought about these  clauses carefully  and how they could be interpreted. Ive also 
thought about whether they have been applied reasonably. In my view Clause 6.3 is a wide 
clause and could  cover revaluations of the security.  Clause 5.1 Im not sure is completely 
relevant because it looks like its in relation to activities before  the drawdown  of the loan. I 
say this because  Ive looked at the facility agreement and clause  7.1 seems  to be more  
relevant in these  circumstances. Clause 7.1 says:
The borrower will ensure  that at all times the following  financial covenants are complied with:
the Bank reserves the right to have the property revalued at a minimum of three 
yearly intervals with the cost to be borne by the Borrower
maximum loan to value 70%
So the reason I think clause  7.1 is more relevant is because it relates to the requirement of 
the business to ensure that the loan to value of the property is at 70% or below that. And the 
only way they can make sure that it happens,  is by reserving  the right to have the property 
revalued every three years  which is what Engage have said they want  to do in this 
situation. But the key part of Clause  6.3 is whether information is reasonably  required.  
I appreciate that the lender has made  a business decision to value the entire portfolio for its 
own business purposes, and Ive also thought about the other  points they have made. But I 
dont find this a reasonable argument  for Mr and Mrs M to have to incur such a significant  
cost in their circumstances. Ive said this for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN35478934-Mr and Mrs M do not appear to have  missed any payments towards  their loan
-Mr and Mrs M said that the balance of their loan when the valuation was 
requested was £24,000 which they said would be cleared with around  15 monthly 
payments  a relatively short period of time, when considering  the original term of 
the agreement
-the loan to value ratio based on the previous  valuation was around 13%. Based 
on what the current value of the property  could be now, this could be even lower
-it doesnt look like the amount  that has been paid towards the loan can be 
redrawn (borrowed back)
-there are no immediate risk issues specific to Mr and Mrs M that have been 
brought to my attention
I therefore do not think that the request (on behalf of the lender) to instruct a valuation  was 
fair or reasonable  in this situation.
Because Mr and Mrs M were  unhappy  with the request of the valuation, they decided to 
repay the loan off in full. If they didnt do this, I would have said that it was unfair and 
unreasonable for Engage  to request a valuation. But this now isnt the case  so I have to 
consider the impact that this has had on Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M told us that this situation caused  them a lot of stress. They were concerned 
that the valuation wasnt needed in comparison to the amount they had outstanding  on the 
loan  in other words,  they felt it was disproportionate. And they said that the cost of the 
valuation amounted to nearly two months worth of payments.
Im not persuaded to think that Mr and Mrs Ms individual circumstances  were  taken into 
account but rather, a decision was made based  on the facility agreement  alone, which  I dont 
think was reasonable.  Mr and Mrs M were  in a fortunate  position  where  they were able to 
pay the loan off, but appreciate that this isnt something they necessarily wanted to do at that 
given moment in time.
Taking all of this into consideration, I agree with the investigator that Engage should 
acknowledge the trouble  and upset they have  caused to Mr and Mrs M by paying them £200 
to recognise this.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I require Pepper (UK) Limited to pay Mr and Mrs M £200  
for the trouble and upset  they have been  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3547893