K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI)  gave her poor service when she used its 
roadside assistance policy.
background
Mrs M has breakdown cover included as a benefit  of her current account.  In July 2018  she 
was travelling with her family  over 150 miles away from home  when her car broke  down. 
She called UKI, and one of its recovery agents  attended the scene and assessed her 
vehicle. They were  unable  to repair the car and took her to a nearby motorway  services.
Mrs M then joined another breakdown recovery provider at a cost of around  £100, and paid 
£300 to recover  her car to her home. Mrs M complained to UKI and said under her policy 
she shouldve been taken to the nearest  repairer. And she asked for the costs related to 
getting her vehicle home. Mrs M visited her own local garage around this time who identified 
the car needed  a new clutch and took over a week to complete the repair.
UKI looked into Mrs Ms complaint. It said under her policy, its agent would always  try and 
repair a broken down vehicle  at the roadside. And if this wasnt possible, then it had the 
choice to either take the policyholder to a garage of its choosing,  or to a destination  of the 
policyholders choosing within a ten mile radius.
In this case it said it was unable to repair the car at the roadside,  and didnt  have a suitable 
garage available to tow her to. So it said the only option was to get her to a place of safety 
and advise her that recovery  would need  to be a private  arrangement.  But it said it hadnt 
communicated clearly  with her throughout so it made  an offer of £100. 
Mrs M brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into things. 
He said UKI had unfairly not offered to take Mrs M to a garage for repair,  and as a result  she 
was left at a nearby motorway services. And the investigator said UKI shouldve offered to 
drive Mrs M home itself while fairly applying a mileage cost to do so.
So the investigator said, in addition to the £100 UKI had offered, it should  cover the 
difference between  Mrs Ms recovery costs,  and the cost UKI said it wouldve charged her 
had it driven her itself.  UKI agreed  to this and said the difference  in costs  was £18.60.
Mrs M disagreed so the complaint  has been passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied the offer UKI has now made is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ms policy says UKI has the option of how to proceed  when a roadside repair isnt 
possible  either  to provide recovery to a garage of its choice, or to a location of the 
policyholders choice within ten miles. In this case UKI said it didnt have a nearby 
recommended garage so instead it took Mrs M to a nearby  location  of her choice  the 
motorway services.
Ref: DRN34290212If I consider  that UKI has made a failing when handling this claim, I would need to go on to 
consider the impact of the mistake on Mrs M. Mrs M said UKI shouldve given her the choice 
to take her vehicle to a garage  of its choice for repair. But even if I accepted  this was the 
case, I dont think  this wouldve impacted her situation for the better.
I say this as Mrs Ms vehicle needed a new clutch, and this repair took over a week using  her 
own chosen garage. Mrs Ms car broke down in the late afternoon on a Friday. So even if the 
car had been  taken  to a garage for repair, I dont  think its likely it couldve replaced  the 
clutch  given its nature and the time taken by her own garage  on the same day. 
So I think its likely Mrs M wouldve  needed  to have  her car recovered  to either her home or 
her local garage for repairs anyway.  Mrs M paid around £400 for recovery,  and UKI said it 
wouldve charged her around £380 for mileage  had it been able to offer this service.  
Mrs Ms policy doesnt include  a recovery to home service,  and while on occasion  it says it 
can provide this, it said it wasnt possible in this case  given distance it would need  to travel. 
It said this distance  would  mean it needed  to employ  multiple  drivers.  So UKI stood by its 
decision to not offer to drive Mrs M home, but still has offered to pay the difference  in costs  
anyway  £18.60.
I think this offer, alongside its offer of £100  for any inconvenience, is fair and reasonable 
taking into account  Mrs M wouldve needed to pay for travel costs  to get her home anyway. 
In the circumstances Im satisfied UKI met its obligations under this policy, and its offer to 
Mrs M is fair and reasonable and puts things right. So Im not asking it to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the above reasons I think the offer of £18.60  for difference  in costs, and £100 for 
inconvenience is fair and reasonable.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3429021