K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that a payment she made to clear  her credit card balance wasnt transferred 
by Sainsburys Bank  Plc. 
 
background
Ms G had a credit  card account with Sainsburys.  Towards the end of September 2018 she 
made a large  balance  transfer payment from her Sainsburys account,  and then another  
smaller one quickly after that. These were made to pay another credit card account, which  
she holds with another bank. 
Ms G has complained to us about what that other  bank did too, and I will complete a 
separate decision about that for her. But I cant  name her other bank here. So Ill just refer to 
it as her other bank.  
The payments that Ms G made were  supposed to clear the balance  on her credit card with 
her other bank. But they didnt go through. It turned out that there  was a system problem 
with Sainsburys,  and so the payment wasnt made.  About six weeks later,  Sainsburys 
arranged for a money transfer to be made instead, to allow  Ms G to pay her other card.  
While the money was missing, Ms G paid extra interest on her credit card with the other 
bank. She missed the minimum  payments onto her other credit card,  and her other  bank 
reduced her credit  limit. Ms G also had issues with her mortgage and current account, both 
also held with the other bank. She took a payment holiday for two months  from her 
mortgage, and extended her overdraft, both of which have cost her money.    
Sainsburys has accepted  that the failure  to make both of the original balance transfer 
payments that Ms G requested was its fault.  It eventually made  a money  transfer, for a bit 
more than the balance transfers had been,  because  it wanted to make  sure that Ms Gs 
other card was paid.  It paid £150  into her account  to help her in the short term, and in 
particular so that she had some  money  to make  minimum payments onto her credit  card with 
the other bank as well as with Sainsburys, when she was only expecting  to have to make  
one minimum  payment, to Sainsburys.  
Sainsburys wrote  to Ms G to apologise.  It offered her a further £150, making a total of £300 
in compensation.
Ms G thought that Sainsburys should  also compensate her for the charges that she incurred 
in extending her overdraft and the extra interest on her mortgage. 
Sainsburys said that it had taken into account the cost to Ms G of her overdraft, as well as 
the embarrassment of having to borrow from friends, when it offered her a further £150. It 
said that Ms G hadnt told it before she took the mortgage payment holiday, and if she had, it 
mightve been able to help at the time.  Sainsburys didnt think  it should be responsible  for 
any increase in the mortgage payments that Ms G now has to make. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint  in part. She didnt think that Sainsburys should have 
to pay more compensation. She did think that Sainsburys should pay Ms G the interest that 
shed been charged on her other  card, while the money sent from Sainsburys was still 
missing. That was £122.84. 
Ref: DRN36989952Our investigator didnt  think that Sainsburys had to do anything  more than that. She said 
that Ms G had said that she was already having difficulty  making the mortgage payment and 
had planned  to pay that using her credit card. So our investigator thought that there was 
already a problem,  and the missing payment transfer wasnt  what  had really caused  Ms G 
not to be able to meet  her mortgage. She said that similarly she didnt think  that Sainsburys 
had to contribute towards the cost of Ms Gs overdraft,  because Ms G was going to pay to 
borrow this money anyway, as she was planning  to use her card.
Ms G didnt agree with that. She said that we were inferring that she was in mortgage  
arrears, and shed never been in arrears. She said that her credit card was used to meet her 
day to day expenses, and cleared at the end of every month.  She said that recent family 
events had meant that there was much  more on her card at the time. Ms G said that none  of 
this was her fault,  and she wanted  to be put back in the position shed been in before. She 
also wanted compensation for the stress  shed been caused. 
Our investigator asked  Ms G for some  more details about her financial position  after the 
balance transfer  money  was finally  paid.  Ms G replied that shed already told us about the 
extra charges, and she wanted  her case to be referred to an ombudsman. It was then 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our investigator, and for broadly  the same reasons.
Sainsburys has accepted  that it made a mistake. Its paid £300  in compensation, and our 
investigator suggested that it should pay £122.84  in interest that Ms G wouldnt have been 
charged if the balance transfers she sent in September had arrived as expected. 
I think our investigator was right to say that Ms G wouldnt have paid that additional  £122.84 
in interest if Sainsburys hadnt  made a mistake, so I think that Sainsburys should pay that 
now, on top of the total of £300 in compensation its offered. 
I recognise that such a large amount of money  going missing would have caused Ms G a lot 
of stress. Shes told us that she had to make other borrowing arrangements at the time,  and 
to take a payment holiday. But I understand, from other things that Ms G has told us about 
her financial  situation  at the time,  that it may already have been difficult  before that 
happened. 
Although having  such  a large amount of money  going missing mustve  made  an already very 
difficult situation worse, I dont think that Sainsburys  is mainly  responsible  for all of the 
problems Ms G faced as a result. Shed told us that she was already  planning  to pay her 
mortgage using  a credit card, and was using a credit card to meet daily expenses. I 
understand that taking a payment holiday means that her mortgage payments was then a 
little more each  month  (although I also understand she was hoping  to sell this property)  and 
that she paid for her overdraft. But because she would otherwise have used funds from a 
credit card to meet those costs, I think that this was money  she was always  planning to 
borrow. 
Because I dont think that Sainsburys was mainly responsible for the things that went  wrong 
for Ms G after the balance  money  went missing,  and because  I think that her financial 
Ref: DRN36989953situation was already  unfortunately  very difficult,  I dont think that Sainsburys has to pay her 
back the costs of additional borrowing that she made at this time,  or the cost of a payment 
holiday on her mortgage. And I dont  think it has to pay more compensation than it has 
already offered. 
Ive been very sorry to hear about the family circumstances which  seem  to have originally 
caused Ms Gs financial problems. I hope  that shes now been able to resolve  the financial 
difficulties shes faced.  
Ive considered Ms Gs complaint carefully,  and I am only upholding it in part. I know  that Ms 
G will be disappointed, but I dont  think that Sainsburys has to do more than our investigator  
suggested.
my final decision
My final decision is that Sainsburys Bank  Plc should  pay Ms G £122.84  to cover interest she 
was charged.  And it should ensure she receives a total of £300 in compensation. 
Sainsburys Bank Plc can count towards that amount of £300 any compensation it has 
already paid Ms G for this issue. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3698995