K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr L holds with Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. 
In essence, the complaint is that Halifax:
recorded adverse  information about the mortgage on his credit file that has prevented  
him from getting another mortgage to repay Halifax  and avoid eviction;
combined the possession proceedings for this mortgage with those  for another,  and then 
debited the costs of the other  proceedings to this mortgage account;  and
went back on an earlier offer to accept £800,000 in full and final settlement of the debt.
background
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplication and repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented.  
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumer when my 
decision is published. 
Also, theres been a great  deal of litigation between the parties. The Financial Ombudsman 
Service is an alternative to the court system, and its not in my remit to revisit or second 
guess what the courts have already decided. If I reference court proceedings - and the 
outcome(s) of them  in this decision, its to provide context to those matters that are in my 
remit.
The mortgage at the heart  of this complaint was taken out in 2005, and is secured on a 
property Ill call S. From  2008, Mr L also held a Halifax mortgage on another property, 
which Ill call G. Arrears  accumulated on both,  and in 2013, Halifax became possession 
proceedings on both; these  were consolidated  into one action in 2014.  Mr L wasnt allowed 
to defend the proceedings;  hed been made bankrupt in late 2013. 
Eventually, the fate of the properties  was determined in a court-backed settlement 
agreement that gave Halifax a possession order over S which it wouldnt seek to enforce 
until three months after a family member who lived there had died, and a possession  order  
over G that could be enforced after 21 August 2016  unless the bank received £900,000 in 
redemption of the mortgage on it.
Mr L was discharged from his 2013  bankruptcy in in May 2015, but made bankrupt again in 
September 2016. That bankruptcy  was discharged in September  2017.
Meanwhile, the family member died in April 2017, and following the three-month grace 
period included in the settlement agreement,  Halifax sought to enforce  the possession  
Ref: DRN33833862orders. After numerous  attempts to stop the possession were  rejected by the courts, G was 
taken into possession in August 2017,  and sold in January  2018,  leaving a shortfall of over 
£370,000. 
Mr L continued his attempts to block the possession of S in court. Those  attempts were  all 
rejected by the courts and culminated in January  2019 with Mr L being barred from further 
court proceedings for two years by a civil restraining order. That left Halifax free to proceed 
with the eviction on S, but Mr L then brought the complaint to us. He asked if we could tell 
Halifax to suspend the eviction while we looked into the complaint. We pointed  out that we 
couldnt tell the bank  to do this, but that we could  ask it. With a great deal of reluctance,  
Halifax agreed to stay the eviction.
The main  thrust of this complaint is that throughout the period of Mr Ls bankruptcies,  Halifax  
had mistakenly been recording adverse information  about the status of the mortgage on S 
on his credit file. Halifax had admitted this and agreed to remove  the data and offered Mr L 
£200 compensation. 
But Mr L believes the presence of this adverse data has proved to be a barrier to him 
obtaining a new mortgage to repay Halifax completely and avoid  losing S. He says, in effect,  
its unfair and unlawful  for Halifax  to go ahead with the eviction when its prevented  him from 
re-financing. He provided an email from his broker  suggesting that if the adverse data were 
not there,  it was possible he might  be able to source a lender that was willing  to lend in spite 
of the bankruptcies.
Our investigator wasnt convinced this was very likely.  Even allowing for the removal  of the 
incorrect data, he thought Mr L would still probably  have  difficulty  finding a lender willing  to 
lend him enough money to repay Halifax in full. He didnt recommend the other parts  of the 
complaint be upheld, either.
As to the costs  associated with the possession and disposal  of G, he pointed  to a letter Mr L 
wrote in December 2013  asking  the banks solicitors to combine the two sets of proceedings. 
Insofar as the settlement  agreement  had confirmed the mortgage contracts were still valid 
and binding, he didnt  think it unreasonable that Halifax debited costs  relating to G to the 
mortgage account relating to S. 
One of the things Mr L was looking for was for Halifax to reinstate an offer it had made  in 
January 2018  to accept £800,000 in full and final settlement of the mortgage debt, provided 
payment was made within 56 days. Whilst wed been looking at the case, Halifax  made a 
fresh offer along similar  lines.  The offer,  dated 16 May 2019, would have required Mr L to 
pay £50,000 within 28 days of the date of the offer, and then the remaining £750,000 within 
three months of the date of the offer.
The investigator set all of this out in a view dated 23 May 2019. Mr L wasnt  happy  and 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  Thats  why its come  to me
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  Mr Ls letter of 
30 May 2019 responding to the investigators  view,  to decide whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. But Ill make some general observations  before  dealing 
with the substance of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN33833863Lenders generally do put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they 
dont have to and we cant force them to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to have that 
power would  seriously undermine  our impartiality between the parties  to a complaint. It 
would also create  the potential  risk of consumers abusing our service by making complaints  
with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take legitimate  action  to recover 
money owed to them. Ill come back to this point in due course.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone  else.
Its up to us to decide what  evidence we need  to decide a complaint,  where  we should get it 
from, and what weight  we should attach to it once we have it. Mr L says Halifax  has a history 
of providing misleading  information and that I should treat its evidence with suspicion.  But its 
for me to judge the reliability of the evidence (including Mr Ls). Its also my judgement to 
make on when we have everything we need to reach a fair conclusion.  This might seem  an 
immensely complex affair on first glance;  actually, I think  its a simpler complaint than its 
been made to look. 
The really  big aspect  of this complaint is Halifaxs error in recording payment arrears  on 
Mr Ls credit  file, and the possible  impact  of that error. The former isnt in dispute;  its the 
latter I have to decide here.
Mr Ls approach seems to be that because Halifax has admitted recording the information in 
error, it has to be responsible for him not being  able to get another mortgage. Im conscious 
of having said that this complaint is simpler than its been made  to look, but it certainly isnt 
as simple as that. 
Nonetheless, at the most  basic level, Mr L believes that what Halifax  has put on his credit 
files in relation  to S is the reason hes not been  able to borrow money to repay  what  he woes  
on S; not just a reason  but the sole reason.  In order to find in his favour,  Id need to be 
persuaded, on the balance of probabilities, that all of the following were true:
that every time Halifax has recorded  information about S on Mr Ls credit file that a 
potential lender might consider adverse, its done so in error;
that no other existing  creditor  has recorded any information on Mr Ls credit  file that a 
potential lender might consider adverse; and
no other reason  exists  for lenders to be unwilling to lend to Mr L.
The first point has been conceded, but for completeness, Ill explain that the right to enforce 
the security in the event of discharge  from bankruptcy is preserved by section 281(2) of the 
Insolvency Act 1986. However, section 281(1)  says that where a bankrupt  is discharged,  the 
discharge releases  the borrower from all the bankruptcy debts. 
In the case at hand, this means  that, although Halifax is entitled  to enforce its security over 
S, Mr L isnt liable to pay the monthly instalments and Halifax  shouldnt  pursue him for 
payment. It follows that, if Mr L isnt liable to pay the monthly instalments, the fact that the 
monthly instalments  havent been  paid shouldnt have  been reported to credit  reference 
agencies in respect of Mr L. That was Halifaxs error.  
Ref: DRN33833864On the second  point,  Ive not seen  Mr Ls full credit file, so I cant exclude the possibility that 
other creditors of his have  recorded adverse information that might  have  contributed to any 
difficulty he has in getting a mortgage.
On the third point, Mr L seems convinced that his two bankruptcies   which,  whilst 
discharged, remain  on his record for six years,  so to May 2021 and September  2023 
respectively  arent a hindrance to him getting a mortgage. His evidence for that is his 
brokers email and his own conviction that lenders  (including Halifax) do lend to discharged 
bankrupts. But I cant just accept Mr Ls belief on face value, just because  he says it. And 
even if I did, that wouldnt  of itself mean lenders are willing to lend to him.
Its for Mr L to provide persuasive (Im minded to say compelling) evidence  that there is a 
lender right now, willing to provide a mortgage  big enough for him to repay  the Halifax 
mortgage on S. His brokers email is little more than an expression of hope that something 
might be possible, and the investigator made the point in his view (which  I cant  see Mr L has 
rebutted) that Mr L doesnt appear  to have  actually applied to any lenders. 
Im aware that the process  of removing the Halifax data from his credit  file has been 
protracted, but Mr L has been in possession of its final response  agreeing  to remove  it since 
February 2019. He could  have shown that to lenders as reassurance that the information  
could discounted  in their assessments of his application. As things stand, Mr L has admitted  
in his letter of 30 May 2019 that he doesnt think he can get a mortgage within three  months 
and asks if I think it would be appropriate for Halifax to provide the mortgage he needs. I 
dont think Mr L would  be asking that question if there was any realistic  prospect of him 
getting a mortgage elsewhere even with the incorrect  data removed  or disregarded.
Its not up to me to decide if Halifax should provide  a new mortgage; generally  speaking, the 
role of the ombudsman does not include interfering with a lenders  commercial  judgement  by 
telling it who it should lend money  to. Theres no basis for me to depart from that position 
simply because Halifax recorded the adverse data; I dont find it to be the sole or even  
predominant reason he cant get a mortgage  elsewhere But insofar as Mr L has posed the 
question, its probably  best answered with another question; that is, why would Halifax lend 
to Mr L again  when its already lost over £370,000 on the money  it lend him on G?
Mr Ls response to the investigators view didnt include  any rebuttal of his finding on the 
debiting of costs  relating  to the proceedings on G to the mortgage account on S. For 
completeness, Ill just say that I agree with the investigator. The starting point is that a 
mortgage contract allows for that to happen  (a court  can order  something  different, but if the 
court says nothing, the contract prevails) and the banks actions werent unfair  given the 
wider circumstances.
That brings me to the banks recent settlement proposal. Mr L says the bank  is only giving 
the appearance  of fairness when, in reality, it knows he cant  accept the offer.  Its worth  
saying that it was Mr L who wanted the offer from January 2018 reinstated,  so its rather 
churlish of him to criticise  the bank  for doing  what he wanted. 
Its also worth saying  that when Mr L started this complaint,  he and his family were  facing 
imminent eviction; by his own admission,  theyd  begun packing and the eviction was a 
matter of days away when  Halifax agreed  to stay the eviction. Bringing his complaint here, 
after all of his legal  attempts  had failed and he was barred from using the courts any more,  
meant Mr L was given at least until 16 August 2019 to try and keep his home.  
Ref: DRN33833865On that point, the offer in its recent  form was arguably more generous than the original,  in 
that it gave Mr L three months to find the money  where the January 2018 version only gave 
him 56 days. I say it was more generous, and thats deliberate.  Thats because the offer 
required Mr L to pay the first £50,000 within  28 days of the offer letter; i.e. by 13 June 2019. 
Once that date passed without Mr L paying the £50,000, the offer lapsed, so the point is 
entirely moot. Mr L no longer has until 16 August 2019 to save his home unless Halifax  
offers him some further concession, and to be clear, I dont find there  to be any grounds for 
Halifax to do that.
Mr L and his family face the prospect of losing their home, which is a horrible situation for 
anyone. But I cant fairly  say its just because of the information Halifax  put on Mr Ls credit 
file wrongly. Overall, I think its because of the cumulative effect  of Mr Ls wider financial and 
legal circumstances  over many years. 
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. The courts have found 
emphatically in Halifaxs  favour on this, and it would be entirely inequitable and inappropriate 
for me to remove that right in a final decision on Mr Ls complaint.
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from his submissions the determination with which  Mr L has brought 
the complaint.  Thats  a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  Be that as it may, I have to take a different approach.  Im impartial and I 
have to look at things objectively,  sometimes taking  a step back and focussing on the 
broader picture. Thats what Ive done.  Having done so, I cant  find in Mr Ls favour,  however 
much he thinks  I should.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3383386