K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC (when it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester) mis-sold them a mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds Bank  is responsible for dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer to 
Lloyds.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a mortgage together in 2001 without taking out PPI at the time. This 
complaint is about  a PPI policy taken out alongside a further advance  they took out in 2002. 
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr M. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion. Their main  complaint  is that PPI wasnt mentioned  at all and they were just asked to 
sign the paperwork. Mr and Mrs M also told us that payment protection wasnt something 
they wanted or needed as they had adequate other  cover in place.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs M to remember exactly what  was discussed 
when they took out a further advance in 2002  as this was so long ago. This means  that what 
they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I have  to look at 
all the available  information and decide what I think  is most likely.
Mr and Mrs M arranged  their further  advance in one of Lloydss branches.  I cant  be sure 
what was discussed  when this happened. I dont know how PPI wouldve been  presented  to 
Mr and Mrs M or how it was explained to them. 
But, based on the information  Ive seen, I think Lloyds made Mr and Mrs M aware  that the 
PPI was optional  and they chose  to have it for Mr M. I say this because, when they applied  
to have PPI in 2002, their mortgage account had already been running  for almost a year 
without PPI. So I think its likely that Mr and Mrs M wouldve known at the time that it was up 
to them  to arrange PPI if it was something  they wanted to have. 
They filled in a separate PPI application  to have  the cover added on to their mortgage  
account. They indicated  on this form that they wanted to protect just their extra  borrowing 
and have 100% of the benefit to cover Mr M. They completed the information boxes to check 
he was eligible for the cover. 
Ref: DRN39170012I dont think its likely  that Mr and Mrs M would've  signed paperwork without first checking  
through the form to see that the information on it was accurate and reflected their wishes  at 
the time.  And Mr and Mrs M both signed  the declaration at the end of the completed form to 
confirm they agreed  that the information on it was correct and complete in every detail.
So, on balance, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough for me safely  to say that Lloyds 
didnt make it clear that PPI was available with their further advance. And I find it was added 
to their account when  Mr and Mrs M indicated  they wanted to take out the policy.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M  although  Mr and Mrs M told us they 
couldnt remember this. But, as it looks as if they spoke  to an advisor at the time, Im going  
to treat their complaint  as an advised  sale. This gives their complaint the best chance of 
succeeding because  it means that as well as giving them clear information,  the advisor had 
to take reasonable steps to make sure the PPI recommendation was suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs M.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ms comments,  including what  theyve said about not 
needing to have PPI. But the mortgage  was a major financial commitment over a long 
period. I think the policy couldve provided  valuable additional cover on top of Mr Ms sick 
pay if he found he was unable to work for any significant time. In the event of accident or 
sickness, or if Mr M lost his job unexpectedly  and was out of work, he couldve made  a 
claim. 
The policy wouldve paid out enough  to cover  the insured monthly repayments plus some 
extra benefit  on top of this for up to 12 months at a time in the event of a successful claim. 
He couldve kept on doing this for as long as Mr and Mrs M had the mortgage giving them  
long-term cover while they were  paying off their secured borrowing. 
I dont know how long Mr and Mrs M wouldve been able to maintain the monthly repayments 
if Mr M wasnt able to work as the borrowing was taken out when  it appears  he was the main  
earner. So I think its likely  that losing  his income wouldve had a significant impact  on their 
joint finances. 
Ive thought carefully about the other  protection Mr and Mrs M mentioned  they had set up. 
But it looks  like the PPI provided a different sort of cover and paid out in different 
circumstances. This means its unlikely  their borrowing wouldve been fully protected  if they 
hadnt taken out the PPI when they arranged their further advance. 
So, overall, I cant reasonably say that Mr and Mrs M didnt need  PPI. I think  the policy was 
suitable for their needs.
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the policy when they didnt have to and 
so it appears Mr and Mrs M did want this type of cover. Mr M was eligible for the PPI. And 
although there were  some  things the policy didnt  cover, it doesnt look as if those applied in 
Mr Ms case.  So, I dont think having  more information about things the policy  didnt cover  
wouldve affected their decision to take out the policy to cover Mr M.  
Ref: DRN39170013I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs M when  they bought the policy. 
But they filled in an instruction form to their bank to pay for it  so it looks  like they were 
happy to pay for the cover  at the time. From what Ive seen, the monthly premiums werent 
unaffordable for Mr and Mrs M  and they couldve cancelled the PPI if their circumstances 
altered or they changed their minds about  having the cover.  
Looking at the benefits PPI offered them, and the risks it protected, I think it unlikely 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided.  
On balance, I think theyd  still have taken out the policy. This means I dont find that 
Mr and Mrs M have  lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds mightve done wrong. So it 
doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ms comments,  including what  theyve said about the way 
the bank dealt with another claim they made. But we look at each  complaint  on its own 
merits and I am concerned here just with their complaint about the PPI sold with their further 
advance in 2002. So this information doesnt  change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019. 
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3917001