K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the time it took Santander  UK Plc (Santander) to clear  a bankers draft 
that he paid into his account.  This caused  him to lose out on buying a property. He also says 
the bank gave him poor customer service throughout.
background
Mr S has raised concerns in this matter  which fall under two main areas.
1.The time Santander took to clear the bankers  draft he paid into his account; and
2.The customer service he was given  throughout.
A bankers draft is like a cheque written by the bank and, for ease, is referred to as a cheque 
in this decision.
time to clear the cheque 
Mr S was buying a property. He paid a cheque for £60,000 into his account on 5 April 2018. 
The money was available  to him to transfer  on 13 April 2018.
He says that he expected it to have around one day clearance as advertised by Santander  
online for a cheque deposit  from a Santander  account to another  Santander account.  
Mr S says these delays meant that the house  purchase fell through. 
customer service  
Mr S went  to the branch several times  and also phoned the bank on a number of occasions  
about this. During  these  calls and visits, he says he was given the runaround  by the bank  - 
being told incorrect or inaccurate  information  and felt like he was being treated like a 
criminal. He explains to our service  as follows. 
I had to justify where the money came  from and where it was going to be spent on, I 
reluctantly showed  them  my solicitors details of house purchase but nothing 
happened this was after load of rubbish just hideous  and false runaround by pathetic  
and incompetent personnel to my anger and frustration.
Mr S raised these concerns with Santander.  Santander said it hadnt made any errors  with 
the clearance of the cheque. It says it monitors account activity and, if it feels  theres  a need 
to withhold the clearance of a cheque then itll do this. It explained that whilst the website 
says the launch of the new way to process  cheques will be much quicker, it also says itll be 
a phased approach and is expected to be completed mid-2018. The online page also goes 
onto say that, initially, the change will affect a small number of customers,  so until the rollout 
is complete, both systems  of clearing cheques will be used.
However, Santander felt that during its review of the calls Mr S had made to it about this 
matter, it gave Mr S the wrong timescales for the extended clearance. It also felt it hadnt 
helped the branch with his queries as well as it could have. It apologised for this and offered 
to pay £100 to Mr S for the wrong information hed received.
Ref: DRN34405722Mr S wasnt  happy with this so he came to our service.  Mr S says this matter has led to 
stress, inconvenience and also a financial loss. To put things  right, he said that hed like 
Santander to compensate  him for this and sincerely apologise to him.
Our service looked into matters and didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. We 
explained the following:
-The basic account that Mr S paid the cheque into had limited  activity prior to the 
deposit. This would  be a trigger  for extra due diligence as it was unusual activity for 
that account. So, Santander  wasnt at fault for carrying  out an extended check.  And 
the bank couldnt be held responsible  for anything that happened  as a result  of that 
timeframe, including whether a house  purchase fell through. 
-The offer of £100 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators view and so this matter was passed to me for a 
decision. I issued  a provisional decision on 18 December 2019
In my provisional decision,  I said the following:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, I am currently intending to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the cheque  clearance guidance provided by Santander in its terms and 
conditions and also online. The bank says it adheres to the industry standard  2-4-6  cheque 
clearance process, a cycle implemented by all UK banks and building societies. 
So, where a cheque is paid in on a Thursday, as in this matter,  the following processing  
times apply:  
-Saturday is when  interest begins.
-Wednesday is when  the funds are available for the customer to use. 
-The end of the following Monday is the day the customer can be sure the money is 
theirs.
In Mr Ss matter, following the 2-4-6 process,  the money shouldve been  available for him to 
use on Wednesday 11 April. But this didnt happen - the money  wasnt available to be 
transferred by Mr S until Friday 13 April.
Even so, Mr S complains  that the cheque wasnt cleared in one day. For cheques  processed 
using the new image  clearing system,  the guidance  says that things  are slightly quicker  
and the cheque is the customers  to withdraw  by the end of the next working day. But the 
terms make  clear that a cheque can be cleared  in either of these ways. Taking this into 
account and the website  page which Mr S has referred to which  also makes it clear  that 
either process could  be used, I dont think its fair to say that an expectation had been set 
Ref: DRN34405723that that the cheque imaging process would be used in this particular case  or that the 
cheque would clear  in a day.
However, the cheque  didnt  follow the 2-4-6 clearance process  either. Santander has told us 
about its internal  policy not to release unusually large amounts of money  paid in by cheque 
as quickly as it would release smaller  amounts or those  types  of payment which  are out of 
character for the account. It says it does that to protect the security of their accounts and to 
comply with various laws and regulations. I think Santander can have a policy like that if it 
wants to. But, if it does,  then it should  do two things.  
Firstly, it should give its customers clear  information  about when a cheque will be available. 
Thats especially important when someone  is dealing with something  like the purchase of a 
property. Santander  says it gave Mr S the wrong timescales for the extended clearance 
when it spoke to him.
Secondly, Santander needs to make  sure that what  it is doing is in line with the terms and 
conditions of its account holders. Santander has sent us the terms and conditions  for Mr Ss 
account. That tells Mr S what will happen when he pays in a cheque.  But I cant see anything 
in those terms and conditions which says that Santander can take longer to clear a cheque  if 
its for an unusually large amount or there  are other  concerns about the transaction.
So, I think Santander needs to pay Mr S some  compensation because it didnt give him clear 
information and it acted outside  the terms and conditions of his account. I think  that 
Santander should pay Mr S a total of £150. It can deduct from that amount the £100  that it 
has already offered to Mr S.
I dont dispute  that Mr S was given conflicting information but, whether the bank staff or the 
online information had told Mr S the correct  date for extended clearance  or a day or two 
either side, neither  would result in the funds being available  in the timescale Mr S expected   
which was a day. And I think Santander acted reasonably  when it decided  to carry out 
extended checks in this matter. So, I dont think the bank can fairly  or reasonably  be held 
responsible for anything  that happened as a result of the time it took for the cheque  to clear 
being longer than a day in this matter,  including whether a property purchase fell through.
Finally, Ive listened to the calls between Mr S and Santander sent to our service. Setting 
aside the conflicting information Santander says Mr S was given which has been  covered 
above, I dont  think the bank did anything  wrong during those calls or in handling  Mr Ss 
concerns. We wouldnt expect Santander (or a consumer) to tolerate inappropriate 
behaviour, insults  or language during a phone call. So, in the circumstances, I thought the 
bank staff remained polite  and professional throughout.
Santander accepted the provisional decision.  Mr S responded with comments about  our 
service and didnt  accept the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because neither party has anything more to add to the substance  of this complaint, Ive 
reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision and for the same  
reasons. In summary, my findings  are:
Ref: DRN344057241.Santander needs to pay Mr S some compensation because it didnt give him clear 
information and it acted outside  the terms and conditions of his account. It should  pay 
Mr S a total of £150. It can deduct  from that amount the £100 that it has already 
offered to Mr S. 
2.I think Santander acted reasonably  when  it decided to carry out extended checks  in 
this matter. So, I dont  think the bank can fairly or reasonably be held responsible for 
anything that happened as a result of the time it took for the cheque  to clear  being 
longer than a day in this matter, including whether  a property purchase fell through.
3.I dont think the bank did anything wrong  during those  calls or in handling Mr Ss 
concerns. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold part of Mr Ss complaint. To put things right, 
Santander should pay him a total of £150.  Taking into account the £100 already offered to 
Mr S, this is an additional £50 on top of this amount. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2020.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3440572