K821x#15the complaint
Mr M says TSB Bank plcs IT problems had an impact on him. 
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. Mr M says this meant  he couldnt log 
in to online banking  for around  two weeks, or make transfers and payments in and out of his 
accounts when  he wanted to. Mr M complained  to TSB about this  and about the lack of 
information it provided about what was happening. 
TSB responded to Mr Ms complaint in October. It apologised  for the experience hed had 
and offered him £150 for trouble and upset and £6 for call costs.  
Mr M referred his complaint to us and our adjudicator looked at it. The adjudicator thought 
TSBs offer of £150 for trouble and upset was fair, as were  the call costs. As Mr M had also 
visited a TSB branch,  the adjudicator said TSB should pay some modest travel costs  too. 
TSB accepted this, but Mr M didnt.  He says other family members made similar complaints 
about less serious  issues involving fewer bank accounts. He says TSB dealt with their 
complaints much more  quickly  than his and offered them £275. So Mr M said hell accept 
another £100 to resolve his complaint.  
A second adjudicator looked  at the complaint and reached the same  conclusion as the first  
but Mr M still didnt think the outcome was fair. So the case  has been  passed to me to 
decide. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think TSBs offer to pay Mr M £150 for the impact the IT issues had on him  
plus some  modest costs recommended by the adjudicator  is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. 
I can understand Mr M found it frustrating when he couldnt log in to his online banking  
properly  or found it wasnt always  working  as hed expect  it to. He says the problems 
caused a delay paying his credit card and made  it difficult to move  money  around  his 
accounts. On one occasion he made a large payment out of his account twice  because 
online banking showed it hadnt gone  through  the first time, when in fact it had. And he 
clearly wasnt  happy  with the information  TSB provided, or the length of time it took to 
answer his complaint  due to the large numbers of complaints it was dealing with. 
 
I do agree  that Mr M is entitled to some  compensation  for the problems  hes had  and for 
his call and travel costs. But that compensation isnt calculated based on the number of 
accounts he has  or intended to act as a punishment for the business. Instead my role is to 
look at Mr Ms individual complaint and weigh up the overall impact the issues  had on him 
and then decide what I think a fair amount of compensation would be. And its Mr Ms 
complaint Im considering here  not anyone  elses.
Ref: DRN36270212With the above in mind,  I accept there  was some disruption to Mr Ms activities and that he 
was also concerned about the risk of fraud  happening on his accounts. But I can also see 
from his bank statements  that he seems to have still been able to move money around his 
accounts relatively frequently. He was able to use his debit card and any regular payments 
in and out of the account seem to have continued  as normal.  The duplicated payment was 
back in his account within ten days and didnt leave him overdrawn. And there was no 
indication of any attempted  fraud  at any point.
So, taking everything  into account, I think the compensation the adjudicator has already  
recommended  most of which TSB has already  offered and paid  is a fair way to 
compensate Mr M.
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mr M £150 for the impact the IT issues had
and pay £13.20 for the financial losses this caused  made  up of £6 in call costs and 
£7.20 in travel expenses
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  but only where it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Dawn Griffiths  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3627021