K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling  of her claim under her 
buildings insurance  policy after her home  suffered storm damage.  
background
In January 2016, Mrs Ks home suffered  storm damage  to the roof which resulted in water 
getting in and causing damage to Mrs Ks upper  hallway and two bedrooms.  She made a 
claim under her policy which AXA accepted.
AXAs contractors carried out repair work  to the roof and internally. However, Mrs K was 
unhappy at delays in carrying out the work which she said had resulted in further  internal 
damage being caused. She also was unhappy at the quality of the repair work and 
furthermore said AXAs contractors had damaged  her property while  carrying this out. 
AXA appointed different  contractors to try to rectify  the problems but further  issues arose 
causing the work to drag on. Mrs K raised  various complaints with AXA and it agreed to pay 
compensation for its poor service amounting  to £2,000.
By late 2017, the property still hadnt been repaired to a satisfactory standard. Mrs K again 
complained to AXA and raised a number of matters. These included concerns about  the 
recorded cost of the claim, AXAs refusal to pay for alternative accommodation costs  while  
outstanding repair work was carried  out, and the extent and cost of that outstanding work.
In December 2017, AXA issued its final response  letter. It said that it had currently recorded 
the cost of the claim (which might be relevant for Mrs Ks future insurance premiums) as 
£54,792. It didnt  agree to pay for alternative accommodation costs for Mrs K but agreed to 
pay disturbance allowance of £1,710 to cover  the period from when the most recent strip out 
took place in October 2017 until the end of January 2018, by which time it believed 
outstanding repairs  should reasonably have been  completed. It offered £6,005 as a cash  
settlement to cover the cost of these outstanding repairs,  and said it was still considering  
whether to allow a further £6,240 to cover the cost of replacement loft insulation. It also 
agreed to pay a further £1,000 to cover certain other  costs, including electricity usage and 
deep cleaning.  It wouldnt reimburse Mrs K for the cost of chimney repairs  shed had carried 
out because it said this wasnt part of the insurance  claim. Finally, it offered a further £700 
compensation for the inconvenience caused  to Mrs K through  its handling of the claim.
Mrs K was unhappy with AXAs response. She referred her complaint to us.
While the complaint was under investigation, AXA arranged for an independent surveyor  to 
visit Mrs Ks property  and assess what further  work needed to be carried out. Based  on the 
surveyors report, AXA increased its cash settlement offer to £15,000  in full and final 
settlement of the remaining  repair  costs. It also offered a further compensation payment of 
£500 in recognition of the additional delays and inconvenience which Mrs K had been  
caused. It also eventually  agreed to reduce the recorded cost of her claim to £37,704.
The investigator considered that AXAs offers to resolve the complaint were fair.
Mrs K accepted the cash settlement offer and AXA paid this in full and final settlement of the 
repair costs.
Ref: DRN35740672However, Mrs K still had other unresolved complaint  issues. These were as follows:
She considered  the compensation shed been offered by AXA to be inadequate for 
the distress and inconvenience  shed  been  caused. She highlighted the amount of 
time shed had to spend on dealing with the claim. She said AXAs failings had meant 
her property  currently couldnt be mortgaged.
She considered  the recorded  cost of her claim was unfairly  high and said this had 
adversely affected her insurance premiums.  She said it was originally estimated that 
the claim would  cost £1,200 to settle  and she considered this was the sum which 
should be recorded. Anything above that amount was due to AXAs poor handling.
Although she was paid a disturbance  allowance for the period from October  2017  to 
January 2018,  she considered that AXA should really have paid for her to live in 
alternative accommodation as the property was virtually uninhabitable.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in 
part.
The cash  settlement to cover the cost of remaining repair works has been agreed between 
the two parties.  My decision therefore does not address this in any way, even though it was 
part of the original complaint.
My decision  is therefore confined to the three  remaining  complaint issues as outlined  above. 
I shall deal with each  of these in turn.
compensation for distress and inconvenience
I recognise that Mrs K has been  through a very difficult time. The claim has been  handled  
poorly resulting  in prolonged repair work  and this has been during a period when she also 
had health issues  to deal with. I dont  doubt  that the claim has occupied  a great deal of her 
time and caused  her a lot of trouble. I sympathise with her over the problems shes 
encountered and note that, at the time she asked for an ombudsmans decision, her property 
could not be mortgaged.
In its final response letter  of December 2017 AXA offered to pay £700 on top of the £2,000 
which it had already paid. It has now offered to pay a further  £500.  After taking everything 
into account, while I recognise that Mrs K thinks differently, I am nonetheless satisfied that 
the total compensation amount of £3,200 is fair for the distress and inconvenience which has 
been caused to Mrs K.
recorded cost of claim
The recorded cost of the claim  is normally  the amount which  the insurer  has paid out on the 
claim. However, in cases such  as this, where costs have significantly increased due to 
failings on the part of the insurer,  I agree that this is potentially unfair to the policyholder  and 
Ref: DRN35740673so the recorded cost should reflect what the claim would reasonably  have cost had it been  
handled properly.
The claim has actually cost AXA £83,563.  However,  this includes the cost of repairs  to 
damage caused by AXAs  contractors, as well as the compensation payments to Mrs K. It is 
agreed that the recorded cost should  not include these amounts.
Mrs K thinks  the recorded cost should be £1,200 which was the amount originally suggested  
by AXAs  representative  who first visited the property. However, I can see that Mrs K 
vigorously contested that estimate at the time and it was quickly acknowledged that this was 
far too low and didnt  reflect the true scope of required repairs.  The estimated cost had 
therefore increased to £5,216 by the time the work started and I have no evidence to show  
that this was due to damage caused through a delay in starting those works.
It isnt unusual for costs  to increase  once  work  has begun and this isnt necessarily because  
of fault on the part of the contractor. It is just that problems may be uncovered  which couldnt 
have reasonably been foreseen.
It is difficult to separate out the legitimate claim costs which werent  reasonably foreseeable 
from those costs which were incurred purely  as a result of failings on the part of AXA and its 
contractors. The total cost of £83,563  was comprised of £42,658 paid to its building 
contractors, £30,105  paid directly to Mrs K for repair  and associated costs (for example, 
disturbance allowance),  £3,956 paid to a contractor for drying costs, £3,200 paid to Mrs K in 
compensation and £3,643 paid to various  parties for professional fees. AXA acknowledges 
that the amount paid to its building  contractors includes elements of faulty  workmanship and 
therefore excluded  the entire sum of £42,658  from the recorded cost of the claim. It similarly 
excluded the compensation payments of £3,200. It included  all the other costs  to arrive at 
the figure of £37,704.
Mrs K thinks  this is unfair and points  to certain costs included in the sum paid directly  to her 
which she says were  purely for repairs to damage caused by AXAs contractors. I agree that 
AXAs approach  isnt perfect and there  will be some costs which  shouldnt  be in there.  But I 
also must recognise that the amount which AXA paid to its building contractors will include 
some legitimate costs  that should have  been in the recorded total but which  have now been 
excluded. The amount which is being recorded as the true cost of the claim is less than half 
the amount which AXA has actually spent.  Overall, I consider AXA has made  a reasonable 
estimate of what the claim should  have cost.
Ref: DRN35740674I should further point out that it is up to an insurer  as to whether to take account of the cost 
of previous claims when  setting premiums and different  insurers  may take different 
approaches. For this reason, I dont think Mrs K can necessarily know  that recording the 
claim cost as £37,704 rather than £5,216 has disadvantaged her in terms of her premiums.
alternative accommodation costs
AXA offered  to pay a disturbance allowance of £15 a day while outstanding repair  work was 
ongoing, as it had earlier on in the claim.  A disturbance allowance is normally  paid by an 
insurer to compensate the policyholder  for actual extra  expenses  incurred as a result of 
remaining in the property during repair works  (because, for example,  meals cant  be 
prepared in the kitchen). However, as far as I can tell from the file, this wasnt the reason  for 
the payment of the disturbance allowance in this case. Instead,  it was simply to compensate 
Mrs K for the inconvenience of living amid disruption.  To that extent, the disturbance 
allowance could arguably be seen as an addition to the money which AXA had separately 
agreed to pay as compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Mrs K thinks  AXA should  instead have paid for her to live in alternative accommodation for 
the duration of the work and says that its contractor told her that this would happen. AXA 
accepts that its contractor discussed the subject of alternative accommodation with Mrs K 
but doesnt accept that this was ever promised. I cant find any reference in the files to 
support that AXA ever agreed to pay for alternative accommodation. I accept that living  in 
the property while works  were ongoing  would have been uncomfortable  for Mrs K and that 
some rooms were unusable. But I cant reasonably say that the property was uninhabitable.  
In view of this, I think it was fair for AXA to expect  Mrs K to remain in the property during the 
repair work and to pay her compensation in the way it did.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mrs K £500 compensation and to reduce  the recorded  
cost of her claim to £37,704.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3574067