K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to inform  him of the potential 
option of receiving an enhanced annuity.  In addition,  he thinks  their explanation in relation to 
the option is inadequate.
Background
Mr C complained to Aviva  as he bought an annuity with them  in 2010. But says he was 
entitled to an enhanced  (or ill-health) annuity  at the time. So Mr C believes he has lost out. 
Mr C believes  he was entitled to an enhanced  annuity because  hed been  diagnosed with a 
form of cancer historically; and he says he went on to undergo around 17 extensive 
operations between 2000 and 2010.  In complaining Mr C stressed that his extended period 
of health problems made it harder for him to ascertain and exert  his rights at the time.
Mr C wanted Aviva to compensate him by buying back the annuity  hed purchased with 
them, together with a sum for his enhanced annuity rights,  in return for a single sum to be 
agreed.
Aviva didnt agree. They said the retirement pack issued in 2010 contained a statement 
indicating that an enhanced annuity might be available, and a booklet had been attached 
providing further detail.  Overall Aviva say they did what  they needed to do at the time in 
making Mr C aware of this.
Mr C told us hed only become aware  of the possibility of an enhanced annuity through  
various conversations hed had in the previous  few months. He said that in 2010  his illness 
was very fresh in his mind. Mr C also told us that Aviva were  incorrect  to say the retirement  
pack in 2010 contained a reference to the potential for an enhanced annuity or that a booklet  
had been included providing more  detailed information.
Mr C said he didnt have a pack or booklet in his files that set out the information  he had a 
right to apply, in explicit terms. So, Mr C thought  such documents must have been  omitted  
from information sent to him. Mr C repeated  he hadnt known  in 2010 he had any right to 
apply for an enhanced annuity. Mr C considers it obvious that he would have applied for an 
enhanced annuity had he known he was able to.
Mr C thought Aviva had narrowed the nature  of his complaint. He highlighted  to us that he 
was unhappy  with Avivas conduct and failure  to inform him of his rights  and options. Mr C 
considers this amounted to a deliberate concealment on Avivas  benefit.
Mr C also provided us with a page from an apparent pension plan statement (dated March  
2019) from Aviva which demonstrated  a fund value of just over £82,500 and a planned 
retirement date in 2021. Mr C thought this demonstrated an increase in value  that he was 
entitled to.
Given Mr C had already bought  an annuity  with the plan he was complaining about I didnt 
understand why he thought he was still receiving  an annual statement containing a fund 
value, so I asked  Aviva about  this document. Aviva confirmed to us that the statement dated 
March 2019 provided to Mr C relates  to a different and separate pension plan (and have 
highlighted the plan reference number).  Mr C confirmed he had overlooked that he had a 
further plan with Aviva. He thinks this might  have happened in the disruption  caused by his 
Ref: DRN30681652move from the UK in 2010. Mr C has been  referred to Aviva  if he has any questions  about 
this plan.
Aviva continued to reject Mr Cs complaint. They provided us with a copy  of their business 
file. This included copies of:
The retirement pack they said was sent to Mr C dated 13 October 2010. The cover  
letter set out the options available  to Mr C. It had a section on Some  things to think  
about and this referred to an attached booklet containing more detail. Aviva say this 
booklet was sent to Mr C.
The letter set out that it was a good idea for the recipient to speak to their financial 
adviser; and gave details how customers could find an independent adviser if 
required or that they could contact an Aviva adviser (who would only be able to 
advise on Aviva products).
There was also a letter dated  20 October 2010 addressed to Mr C. This referred to 
understanding Mr C was due to start taking retirement benefits from his plan on 15 
April 2011. Aviva have  gone on to let us know this was Mr Cs automatic pre-
retirement pack that is issued to all customers.
In this Aviva  said they were writing to let Mr C know how he could choose to buy an 
income if that was what he wanted and his choices. The letter  also purports to attach 
a booklet containing more  details  on buying  a retirement income  product.
A hand completed application form (with the Aviva printed reference date of 13 
October 2010) has been provided; signed by Mr C on 21 October 2010.
Letter from Aviva to Mr C dated  31 December  2010 thanking him for completing his 
form. This confirms a tax-free  cash payment of £13,214.97 had been sent to Mr C 
and the residual fund of £39,644.92 had been  used  to buy an annuity as selected  by 
Mr C. A further letter of the same date was also provided confirming  receipt of the 
form and attaching further information  and referring to an attached benefit schedule.
Mr C overall considers this to be an unconscionable situation. He thinks it lacks good  faith 
and fair dealing and that it goes beyond what ought properly to be Mr C and Aviva's 
contractual intentions  when  he was making  contributions to his plan. Mr C considers that in 
the absence of redress there would be a breach of the implied duties of good  faith and fair 
dealing implied  between the parties in respect of what are now known as relational 
contracts. These duties arise in accordance  with the intention of the parties to give effect to 
the purpose of the contract.  Mr C has directed  attention  to several  legal authorities. 
An investigator at this service didnt  think  Mr Cs complaint ought to be upheld.  She referred 
to the documents from Aviva dated 13 and 20 October 2010. She thought  these would have 
been received  and contained sufficient detail to make Mr C aware of the option of an 
enhanced annuity.
Mr C didnt agree. He set out that he didnt  have copies of the documents Aviva have and 
the investigator refer to in his files and doesnt remember them. He considers  that he would 
have obviously initiated a claim for an enhanced  annuity at the time had he been  aware  of 
the option. 
Ref: DRN30681653But in any event, he didnt  think that Avivas terms of notification of the potential  for him to 
have one of the certain medication  conditions was enough to put him fairly  on notice that 
he could make a claim. Mr C referred  to another plan he had with a different  provider  which 
he was currently reviewing, and he felt it was noteworthy that their language was more  
detailed.
Mr C told us a little more  about the numerous surgeries he underwent (particularly in 2003) 
and the success  of these.
The investigator didnt  change her view and in due course the case  was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
Mr C was concerned the investigator might not have fully understood his complaint. And 
explained that even if Aviva  had provided the documents as the investigator thought they 
had, he didnt think they were sufficient. 
In particular he said the reference  to "certain  medical conditions" which might entitle the 
applicant to an enhanced annuity  is a particularly opaque reference. Mr C thinks that 
although the connection between shortened  expectation of life and an annuity is obvious.  
This isnt so with the phrase "certain medical  conditions" and there  is no description giving 
any basis of what type of medical  conditions might be intended to be referred  to.
Mr C says that had there been a clear statement that a medical condition  which  reduced or 
affected his expectation of life would give him a right to apply for an enhanced  annuity; then 
hed agree Aviva would have given him adequate  notice and would have acted fairly.
The investigator thought she had considered this and didnt change her view.
In summary  Mr C remains dissatisfied and; 
He thinks Aviva have been  unjustly enriched  by retaining funds that would otherwise 
have been paid to him under the enhanced annuity he says he was entitled to and 
thus they are also evading liability.
He didnt receive the booklet relied  on by Aviva and says theres no evidential  
confirmation of it having been received  by him or the contents having been  brought to 
his attention.
The terms of the booklet tied the enhanced  annuity to "certain medical  conditions ". It 
failed to make clear that it was not certain  medical conditions,  but any medical 
conditions which potentially reduced  a claimant's life expectancy. And in his view the 
wording didnt highlight this sufficiently to him.
More recently, I have shared some of the documents provided with Mr C and asked Aviva for 
further information. 
Mr C has noted that the letters and packs, said to have been provided by Aviva,  in October  
2010, were addressed to his UK mainland  address, rather than the address he moved to 
from April 2010.
Mr C also noted the booklet Aviva  say he was provided with, contains a note on page two 
saying the booklet and its contents relate to customers  who live in the UK mainland and 
Ref: DRN30681654those to whom this does  not apply, may be in different circumstances.  This suggests to him 
that Aviva  wouldnt have sent him the booklet as he thinks its clear  it doesnt refer to him. Mr 
C had moved from the mainland in early 2010  and he says Aviva  knew this.
Mr C continues to think the wording contained  in the booklet  at page 9 is not explicit  or clear 
enough in relation to the type of medical conditions Aviva consider relevant to the 
entitlement for an enhanced annuity.
Mr C says he only spoke with Aviva  by phone once hed left the mainland.  He says that 
discussions with Aviva about taking the tax-free  cash from his plan were after they had left 
the mainland. Mr C says the reason  for the request  and need was to purchase his home 
which completed in November 2010.  This is why Aviva have the details of his bank at his 
new location.
Mr C referred  to the documents from Aviva  containing his London work phone  number and 
his new location  mobile number. Otherwise  the documents  were addressed to his old 
address from which hed moved before  April 2010.  Mr C says Aviva knew  this as it was 
discussed in the conversations of October 2010.  This is another  reason he suspects  the 
relevant booklet  was never received by him.
Mr C says if the booklet had arrived, he would have  raised it further, as the booklet  does not 
appear to apply to people  living where  he now does. Mr C says his evidence in this matter 
ought to be respected and preferred above Aviva.
Aviva confirm that Mr C contacted them on 12 October 2010 asking about taking his 
benefits. This is how the documents of 13 October  2010 came to be issued. The documents  
of 20 October 2020 were  generated automatically.  I have seen that Avivas internal note of 
the phone  call of 12 October 2010 does show the allocated team  to be the off-shore team.
Aviva say this plan was set up in 1996 at the UK mainland address that appears on the 
documents dated 13 and 20 October  2010.  All paperwork was issued to this address and 
there was no change until it vested in 2010. Aviva think Mr C would have had to confirm this 
address to them on the phone in October  2010.
Aviva say that when  the pension benefits  were released in 2010 and the annuity started, 
they had an address for Mr C on their annuity system and this continued  to be the UK 
mainland address;  which was only changed  in November 2018 when Mr C contacted  them.
Aviva say Mr C received the retirement forms issued  to him, and these included the relevant 
booklet. Mr C went on to complete the forms and select his options. He didnt advise them of 
a change of address with these forms and the contact phone number provided  was for the 
UK mainland.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I am sorry  this will disappoint Mr C, but I dont think Aviva have done anything  wrong  and 
dont think they ought to be required to do anything further here. 
Ref: DRN30681655I accept Mr C received the retirement options  pack dated 13 October  2010  that hed 
requested. And Ive seen he went on to complete and sign to take his pension  options on 
documents dated as having  been  issued as part of this pack. As Mr C had contacted  Aviva  
to take his options, I think he would have chased them  up had he not received the necessary 
documents.
I dont know how they came to be received by Mr C. I understand he says he had already left 
the UK mainland  by October 2010.  But I accept he received  them, and I accept the booklet 
referred to in the letter, accompanied  the pack sent with the letter  of 13 October 2010. I also 
think its more likely  than not, Mr C also received the automatically generated pack  dated  20 
October 2010.
So, I think Mr C was provided  with the information  he ought to have been about the potential 
availability of enhanced annuities. Ive seen Mr C says he was applying  to take benefits from 
this plan as he wanted the tax-free cash to use towards the purchase of the house that he 
was buying. Ive also seen that Mr C refers  to the sale having been completed  in November 
2010. There isnt enough here to make me think that Mr C had an urgent need for his tax- 
free cash; equally I accept  that if a person chooses  to seek  financial advice  or to provide 
information on their medical history  to see if an enhanced annuity is available, this may delay 
taking pension benefits.
Ive seen what Mr C has told us about his historic diagnosis and fortunately, the ultimately 
successful treatment. And I understand why Mr C says that had he known he might  be able 
to obtain an enhanced annuity, he would surely have applied  for, (or at least  enquired  about) 
this. 
But having  looked with care at all that has been provided and said, I accept Mr C was 
provided with enough  information;  and Aviva did what they were required to. Mr C wasnt  
being advised by Aviva about his options and so Avivas responsibility was to ensure he 
received accurate and sufficient information on the potential availability of an enhanced 
annuity. Here there was enough to make  this known to Mr C. The information also included 
reference to obtaining advice and how he might go about this. I accept its reasonable to 
expect Mr C to read what he was provided with and I accept he was provided with sufficient 
information that was clear  enough  here.
In August  2001,  the Association  of British Insurers (ABI) issued its Statement of Good 
Practice on Pension Maturities. It came into effect  in January 2002. The Statement 
introduced the concept of the wake up letter,  an automatic reminder letter  sent to customers  
ahead of retirement. Subsequent releases of the Statement and rules introduced by the FSA 
(subsequently the FCA) set out what needs  to be included in the letters. 
The letters provide a customer with information  about the pension pot they have  built up with 
the provider and set out the options  a customer can take with this pot to help the customer 
make decisions  about their income  in retirement.
The statement  standardised the concept  and said the summary of the retirement options the 
provider must give should  include the open market option and the availability of different 
types of annuity  product such as index-linked annuities, investment-linked annuities  and 
impaired life annuities  and whether these can be purchased from the current  provider.
Here the letter of 13 October 2010  set out the following:
Ref: DRN30681656You have the right to shop around for a retirement income which  suits you, using  the Open 
Market Option. This gives you the right to move  the value of this pension plan to another 
pension company.
You may get a better retirement income if you do this so it's worth thinking  about.
For example, some  companies,  including Aviva, provide a higher than normal income  if you 
have certain health  problems.
You can find out more  about this in the 'Your  Retirement'  booklet .
And the booklet  contained a chapter headed  What options do I have.  There was then a 
section entitled  Enhanced annuity (also known as an impaired life annuity) in bold. This 
contained the explanation:
If you or your-spouse, civil partner or dependant has, -or previously had, certain medical  
conditions, you may be able to buy an annuity that will give you a higher income based on 
your potentially reduced life expectancy.
I consider this information was enough to alert Mr C of the potential  opportunity  to receive  an 
enhanced annuity. I also this it was enough  to enable him to act further to explore this as an 
option in his circumstances.
Ive seen that Mr C considers the phrase certain medical conditions to be opaque and 
therefore inadequate. I dont agree. I accept no further definition or examples  are provided, 
but I think thats right here. Aviva were  required to ensure the potential option  was brought to 
Mr Cs attention; but it wouldnt be right for them to set out what such a relevant  condition 
was, or even  might be here. Avivas wording  makes it clear  enough, the diagnosis  may be 
current or historic, and again I consider  this to have been sufficient to meet the requirements 
at the time.
Mr C also thinks  the wording on page two of the booklet would have made  him think the 
booklet didnt  apply to him; albeit I understand Mr C doesnt accept he received the booklet. I 
tend to think the wording  is a reasonable generic  reminder to those who do not live on the 
UK mainland  that their circumstances may differ; and that in addition  to the advisability of 
seeking advice  when making their decision,  they may wish to consider that their position 
may bear further  enquiry.  Although the telephone contact note from Aviva refers  to the team  
dealing with Mr Cs enquiry about taking  benefits as being the off-shore team, this doesnt 
alter my thinking on what documents ought to have been provided and were provided. 
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think Aviva  acted  in any way to deliberately conceal 
anything from Mr C. I dont consider Aviva have  been unjustly enriched  here.  I dont think  
they are withholding or benefitting from funds  it can be said Mr C is entitled to. Mr C has 
suggested that a lack of information and certainty  in relation to the potential for an enhanced 
annuity undermines  the contractual intentions of Mr C and Aviva at the time he was making  
contributions to his plan.  But I dont  agree. Ive looked with care at what has been  provided 
and said but I think Aviva have done what they were  required to do here.  
Mr C referred  at an earlier time to his extended  health problems compromising  his ability  to 
ascertain and exert his rights  at the time. But I havent seen anything  further  on this; nor 
have I seen anything  that tends to suggest  to me Mr C wasnt  capable  of acting in his own 
interests on personal affairs at the time.  He has referred to moving and buying a house  at 
Ref: DRN30681657the time.  There isnt anything that makes me think he informed Aviva  he might  need any 
additional assistance or that he was seeking any support or advice from another  party. So I 
dont think Aviva could  have been expected to do anything further  on this aspect of Mr Cs 
complaint. Equally I have no doubt Mr C must have experienced  an uncertain and 
distressing time in relation  to his health.
It appears to me the handwritten information  on the pension options form and the signature 
were made by Mr C. This includes  the provision of the London phone number. So I dont  
think Aviva  received anything asking  them  to contact Mr C in an alternative way at this time.
Ive seen Mr C has commented  on his more recent dealings on another  pension plan he has 
with a different  provider  to Aviva. Ive seen that he considers this providers  language  is 
more direct and clearer. But that doesnt  mean  that Avivas explanations  at the time werent 
good enough.
So overall, I accept  Mr C received the letter of 13 October 2010 and the booklet said to 
accompany this letter  and pack. I consider the information contained in this correspondence  
sufficiently clear as to make Mr C of the potential of an enhanced annuity.
Final decision
So, for the reasons given I dont uphold  Mr Cs complaint  about  Aviva Life & Pensions UK 
Limited. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 March  2020.
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3068165