K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mr H had a British Gas HomeCare policy. The policy covered his central  heating  and an 
annual boiler service. It also covered home  electrics. There  was a fixed  fee or policy  excess 
of £60.00 for each completed  repair.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
Mr H asked British Gas for an annual boiler service and for help with a bathroom extractor 
fan. He complained that British Gas gave poor service  and a fan that wasnt satisfactory. 
British Gas paid Mr H £50.00. 
Mr H complained that British Gas inappropriately chased him for payment of £60.00.  In a 
final response letter, British Gas said it was sending a further  £30.00.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought that British 
Gas provided a poor level of customer service.  Mr H had experienced a great amount of 
unnecessary trouble  and upset in sorting  this matter out in addition  to the impact it may have 
had on his credit file. The investigator  recommended  that British Gas should  - in addition to 
the £50.00 he had already  received - pay Mr H a further £450.00 to reflect the trouble  and 
upset Mr H had experienced. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H 
and to British  Gas on 20 August 2019.  I summarise  my findings:
I didnt think that British Gas treated Mr H fairly by not replacing his fan like for like.
I thought Mr H ended up paying  for a new centrifugal fan.
I didnt think British Gas shouldve chased Mr H for payment of the £60.00  excess 
after 18 October. 
I didnt doubt that Mr H was put to some inconvenience and distress  about his credit  
rating.
Subject to any further information from Mr H or from British Gas, my provisional  
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct 
British Gas Insurance Limited to:
1.(if he provides an invoice or other third party documentation to show  what  he paid):
1.1reimburse Mr H for the new centrifugal fan; and
Ref: DRN377882121.2pay simple  interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from the date Mr H paid 
it to the date British  Gas reimburses  him. If British Gas considers that its required 
by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell 
Mr H how much  its taken  off. It should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate; and
2.pay Mr H  in addition  to the £80.00 already paid - a further £170.00 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
Mr H disagrees  with the provisional decision  in part. He says, in summary, that:
He received and cashed a British  Gas cheque for £50.00 gesture of good  will (GoG).
He received but did not cash a cheque for £30.00 GoG.
There was no requirement  for the Home Care  engineer to attend on 25 September  
2018. 
British Gas cancelled,  re-scheduled and mishandled  appointments.
It was fortunate  that the debt management referral did not take place while he was 
employed in a role where he would have to declare it to his employer  or it would  have 
had a substantial  impact on his career.
With the amount  of time, effort and stress he has spent on this complaint over the 
last 15 months, our compensation assessment doesnt go far enough.
British Gas agrees  with the provisional decision.  It says, in summary, that due to an error on 
the engineers  part, an incorrect extractor  fan was fitted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  Mr H has said, I think he has a bathroom ventilated  only by an extractor fan (and 
the door to the room). I dont think the fan was an axial fan (with a simple  rotating blade). I 
think it was a more  powerful centrifugal fan (with  a rotating drum  containing  many  blades).
Mr Hs HomeCare Four policy was renewed in November 2017.  There  was cover  for home 
electrics. The renewal  letter said it excluded  extractor fans more than 15cm in diameter.
In November 2017 the relevant British  Gas terms were those dated  September 2017. They 
confirmed cover for extractor fans up to 15 cm diameter. They contained  the following term 
about payment  of the fixed fee or excess:
When  we book your repair, well ask to preauthorise your debit or credit card for any 
excess or fixed  feeWe wont put the charges through until after we complete the 
repair.  If weve reason  to believe  that the people living in your home are vulnerable 
or at risk, well send an engineer out even  if we havent been able to pre-authorise a 
debit or credit card  and send you an invoice for the excess or fixed fee after weve  
completed the repair
The British  Gas September  2017 policy terms contained the following definition:
replacement/replace/replacing
Ref: DRN37788213- in the case  of Kitchen  Appliance Cover well provide a contribution towards a 
replacement appliance  with similar functionality from our approved supplier.
- where we replace your boiler, appliances (not those covered under Kitchen 
Appliance Cover) or parts with a British Gas approved standard alternative. Well 
provide replacements with similar  functionality but not necessarily  an identical make 
and model or type of fitting.
In the case of internet enabled boilers,  appliances  or parts,  replacements will only be 
from the British Gas or Hive range. If were  unable to provide a boiler, appliance or 
part with similar functionality well install a new and unused like for like alternative  
that you provide,  but well only accept responsibility for our workmanship.
The British  Gas September  2017 policy terms contained the following term:
 Spare parts
Well provide replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily the same  
features or an identical make and model  or type of fitting. For example, we may 
replace a specific  design of tap with a standard  one from our range or replace 
electrical fittings with our nearest  white,  brass or chrome version.  Or you can give the 
engineer a replacement part that youve bought yourself, that we approve.
Well try to get parts from the original manufacturer or our approved suppliers. If we 
cant get hold of the parts we need  we may need  to cancel  your agreement (or part 
of it) unless  youre  eligible  for a replacement.
Ive read those terms several  times  and I dont think theyre as clear  as they should be. So
Im not persuaded that they mean that British Gas only has to provide parts  from its range, 
its suppliers or its approved list. And I dont  accept that an axial fan has the same 
functionality as a centrifugal fan.
In around late May 2018, Mr H used a British Gas app on his phone to book a boiler service. 
I accept his statement  that the app wrongly  booked a call-out for a breakdown.  British Gas 
corrected this to an annual service. But I accept Mr Hs statement that British Gas agreed  an 
appointment for 5 June, but didnt attend  because  it had booked a visit on 5 July. From  what  
Mr H has said,  I think he cancelled that visit.
Later Mr H called for help with his bathroom  fan. I accept his statement that British Gas 
agreed an appointment for 15 September for the annual service  and the fan. But the 
engineer could only do the annual  service as he wasnt an electrician. Mr H complained  at 
that time.  British Gas offered  him £30.00 - but didnt send it.
Mr H has said that he ignored a communication from British Gas.  So I dont hold it 
responsible for the fact that he wasnt home  for a visit on 25 September 2018.
On 3 October British  Gas fitted a new fan. I think that was its standard  axial fan. It wasnt  
centrifugal and  after using it - Mr H wasnt happy with its performance. Mr H has identified  
the model of his old fan. From  that, Im satisfied  that Mr Hs old fan was of a diameter of 
15cm or less. And Im satisfied that a replacement was available from the manufacturer Mr H 
has identified. Therefore I dont think that British Gas treated Mr H fairly by not replacing his 
fan like for like.
Ive seen British  Gas letters to Mr H dated 4 October enclosing an invoice for £60.00  and 
dated 17 October with an invoice  reminder.
Ref: DRN37788214On 18 October Mr H complained about what had happened  including that he had received 
a policy  renewal letter saying he was on HomeCare Two (which didnt include home 
electrics). In a webchat, British Gas said it couldnt write off the £60.00 charge. But it offered 
a £50.00 gesture of goodwill. And it arranged a further visit for 31 October to fit a new 
extractor. It agreed that Mr H didnt  have to pay the £60.00 excess until after the fitting  of the 
replacement extractor   and there wouldnt be another £60.00 excess.
In the event, British  Gas visited again  but it didnt fit a second  replacement fan. I think that 
was because it wasnt offering to source  or fit a centrifugal fan. Again, I dont think that 
British Gas treated  Mr H fairly by not replacing his fan like for like. And I think  Mr H ended up 
paying for a new centrifugal fan.
As it hadnt replaced  the fan like for like and it hadnt replaced the fan after the webchat on 
18 October, I dont  think British Gas shouldve chased Mr H for payment of the £60.00 
excess.
I accept Mr Hs statement that in November 2018, British Gas sent him a letter  asking him to 
pay £60.00 within seven days  otherwise British Gas would instruct a debt collection 
agency. I accept  that British Gas posted the letter but Mr H didn't  receive  it until a day after 
the expiry of the seven-day deadline. 
Mr H complained to British Gas and on about 13 November it said that the invoice would be 
locked. 
However, in December British Gas sent further reminders to Mr H. I dont think it should  
have chased for payment after 18 October. And I dont doubt that Mr H was put to some 
inconvenience and distress about his credit rating.
Ive thought about what its fair and reasonable to direct  British Gas to do to try to put things 
right for Mr H.
First, I find it fair and reasonable to direct British  Gas to reimburse Mr H if he provides an 
invoice or other third party  documentation to show what  he paid for the new centrifugal fan. 
As hes been out of pocket for some time, I will direct British Gas to add simple interest at 
our usual rate.
Secondly, I find that a total of £250.00 is fair and reasonable compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  caused to Mr H by the shortcomings Ive identified  in the way British Gas 
treated him.
Ref: DRN37788215my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:
1(if he provides an invoice or other third party documentation to show  what  he 
paid):
1.1reimburse Mr H for the new centrifugal fan; and
1.2pay simple  interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from the date Mr H 
paid it to the date British Gas reimburses  him. If British Gas considers that its 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to withhold income tax from that 
interest, it must tell Mr H how much  its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate;  and
2pay Mr H  insofar as it hasnt already paid him this amount-  £250.00 
compensation for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3778821