K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  Santander Consumer (UK) Plc have terminated  her finance agreement  
unfairly whilst  she was experiencing financial  difficulty. She would like her agreement 
reinstated and any default removed from her credit  file.
background
Miss E took out a conditional sale agreement for a vehicle financed by Santander in May 
2016. The agreement  was for £20,942.94 repaid over 48 months with a monthly  payment of 
£316.43 and a final payment of £5,254.30. 
Within a few months  of entering into the agreement,  Miss E began  struggling to make  her 
contractual payments on time and in full. She maintained contact with Santander to explain 
her circumstances and arranged to pay her agreed payments but these were frequently 
changed, amended or not met in full and the account remained in arrears.
In or around October 2017,  Miss E sent an email to Santander advising the account would 
be brought up to date by 31 October  2017  and the normal  monthly  payment would be made 
on 7 November 2017. Santander did receive a payment  on 8 November but this was for less 
than the agreed  monthly instalment.
Santander sent a default notice dated  5 December 2017 explaining that Miss E was required 
to pay arrears of £1,351.15 before  24 December  2017 to bring the account  up to date.
Santanders system notes  show that on 12 December 2017, Miss E was advised that no 
more arrangement plans could  be put in place due to the amount of arrangement  
agreements that had been  broken. 
The arrears  were not cleared by 24 December 2017 but after speaking  to a manager on 28 
December 2017,  Miss E was able to make  a further arrangement to bring the account up to 
date. Miss E agreed to repay the arrears  of £1,351.15 by 3 January  2018 and make a double  
payment of the monthly payments on 1 February  2018 because she was already aware she 
wouldnt be able to make  the contractual payment on 1 January 2018.  During  this 
conversation Santander,  say they made it very clear  no further arrangements  would  be 
accepted on the account if Miss E failed to keep to the agreed  payments.
Santander confirmed  a payment for £1,000 was received  on 2 January 2018  and two further 
payments on 3 January 2018  for £251.15  and £100.  But, Miss E failed to make  the double  
payment on 1 February 2018 and the account defaulted. 
Santander terminated the agreement and commenced repossession  proceedings.
In May 2017, Miss E contacted Santander to advise them of a change of address  and 
complained about the termination of her agreement. She said she had kept to the agreement 
and thought she had paid more than a third of her agreement and as such, Santander 
required a court order to repossess the vehicle.
Santander disagreed. They say Miss E broke numerous payment arrangements  and 
although she paid £1,351.15 in January  to clear the arrears  she failed to make  the agreed  
double payment in February and so the account fell into arrears again. Santander said Miss 
Ref: DRN36555012E had paid less than one third of the contractual payments and so they were within their 
rights to terminate the agreement and start proceedings to repossess the vehicle.
Our adjudicator looked into things for Miss S. He concluded Santander had acted fairy and 
reasonably and given Miss E numerous  opportunities  to bring her account up to date and 
maintain her payment arrangements and so he didnt ask them to do anything further.
Miss E disagreed. She says she has paid more than a third of the agreement.  She says she 
didnt agree to a double  payment in February,  as this wouldnt have been affordable for her. 
She asks for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicators opinion. I know that will disappoint Miss E, so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think  I need  to comment on it in order  to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ive looked at the Miss Es account history and it seems  she started to struggle with 
maintaining the payments within a few months  of acquiring the vehicle. There  are at least 
seven different payment arrangements and multiple amendments  to payment dates and 
payment methods. Although  Miss E has been  in regular contact with Santander about her 
financial position Im satisfied Santander have  been fair and reasonable in their approach  
and in allowing  Miss E numerous opportunities to bring her account up-to-date and to make 
subsequent payment arrangements after previous agreements havent been maintained.
The crux of this complaint is whether Santander  correctly issued the default  notice and 
termination letter to Miss E and whether it required a court  order to repossess the vehicle. 
Miss E has said numerous  times she believes a court order  was required whilst Santander 
has said it acted correctly  and as one third of the agreement hadnt  been paid it didnt need a 
court order  to proceed with a repossession of the vehicle.
Ive carefully considered  the payments made on Miss Es account and Ive cross-referenced 
these with the contact  history notes, Santander have  provided. There  have been  a number 
of default notices issued on this account  but I will concentrate on the position from 
December 2017,  as it seems this is where the dispute lies.
Santander issued  a default  notice  in December 2017, it said the arrears were  £1351.15 and 
Miss E was required to pay this amount in full before 24 December 2017 to avoid  further 
action.
I can see Miss E didnt meet that obligation although she remained in regular contact  with 
Santander about her financial  position.  Ive looked  at the corresponding contact notes and I 
can see Miss E contacted  Santander  between 12 December and 28 December querying the 
default notice  and the amount of the arrears. Santander issued statements of account  to 
Ref: DRN36555013Miss E to confirm the arrears outstanding but in a call on 28 December, it agreed  to give her 
until 3 January to pay the arrears balance of £1351.15 in full. During  this call Santander have  
noted Miss E has said she would  miss the January  payment  but would make two payments 
in February to ensure her account was up-to-date.
I appreciate Miss E has disputed she said this. I have asked Santander  for the call 
recordings but as the call was over 12 months ago, they are no longer  available but the 
conversation is clearly noted on its contact notes. Of course I cant be sure of what  exactly 
was said but on balance, I think it more likely than not Santander would have discussed how 
Miss E intended to keep her account  up to date and when the January and February 
payments would be made, given the number  of occasions arrangements have been failed in 
the past. In any event,  Miss E was contractually obliged to make the payments on the due 
dates in both January  and February.
Miss E actually paid £1000 on 3 January, £251.15 on 4 January and £100 on 5 January. 
This settled  the outstanding arrears due to the end of December  2017.  But, Miss E failed to 
make any payments in January and February 2018.
On 16 February 2018, Santander issued a default notice for the outstanding arrears of 
£667.86. The notice  said payment was required in full by 7 March 2018 to avoid further  
action. 
Miss E made a payment  of £316.64  on 5 March 2018 but this still left £351.22 outstanding 
and so Santander issued a termination  letter on 10 March  2018.
Im satisfied Santander complied with the terms and conditions of the agreement and acted 
fairly and reasonably in offering Miss E numerous  opportunities to bring  her account up-to- 
date and maintain  the payment arrangements  she had agreed to. Im further satisfied both 
the default notice and termination notice were issued correctly  to the address Santander  had 
on file.
Ive looked carefully  at Miss Es statement  of account and up to and including  the payment 
Miss E made on 5 March 2018, she had paid a total of £6512.38. The terms of the 
agreement say:
Repossession Your Rights:
 If you do not keep your side of the agreement but have  paid at least  one third of the total 
amount payable under this agreement, that is £6980.98  we may not take back the goods 
against your wishes  unless we get a court order...
As Miss E had paid £6512.38 I dont agree Santander were required to obtain a court order 
and so were within their rights, and the terms and conditions of the agreement, to repossess 
the vehicle.
my final decision
I appreciate Miss E will be disappointed  but for the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 August 2019.
Ref: DRN36555014Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3655501