K821x#15complaint
This is a complaint  about the amount of compensation Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
(FICL) paid to Mr C for mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Mr C bought PPI alongside  a store card. FICL is the underwriter of the PPI and has accepted  
responsibility for Mr Cs complaint. 
background
The parties agreed that PPI had been  mis-sold  to Mr C. And so the matter for me to look at 
was whether the offer FICL made to Mr C to settle  his complaint was fair. 
I issued a provisional decision in this matter,  which is attached and forms part of my final 
decision. I asked  the parties  to provide me with their comments. Id asked FICL to make  
some assumptions. And I asked it to provide  me with its calculations  in response to my 
provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  Ive upheld this complaint. 
Neither party commented on my proposed findings.  FICL provided me with its calculations, 
which I am satisfied are in line with the approach I set out in my provisional decision. From 
the assumptions FICL made, it calculated  that Mr C would  have paid PPI premiums of 
£248.90. It also calculated  that he would have  paid £460.51 in interest  associated  with those 
premiums. In total, FICL  calculated that Mr C had paid an extra  £709.41 because of the 
mis-sold PPI. 
Id also asked FICL to apply 8% simple interest  to Mr Cs PPI premiums from July 2005 to 
the date he got his PPI premiums back.  When it responded to our adjudicator,  FICL  
calculated that interest  to be £819.96  net of tax. However, this 8% interest will continue to 
accrue until the date the PPI premiums are refunded to Mr C. 
With all of this in mind, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. FICL  needs to 
take action to put things right for Mr C as Ive set out below.  
putting things right 
To put things right for Mr C, FICL must:
Repay to Mr C £709.41,  which reflects the premiums and extra  interest he paid 
because of the mis-sold  PPI. 
Add simple interest to £709.41 from 21 July 2005 to the date that Mr C gets that 
payment back.  The interest rate is 8% a year. HM Revenue  and Customs requires 
Ref: DRN39685152FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must  give Mr C a certificate showing how 
much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
This is a complaint about the amount of compensation Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) 
paid to Mr C for mis-sold  payment protection insurance  (PPI). 
Mr C bought  PPI alongside  a store  card. FICL is the underwriter of the PPI and has accepted 
responsibility for Mr Cs complaint. 
Ref: DRN39685153background
Mr C complained to FICL  that it had mis-sold PPI to him alongside a store  card.  FICL agreed that PPI 
had been mis-sold  and offered Mr C £4.07 to settle his complaint. It had arrived at that figure  after Mr 
C had sent to them a statement showing hed paid one PPI premium of £4.07  in that particular month.   
FICL said it didnt have  any data about how Mr C had used  his card over the years. 
Mr C wasnt  happy with FICLs  offer.  He then sent nine card   statements from November 1995 to 
November 1996 showing he had paid PPI monthly PPI premiums. The highest premium he paid 
during that time was £4.24 and the lowest premium was £3.35.  FICL  looked at the complaint again. 
This time, it added all of the premiums together and offered  to repay  that amount to Mr C, along  with 
the interest it said hed have paid on those premiums. 
Mr C wasnt  happy with FICLs  response and he complained  to us. Our adjudicator  looked  at the 
complaint and she didnt think FICLs  offer was fair. FICL didnt agree  with that view. And so the 
matter has been passed to me to make  a final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive upheld this complaint. Ill explain  why below. 
FICL agrees  that PPI was mis-sold to Mr C. So the issue for me to consider is whether  the offer it 
made Mr C to settle the complaint was fair. 
FICL couldnt tell us when it sold PPI to Mr C. Ive looked at the statements Mr C has and I can see 
they are numbered. I cant see the number on the statement from 21 November 1995  to 21 December 
1995. But I can see the statement from 22 March 1996 to 20 April 1996 is number 27. And the 
numbers follow sequentially after that date. So, I can be reasonably satisfied that the first statement 
would have been produced  27 months before March 1996 in January  1994. The account would have 
been opened  in December 1993. 
I also think  its likely that Mr C would  have  bought PPI when he opened his account in December  
1993. I say this because in December  1993, he would  have had to deselect the PPI option on the 
application form. And I think its unlikely  he would  have  gone to the trouble of initially deselecting  the 
policy only to buy it at a later date. 
So, FICL should assume that Mr C bought PPI in December 1993 and he started paying PPI 
premiums from January 1994 when  his first statement would  have been produced. 
FICL doesnt have any data about when Mr C repaid  his store card balance.  Where there is limited 
information about an account, and the premiums a consumer has been charged, wed expect  a 
business to make reasonable assumptions based on information it does have.  Our adjudicator 
thought that FICL should use the last statement Mr C has from November  1996 as the half way point 
of the account.  And it should be assumed that Mr C was charged premiums up to October 1999. I 
agree with our adjudicator that this is a reasonable assumption. 
As to the amount of PPI that Mr C paid, I think FICL should make some more assumptions.  From the 
statements we have, I can see that Mr Cs balance was relatively consistent.  But I think  hed have  
probably built up this balance gradually over the first year. I can see that Mr Cs balance  fluctuated  a 
little month by month. The median balance on those statements is £566.07. For the first 12 months, I 
think FICL should assume that Mr Cs balance accrued gradually from January 1994 until it was 
£566.07 in December 1994. 
Ref: DRN39685154From January 1995, FICL should apply a slightly  different approach. From the statements weve been 
sent, I can see the highest monthly premium was £4.24 and the lowest premium was £3.35. Over 9 
months, Mr Cs average PPI premium was £3.84 per month. So from January 1995, where FICL  does 
not have information about the amount of PPI Mr C paid, it should assume  his monthly  premium was 
£3.84. FICL should reimburse those assumed premiums to Mr C. And it should also calculate and 
repay to Mr C any additional interest he would have paid on his card because  of the PPI.  
Mr C sent us a letter dated 25 January 2006  from his store card company. It was stated within that 
document that Mr C had queried information that had been recorded on his credit file. The letter said 
that his credit file had now been amended  to show  his account was satisfied   and that suggests he 
might have had some difficulties keeping  up with the repayments on his card. 
From the letter, I think it is clear that Mr Cs account had been repaid in full by January 2006. Overall, 
I think  its likely that he repaid the balance  in full around 6 months before he raised  the dispute  about 
his credit file. Thats because it would  have taken  time for the file to be updated and for Mr C to 
realise there was a problem. So I think he would  have  probably repaid  the debt in full in July 2005. 
So with that in mind,  I think that from July 2005, Mr C would have been  out of pocket because  of the 
mis-sold PPI. From July 2005, he didnt have the opportunity to use the money from the mis-sold  
premiums. And I think fair compensation for that lost opportunity would  be for FICL to pay Mr C 8% 
simple interest  on the amount it owes him from July 2005 to the date he gets that money back.  
putting things  right
In summary, FICL must re-work the offer it made to compensate Mr C. To do this, it should make the 
following assumptions:  
That from January 1994 Mr Cs store card balance  increased gradually  over 12 months until it 
was £566.07 in December  1994. It should work out how much his PPI premiums would  have 
been on that basis. And it must refund to Mr C any additional interest he would have paid 
because of those  PPI premiums;
From January  1995 where FICL does not have data for the cost of the PPI, it should  assume 
his monthly premium was £3.84.  And it should work out and pay back to    Mr C any extra 
interest he paid because of those premiums: 
The final PPI premium  that Mr C paid was in October 1999: and
That Mr C repaid his card balance  in full from July 2005.  
FICL will need to pay 8% simple interest on the amount  it owes  Mr C from July 2005 until the date that 
he gets that money  back. It should also provide  its calculations and the final compensation amount in 
response to this provisional decision. 
If either party is able to find and provide any additional evidence that may reflect  a different spending 
pattern whilst the account was being used  then I shall consider that before issuing my final decision. 
my provisional  decision
Im intending  to require FICL to calculate the compensation due to Mr C using the assumptions and 
approach I have set out above. In response to my provisional decision, FICL  must  provide the 
calculations it has made in line with my approach. 
Subject to any further information the parties provide,  I intend  to direct FICL to pay compensation  in 
line with the approach  I have  indicated  above. I now invite all parties to submit any further evidence or 
comments they wish me to consider by 7 March 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3968515