K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  with a credit card.
background
Briefly:
In 2002 during a branch  meeting  Mr H bought PPI at the same time as applying for a credit 
card. The policy was designed to protect Mr Hs credit card payments in the event he 
couldnt work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. 
The policy cost 79 pence for every  £100 of outstanding monthly card balance. And it 
provided a monthly  benefit of 10% of what was owed on the card for up to 12 months.
At the time Mr H says he was employed and he was entitled to more than three months  but 
less than six months full sick pay. He also said he had some savings at the time and he was 
in good health.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said they thought Mr H likely  chose  to take 
out PPI. And there was nothing  to indicate it was inappropriate or unsuitable for him.
Mr H disagrees.  He says he felt he had no choice in the matter  if he wanted  the credit  card.  
He also says because  he became self-employed  from 2003 the policy  has been worthless.
The complaint therefore comes  to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose  to 
take it out. I think he likely  did so without undue pressure.
Barclays has provided a copy of the credit card application completed at the time. And 
here I can see there is a cross printed in the Yes box to take out PPI  there  was a No 
box available. So I think Barclays made it clear enough that Mr H had a choice in the 
matter.
Ive considered what Mr H says about  feeling pressured and that he felt he wouldnt get 
the card if he didnt agreed  to PPI. In thinking about  this Im mindful that this was an 
advised sale where Barclays was recommending PPI. So its likely the adviser 
encouraged Mr H to take it out because he thought it was right for him and he could  
benefit from it. But Ive not seen enough  evidence to persuade me that the adviser  went 
further than that and placed undue pressure on Mr H taking away  his choice about 
things.
Ref: DRN35469142So I dont  uphold the complaint on the basis that Barclays  pressured Mr H to take out 
PPI.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr H so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   such 
as those for existing  medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances - and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mr H says he was entitled to sick pay and he had some savings at the time. But the 
policy wouldve paid out in addition to these and for longer  if necessary  up to 12 
months. The policy also had the potential to pay off the outstanding card balance. So I 
dont think the existence of Mr Hs existing provision  made the policy  unsuitable  it 
wasnt wrong for Barclays to have  recommended  it.  
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. For example I dont think it told Mr H the true cost of the policy  the fact 
that the premiums  could  attract  interest and were payable  during a claim. But Ive found 
that he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And I dont think  
it operated fundamentally differently from what he expected  based  on the information he 
was given. It also seems like it would have been  useful for him if something went  wrong 
and it looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about  the PPI would 
have likely put him off taking out the cover. 
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell him, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr H has said - including  what hes said about his 
employment and the fact hes been self-employed since 2003 and feels hes not benefitted 
from the policy because  its not suitable  for the self-employed. 
Mr H was employed at the time and according  to Barclays  records and his credit  card 
application hed been working  on an employed basis for over two years. Barclays  could only 
reasonably give advice based  on Mr Hs circumstances at the time.  And at the time for the 
reasons Ive set out above I think PPI was suitable  for him. There  was no ongoing advice 
duty on Barclays, so when Mr Hs circumstances changed later on and he became self-
employed it was for Mr H to consider  or seek new advice  whether this impacted the 
suitability of PPI. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ref: DRN35469143my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above.  Ive decided that Mr H has not lost out to the extent that 
Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019. 
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3546914