K821x#15complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him, 
trapping him in a spiral of debt.
background
This complaint is about nine loans Sunny provided  to Mr S between August 2018  and 
January 2019.  A summary  of Mr Ss borrowing history is set out in the table below as 
follows:
LoanDate TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
Amount *
1 13/08/2018 31/10/2018  6 £200.00 £52.36
2 14/08/2018 13/11/2018  6 £200.00 £104.45
3 14/08/2018 31/10/2018  6 £200.00 £156.54
4 15/08/2018 31/10/2018  6 £150.00 £195.21
5 31/10/2018 13/11/2018 6 £600.00 £251.40
6 01/11/2018 outstanding  6 £300.00 £350.42
7 20/11/2018 outstanding  6 £500.00 £265.69
8 18/12/2018 outstanding  6 £300.00 £365.69
9 12/01/2019 23/01/2019  6 £50.00 £380.03
*Please note where  loans  overlapped,  the highest  repayment increased.
In its final response,  Sunny told Mr S that it did not uphold his complaint.  It said for all loan 
applications, it undertook credit  and affordability checks including  asking Mr S for his income 
and expenditure,  his other short-term lending  commitments, and carrying out a credit search, 
before it made a decision whether to lend. And it explained that for each loan Mr S took out 
the amounts advanced were assessed as being affordable.
 
Our adjudicator said he hadnt seen enough to say it was unfair to provide loans 1-3 to Mr S. 
But he said that loans  4-9 shouldnt have been given to him. He upheld Mr Ss complaint in 
respect of loans 4 onwards. Sunny disagreed with this view. It asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN34506912But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. Having  done  so, Ive decided  to uphold  
this complaint from when  Sunny gave Mr S loan 4.
Mr S hasnt disagreed  with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1-3. So, I dont think there  
is any ongoing disagreement about  these  loans and I wont  be making a decision about this 
lending. But loans  1-3 were part of the borrowing relationship Mr S had with Sunny. So, they 
are something I will take into account when  considering the other loans he took.
When Sunny  gave Mr S loan 4, I can see that at that time the first three loans still hadnt 
been repaid. So, by loan 4 Mr S had 4 loans running  concurrently. When  Mr S took out loan 
4 he was again making a commitment to repay this loan over a further 6 months. Although  
the amount Mr S borrowed when he took loan 4 was for a slightly smaller amount than hed 
borrowed previously,  the sum taken wasnt much lower. 
When Mr S applied  for loan 5, he still hadnt repaid loan 2. This time loan 5 was for £600.00 
so the amount he was asking to borrow had tripled  in just over 2 months and while he was 
still repaying another outstanding loan.
And by the time Mr S asked for loan 6, he still had loans 2 and 5 outstanding and was 
committing himself  to repaying a further  debt for another 6 months period. So, by this time I 
Ref: DRN34506913dont think it looks as if Mr S was using these  loans in the way they were  intended  and was 
more likely using these  loans as a longer term means of finance. So, I think  it looks likely 
that by this time Sunny ought to have  been  alerted to the fact that Mr S was having problems 
managing money.  
Ive taken everything into account, but I'm not persuaded  that Sunny acted responsibly  when 
it provided loans  4,5 and 6 to Mr S and as a result, I think there was a significant  risk in this 
case that Mr S would be unable to meet  his repayments in a sustainable manner for these 
loans. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
7. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr S was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr S had taken out seven loans within three months  and Mr S had been 
indebted to Sunny  for all that time. So Sunny ought to have realised  it was more 
likely than not Mr S was having to borrow further to cover  the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving  in his finances  and that Mr Ss indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mr Ss first loan was for £200.00 and loan 7 was for £500. When  Mr S asked for loan 
7 loan 6 was still outstanding which he still hadnt  repaid.  So, it doesnt look like 
Mr Ss need for cash was reducing  which also points  to a longer term need for funds.  
So, by loan 7 Sunny ought to have known  that Mr S was not likely borrowing  to meet  
a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
From  the outset, Mr S was given new loans without settling his previous loans. This 
continued. At no point  in Mr Ss lending pattern had he repaid  all his previous loans. 
For example, when he took out loan 7, he still had loan 6 outstanding. So, I dont  
think its likely Mr S was using  these instalment loans  in the way they were intended 
and was more  likely  relying on these loans as a longer-term means of finance.
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 9 was 
taken out around five months after Mr Ss first. And although it was for a smaller  
amount, Mr S was still repaying  loans 6,7,8 and 9 so the overall  amount he was 
repaying was the most it had been  since he started  borrowing. At the time he had 
again committed himself to another 6 months repaying his loans.  Mr S had paid large 
amounts of interest to, in effect,  service a debt to Sunny  over an extended period.
I think that Mr S lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
Ref: DRN34506914the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Ss ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding  the complaint about loans 4 to 9 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Sunny shouldnt have given Mr S loans 4-9. If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it 
should buy these  back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps.
If Sunny is not able to buy the debts  back, then it should liaise with the new debt owner to 
achieve the results  outlined  below.
A) Sunny  should  add together  the total of the repayments  made by Mr S towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
Sunny have already refunded.
B) Sunny  should  calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by Mr S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Sunny should  remove all interest,  fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments  made  by Mr S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results  in Mr S having made 
overpayments then Sunny should  refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans and any principal Sunny has 
already written-off.  If this results in a surplus, then the surplus  should  be paid to Mr S.
However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Sunny should  try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr S. Sunny shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of 
principal Sunny have  already written-off.  
E) Sunny  should  remove any adverse information  recorded on Mr Ss credit  file in relation to 
loans 4 and 6. The overall pattern of Mr Ss borrowing for loans 7 onwards means  any 
information recorded about them is adverse, so Sunny should remove these loans  entirely 
from Mr Ss credit  file. Sunny do not have  to remove loans  7 onwards from Mr Ss credit file 
until these have been repaid, but Sunny should  still remove any adverse information 
recorded about these loans.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to deduct  tax from this interest. Sunny should give 
Mr S a certificate  showing  how much tax it has deducted, if he asks for one. 
Ref: DRN34506915my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partly  upholding Mr Ss complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3450691