K820x#14complaint
Mr I1 complains  that Calpe Insurance Company Limited delayed and then declined his claim 
made under his motor insurance policy. He wants it to pay his claim.
background
Mr I2, a named driver  on his father, Mr I1s, policy had an accident  when  he was driving his 
fathers car and it was deemed to be a total loss. But Calpe, after investigation,  declined  the 
claim because  it said there were inconsistencies  between the damage to the car and Mr I2s 
version of events. It thought the car had previous damage. It also said that there  was 
misrepresentation as it thought it had interviewed Mr I3, his brother, rather than Mr I2 about 
the accident. Mr I2 thought this was an error due to confusion. He also thought  Calpe had 
taken a long time to decline  the claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He thought that 
Calpe had reasonably investigated the claim and had grounds to decline the claim. It had 
taken four months  for it to do this and he thought that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr I2 replied that he had time stamped photographs of the car days  before the accident 
showing no damage. He couldnt  understand why Calpe thought his brother had provided 
the statement  about the accident. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Calpes decision has had serious financial consequences  for Mr I1. I 
can also see that Mr I2 has been unhappy with the progress of the claim. But I think that 
insurers are entitled  to reasonably investigate claims. I can see from the correspondence  
that Calpe  reasonably responded to Mr I2s enquiries about progress. 
Calpes investigator  interviewed Mr I2 twice  and it had an engineers report made. It took 
about four months for Calpe to decide to decline the claim. I cant  see that there were any 
unnecessary delays whilst it did this. And I dont think  this length of time was unreasonable 
for it to complete its investigations.   
Calpe said the main reason it had declined the claim was because of misrepresentation. It 
said that the person who provided and signed the statement in the drivers name was Mr I3, 
not Mr I2. Mr I3 isnt a named driver on the policy. It also said there had been 
inconsistencies in the claim. 
Ive seen the evidence that Calpe used to consider it likely  that Mr I3 had been interviewed  
as Mr I2. These were photographs  taken by the investigator and those it found on social 
media. There was also a call recording where  Mr I2 was discussing the matter  and referred 
to himself in the third person.  I think this was enough evidence  for Calpe to decide that its 
more likely than not that misrepresentation took place.
Ref: DRN30657652Calpe was also concerned about  inconsistencies  in the claim. Mr I2 said hed been alone  in 
the car when  he hit a parked car. Calpe  had specialist motor engineers conduct a 
consistency report of the damage to the two vehicles involved.  It said the damage to Mr I1s 
car hadnt occurred  as described. It thought Mr I1s car had pre-existing damage.  It also said 
it was likely that there were two people in the car at the time as the passenger  airbag had 
deployed. Again, I think this is sufficient evidence for Calpe to decide  that its likely  that the 
car wasnt damaged  as Mr I2 described. 
And so I think Calpe reasonably investigated the claim. And I think it was reasonable for it to 
decline the claim on the basis of the misrepresentation  and inconsistencies it found.  I dont  
require it to settle the claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I1 to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3065765