K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Premier Insurance Company Limited (Premier Insurance) unfairly 
voided his car insurance policy.
background
In 2018 Mr S made a claim on a car insurance policy  he had with Premier Insurance. In 
January 2019  it wrote  to him and said it was now aware he had an unspent criminal 
conviction from 2016 which carried a two year suspended prison sentence.  
Premier Insurance said Mr S failed to disclose this when he applied for insurance,  and if it 
had known of the conviction it wouldnt have offered him cover. Mr S said he had completed 
the application accurately and wasnt asked about any criminal convictions. And he said his 
conviction had no bearing on motor insurance so he didnt believe it was relevant.
Premier Insurance then voided Mr S policy from the start, treating it as if it had never 
existed. It said Mr S was asked specifically about  whether he had any unspent  criminal 
convictions when  he applied online and he had said he didnt. Premier  Insurance also said 
the documentation it sent Mr S after he bought  the policy made  it clear  that it understood he 
had no criminal convictions and he never  contacted it to amend these details.
Mr S brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator looked at screenshots  of the 
application that Mr S wouldve seen online.  He felt the question about  unspent  criminal 
convictions was clear and Mr S had answered it incorrectly.  So he felt a misrepresentation 
had taken place.  The investigator said Mr S wouldve known of his criminal  conviction and 
hadnt taken reasonable  care to provide correct answers about it.
The investigator said hed checked  what Premier Insurance  wouldve done had it known of 
this conviction.  And he said its underwriting guidance says it wouldnt have sold Mr S the 
policy. He said this would be classed as a qualifying misrepresentation  under the relevant 
law. And if this misrepresentation was considered deliberate or reckless  Premier Insurance  
would be able to void the policy and retain all premiums  paid.  This is what  Premier Insurance  
had done in this case, and the investigator  said it had acted fairly when doing so.
Mr S disagreed and said he didnt  believe  the question he was asked was clear or 
unambiguous. And he had answered  the question innocently and with utmost good faith. 
Because Mr S disagreed,  the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans  final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
Ref: DRN39753932The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  sets out 
that when applying for insurance consumers have  a duty to take reasonable care to not 
make a misrepresentation.
For Premier Insurance to be able to rely on this and take any action at all, it needs to show 
Mr S didnt take reasonable care and made  a qualifying misrepresentation.
Ive considered whether Mr S has made a misrepresentation and whether he took 
reasonable care not to. CIDRA  gives a number of examples of things that could be 
considered when deciding whether a consumer failed to take reasonable care. One 
example, and relevant here,  is how clear  and specific an insurers questions were.
Mr S took out his policy online, and during the application he was asked Have you got any 
unspent non-motoring  related criminal convictions?  Mr S was given an option  of answering 
either yes or no and he selected  no.
Its not disputed  that Mr S had an unspent criminal  conviction at the time and hes accepted  
that he knew about it. So I am satisfied that he made a misrepresentation. The next 
consideration though is establishing  whether he took reasonable care is to look at the 
question itself. And based on the wording of the application, Im satisfied  he was asked a 
clear question. At this point Im satisfied Mr S failed to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation.
I have thought carefully about Mr S submission  that he didnt believe the information was 
relevant to motor  insurance. I dont think this would  be the understanding  of a reasonable 
consumer as the question asks specifically  for non-motoring related convictions. He 
accepts he knew the right answer  but in his own mind decided not to give it as he didnt feel 
it was relevant. So I remain satisfied he failed to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation.
Next I have to consider  whether this misrepresentation is a qualifying  one. This means I 
have to ask whether Premier Insurance wouldve either not sold Mr S a policy at all, because 
of the misrepresentation, or if it wouldve  done  so on different  terms.
Premier Insurance has shared part of its underwriting guide with us, and this shows it would 
not have sold Mr S a policy if it had known of his conviction. So Im persuaded there was a 
qualifying misrepresentation. 
CIDRA says a qualifying  misrepresentation  can be considered as careless, deliberate, or 
reckless. In this case Premier Insurance has indicated Mr S made his misrepresentation 
either deliberately or recklessly. It is for Premier Insurance to demonstrate that it was 
deliberate or reckless.  CIDRA  defines  the qualifying  misrepresentation as either deliberate  or 
reckless if a consumer:
(a)knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue or 
misleading, and
(b)knew that the matter  to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether  or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Ref: DRN39753933Having carefully considered what Mr S has told us and from what  Ive said above, Im 
persuaded Premier  Insurance  has acted fairly classing in classifying the misrepresentation in 
this way. I say this as Mr S has accepted  he knew about his own conviction, and that he 
intentionally answered no. Im persuaded this shows that he knew the answer he gave was 
untrue. 
Mr S case, at its height, is that he didnt think the conviction was relevant to the insurer 
(albeit he says to the motor insurance  policy).  My view is that if he didnt think  it was relevant 
then he had no reason to deliberately give an incorrect  answer as by his own logic it wouldnt 
have made  a difference. Im persuaded its more likely than not he knew  it was relevant and 
was trying to avoid giving  correct information  to Premier Insurance. But in any case, given 
the clarity  of the question and the deliberate incorrect answer, at best, Im persuaded Mr S 
did not care whether or not it was relevant to Premier Insurance.
However, even if I were to consider that Mr S didnt answer this question incorrectly 
deliberately, I would still consider his actions to be reckless. This is because  Im satisfied he 
gave an incorrect answer to the question without care as to whether or not this information  
was relevant to the insurer. Mr S has said himself  that he made the decision that the 
conviction wasnt relevant to his car insurance application. But he made no attempt to clarify  
this uncertainty,  if it was that, with Premier Insurance.
Where misrepresentation  is found  to be either deliberate or reckless, CIDRA allows insurers  
to avoid a policy,  refuse  all claims and retain all premiums paid. This is what  Premier 
Insurance has done in this case.  And Im satisfied it has done so fairly and reasonably and in 
line with the relevant law.
my final decision
For the above reasons Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3975393