K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him three single premium  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policies with three loans.
background
I recently issued my provisional  decision on this complaint and it included the following:
Mr J took out loans  through  Nationwide in April 2002 (the first sale) and July and October 
2003 (the second and third sales).  Nationwide sold PPI policies with each of the loans, the 
cost of which was added to each loan and attracted interest.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint be upheld.  Nationwide disagreed, so the 
case was passed  to me to review afresh.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Js case.
Having done so, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the passage of time since the sales, its understandable  that there are gaps in the 
information thats still available. This makes it more difficult to determine with certainty what  
happened when  the PPI was sold. That said, the loan agreements for all three  sales show  
the PPI was clearly  set out as Optional  and explained that cover included disability, 
unemployment and life cover. Mr J signed  the agreements, indicating he was happy with 
them.
I cant say for sure how PPI came to be added in the first place for all of the sales. But Ive 
seen little to show  it was added without Mr Js knowledge or consent.  So, on balance, I think 
it likely  Mr J agreed to go ahead  with the PPI knowing he had a choice.
I dont think Nationwide  recommended  the PPI to Mr J. That still meant it needed to provide 
Mr J with enough information to allow him to make an informed choice about the suitability of 
the PPI. Ive looked at each of the sales with that in mind.
I cant be certain what information Nationwide gave Mr J about  the PPI when it sold each 
policy. But, if there were problems with the sales, I dont believe  better  information would 
have made  a difference to his decisions.
In particular, Im aware that the PPI restricted unemployment claims for those working under 
fixed-term contracts. I can also see that the restrictions didnt apply regarding the PPI sold in 
April 2002 if Mr J had been in continuous  employment with the same employer for at least  
two years and where his contract had previously been renewed.  In terms of the PPI sold in 
July and October 2003, the restrictions didnt apply where hed been employed on an annual  
contract that had been renewed at least once or hed had been employed on a contract with 
the same  employer for at least two years.
Ref: DRN39711132To date, its been argued that the above  restrictions applied to Mr J because  he was a 
temporary worker  at the time of the sales.  And that he wouldnt have taken the PPI had that 
been made clear  to him. Ive looked  at what Mr Js said about his employment. It seems  he 
started work  for the employer on a permanent basis in 1995 before becoming a temporary 
worker by the time of the first sale in 2002.  According to Nationwides call notes dated April 
2017, Mr J said his contract was renewed many times before he eventually  left the employer 
in 2014.
Taking everything into account  I think it likely  that, for the first sale,  Mr J had been in 
continuous employment with the same employer for at least  two years and his contract had 
previously been  renewed.  I also think it likely regarding the second and third sales  that either 
Mr J had been employed on an annual contract which has been renewed  at least  once  or 
that hed been employed on a contract  with the same employer for at least  two years. So 
I think the restrictions for those working  under fixed-term contracts wouldnt have applied to 
Mr J.
Regarding other aspects  of the sales:
It seems Mr J was eligible for the PPI. And although the PPI had other exclusions on, 
or limits to, the cover  I cant see that Mr J would  have  been affected by them.
The loan agreements  Mr J signed  made  it clear the PPI was an extra  cost and set out 
what the costs  were   both with and without interest.
Mr J could have  got quite a lot more back from the PPI in claims than it cost, as the 
benefits were  considerable.  So I think Mr J would have seen it as worth  having, 
despite the sick pay he says he was entitled  to and the savings  he held. He says he 
was covered  by other insurance  but Ive not currently seen sufficient evidence of it.
Its possible Mr J might not have wanted  PPI which didnt  give a proportional refund if 
the loans  were  repaid  early,  as that would have made cancelling  them more 
expensive. But it seems the PPI would, in any case, have provided Mr J with a 
proportional refund.
I gather  Mr Js been compensated for another PPI policy  Nationwide sold him and he 
believes he should also be compensated for these sales.  But Nationwides  defended  these  
particular sales, as its entitled to do. So its my role to consider what the fair and reasonable 
outcome should  be given  the circumstances of this case. Having done so, I dont think  Mr Js 
lost out because of how Nationwide sold him these three policies.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive provisionally  decided  not to uphold this complaint.
I gave both parties the opportunity to respond  with any further evidence or information they 
might have before I reconsidered the case.
Nationwide didnt add anything further.  Mr J didnt agree with my decision for various 
reasons, including that he was pressured  into buying PPI and thought he had to have it in 
order to take out the loans. He wanted  to know what new evidence Nationwide had provided  
that led to me reaching a different outcome to that reached by the adjudicator. He said he 
didnt understand  how Nationwide could  uphold other complaints hed made about the sale 
Ref: DRN39711133of PPI but not this one  he was a temporary worker but was entitled to enhanced sick pay 
through his employer and had an income  protection insurance policy. Mr J also said he told 
Nationwide he had mental health issues when  he bought the PPI but that it didnt tell him 
hed be unable to claim for them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Js case.
In terms of me reaching a different outcome to the adjudicator, at this service we operate a 
two-stage process  to complaint  handling. That means that if either party,  or indeed  both 
parties, arent willing to accept our first answer they can ask for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint.
Its my role to consider the complaint afresh and, having done  so, I departed  from the 
findings of the adjudicator. One of the things  I took into account was Nationwides response 
to the adjudicators assessment, although  Ive already summarised the relevant  information 
in my provisional decision  including that Mr J told it hed started work for his employer in 
1995 and had his contract  renewed  many  times  before leaving in 2014.
Ive reached a different conclusion to the adjudicator regarding  the effect of Mr Js status as 
a temporary worker. In my view, the terms of the policies allow  temporary workers to benefit  
under them in certain circumstances.  From what Mr Js said about his work situation, Im 
satisfied he could have  benefitted accordingly.
In reaching my provisional decision, Id already taken into account the sick pay Mr J says 
hed have received from his employer and the income  protection insurance he says he held.  
Having reconsidered  these points, I still think the PPI was worthwhile for him. Mr J couldnt  
recall much  about the income protection insurance or who it was with when  he spoke to 
Nationwide in April 2017 and, in any case,  he said it was in place  to protect  other lines of 
credit. So I dont know that it would have helped him keep up his repayments  regarding the 
loans hed taken  out with Nationwide.
With regard to mental health issues, before  issuing  my provisional decision I noted the 
adjudicator asked Mr J for more  information. He replied he was diagnosed in 2014 but had 
suffered with severe depression and anxiety for a number of years. He wasnt  able to 
provide any dates. I could  see that the PPI excluded claims for pre-existing medical 
conditions but, on balance, I couldnt  fairly say Mr J suffered with these issues  at the time of 
taking out the PPI  which was more than ten years before  his diagnosis. So I couldnt fairly 
say the exclusion  clauses would have made a difference to his decision to take it out. 
Nothing Mr Js said more  recently has led me to reach a different finding on this issue now.
Mr Js said hes argued all along  that he felt pressure to take out PPI and thought he had to 
have it if he wanted  the loans. But I havent seen anything to support what  hes said about  
being pressured. And none of the paperwork from the time suggests to me that Nationwide 
led him to believe  the PPI would somehow support  his loan applications.
I realise Nationwides offered  Mr J compensation for other PPI it sold him but, as I said in my 
provisional decision, Nationwides defended these particular sales, as its entitled to do.
Ref: DRN39711134Id emphasise that its certainly not my view that Mr J isnt telling the truth in bringing this 
complaint. On the contrary, I believe hes made a genuine effort to provide his best 
recollections of the sales. That cant have been easy given  there were  a number of sales to 
remember, all of which dated back several years. Nevertheless, taking everything into 
account, I remain of the view that Mr Js not lost out because  of how Nationwide  sold him the 
policies.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  and while I recognise  how strongly Mr J feels about the complaint, 
Ive decided not to uphold  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3971113