K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA)  unfairly declined  a claim under his 
business protection insurance policy. 
background
Mr S took out an insurance policy for his company that covers him for specific risks that 
could affect the running of his business.
In September  2018, Mr S tried to make a claim relating to damage caused while working  on 
a job. But AXA declined it, saying the policy didnt include  cover  for that type of claim. It said 
if Mr S had accidental damage  cover, it wouldve considered the claim. But as he didnt, and 
there are no other relevant sections  of cover under the policy,  the claim falls outside  of the 
policys remit. 
Mr S, through his broker,  raised a complaint.  He says the policy  terms are ambiguous,  but 
he believes  the claim would fall under the public and product liability section. Hes also 
unhappy that AXA has said it wouldve considered  the claim under  the accidental  damage 
section, because hes been told by his broker that it would be excluded. Hes concerned  
AXA dont understand the remit of its own cover. 
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied that AXA had 
correctly declined the claim as the damage didnt  arise from an insured peril. She explained  
she wasnt prepared to comment  on the accidental damage cover  because Mr S didnt have 
it. So, she didnt feel it was relevant. 
Mr S didnt agree. So, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at Mr S policy schedule  along with the terms and conditions of cover.  I can see 
that Mr S opted to take out buildings and contents cover; business interruption; employers 
liability; goods in transit; and public and product liability. 
Mr S believes his claim falls within the public  and product liability  cover. This section says it 
will pay the amount of damages  Mr S is legally liable to pay as a result of accidental loss of 
or damage  to material property. 
However, it says cover  doesnt  extend to loss or damage to property owned  by Mr S or 
which is held in his care, custody or control.  There are exceptions  to this exclusion,  one of 
which is for premises including contents which are not owned or rented by Mr S, where he 
is temporarily carrying out work in connection  with the business.  
AXA say this exception  doesnt apply as Mr S claim doesnt relate to work  he was 
conducting at premises that werent his own. But Mr S and his broker  believe the exception 
is unclear and has ambiguous wording. They say AXA has interpreted  the word  premises 
as being the subject of the sentence, but it could also be interpreted that the word contents 
Ref: DRN37432662is the subject. So, in essence they are saying, Mr S was working on contents which are not 
owned or rented by him, where he is temporarily carrying  out work.
Ive thought about what Mr S has said. But I dont agree the exception is unclear or 
ambiguous. And I cant say it would apply to his claim. This is because the sentence must be 
read as a whole,  not broken down in order to suit the situation.  The fact that the sentence 
goes on to say where the work  is being  carried out, supports AXAs interpretation  that the 
exception is for the premises along with contents  not the premises  and/or contents, as 
Mr S and his broker believes. 
In any event, contents is defined within the policy as Contents (other  than stock), landlords 
fixtures and fittings, interior  decorations,  employees  personal effects  (up to £500 for any one 
person), and goods in trust belonging to you or which you are responsible for as shown in 
your schedule. As this doesnt  include stock  and there arent  any goods in trust listed on 
Mr S policy schedule  I cant say this exception applies even if I accepted  Mr S 
interpretation of it. 
I appreciate Mr S disappointment  that his claim isnt covered. But no insurance policy will 
cover every eventuality. And public liability policies arent designed to cover  faulty  or 
defective workmanship, operational  errors or omissions to the stock  that Mr S has been 
employed to work on. They commonly cover Mr S liability to a customers property  or 
contents which falls outside of what hes been employed for. 
Whilst there are optional extras of accidental damage cover under both the buildings  and 
contents sections,  Mr S didnt choose to include these. AXA say that if he had, it would 
consider the claim  for accidental damage. I dont  think this is an unreasonable  statement to 
make. AXA hasnt given any guarantee the claim would be covered  under that section, just 
that it would  consider it. But as Mr S didnt have  the cover,  there is not a need  for me to 
make a finding on this aspect of the complaint.
As there are no other sections within the policy that would cover a claim of this nature, AXA 
has declined  it. From my own review of the policy along with my consideration of both sides  
arguments, I cant say that AXA has acted incorrectly.  
Mr S has also raised concerns with the length of time AXA took to make  a decision on cover. 
He made  his claim in September  2018.  But AXA didnt decline  it until 15 November  2018.  A 
further decision under the public and products liability section was made on 3 December 
2018.
I can appreciate why Mr S is unhappy as it does seem to be a long time to make  a decision 
on cover.  But from reviewing AXAs file, I havent  been able to identify any avoidable  delays. 
This is a complex policy with several heads of cover involved, so its not unreasonable  that 
AXA would need to take advice from other  departments within its business prior to making a 
decision. And I cant see that Mr S suffered any financial detriment as a result of the time 
taken to make a decision. So, Im not asking  AXA to do anything in respect to this point.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Ref: DRN37432663Angela Casey
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3743266