K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the way Admiral  Insurance Company Limited  has handled a claim he 
made on a motor insurance policy. Any reference  to Admiral will include its agents.
background
Mr C made  a claim for damage a vehicle he had recently bought following an accident in 
July 2018. He wanted to have the vehicle  repaired at a main dealer approved by the 
manufacturer of his vehicle. He provided  an estimate from the main dealer, which Admiral 
asked its motor engineer  to check. The engineer felt the labour cost was too high. Admiral 
wouldnt authorise repairs based on this estimate.  Mr C wasnt  happy about this and 
provided a further  estimate, which was for slightly less than the one hed provided  originally. 
Admiral agreed to appoint  an external motor engineer to inspect the Vehicle and work out 
what it would  cost to repair.  
It took a while  for the inspection to take place, but the engineer eventually provided  a report  
and authorised repairs based  on the second estimate  Mr C had provided. Mr C still wasnt 
happy and provided another estimate  from the body  shop the main dealer used (as opposed 
to the main dealer itself). Admirals engineer checked and approved  this estimate  as well.
Mr C complained to Admiral. It accepted there had been some  delays and communication 
issues and paid him £175 in compensation for distress and inconvenience, plus £10 to cover 
the cost of phone  calls.  
Mr C still wasnt  happy and complained to us. One of our investigators considered his 
complaint. She felt Admirals approach to the repairs was reasonable and that it had paid 
enough compensation for the poor service  it had provided. 
Mr C doesnt agree with our investigator and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.  Hes 
concerned that Admirals  engineer made his initial decision on the first estimate he provided 
without an inspection or images  of his vehicle. And hes pointed out the labour  costs on the 
three estimates he provided were quite similar. And, I presume hes mentioned this as he 
thinks this shows the first estimate  he provided  was reasonable. Hes also still concerned 
that he was told the main  dealer whod  provided  the estimate for him wouldnt negotiate on 
the cost, when it was actually  the engineer Admiral had appointed who wasnt prepared to 
negotiate. 
Mr C has also pointed out he told Admiral  from the very beginning he could  drive  his vehicle 
to the main dealer for an inspection, but it was not until much later that Admiral  suggested  
this. He thinks this proves he wasnt reluctant to do this, as suggested by our investigator. 
Mr C has queried why our investigator  has suggested the repairs actually came to 
£4.452.12, when the final estimate was for £4,792.12. 
Its clear that Mr C still thinks Admirals original decision  not to authorise repairs based  on 
the first estimate he provided was unreasonable. And that this and other  errors by Admiral 
led to a long delay on his claim.
Ref: DRN38321042my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr Cs frustration over Admirals decision not to authorise repairs after he 
provided the first estimate. But the wording of the policy he has does say Admiral can ask for 
further estimates if it thinks the one the customer has provided  is unreasonable. 
Ive checked the estimate Mr C provided and the one the engineer approved,  which was the 
second one Mr C provided. The first one doesnt  include  items that the second estimate 
includes. And from the images Ive seen  it does look as though items were  missed off by the 
main dealer  when it did this estimate. The labour cost on this estimate  was around the same 
as the second estimate. This suggests  the labour  rates are on the high side.  I say this 
because if the labour  cost for the missing items was added, it would make the overall labour 
cost higher than the other estimates. I appreciate the engineer  didnt have images of the 
vehicle when he reviewed  the first estimate,  but Im satisfied he would have had the 
experience to see the labour rates for the items on the estimate were on the high side.  
I think all this shows Admiral was right to be concerned about the first estimate. In the 
circumstances, Im satisfied Admirals decision not to approve the first estimate and appoint  
an external engineer to inspect Mr Cs vehicle and approve what he felt were  appropriate 
estimates was reasonable. 
I accept there were some delays and that some of these were  because Admiral didnt 
suggest Mr C take his vehicle to the main dealer much earlier.  There were also delays in the 
external engineer inspecting the vehicle and providing his report. There were  also some  
communication issues. This all clearly  caused Mr C distress and inconvenience and led to 
him having to make  more phone calls than should have been necessary. 
I appreciate Mr C thinks he experienced significant  distress and inconvenience as a result of 
Admirals actions, but that is partly because he thinks its decision  not to approve the first 
estimate he provided was unreasonable.  But, as Ive already explained,  I dont think it was. 
So, I think the £175 already paid by Admiral  is appropriate  for the level of distress  and 
inconvenience Mr C actually experienced as a result of any delays and communication  
issues. This is because it is a significant  sum and is what  Id expect an insurer to pay for the 
level of distress and inconvenience  Mr C experienced. And I think the payment of this  
along with the £10 for phone calls,  provides  a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Cs 
complaint. Admiral had already paid this amount when  Mr C came  to us. This means its not 
appropriate for me to uphold his complaint. 
For the sake of completeness, I have also confirmed with Admiral that the final cost of repair  
to Mr Cs vehicle was £4542.12.
Ref: DRN38321043my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Ray Norman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3832104