K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, when  it was trading as Barclaycard, mis-sold 
him payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr S took out in 2005. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He said that although the policy  was taken out around  
the same  time as the credit card, there  wasnt enough evidence  to suggest that Barclays 
made it clear  to Mr S that the policy and credit card were separate products.
Barclays disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion. The complaint came to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Im currently thinking about  upholding Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
I dont think that Barclays  has been  able to provide  enough evidence to show:
ohow it made Mr S aware  that PPI was optional, as it shouldve done
oand/or  that he agreed to have it, understanding what he was doing. 
I say this because  although both Barclays and Mr S say he applied for his credit card in a 
Barclays branch, his completed and signed  application form isnt available. 
Barclays has provided an example of the application it says he wouldve had to fill in to get 
his credit card. This shows that Mr S wouldve had to tick to have PPI added  on.
But I dont think he wouldve necessarily understood just from looking at the form that PPI 
was optional. There were  a number of things  listed under the heading Additional Benefits.
Barclaycard Payment Protection simply had a tick box next to wording that started: Yes,  
I would like to apply
But there was also another  option listed for a different feature offered with the card that had 
Yes and No tick box options. I think that wouldve made it much clearer to him that he was 
being offered  a choice, as there was an option to say that the particular benefit wasnt  
required if he didnt want it. I think it is particularly confusing that the PPI option didnt 
obviously offer a choice  between  ticking for the policy or ticking to say it wasnt required  
when this was an option elsewhere  on the form.
So I think its quite likely  that the inconsistent way information was presented on the form 
couldve been confusing  for Mr S, taking into account his particular circumstances which  
I explain below. 
Ref: DRN30220072Ive looked carefully  at all the information Barclays has sent me about its sales process  and 
the guidelines staff were  supposed to follow when selling PPI. But I cant know exactly what  
was said when Barclays sold PPI to Mr S. Theres no record  to show me what, if anything,  it 
told Mr S about the PPI. And Barclays hasnt been able to give me a copy  of the completed 
demands and needs  questionnaire  it says wouldve been filled out during  the meeting - just 
a blank sample of one.
Mr S said that it wasnt explained  that PPI was optional  and if he opted for PPI it was by 
accident. In particular hes told us about his diagnosis of a particular condition which he says 
he drew to Barclays attention at the time. As a result  he says its advisor agreed to read to 
him anything  of relevance from the paperwork before he signed, but didnt  then mention PPI. 
I cant be sure Mr Ss recollection is right, but Ive no reason to doubt what  hes told us so 
I think its fair and reasonable to assume  it probably is. And Barclays  hasnt shown us it did 
anything to take account of his condition. 
As I havent  seen Mr Ss completed  application, I dont know if he did tick to have PPI. And 
even if he did, considering his specific circumstances I dont feel I can fairly and reasonably 
say that Ive seen  enough  information  to be able to find, on balance, that Mr S wouldve 
understood it was entirely up to him to choose  if he wanted  PPI. Or indeed that he made a 
conscious decision to have it. Barclays has said it doesnt think  his particular condition  
wouldve affected his ability  to make an informed decision.  But I dont agree. 
In coming to my decision Ive taken into account  that, as Barclays says, it looks like Mr S 
couldve benefitted from having PPI if hed needed to claim.  I agree that it doesnt  look like 
he had significant  other means he couldve relied  on to pay his credit card bills if he wasnt  
working. But that isnt a reason for me not to uphold  this complaint when I cant find, on 
balance, that Mr S opted to have PPI knowing it was his choice  to make.
Hes mentioned that he didnt want the additional cost of PPI. Based on what  Ive seen and 
been told up to now, I dont think the information  he was given at the time of sale was good 
enough for Mr S to make  an informed decision about his option to have the policy   or not - 
when I take into account his particular  situation. And Ive not been shown clearly that he 
chose to have  it. Because of this Im currently minded to uphold Mr Ss mis-sale complaint. 
Ref: DRN30220073what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr S told us he has no further comments.
Barclays disagrees with my assessment. It mainly says it believes the sample application 
form that Mr S completed illustrates that PPI was presented as a separate and optional 
product and he wouldve had to make  a conscious decision  to accept the cover.  Barclays  
also says that its sales  advisor wouldve understood that it was up to Barclays  to ensure that 
Mr S was properly informed about the PPI. And it says that in view of Mr Ss condition 
particular care woudve  been taken to ensure he was happy and that he understood the 
product hed chosen.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about everything that Barclays has said in response to my provisional 
decision. But it hasnt  told me any new information  that changes  my overall  view.  
After taking carefully into account  everything thats  been said in response to my provisional 
decision, I still think its fair to uphold  this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
putting things right
Barclays should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A. Barclays should find out how much Mr S would  owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Barclays should then refund the difference between what Mr S owes and what  he would 
have owed.
If Mr S made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, Barclays can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B. If  when Barclays works out what Mr S would have owed each month  without PPI  
Mr S paid more than enough  to clear his balance, Barclays should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr S wouldve  owed  Barclays  something  on his credit card.  The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
C. Barclays should tell Mr S what its done to work out A and B.
Ref: DRN30220074If Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  repaid any commission amount  to Mr S that relates to 
this PPI sale, as Im told that it has, that sum can be deducted by Barclays from the redress  
shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Barclays Bank  UK PLC to pay Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3022007