K822xcomplaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with a used car she acquired on a hire purchase agreement  with      
Burnley Savings and Loans Limited (Burnley), as she doesnt think  it was of satisfactory 
quality. Shes also unhappy with information  provided at the point of acquisition,  and how the 
investigation into her complaint  was handled.
Mr M, Mrs Ms husband  has made  most of the submissions here and it seems that he is the 
person who uses the car most regularly. I refer to Mrs M throughout as the car was 
registered in her sole name, as was the hire purchase agreement. 
background 
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 29 January 2019 - a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
I asked both parties to provide any more comments or evidence  before I reconsidered the 
complaint and issued a final decision.
Burnley Savings and Loans Limited replied  saying it accepted my provisional decision and 
had no further  points to add.
Mrs M replied saying  that she was broadly in agreement with my provisional decision, but 
she thinks the fuel receipt for £74 should  be reimbursed. Saying she felt this was fair 
because she did everything  that Burnley asked  of her, including  returning the car to the 
supplying dealership which was 39 miles away from her - which is how she incurred the 
additional fuel cost.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint   and come to the same  overall 
conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision.
Mrs M says she had to take the car back to the supplying dealership which  was 39 miles 
away, when she couldve taken it to a local garage   and then wouldnt  have  incurred the 
additional fuel cost.  But its not unreasonable for Burnley  to ask that the car be returned  to 
the supplying  dealership  for the initial testing and any repairs  they felt should be completed. 
Especially as this was where  Mrs M originally acquired the car from. So in this case I 
wouldnt hold Burnley  liable  for the cost solely on this basis. 
Also the fuel receipt  of £74 was dated March 2018, and based on the receipt date the car 
was refuelled after it had been  with both the supplying dealership  and the third party garage 
- whom  Mrs M ended up using for repairs on the car. 
Overall I still havent seen enough  to say that it was the supplying dealership that used  the 
fuel, and therefore I cant  fairly hold Burnley liable for it. So Im not asking  Burnley to refund 
the fuel cost of £74.
Ref: DRN39927642my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
To put things right Burnley Savings and Loans  Limited should:
pay Mrs M £200 in reimbursement of the third party garage invoice, and add 8% 
simple yearly interest calculated from 10 April 2018  (the date the invoice was paid) to 
the date of settlement*;
pay Mrs M £25 in reimbursement  of late charges on her settled loan (if theyve not 
already paid it to Mrs M), and add 8% simple yearly interest  calculated from              
4 January 2018 to the date of settlement*;
pay Mrs M £100 in reimbursement of the transporter cost, and add 8% simple  yearly 
interest calculated from 3 February 2018  (date the car left the supplying  dealership) 
to the date of settlement*;
pay Mrs M £435 being compensation for her loss of use of the car;
but Burnley  can deduct the £74 the investigator recommended,  if theyve  already  
paid the £74 to Mrs M.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Burnley  Savings  and Loans Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Burnley Savings and Loans Limited must give Mrs M a certificate showing how 
much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39927643copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mrs M is unhappy  with a used car she acquired on a hire purchase agreement  with Burnley
Savings and Loans Limited (Burnley), as she doesnt think it was of satisfactory quality.
Shes also unhappy with information  provided at the point of acquisition,  and how the 
investigation into her complaint  was handled.
Mr M, Mrs Ms husband  has made  most of the submissions here and it seems that he is the 
person who uses the car most regularly. I refer to Mrs M throughout as the car was 
registered in her sole name, as was the hire purchase agreement. And although  Mr M has 
complained about some  impact on him, for reasons Ill explain  below,  that isnt something I 
can fairly hold Burnley liable for.
background
Mrs M acquired  a used car in December 2017  on a hire purchase agreement. The car was 
first registered in 2011, and the total price of the car was £5,999 excluding any finance 
charges, interest  or fees. The advert  for the car noted the mileage as 74,000 miles.
Mrs M says she started to have problems with the car shortly  after taking possession,
including:
the horn wasnt loud enough
the seat belt didnt retract  quickly  enough
there was a possible gearbox  fault
there was pitting on chrome door trims
the jack and wheel brace were missing from the vehicle
She raised  these concerns with the supplying dealership and returned  the car to be repaired.
The dealership says they checked the horn and didnt identify a problem with it, but they 
arranged for the seat belt to be removed, cleaned and refitted. They  also had a full genuine 
manufacturers gearbox service carried out. And they say when they contacted the 
manufacturer, they were told this model of vehicle wasnt issued with a jack and wheel brace  
 but they provided these items to Mrs M as a courtesy.
Mrs M wasnt happy and raised a complaint  with the dealership and Burnley saying:
the dealership  told them they had put 12 months road tax on the car and that the V5
log book was with the DVLA  neither of which  happened
that a previous car loan being  refinanced as part of the hire purchase  agreement was
settled late costing them more money
that the vehicle had a number of faults  (as listed above),  and
when she raised her concerns with the dealership she received a mouth full of abuse
and threats
Ref: DRN39927644After getting in touch  with the dealership and the broker,  Burnley responded to Mrs M and 
issued their final response on the complaint.  In it Burnley  said that the dealership  doesnt sell 
cars with road tax included. That the dealership had asked Mrs M to sign the V5 document  
and sent it to the DVLA. Also that the V5c/2  was given to Mrs M at the point of financing,  and 
that theyd asked her if shed like to tax the car using their DVLA system  but that she 
declined. The dealership acknowledged the settlement funds were sent to the other  lender  
late and that they would refund Mrs M for any late payment charges shed incurred.  And that 
while the dealership confirmed that the conversation  got heated,  that no threats or foul 
language were used.
Burnley also said they believed the dealership had repaired  all faults  reported  with the car, 
and that they were  unable to assist further  with regards to the V5 and tax issues.
Mrs M wasnt satisfied  with the response from Burnley and brought  a complaint to our 
service. Shes added an additional complaint point  that she wasnt happy  that Burnley had 
asked the broker  involved with the initial financing to look into the complaint. Mrs M says she 
felt the broker was biased and that Burnley shouldve used an independent  party to look into 
the complaint.
An investigator looked into Mrs Ms concerns, and partially upheld the complaint. The 
investigator recommended that Burnley should  reimburse Mrs M for a £74 fuel receipt, and 
£25 for the additional charge she incurred due to the refinanced loan being repaid late. They  
didnt uphold  the complaint on the other issues saying  the faults were more  likely due to 
wear and tear, and that Mrs M wouldve had to pay for the road tax herself.  The investigator 
explained they thought  it was likely that the dealership had sent the V5 to the DVLA, and 
couldnt be held responsible if it wasnt received by the DVLA. And that Burnley werent 
required to get an independent party to look into the complaint on their behalf.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators recommendation  and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the case.
Following the investigator providing their answer to Mrs M, shes  raised a new point that 
hasnt been addressed previously. Being that they purchased another  car to allow Mr M to 
get to and from work while  the hire purchase car was in for repairs at the supplying 
dealership. And Mrs M has asked to be reimbursed for this cost.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At this stage Im minded  to uphold the complaint in part, and Id like to explain why.
the car tax and the V5c certificate
There is disagreement between Mrs M and the supplying dealership, about what  was said at 
the point of acquisition regarding the road tax. And we dont have  anything  definitive which 
shows what was discussed.  Because of this, Ive based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities - in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened.
Ref: DRN39927645Looking at the advertisement for the car, I havent  seen anything  that suggests  the vehicle 
comes with road tax paid for by the dealership. But it does set out what  the indicative cost 
will be if taxing  the car for 6 months  or 12 months.  Ive also taken into account that the 
governments website  says cars are not sold with tax  it says when you buy a vehicle, the 
tax or SORN doesnt come with it. Youll  need  to get new vehicle tax before using the 
vehicle.
Having considered all of this, I think there couldve been a misunderstanding  when  the tax 
was discussed.  But I think its unlikely the dealership wouldve told Mrs M that the car came 
with prepaid road tax. So I wont be asking Burnley to cover  this cost.
Mrs M also says she was told the V5 was with the DVLA, but found out the DVLA  didnt have 
it. The dealership  says they forwarded  the V5 to the DVLA, and I havent seen anything to 
suggest this isnt the case. It may well be that the V5 has become lost in the post, but that 
isnt something I would hold Burnley responsible for. So I wont be asking them  to refund   
Mrs M for any costs she paid in getting  a replacement V5.
settlement of the refinanced loan
Burnley have already agreed that theyll refund any late payment  charges Mrs M incurred 
due to the late settlement of the refinanced  loan.  Mrs M has told us she was charged £25, 
which doesnt sound unreasonable. So Im recommending Burnley  reimburse Mrs M for this 
based on their existing offer.
the quality of the car Mrs M financed
Legislation says that goods should  be of satisfactory quality. Part of this is what  a 
reasonable person  would expect taking into account all of the relevant circumstances, 
including the mileage,  age and the price  paid for the car. With a used car I also need to 
consider whether a fault is caused  by reasonably expected wear and tear, or whether the 
fault was due to an inherent defect that was present at the point of sale.
Its not entirely clear  what the mileage was when  Mrs M took possession  of the car. The 
advert for the car states the mileage  was 74,000  but isnt dated. Burnley have given us a 
copy of the invoice, which shows the car ownership  transferring from the dealership  to them. 
This is dated  December  2017, and lists the mileage as 75,000. But the mileage was later 
recorded in January 2018 as 74,976 - when  it was in for repairs  with the dealership.
In thinking about whether the issues with the car were due to wear and tear, Ive had to 
consider what mileage Mrs M has done  in the car  and what wear that wouldve put on the
parts.
Having looked  at everything I think  its likely Mrs M did less than 50 miles between  the time 
she took possession  of the car, and when  she returned  it to the dealership.  So Im not 
persuaded shes done enough mileage for the issues to have been caused  by wear and  
tear, while in her possession.
But I also have to take into account that this is a used car, which had already done around 
74,000 miles  prior to Mrs M financing it. So Ive gone  on to consider whether  I think  the 
issues with the car were  due to an inherent defect present at the point of sale,  or if they were 
simply wear  and tear that would be expected of a car of this age and mileage.
Ref: DRN39927646When Mrs M raised concerns  in January 2018,  the dealership allowed her to return the car 
so they could do an investigation. Following  the investigation the dealership told Mrs M they 
couldnt find any faults with the horn  but I can see the dealership  says they checked  the 
horn for volume by comparing the sound to an identical car in stock.  The dealership also 
arranged for the seat belt to be removed, cleaned and refitted.
The invoice from the third party garage  includes work and repairs including: the horn 
rewired, and removal and fitting a new right-hand front seat belt. The work  done by the third 
party garage suggests that the initial repairs or work  undertaken by the dealership didnt 
adequately address or fix the problems with the horn and the seat belt. And the third party  
garage has told us that the horn and the seat belt faults were  safety  issues.  But I can also 
see that the car passed an MOT shortly before Mrs M financed  it.
Having considered everything, I think its more likely than not that the issues with the horn 
and seat belt were present in the car when  Mrs M financed  it. They  might be things that wear 
out or need replacing in a car of this age and mileage. But they are both safety issues  and 
are not things that should be defective  when a car is sold.  The faults appeared immediately 
after sale and with only approx. 50 miles completed, so Im persuaded they werent  wear  and 
tear caused  by Mrs M. Because of this I dont  think the car was of satisfactory quality  when 
supplied to Mrs M. While  I appreciate that the dealership has tried to address these two 
issues, Im not persuaded they satisfactorily  fixed these problems  based on the work done 
by the third party garage.
So Im recommending Burnley pay £200  towards  the invoice from the third party garage.  
This includes the cost of the parts for the seat belt replacement,  as well as a portion of the 
labour cost and VAT.
additional problems  with the car
Mrs M also raised concerns about the gear box, and pitting to the chrome  trim. But the third 
party garage was unable to find a fault with the gearbox, following the servicing done by the 
dealership. And Id expect a used car to have  some signs of wear  and tear, like pitting to the 
chrome trim. I also think its reasonable to expect any cosmetic issues,  such  as the chrome 
trim, to be inspected before any decision is made to buy the car. So I wont be asking  
Burnley to do anything  further with regards  to these two issues.
I can see from the invoice  that the third party garage replaced the front and rear brake discs 
and pads. But, I cant see that Mrs M raised any concerns with the dealership or Burnley 
about the brakes. And I havent seen enough  to suggest these were a defect  at the point of 
sale. I understand that Mrs M mayve wanted to replace them  for her own piece of mind, but 
this wouldnt be enough for me to ask Burnley  to cover this cost. Which is also why I havent  
awarded Mrs M the full cost of the invoice from the third party garage.
compensation and out of pocket expenses
Mrs M has raised concerns  about being  unable  to use the car for more than three months,  
while it was in for repairs.
From what  Ive seen the car was returned to the dealership early January 2018,  and then 
transported to the third party garage early  February 2018. So Im satisfied that Mrs M was 
without the car during this time.
Ref: DRN39927647But the invoice  from the third party  garage is dated  late March 2018, and it appears  it wasnt  
paid until nearly  three  weeks  later in April 2018.  On that basis  I dont think  its reasonable to 
ask Burnley to pay for loss of use of the car over the entire time  if the car couldve been 
fixed and collected  sooner. So Im recommending Burnley  refund Mrs M £435 which is 
approximately two months payments on the hire purchase agreement.
Mrs M has also told us she paid £100 cash for a transporter to move the car between the 
supplying dealership and the third party garage. Shes said that was because  the car didnt 
have road tax on it, so she didnt  want to drive it. Also that she doesnt have a receipt  for the 
transport of the car as she paid cash.  In the circumstances I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for Mrs M to use a car transporter. I appreciate that Mrs M couldve paid to tax the car, but 
she also had concerns about  faults with the horn and the seat belt  and shes told us that 
because of these  she was concerned about  the safety of the car. I dont think the £100  cost 
is unreasonable and I think Burnley should reimburse Mrs M for this.
Mrs M has also asked  for Burnley to cover  the cost of refilling  the car, saying that it had a full 
tank when it was provided to the dealership for repairs. But that it was empty when it was 
returned to her. The receipt shes provided for fuel is just over £70 and is dated  March 2018.
Based on the date of this receipt,  the car was refuelled after it had been with both the 
dealership, and the third party garage. As such  I cant  fairly conclude that the fuel was used 
by the dealership. So I wont be asking  Burnley to cover this cost.
the cost of an interim  car replacement
Mrs M has provided an invoice for the purchase  of a separate  car for £450  dated                 
17 January 2018.  She says they had to get this car to enable Mr M to get to and from work 
while the car was in for repairs. And that theyre going to scrap the car now and have been 
quoted £100 scrappage. This means  shell be out of pocket £350.
As the car was financed by Mrs M solely, I need  to consider what the impact has been on 
Mrs M. I cant fairly  hold Burnley responsible for the impact on Mr M who in this case  isnt 
party to the hire purchase agreement. But I have considered how Mrs M wouldve been 
impacted by the household not having  a car that they relied on.
While I appreciate that Mrs M was without  the use of the car for a period of time, I also have 
to take into account  that she wouldve had to pay something to remain  mobile. And Ive 
already awarded  a refund of two months of payments on the finance agreement, which  is 
more than the out-of-pocket  cost to her of getting  the second car. So I dont think it would be 
fair to also ask Burnley  to also pay the £350.
the handling of her complaint (how  the dealership talked to her and who Burnley got to look 
into the complaint)
I understand that Mrs M is unhappy that Burnley asked the broker  who was involved in the 
car financing  to investigate her complaint.  She says she felt the broker  wasnt independent 
or unbiased.
Having looked  at what Burnley sent us in responding to the complaint, I havent seen 
anything that suggests bias. Theyve  provided all the information that weve  requested, and 
that we need in order to look into Mrs Ms complaint. And I wouldnt consider it unusual for 
Burnley to have  asked the broker to look into the complaint on their behalf.  So I dont think  it 
was unreasonable for Burnley to do this.
Ref: DRN39927648Mrs M has also told us that shes unhappy  with how a staff member at the dealership spoke 
to her. But this relates to the level of customer service Mrs M received from the dealership,  
and isnt something that I would hold Burnley responsible for.
In summary,  Im persuaded  that there  were  faults with the horn and seat belt on the car 
when Mrs M took possession of it  making the car of unsatisfactory  quality. And I dont think  
the repair work done by the dealership adequately fixed these two issues - which  resulted in 
Mrs M being  without the use of the car for a period  of time.
to put things right
To put things right Burnley Savings and Loans  Limited should:
pay Mrs M £200 in reimbursement of the third party garage invoice, and add 8% 
simple yearly interest calculated from 10 April 2018  (the date the invoice was paid) to 
the date of settlement*;
pay Mrs M £25 in reimbursement  of late charges on their settled loan (if theyve not 
already paid it to Mrs M), and add 8% simple yearly interest  calculated from 4 
January 2018  to the date of settlement*;
pay Mrs M £100 in reimbursement of the transporter cost, and add 8% simple  yearly 
interest calculated from 3 February 2018  (date the car left the supplying  dealership) 
to the date of settlement*;
pay Mrs M £435 being compensation for their loss of use of the car;
but Burnley  can deduct the £74 the investigator recommended,  if theyve  already  
paid the £74 to Mrs M.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Burnley  Savings  and Loans Limited to take off tax from 
this interest. Burnley Savings and Loans Limited must give Mrs M a certificate showing how 
much tax theyve taken off if she asks for one.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I plan to uphold this complaint, unless I get any new 
information that makes  a difference from Mrs M or Burnley Savings and Loans Limited  by 
the date set out at the beginning of this decision.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3992764