K820x#14complaint
Mrs K has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont  refund disputed 
cash withdrawals made  from her account.  
what happened
On 20 September  2017, Mrs K ordered  a new debit card. It was sent on 22 September  2017 
by first-class post.
Between 23:55 on 24 September 2017,  and 00:00  on 25 September  2017, Mrs Ks new card 
was used to withdraw  £600.
Mrs K says she didnt receive  the card until the evening of 25 September 2017.  She said it 
didnt look like the envelope had been  opened or tampered with and the card was even 
glued to the letter as one would expect.
Mrs K says the only people living at the property were her and her young  child, no one else 
had access, and she didnt have any visitors  at that time. She says her mail was secure,  
private, and not shared, being  received  behind  her locked front door. She says she didnt 
make the withdrawals or give anyone else permission to make them, didnt give her card or 
PIN to anyone,  and didnt write down her PIN anywhere.
Barclays didnt refund the withdrawals because they thought it was most likely  Mrs K had 
authorised them. So Mrs K came to our service.
Our investigator looked into things and also thought Barclays didnt have  to refund the 
withdrawals. He explained the genuine  card and PIN had been used but there  didnt seem  to 
be a likely way that someone could have  taken and given back the card, or guessed the PIN, 
without Mrs Ks consent. He pointed  out that the fraudster had not used the full withdrawal 
limit and questioned why they would stop taking money out when funds were still available,  
then go to the trouble of re-sealing the card and returning it to Mrs K. He thought  it was more 
likely that the withdrawals were made with Mrs Ks permission.
Mrs K disagreed with the investigator, saying there wasnt enough proof that it wasnt 
someone else. She said she wanted  to see CCTV footage. The complaints been passed to 
me to decide.
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as our investigator, and for much the 
same reasons.
Broadly, Halifax can hold Mrs K liable for the withdrawals in dispute if the evidence suggests 
that its most  likely  she made  them herself  or authorised someone  else to make  them  for her.
Ref: DRN37628742Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that the person  making  the withdrawals used 
Mrs Ks genuine card,  and the correct  PIN. This is not enough, on its own, for Halifax  to hold 
her liable. So I also need to think about  whether  the evidence suggests that its most likely 
Mrs K consented to the withdrawals, or not.
Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I dont think  
its unreasonable for Halifax to conclude that Mrs K authorised the withdrawals. Ill explain 
why.
As I said above, Im satisfied that the withdrawals were made using Mrs Ks genuine card,  
and not a cloned card. Mrs K says she received the card and it didnt  look like the envelope 
was opened or tampered with. She explained  her mail was delivered securely through her 
own door, and no one else had access to it. She sent us pictures  of her letterbox to verify  
this. But with all that in mind, it seems  very unlikely that someone wouldve known to 
intercept the particular  envelope with the card in it, and that they wouldve been able to get it 
without having  access to Mrs Ks property,  and that they wouldve then been able to re-seal 
it and return it to her without Mrs K noticing anything was wrong. So it doesnt seem  likely 
that someone unknown to Mrs K was able to take the card without her permission.
The card was sent by first-class  post, so its plausible that it arrived at Mrs Ks address in 
time for the disputed withdrawals, rather than afterwards.
Im also satisfied that the withdrawals were made using Mrs Ks genuine PIN. Mrs K says 
she didnt have the PIN written down anywhere  and didnt give it to anyone. Mrs K had not 
used this card before  the disputed withdrawals,  so no one couldve seen her entering it and 
then taken the card. Mrs K had used the same  PIN before, but with a different card, and not 
since the previous  week. And its unlikely someone  overlooked her entering that PIN, then 
waited quite some time to take a replacement  card, not even knowing one had been ordered  
or when  it would arrive.  Halifax did not send a PIN reminder with the new card,  and the card 
didnt come with the PIN written down.  Lastly,  its very unlikely that someone  was able to 
guess her PIN on the first try. So there doesnt seem to be a likely way that someone 
learned Mrs Ks PIN without her permission.
The person  making  the withdrawals did not use the full withdrawal limit, or try to use the card 
for other types of payments, or try to use it again at all after this incident. And Mrs K had the 
card in her possession when she reported the withdrawals. It seems unlikely that a fraudster 
would withdraw  less money  than they could,  and then go to the trouble of giving the card 
back.
The person  who made  the withdrawals did not check the balance before withdrawing  quite a 
substantial amount. This indicates that they may have known the money would be available  
without having  to check, which tends  to imply this was someone who knew  Mrs Ks finances.
Ref: DRN37628743Ive also considered whether someone close to Mrs K was able to intercept her card,  use it, 
and then deliver it to her later.  But she only lived with her young child, and the only other 
people with access to the property were  the property owner and their repair staff  and it 
doesnt seem they were  there that weekend. Mrs K wasnt able to recall having  any other 
visitors staying that weekend. And while its possible that the person who delivers  her mail 
took the card, or accidentally posted it to a neighbour,  I dont  see how either of those  people  
wouldve known her PIN given everything  I said above. Further, Mrs K said she could 
strongly confirm that she didnt use her card in front of people she knew, hadnt let anyone 
have her PIN, and that she didnt think anyone close to her was able to see her enter it 
before. So it doesnt seem  plausible that this was done by someone Mrs K knew.
Since Im satisfied that Mrs Ks genuine  card and PIN were used, this only leaves one likely 
possibility  which is that Mrs K made the withdrawals herself  or gave  someone  else 
permission to make them.  This is not an easy message for me to give,  and will certainly not 
be easy for Mrs K to receive. But given the evidence I have, I dont  think  I can reasonably 
reach any other conclusion here.
Lastly, I do understand why Mrs K would like to see CCTV  footage. But even if the footage 
were still available  two years later, it wouldve been  unlikely to be helpful in this case. CCTV 
would only show what the person  making the withdrawals  looked like. It would not show 
whether they had been given permission by Mrs K or not. And as I explained above, based 
on the evidence,  it seems very unlikely that someone would have been able to take Mrs Ks 
card, use it with her PIN, and give it back to her in the sealed envelope, all without her 
permission.
So based  on everything Ive seen, I think its fair for Halifax to refuse  a refund here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs K to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2020. 
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3762874