K821x#15Complaint
Mrs K complains that MBNA Limited  waited  too long before defaulting her credit card. 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions are set out in my provisional 
decision  a copy of which  is attached  and forms part of this final decision.  
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought Mrs Ks complaint should be upheld. I 
said MBNA had waited too long to default  Mrs Ks credit card and that it should back date 
the default to February 2016.  I invited  Mrs K and MBNA to provide  additional  comments  or 
information they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mrs K didnt make any new points. MBNA responded to say it didnt agree with my 
provisional decision. MBNA said the information it obtained from the debt advice service 
indicated Mrs K could maintain her payments. MBNA pointed out the £188.97  payment  it 
agreed to accept was more than the normal monthly payment while Mrs Ks account  was 
subject to a 0% promotional interest rate. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also thought  carefully about the 
points MBNA has made in response to my provisional decision.  
MBNA said it only received information  from the debt advice service, not Mrs K directly. 
MBNA said the information  provided meant it couldnt contact Mrs K directly to discuss  the 
situation. But MBNA did write to Mrs K about the arrangement. If MBNA  was unwilling to 
contact Mrs K directly to check on her circumstances, it could have asked the debt advice 
service instead. 
MBNA says Mrs Ks payment offer was actually more  than the minimum payment required in 
November 2015  as the 0% promotional rate was still in place. MBNA says that it doesnt  
consider Mrs K was in arrears until May 2016, when interest would  have become payable.  
But thats not what MBNA told Mrs K and not what it confirmed in the correspondence it sent. 
In addition, the statements show Mrs K was in arrears from November 2015.
The statements  show  Mrs K made a token payment of £10 in November  2015.  The 
statement says the minimum payment required  the following month was £591.51. Im 
satisfied that Mrs Ks credit card payments werent made in full in November 2015 and that 
her account  was in arrears from that point. 
I appreciate Mrs K was making payments of £188.97 from November 2015, but the 
information Ive seen shows that wasnt sustainable. MBNA says the debt advice service 
sent information that showed Mrs K had a surplus household income of £867. But the 
information the debt advice service  provided  also gave details of Mrs Ks unsecured  debts.
Whilst there was a £867 surplus household income  after normal  living expenses were  taken 
care of, the unsecured debts Mrs K (and her partner) had meant that figure  was taken up by 
repayments. Mrs Ks unsecured debt repayments, in addition  to her household expenses, 
meant the £188.97  payment arrangement wasnt sustainable. I think  thats  reflected by the 
Ref: DRN31486252fact Mrs K wasnt  ultimately able to maintain the agreed payment and the account  defaulted.  
I remain of the view that it was reasonably clear at an earlier  point that Mrs K wouldnt be 
able to maintain  the payment arrangement  or afford to clear the arrears and debt. 
In my provisional decision,  I said MBNA  should  have taken  the step of applying  the default  
when it became reasonably clear its relationship with Mrs K had broken down. I dont  think  
MBNA achieved anything by waiting until November  2016. I remain of the view that the 
industry guidance provides some flexibility and MBNA could  have applied  the default  after 
Mrs K was in arrears for three  months.  I still think the fairest  point that it could reasonably  
have been considered the relationship had broken down was around  three  months after 
Mrs Ks account went into arrears and MBNA had received  information  from the debt advice 
service. That is February 2016 and I still think thats the fairest  point to record the default 
date. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  MBNA Limited to amend the default 
date for Mrs Ks credit  card to February  2016.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN31486253Copy of the provisional decision
Complaint
Mrs K complains that MBNA Limited  waited  too long before defaulting her credit card. 
Background
Mrs K had an MBNA credit  card as well as various  other debts. In November  2015  a debt 
advice charity contacted  MBNA on Mrs Ks behalf  to let it know  she was experiencing 
financial difficulties and couldnt afford  to maintain her payments. The third party  offered 
reduced payments  towards her credit  card debt, but they werent enough to cover  her 
minimum payment. 
MBNA confirmed interest and charges  would be stopped and that Mrs Ks credit  card debt 
may still be defaulted as her payments  werent enough to stop the arrears on her account 
increasing. MBNA took the step of applying the default at the end of November 2016. 
In 2018 Mrs K complained to MBNA because of the amount of time it had taken  to default 
her account.  Mrs K says her other  creditors defaulted her accounts  around the time were 
contacted by the debt advice charity. MBNA responded but didnt agree it had made a 
mistake as its policy is to default an account  once its a full six months in arrears.  Because  
Mrs K was making reduced payments it took around a year for her account  to reach that 
stage. 
Mrs K referred her complaint to this service and an adjudicator looked at it. The adjudicator 
thought MBNA had waited too long before  applying  the default  and asked  it to amend the 
date to November  2015  the date the debt advice charity notified  it of Mrs Ks financial 
difficulties. MBNA didnt agree and said it had acted  in line with its process and industry 
guidance. As MBNA didnt agree the complaints  been passed to me to make a decision. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I can see that MBNA has a policy that it wont default an account  until it reaches a full six 
months in arrears. In this case, the fact Mrs K was making payments of roughly half the 
minimum amount meant it took about  a year for her the default to be applied. Whilst MBNA 
is free to decide  how to treat customers in arrears, I think  Mrs Ks position has been made 
worse by the approach its taken in her case.  
Mrs K says MBNA should  have known she wasnt in a position to start making her minimum 
payments again  after it was contacted by the debt advice charity. I think  thats a reasonable 
point. The information  provided by the third party shows that the majority Mrs Ks income 
was taken up by paying back debts she owed.  I think  its clear that unless something 
significant changed for Mrs K it was very likely  that a default would be applied to her credit 
card. 
MBNA says that it doesnt default an account  before its a full six months in arrears  to allow 
time for customers to address their arrears. And in lots of cases I can see thats a fair 
approach. But I think  it was reasonably clear that Mrs K wasnt in that situation. MBNA  
Ref: DRN31486254should have realised her account would most likely  default. At that point, MBNA should have 
considered how the timing  of the default  would impact Mrs K. 
The industry guidance says lenders will generally  consider applying a default  when an 
account is somewhere between three  and six months in arrears.  The guidance provides 
businesses with some  flexibility to decide  when  its most suitable  to apply the default. And 
the purpose of a default is to show the relationship between  borrower  and lender has broken 
down. I think MBNA  should have  taken the step of applying the default when it became 
reasonably clear its relationship with Mrs K had broken down. I dont  think  MBNA achieved  
anything by waiting  until November 2016.  
The adjudicator recommended that MBNA amend  the default  date to November 2015.  But I 
wouldnt expect MBNA  to have taken  the step of immediately defaulting Mrs Ks credit card 
after the debt charity got in touch. I think a period of around three months  from receiving the 
information from the debt advice charity  would have been more  reasonable. That would have 
given Mrs K enough time to look at her options  and tell MBNA about any alternatives she 
found. And whilst  I accept that wouldnt have put Mrs Ks account behind  by a full three 
payments, she would have been  in arrears for three months. Again, Im satisfied the industry 
guidance allows some  flexibility in its interpretation.  
Mrs K says that shes been  unfairly  impacted by MBNAs decision to wait 12 months to 
default her credit card as that information  will remain on her credit file longer.  She says the 
result of that delay is that it will make  it harder for her to get credit in the future. I agree and 
think its likely the delay  will impact the point at which Mrs K is able to secure credit again. 
Having considered everything  supplied by both parties, I intend to tell MBNA to amend 
Mrs Ks credit  file to show  the default  being  applied in February 2016  three  months after 
the third party  got in touch in November 2015. 
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold this complaint and tell MBNA Limited  to 
amend the default date for Mrs Ks credit card to February 2016.
Mrs K and MBNA Limited have until 25 July 2019 to send me anything further theyd like me 
to consider before I make my final decision.  
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3148625