K820x#14Complaint
Mrs R says West Bromwich Building  Society  mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy for a mortgage.
Background
Mrs R took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1991. Mrs R paid for the PPI with a regular  
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered her in case she was off work sick 
or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Rs case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mrs R, I have not found that this policy was mis-sold  Ill 
explain why.
This sale was almost three decades ago, and the account has long since closed, so its 
understandable that neither side have the documents  from the time. Indeed, under data 
protection rules  West Bromwich were required to dispose of Mrs Rs data rather than hold 
onto it for too long.  Mrs R doesnt remember buying  PPI, but I think  thats understandable 
too, given just how long ago the sale was, and since buying  insurance is not often  
memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have happened.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for West Bromwich to have added the policy without 
Mrs Rs permission, or to have misled her into thinking it was compulsory. But I have no 
evidence which shows thats what West Bromwich did here.  Nor have I seen any wider 
problems with their sales  process from the time, or any evidence  that they were  regularly 
misleading customers in these sales. And this sale was too long ago for me to reasonably  
expect West Bromwich to be able to produce  evidence to defend themselves now. So I dont 
think I have a fair basis on which to conclude they misled Mrs R or added  PPI without her 
knowing. I think its more  likely that they followed a relatively normal  sales  process, gave 
Mrs R a choice, and that she chose PPI at the time  though I can certainly understand if 
she no longer remembers  doing so after so many years.
From what  both sides have told me, West Bromwich  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R, 
which means they didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. They did have to give Mrs R 
clear information about the PPI.
Its possible that the information West Bromwich  gave Mrs R about PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind.  Here, it looks like Mrs R was eligible for cover and wasnt affected  by any 
of its main exclusions or limitations.  
Ref: DRN36734742While Mrs R said she had good benefits through work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of 
those and offered  her more comprehensive  cover   especially for any periods where her 
benefits reduced to just a fraction  of her pay. Mrs R also may have had some savings and 
shares, though  its unclear how much these  were at the time  she was understandably only 
able to give us evidence for some years after the sale. In any case, the PPI meant Mrs R 
could effectively protect those savings  and use them for other things, rather than having  to 
sacrifice one asset to help pay another if she fell on difficult times. Further, the mortgage 
wouldve normally been a significant, long-term commitment, and there  was no guarantee 
Mrs R would still have the same savings or work  benefits in the years to come.  Its also 
worth bearing in mind  that this mortgage  was Mrs Rs sole responsibility, and if she fell 
behind on it she couldve lost her home.  Taking  everything together, it doesnt seem  
unreasonable for her to have  taken  insurance.  The PPI couldve been  useful  for Mrs R in 
protecting her home and giving  some  peace of mind.
The policy was competitively priced  given  how much it would pay out in a claim, and Ive not 
seen any indication it was unaffordable.  It was flexible and could be adjusted to cover more  
for a higher  premium, or to cover less if Mrs R wanted to pay less for it. And it was paid on a 
rolling monthly basis, so Mrs R could cancel  it at any time without a penalty. So overall, while  
I do understand Mrs Rs points, I dont think that better information was likely  to have put her 
off taking out the cover.
My final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 August 2019.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3673474