K820x#14complaint
Ms K is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited has declined a claim she made  on her travel  
insurance policy.
All references to Aviva  include any agents it has appointed to handle claims and/or 
complaints on its behalf
background
Ms K purchased a worldwide, single  trip travel  insurance policy with Aviva  that covered  
approximately four months  towards  the end of 2018.  Ms K was taking the trip for the 
purposes of business  and leisure.  
While overseas, Ms K had what she now describes as a routine  monthly  scan. Some 
suspicious masses were  identified, and Ms K was advised to have a second,  separate scan 
to investigate further. Ms K contacted Aviva the day after the masses were  discovered to 
make a claim under the policy and Aviva  started its investigation into the claim.
While Aviva was considering the claim,  Ms K continued her trip to another country and 
arranged to have  the second  investigative scan there. The doctor recommended the masses 
should be removed  urgently. Ms K arranged her own travel back  to the UK and the surgery 
she required  was carried out within a few weeks of her return
Because the masses were discovered while travelling abroad, Ms K felt the second scan, 
and any treatment related  to this, should  be covered under the policy  as well as any loss of 
income. Aviva declined Ms Ks claim. It felt she had travelled  with the intention of receiving 
medical treatment abroad and any condition arising  from such  wasnt covered. And, in any 
event, the policy didnt provide cover for lost income.
I issued a provisional decision last month setting out why I thought  Aviva  had fairly  declined 
the claim,  didnt cause  any unreasonably  delays or otherwise treated Ms K unfairly.  I have 
summarised my findings below.
Ms Ks policy was designed  to cover, amongst other  things, unexpected illness or accidents 
that might  occur  during her trip. But it also set out that there was no cover  for claims arising 
directly or indirectly from Travelling with the intention of seeking medical treatment or 
advice. Ms K said she had planned  to return to the UK to have the scan,  but her trip was 
unexpectedly extended. So, because the scan needed to be performed at a certain  point in 
her menstrual cycle, she had to have  it done  while overseas. She said none  of those 
circumstances couldve been foreseen, so she couldnt have intended  to have the treatment 
while she was abroad. So I considered what shed said about her plans  while abroad and 
also her intention to have the routine  scan in the UK and what the evidence  showed, in order  
to decide if the claim should be paid. 
I accepted there may have been  some uncertainty about exactly  what Ms K planned  to do 
during her trip and some of the related variables mightve been beyond her control   
especially given the trip involved elements of her work. But, on balance, I thought Ms K knew 
it was likely she would be away for several months.  I said that because:
Ms K said she expected to attend  an event  while she was travelling, the date of which 
changed after she started the trip. But I didnt think shed  shown that was the case. The 
Ref: DRN38399172evidence she provided showed the event was originally due to take place on 3 August 
but, on 12 August,  it was rescheduled to 20 November. Ms K didnt take out the policy or 
begin her trip until 24 August  after she knew the event had been  moved  to November. 
And the scan that led to the discovery of the masses took place on 15 October, over a 
month before the rescheduled date.
Ms Ks policy covered her until 25 December and, when she started her trip, she hadnt 
bought a return flight home to the UK or booked her scan. So I didnt think there  was any 
indication of when  exactly she was planning on returning, or that she knew  from the 
outset when exactly she planned  to return.  
Ms K had also asked  Aviva to cover the income she lost as a result  of not being able to 
return overseas following  the second  scan in November. I thought that further suggested  
she had work commitments overseas and had planned to continue her trip  for business  
and pleasure  for several months. In addition, the policy  Ms K bought provided cover for 
four months. It seemed  unlikely she wouldve  bought  cover  for such a specific period (as 
opposed to just buying an annual  policy) if she didnt have a reasonable expectation  the 
trip might go on for this amount of time.
I didnt think it automatically  followed that Ms K intended to have  medical treatment abroad.  
She visited a number of countries and may well have intended to return  to the UK during that 
time. So, I also considered the medical  evidence  and the purpose  of the examination  that led 
to the discovery  of the abnormal masses.
Ms Ks private fertility investigations  and the first scan, which  led to the discovery of the 
masses, werent being claimed  for so werent  the subject of the complaint. But I thought  they 
had some relevance when considering whether or not she intended to have treatment  
aboard when she started  her trip. I said:
In August 2018, Ms Ks doctor  in the UK referred  her to a consultant gynaecologist in the 
UK and confirmed she had undergone investigations while overseas for infertility, 
including getting her hormone  levels checked. The doctor also confirmed Ms K lived 
between the UK and the country  where  she ended up having the scan. And Ms K said 
she had been  unable to get an appointment with the consultant  before she started her 
trip. 
Ms K said she would never have had fertility treatment in the country  where send ended 
up having the scan because its so expensive.  She also the scan  she had was routine  
and had to take place  while she was overseas  because it had to be performed  on a 
certain date and her planned return to the UK had been  postponed. But Id already 
concluded that the evidence didnt show she had to be in that country on that particular 
date. And her UK medical notes  show she had already undergone some fertility testing in 
that country.
I didnt think the evidence showed it was just a routine scan.  The medical notes 
indicated Ms Ks appointment with the consultant had been made so she could undergo  
intrauterine insemination (IUI) and it was during that procedure  the masses were  
discovered. I accepted the IUI procedure needed to be performed at a certain point in Ms 
Ks menstrual cycle. But Id seen nothing which suggested she had to have it done that 
particular month,  rather than waiting until she returned to the UK. And Id seen  nothing  
which indicated Ms K had any arrangements with a UK clinic to have such  treatment. In 
fact, as Id already  set out, her UK GP referred  her to a gynaecologist to discuss  her 
Ref: DRN38399173situation, but not specifically for IUI. Also, after she returned to the UK, a private 
consultant gynaecologist  confirmed that she knew of no UK clinic that would treat women 
of Ms Ks age with their own eggs. And I thought that might  have been why she chose to 
have this treatment  overseas  instead.
Ms Ks medical history reflects that she had often  had medical consultations and 
treatment while overseas if she happened  to be travelling when medical attention  was 
required. 
So while I accepted the masses that were discovered during the overseas consultation were 
unexpected. I thought  the need to investigate and operate only became apparent as a result 
of treatment Ms K travelled with the intention of having. Because of this, treatment  related  to 
the masses wasnt covered by the policy and I thought Aviva fairly declined  Ms Ks claim.
Aviva accepted my findings, but Ms K did not. She said, in summary, that:
She hadnt seen  the policy schedule despite repeated  requests for it and she cant  make 
a fair argument without  seeing this document. 
She considers  that the first scan she had was for monitoring purposes and didnt amount 
to medical treatment. The results of the monitoring were going  to be sent back  to her GP 
in the UK for analysis. She had intended  on returning  to the UK for this regular 
monitoring and this couldve  continued when she returned  even if shed missed a scan 
while she was travelling. It cannot be decided  in advance if the time is right to try IUI or 
IVF as everything changes every month. She was advised by her overseas fertility doctor 
to have the scan and try IUI overseas  when the event she had travelled to attend kept 
getting postponed. This advice was given because of her age, her hormone levels could 
change in the next six months and her fathers health was worsening. She had IUI rather 
than IVF as she couldnt afford IVF in that country.
Due to the nature  of her life and work  she never books return  flights. And she decided  to 
continue her travels to other countries rather than staying in the country  where she had 
the first scan. Those trips were already booked, the second scan cost less in those 
countries and she wouldve been able to continue  her travels if no further  medical 
attention was deemed necessary  by the second  scan. So there was no reason to return 
to the UK after the first scan. 
Shes been unable to get any further  evidence about the delayed  event  due to the covid-
19 pandemic lockdown. She had been assured that the event would be fitted  in ahead of 
the date given in the correspondence I had referred to and that is why she stayed in that 
country for so long.  When the event was delayed she undertook  further work in that 
country which she then couldnt finish because she needed  to return  to the UK for the 
operation. So she had to pay someone  else to finish the work and Aviva should pay for 
these extra costs.
Aviva  delayed giving her an answer about  her claim and provided contradictory info. She 
couldnt rely on Aviva to cover  her so had to make her own decisions based on what  was 
medically and financially  best for her at the time,
Ref: DRN38399174my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ms K has made many points in response to my provisional decision.  Ive carefully reviewed 
everything shes said, but as Ive said before,  I wont address all of her points and questions.  
Ill focus on the points that I think are central to the outcome of the complaint. I should  also 
say that Im satisfied Ms K has had ample time to provide her comments, including  evidence 
about the event she says kept being postponed as we asked about this some  time before 
the covid-19 lockdown commenced
Ms K says she hasnt  ever seen the policy terms and conditions  but also says she has an 
electronic copy  presumably that was sent to her when she took out the policy  which she 
can no longer open.  She also says shes asked for a copy  a number of times but I dont 
recall seeing such  a request in our correspondence  with her. And, actually, in one of her 
earliest emails to us she says nowhere in their insurance policy  does it state  which  
suggests to me that she had seen the terms and conditions. In any event, we have now sent 
this document  to Ms K. And I can also assure  her that I read the terms and conditions before 
reaching my provisional decision  and have revisited them  again  now in order  to decide  
whether Aviva fairly  declined her claim.
Ms K says she wanted  to see the terms and conditions to check  some of the things Id said 
in my provisional decision.  But the statements she highlighted were  not extracts  from the 
terms and conditions  they were  my own findings.  
Ms K says she incurred  extra costs  because she had to pay someone  to take over work that 
she couldnt complete  because  she had to return to the UK for the operation.  With that in 
mind, its true to say that the policy provided cover  whether Ms K was travelling  for business 
or personal  reasons. But the policy goes  on to list the incidents and costs it covers  and the 
expenses Ms K describes are not listed. I can see Aviva has already explained this to her 
and Im satisfied this part of her claim was fairly declined.
Despite what Ms K has said, I dont believe Aviva  provided contradictory information about  
whether or not it would pay the claim or took too long, in the circumstances, to give her an 
answer. Ive reviewed all the correspondence Aviva sent as well as the excerpts Ms K 
pointed to in response to my provisional decision. I think  its clear from this that Aviva 
explained that she wasnt covered but, given her difficult situation, was investigating whether 
there was anything further it could do to help. As Ms K now seems to accept, her situation  
wasnt an emergency. And I dont think it was unreasonable of Aviva to take the time it did to 
gather further  information about  Ms Ks situation,  including her medical history.  I consider it 
took prompt action  in this respect.
Ive considered everything Ms K has said about  why she needed to have  the routine scan 
while she was overseas. I still dont think the dates and evidence  she has put forward 
relating to the event show she had to be in the country at that time, rather than returning  to 
the UK for the scan and/or any other treatment. Moreover, shes  said she will always  have 
treatment abroad if she needs it during her travels. And although  she says it wouldve been  
normal practice to have the scan and send the results  back  to the UK for action  when she 
returned, she also suggests she needed to act promptly if conditions looked  right for 
implementation. In fact, she did decide to go ahead with fertility  treatment rather than waiting 
to return to the UK.  
Ref: DRN38399175Nor am I persuaded  by her explanation that her overseas  fertility  doctor  told her to have the 
scan and try IUI overseas  given her age, hormone  levels and because of the postponed 
event. Shes  provided  no evidence to support this. And the notes made by the doctor  who 
performed the IUI said she provided tests results from which  he could see her hormone 
levels were low and she already had sperm  from a cryobank.  I think  this might suggest 
shed already had the hormone test and obtained the sperm before she met with this fertility 
doctor.  He then advised her that there was a very low chance of conception yet Ms K 
asked him to proceed with the IUI.  And it was only then, during the IUI procedure  arguably 
a medical treatment and not just a routine  scan  that the masses  were detected.  
Overall, given everything Ive seen  that its more likely than not Ms K intended  on having 
medical treatment when she travelled. And, as the policy  says:
There is no cover for any claim arising  directly or indirectly from the following 
5. Travelling with the intention of seeking  medical treatment or advice.
For all of the above reasons I am satisfied  Aviva fairly declined  this claim and dealt with it in 
a reasonable manner  and timeframe.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3839917