K820x#14complaint
Mrs A has complained about her contents insurer Gresham Insurance Company Limited 
because it declined her claim made  following a burglary at her home and accused  her of 
fraud. Her policy had been cancelled for non-payment but Gresham  then backdated that to 
the date of the claim, because it said she was in breach of the fraud condition in the policy.
background
In 2017 Mrs A, whilst  not insured, had a theft from her home.  This theft wasnt reported to 
the police. In January 2018  Mrs A took out a policy with Gresham. In February 2018 Mrs A 
was burgled and reported this to the police as well as Gresham.
Some electronic items, with games and accessories  were said to have been stolen, along 
with some jewellery, including a Rolex  watch.  Gresham was happy  with the value 
requested for the electronic items  and was prepared to pay this when its jewellery  
specialist told it of concerns noted about  the jewellery items. Gresham  put the settlement 
on hold and appointed a loss adjuster  to investigate the claim.
The loss adjuster spoke to Mrs A. The adjuster noted discrepancies  with what Mrs A had 
said about various items. Mrs A was asked  to confirm what the actual situation was with 
each item.  A copy of the police  report was requested. Once this was received the adjuster 
wrote to Mrs A setting out all the discrepancies that had been stated in respect  of each of 
the items.  It further  confirmed that Mrs As explanation of the actual situation for each 
didnt answer why shed said different things at different times. The adjuster set out the 
fraud condition on the policy and said that the claim  was being declined.  The letter also 
said Mrs As details would be placed on the fraud  database.
Gresham then wrote to Mrs A and said that as the fraud condition had been breached it 
was backdating  the cancellation  that had taken  place in April 2018 (due to non-payment of 
the policy premium) to the date of the claim in February. It said it wouldnt welcome 
Mrs As custom again  and if she set up any policy with it on-line this would  be invalid.
Mrs A complained and Gresham said it agreed  with the decision made  by its loss adjuster. 
Mrs A complained to us.
Our investigator noted the fraud condition in the policy and that it was up to Mrs A to prove 
her claim. On that basis,  and given the lack of clarity that existed about the claimed for 
items, our investigator felt that Gresham had acted reasonably in declining the claim.
Mrs A was unhappy. The complaint was passed to me to consider. I felt Gresham should 
remove the record of the fraud but I wasnt minded to make  it reconsider the claim.  Gresham  
said it had no issue with my findings. Mrs A didnt reply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I said provisionally:
fraud
Ref: DRN39616532Fraud is defined as an attempt to gain a benefit  that one isnt actually  entitled  to receive. It 
is a serious allegation as an accusation  of fraud can have  serious  consequences. As such  
this service has long held that an insurer,  if alleging  fraud, needs to first be very clear with 
its policyholder about  the reasons it feels a fraud  has occurred and second support such  
an allegation  with strong evidence. In essence  its findings must be robust and persuasive.
From what  I have  seen Gresham hasnt done either  of these things.
Gresham set out a list of items and what Mrs A had said in respect  each one. Effectively it 
highlighted inconsistencies in her testimony. It didnt say in what way it felt this meant fraud 
had occurred. It didnt,  for example, state  that it felt Mrs A had been  dishonest with a view 
to gaining a benefit she wasnt otherwise entitled to receive.
A list of discrepancies  alone, even ones  that havent been explained away,  will seldom,  in 
the view of this service, be sufficient to evidence fraud. And beyond  explaining this list of 
discrepancies, Gresham  hasnt provided any evidence to show  that a fraud most likely 
occurred.
In this case whilst its clear to me that Gresham has doubts about  this claim, in my view it 
hasnt shown sufficient  proof to convince me that its decision in respect of fraud  was fairly 
and reasonably made.  As such it will have to remove the record  of fraud from its own and 
any national database  and re-set the cancellation  date to 22 April 2018.
the claim
The list of discrepancies does present a problem for Mrs A in terms of the claim though. 
For Gresham to reasonably have to accept and settle the claim Mrs A has to satisfy it that 
she most likely  owned  the items that she said were  stolen. Often that is done  by receipts.
Sometimes receipts dont  exist though.  And in that case  whether an item was likely owned 
will often  hinge on the details provided  about  that item by the policyholder.
In Mrs As case  she has given lots of different versions about items  claimed  for  how and 
when she came to have them, what they were  (make and model), and what they were 
worth. I can understand why Gresham feels Mrs A hasnt shown she most likely owned 
these items  that were  stolen. As Mrs A hasnt shown shes  suffered a loss, Greshams 
decline of the claim,  in my view, was fair and I cant reasonably  make  it settle the matter.
For the avoidance of doubt; Mrs As failure  to evidence her claim doesnt equate to a 
reasonable conclusion that she must,  therefore, have committed  fraud. As I said above, 
fraud is a matter for Gresham to prove and it hasnt done that here.
compensation
From what  I have seen Mrs As main concern  has always been that Gresham had declined 
her claim. As Im satisfied that it was reasonable for it to do that, Im not going to award 
any compensation.
Gresham did fail Mrs A by accusing her of fraud and logging  this matter against  her, but as 
far as Ive seen Mrs A hasnt suffered as a result  of this. Therefore, I dont intend  to award 
any compensation to Mrs A.
Ref: DRN39616533future cover
Apart from in some  limited  circumstances  which dont apply here, it is always up to an 
insurer whether or not it chooses to offer cover to a policyholder. Whilst I can require 
Gresham to remove the fraud record, I cant make  any direction against it regarding 
offering cover to Mrs A in the future. If Gresham continues to choose not to want  to do 
business with Mrs A, then that is up to it.
As Gresham accepted  my findings,  and Mrs A didnt object to them, I have no reason to 
change or move away from them. Im satisfied  my provisional findings are fair and 
reasonable; they are now my findings  of this, my final decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint in part. I require  Gresham Insurance Company Limited to remove  
the record of the fraud from its own and any national database, as well as to amend the 
policy cancellation date to 22 April 2018.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3961653