K820x#14complaint
W, a limited company, complains about  the information  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC asked 
for as part of a know your customer (KYC) exercise.
background
Barclays wrote to W in October 2018 asking it to complete  information  about its activities  and 
officers within 30 days. It then sent a reminder in November 2018.  Following  some  changes 
to the signing  arrangements on the account  Barclays sent an urgent request dated 19 
February 2019 for the outstanding information  in 30 days. W did not provide all the 
information requested  and the account was restricted  on 7 June  2019.  Once  the information 
was received the account was reinstated on 12 June  2019. W says that the information 
requirements were unreasonable and that one director resigned in June 2019 rather  than 
provide this. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. Barclays had explained  
that this information was required to ensure it complied with legal and regulatory  
requirements. And it wanted to ensure that the information it held was correct and up to date. 
W runs a club with members and thought at one point that Barclays required details of all its 
members. But she said that it had made clear in February 2019 that the outstanding  
requirements related  to three directors.
W did not agree and wanted its complaint to be reviewed. Its main concern  remained the 
need to provide both the mothers maiden name and time at an address for directors who 
were not signatories  to the bank account.  W said Barclays had used its position to obtain 
information that was unnecessary.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The requirement for a financial  business  to ensure it has correct and up to date information 
about its customers (KYC) is common across  the industry. Here Barclays explained what  it 
needed and set a timescale for it to be provided.  It was some months beyond that before the 
account was subject to any restrictions. 
This service does not have a role in regulating Barclays processes and these are commonly  
followed for its customers. And under the terms of its agreement with W it was entitled to 
decide to restrict  banking services or close the account with any appropriate notice period if 
this information  wasnt provided.
With all that in mind Im unable to agree  that specific pieces of information should not have 
been requested.  I appreciate that one director objected to giving this information and 
resigned for a period  of time. That seemed to allow the restrictions  on the account  to be 
lifted. I dont doubt  that there  was some inconvenience to W, the complainant here,  in 
complying with the requirements set out by Barclays. But Im afraid  that was unavoidable  
and there  are no grounds for any compensation for this.
I appreciate that W will be disappointed when I say that I wont be asking  Barclays  to do 
anything further.
Ref: DRN30426632my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3042663