K822xcomplaint
Mr J complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) provided poor service to him after he 
made a claim on his motor insurance  policy.
background 
Mr J told UKI that when he returned  from holiday  in January 2016 he found his car had been 
stolen. It was later recovered by the police, in a damaged state, and it seems the person 
responsible was identified. By March 2016 UKI had paid Mr J for the cars total loss. But it 
deducted the £350 policy excess, as liability hadnt been accepted by the other insurer.  Mr J 
had also claimed  for damage to a wall at his property that he thought was caused  during the 
incident. In February  2016 UKI told him it wouldnt deal with the property  damage.  It said he 
should contact  his home insurer or the other  insurer about that. 
As the other  insurer  still hadnt accepted liability by February 2017, UKI passed the file to a 
firm of solicitors  (firm D). Firm D pursued UKIs losses and Mr Js excess, plus the damage 
to the wall. But it wasnt until December  2018 that the other insurer  agreed to cover  UKIs 
losses and Mr Js policy excess.  It wouldnt accept  liability  for the wall damage. It said there  
was no evidence that the other driver caused it. In February 2019 firm D it told Mr J it 
thought there was no reasonable chance  of success in court  with the claim for the wall. It 
also gave him its complaints managers details, should he be unhappy with its decision. Mr J 
then contacted us. Meanwhile, his policy excess was refunded.  
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Js complaint. Hed told us he was unhappy  with the 
valuation of his car and about the policy  excess  not being refunded, with the delays in the 
claims handling and the claim for the wall not being  pursued. The investigator  said there was 
nothing to show that Mr J had ever disputed the cars valuation  with UKI. She said it could 
show the excess was paid to him as soon as the other insurer  accepted liability. But in her 
view there  were delays in UKIs claim handling  before  the file was passed to firm D, and poor 
contact with Mr J. She said UKI should  pay him £150 compensation. She said firm Ds 
decision not to pursue  the damage to the wall wasnt an issue for UKI. And she said Mr J 
could contact the Legal Ombudsman if he was unhappy with firm Ds service.  
UKI accepted the investigators view,  as did Mr J. UKI paid the £150  compensation to him in 
September 2019. But in October  2019  Mr J he said he wanted the issue  about  the wall to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint was passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J told the investigator when he asked for the case to be reopened that it wasnt the 
settlement sum or the policy  excess he was unhappy about. And as far as I can see, UKI 
had dealt with both of those issues reasonably anyway. His concern is that the wall damage 
needs to be repaired  - and that someone other than him should pay for that. 
The decision  not to pursue the wall damage was made by firm D, so Mr J has had the 
benefit of a legal assessment of the issue. Firm D explained to Mr J why it thought the claim  
for the wall shouldnt be pursued. If Mr J believes it didnt act fairly  and reasonably, the way 
Ref: DRN32816362forward is to complain to firm D and then to the Legal Ombudsman service. In its letter  to 
him of 6 February  2019  firm D gave him details of the next stage in its complaints process.  
I dont think theres anything further we can do to assist Mr J. UKI paid the claim for his car 
and refunded the policy excess  as soon as that was possible. Although there was some poor 
service on its part, I think  the compensation UKI has paid Mr J for that was reasonable. So I 
think it has settled his complaint fairly. I think its now for Mr J to decide whether to take 
further action  about  the wall damage,  but I dont think its an issue for UKI to address. 
As I think  UKI has acted  reasonably in settling Mr Js complaint, I cant uphold  it.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
  
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3281636