K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Financial Insurance Company Limited  mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs W bought the policy  in 2001, some  time after she took out a store card.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
This policy was sold by a third-party acting on behalf  of FICL. I cant consider this complaint 
against the seller  of the policy directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, 
or its predecessor-in-title, were regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for 
insurance intermediation activities, or were otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
FICL, the insurer, has accepted that the seller was acting as its agent so it has taken 
responsibility for the sale. To keep  things simple, Ill only refer to FICL in this decision, rather  
than any other business.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint because:
 Mrs W has complained; The store card was taken out whilst I was in the store and 
paying at the till, when speaking to the sales adviser there was no mention of the PPI 
policy. This seems to be correct as this policy was sold during  a telephone call in 
November 2001 after Mrs W had taken  out a store  card in August 2001. 
Unfortunately no call recording  is now available  so I dont know  what was discussed  
about the PPI. But Ive also kept in mind  that the PPI was added  to the store  card 
account a few months after Mrs W had taken  out the card.  So, although I dont  know  if 
Mrs W used her card prior to taking  PPI, at the very least  I think that she wouldve 
been reasonably aware that PPI was separate to and not a condition of the store card 
 as she already  had the card. 
Ive also considered that the PPI premiums  would have appeared on Mrs Ws store 
card statements when  she had an outstanding  balance. 
So I think she would reasonably have questioned why she was paying  for PPI  much 
sooner than she did if it was something  she hadnt  been aware  of agreeing  to. But the 
evidence is that the PPI remained  on her account  for some time after it was taken out. 
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that the PPI was presented as optional  
and that Mrs W chose  to take it out. 
Ref: DRN30098872 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs W so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did still have to give Mrs W good enough information  so that she could  
decide if the PPI was right for her. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mrs W doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  her circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to her. So I dont  think  better information 
wouldve stopped  her buying  it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs Ws comments, including what shes  said about not needing PPI 
due to her existing means of making  her repayments including  her sick pay and savings. But 
after 6 months, Mrs Ws sick pay would have  decreased to half pay. This PPI policy  could 
have paid out for longer  than Mrs W received full sick pay. 
The PPI policy also would  have paid out in addition  to and for longer than Mrs Ws savings 
would have lasted.  So I still think that Mrs W could have found  the PPI useful
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3009887