K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy Society  of Lloyds (SoL)  has declined  his buildings insurance  claim.
background
In October  2017 Mr H was having  improvement works carried out on his property. His 
contractors had lifted part of his patio due to an extension  being built. The flagstones that 
had been lifted  were piled up in his rear garden when the contractors left for the night.  The 
following morning when  they returned the pile of flagstones had been stolen and other 
flagstones which had not yet been  lifted also removed from the ground and stolen.
Mr H had buildings insurance with SoL so he put in a claim. SoL sent a loss assessor out to 
the property who reported that there  was no evidence the thief had needed to use force and 
violence to enter the rear garden and steal the flagstones. So SoL didnt agree to pay Mr Hs 
claim as it said this type of theft wasnt covered by the policy.
Mr H didnt agree, so raised  a complaint. He said the policy  wasnt fit for purpose as it 
wouldnt be possible to forcibly and violently enter  a driveway, so this should only apply to 
internal thefts.  He considered that, looking at the principle  and spirit  of the cover,  he should 
be able to claim considering what had happened.
SoL didnt  change its decision so he brought a complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  Mr Hs complaint as he considered the policy terms were clearly presented and 
had been fairly applied  in this case.  Mr H didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision on his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Mr Hs policy to see whether his theft would 
be covered. 
I accept that the policy does  cover Mr Hs patio, as this is part of the definition set out for 
buildings. However I note hes described the loss as both flagstones that were  taken from 
the path and flagstones  that had previously  been lifted by his contractors and were now piled 
up at the rear of his property. The policy doesnt define specifically what  a patio is, but as 
this is part of the buildings definition I consider it would generally be understood to be a 
paved outdoor area. With that in mind, even  if I was to agree  with Mr H about the policy  
terms, I dont consider everything hes claiming  for would  meet the definition of buildings.
Under the section  for buildings cover, the policy  terms set out that theft or attempted theft is 
covered, however next to this the policy also states what is not covered. This reads:
Loss or damage unless  the loss or damage follows a violent and forcible entry  or exit
While it isnt known how the thieves entered Mr Hs garden, SoL has said it considers its 
most likely it was through the garden gate (false garage door). Considering the amount and 
weight of flagstones taken, this does seem most likely. No damage has been reported to this 
gate/door or to the fencing surrounding Mr Hs garden. So theres  no evidence the thieves 
needed to use both violence and force to enter or exit Mr Hs property. On that basis,  Im in 
agreement his claim is excluded from the cover  provided.
Ref: DRN34391192Mr H has also said that the policy isnt fit for purpose as it wouldnt be possible to use force  
and violence  to enter/exit  a patio/driveway  unless  he had property gates.  And hes pointed 
out that they werent a requirement under his policy terms.  I agree  with him they werent a 
requirement. But this isnt the test I need to apply or the situation he was in.
Mr Hs theft wasnt from his driveway; it was from his rear garden. And I can see that to enter 
the rear garden  you needed to go through a false garage door/garden gate. I agree it wasnt  
a requirement for Mr H to lock this or have locks on it. But I also consider  the policy clearly 
sets out what is and isnt covered for theft (under the buildings section). So if a thief was able 
to enter  Mr Hs garden by just opening  the gate, then Im afraid  he wouldnt be covered 
under this policy for any loss or damage  that occurred as a result,  as such  entry cant  be 
considered as both forcible and violent.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3439119