K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that he cant access  and manage online the benefits attached to his bank 
account, provided by TSB Bank plc. 
background
For some  years Mr C has had an account  with TSB Bank plc, for which he pays  a monthly
fee of £25. The account includes a number of additional benefits,  including  access  to credit
information, mobile phone insurance,  breakdown cover  and card protection.  It appears that
Mr C at one point complained that the account was unsuitable for him, although  that 
complaint wasnt successful. In any event,  Mr C kept the account  open and makes use of the 
benefits.
TSB has had well-publicised difficulties with some  of its IT systems, most notably as a result
of its migration to a new system in April 2018.
Mr C has explained that, as a result  of these problems, he has been unable  to manage the
paid-for benefits  attached  to his account online. Instead, he has to go into a branch or use
the telephone. He considers therefore  that he isnt getting what hes paying for, and thats
been the case since April 2018. He wants TSB to refund all the fees (of £25 a month) that
hes paid until things  are resolved,  together with additional compensation for the trouble hes
been put to.
TSB didnt  agree to his request. It said, in summary, that the monthly fee was for the benefits
attached to the account, not for the ability to access and to manage those benefits  online. Mr
C is still receiving those  benefits and so its fair that he should pay for them,  as other
customers do. It pointed  out that Mr C has had this particular account  since 2008, at which
time none of the benefits could be managed  online.
The banks also said that the ID Aware  service (which enables  customers  to monitor their
credit profile)  hasnt  been available online for some time  well before the IT issues  that
came to light in April 2018. It says that Mr C complained about  it as long ago as September
2017. It responded then, and so this part of his complaint has been brought  to this service
too late for us to be able to consider it.
I considered Mr Cs complaint and issued a provisional decision. In summary,  I concluded,  
provisionally, that:
Mr Cs complaint  about  the ID Aware service had not been brought out of time,  but that 
it had been resolved in September 2017 and it would not be fair for me to reconsider it 
now; 
I was broadly  in agreement with the bank that Mr C was still receiving the services he 
was paying for, even if he was unable to manage everything online as he wished; and
even though Mr C expected to be able to manage those  benefits  online, it didnt appear 
to me that any inconvenience  hed suffered as a result of not being  able to do so 
merited a payment of compensation.   
TSB accepted my provisional findings, but Mr C didnt. In particular, he disputed  my finding  
that he had received compensation in 2017, and explained  why not being able to access  the 
account benefits was an inconvenience  for him. 
Ref: DRN37075742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, I havent  
changed my overall  view that TSB does not need  to do any more to resolve Mr Cs 
complaint. 
Mr C now accepts that TSB did pay him a total of £60 when he first complained  in 
September 2017. He says though  and I accept   that in part this was to cover  the cost of 
obtaining a credit report from another source. He needed this as a matter  of urgency 
because hed received messages referring to multiple alerts on his account.  I can see why 
this would have  alarmed Mr C and why it was frustrating that he couldnt  access  his credit 
file immediately to look into things. But I remain of the view that he and TSB resolved that 
particular issue between  them when it arose in 2017, and that I shouldnt  now look into it 
further. 
Mr C also accepts that not all of the account benefits  could be managed  online in any event. 
As I indicated in my provisional decision,  though, I accept that he has a legitimate 
expectation that some can be; it is a service that the bank intends to provide and would 
provide if its systems allowed it. But Im afraid  that I havent been  persuaded that Mr C has a 
right to manage those  benefits online or that not being able to do so represents such an 
inconvenience to him that I should make  an award  in his favour. I agree with TSB that he is 
paying a monthly  fee for the benefits  (and indeed the account as a whole), rather  than for a 
system of managing  them.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require TSB Bank  plc to do anything further to resolve Mr Cs 
complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3707574