K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
April 2004. Mrs A says Canada Square  Operations  Limited (Egg)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs A says that the PPI was just added to her credit card. But based  on what  I know 
about the online Egg credit card application process at the time, Mrs A had the option 
to tick yes or no to include PPI with the card. 
Mrs A says the tick box to select PPI was pre-ticked. But Ive not seen  enough 
evidence of this for me to say its more likely  that it was added to her card without her 
knowledge. Because of this, on balance I think Egg made it clear that Mrs A didnt 
have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand if 
she cant remember much about this as it happened many  years  ago.
Our adjudicator thought that Egg recommended the PPI to Mrs A. However,  as she 
took it out online, I think its more likely  that the PPI was sold on a non-advised basis 
i.e. without a recommendation. But even if it had been recommended to Mrs A, 
based on what she has told us about  her circumstances at the time, I think the PPI 
wouldve been right for her. 
Egg had to make sure Mrs A got the information she needed  to decide if it was right 
for her. Its possible the information Egg gave Mrs A about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like she wanted this 
type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  It also looks 
like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said - including what she said about the application 
form being pre-ticked.  Ive also considered what Mrs A has told us about  her employers sick 
pay policy and what she has said about being  able to meet  the credit card repayments if she 
was unable to work.  But I still think that she couldve benefited  from the PPI if she was 
unable to work due to ill health or if she became  unemployed.  So these points dont  change  
my decision.
Ref: DRN38952002my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3895200