K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Citibank Europe  plc failed  to take steps  that might  have  prevented him 
from falling  victim to investment fraud.  He believes  the bank had a duty of care not to 
execute a payment instruction he gave  it.
background
Mr D believed he was setting up an overseas online forex trading account, operated  by a 
third party, U. He sent an international payment from his Citibank account to Us designated  
beneficiary, W. On 21 June 2016 Mr D initiated a SWIFT international payment of £9,080 to 
W. 
Seven months  after the transaction Mr D contacted  Citibank  and asked  if it could reverse  his 
payment. I cant see that Mr D has told us what exactly caused him to contact Citibank  when 
he did, but it now appears U was operating as a scam. 
Citibank attempted  to recall the money  from W but was told the receiving account  was 
closed and the money gone.
Mr D thinks Citibank should  reimburse his money. He says he set out the purpose of the 
transfer in his payment instruction and adds that the banks access  to fraud  prevention 
databases meant it was in a position to check whether to go ahead with the payment. Mr D 
has referred to warnings about  U made  by the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  and other 
overseas regulators  before he made the payment. He believes Citibank had a responsibility 
to stop the transaction  from being  completed, and that its failure  to prevent fraud  was a 
breach of its duty of care to him.
Citibank doesnt  agree with Mr D. It says it followed the instruction Mr D gave it, and that it 
wasnt possible for it to check the status of an account held with another  bank in a different 
country. It says this was the responsibility of the receiving bank. Citibank isnt willing  to 
refund the money Mr D lost.
Our investigator wasnt persuaded Citibank owed  a duty of care to Mr D in relation to the 
destination of his payment, other  than carrying out his instruction in line with his request. The 
investigator considered  it was Ws banks  responsibility to undertake due diligence  on its 
accountholders. So, she didnt uphold  Mr Ds complaint.
Mr D responded to the investigator, asking for an ombudsman to review his complaint. He 
accepts that a bank  may process the transaction once it receives a payment instruction, 
clears the sender and beneficiary  against  sanction lists, and checks  their authenticity.  But he 
says the Payment Services Regulator  has repeatedly recommended that banks and financial 
institutions do more  to prevent fraud  and protect their customers. He believes that extends to 
the situation he found himself in and maintains this is a case of the bank not exercising due 
care despite  an FCA warning about an entity  mentioned in the transaction.
Since the investigator looked at the complaint, Mr D has provided further information, 
including:
-details about  his financial experience;
-statements for his account covering an 18-month  period before the scam payment; 
and 
Ref: DRN38729592-a copy of the conversations he had with U about  the investment he thought he was 
making. 
All of which I have taken  into account  when reviewing Mr Ds complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
It is common ground that a bank  has a common-law  and statutory duty to safeguard, so far 
as reasonably possible, customers  and consumers  in particular  against the risk of 
fraudulent transactions. See, for example, the FCAs General Principles and Policy 
Statements (e.g. on financial  crime),  plus industry  guidelines and/or codes of practice  by the 
British Bankers Association,  British Standards Institute, etc. Nevertheless, the starting 
position, under the terms and conditions of their contract and the Payment Services  
Regulations (PSRs), is still that, subject to reasonable checks and balances,  a bank should 
execute clear instructions  authorised by its client  in order to maintain commercial  efficacy 
in a free and competitive  market. 
It is not in dispute  that the subject-matter of this complaint was an authorised  payment 
insofar as Mr D intended to send  the monies to U (because, at that time, he was unaware he 
was being scammed). Accordingly,  under  the account contract and PSRs, Citibank had a 
duty to execute  his instruction without  undue delay  unless its account monitoring or 
warning systems  were  triggered such as to give a cause for suspecting fraud or financial 
harm by or against  the customer.  Its not for an ombudsman to regulate the nature and 
scope of a banks fraud-prevention  systems;  but we typically see cases  where they might be 
triggered by unusual or uncharacteristic  account activity, e.g. an unusually large one-off 
payment; a payment that is inconsistent with the customers  normal means and/or activity; a 
payee whos the subject of regulatory warnings; an uncharacteristic cross-border payment, 
etc.    
In this case, I need to decide  whether Citibank acted  fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr D when he authorised a payment of £9,080 from his account, or whether it could and 
should have done more  before processing it. That is a question of fact and degree 
depending on the circumstances of each  individual case. 
Having looked  at this payment in the context of how Mr D ordinarily uses  the account,  I am 
satisfied that it might  reasonably be considered unusual. The account is a foreign currency 
deposit account. Mr D has provided statements on the account covering  January 2015 to 
June 2016. Looking at these, payments to and from the EU are made regularly. The vast 
majority of debits from the account  are ATM withdrawals, £600  at a time and totalled  as 
much as £2,400  in any given month. There are also several cross-border European transfers  
in and out of the account. So, the scam  payment stands out as being unusual  in terms of its 
value but not necessarily  for the type of transfer being made. And the account  balance 
remained high on the account during the period of the statements  provided, and after the 
scam payment, where the balance was over £52,000. 
Ref: DRN38729593The details of the scam payment as it appears  on Mr Ds statement include Ws details only 
and the destination country of the bank account.  Im not persuaded that this information by 
itself ought to have triggered Citibanks fraud  alerts. However, the value of the payment 
compared with the general  account usage was, in my view, something unusual  and/or 
uncharacteristic that ought reasonably to have triggered Citibanks  systems  and alerted it to 
the possibility  of fraud or financial harm. Under its own detection  systems and industry 
codes, it would have  been reasonable in such circumstances for Citibank to have considered 
whether Mr D was potentially at risk of financial harm and therefore  to have contacted  him 
about the payment before  processing  it.
And Ive also gone on to consider what would  have happened had Citibank intervened and 
whether it would have  made a difference. 
Mr D said the purpose  of his transfer  was set out in his instruction, and that the entity with 
whom he was contracting was the subject  of an FCA warning. Hes pointed to information 
hes gathered suggesting  the FCA was issuing warnings about U as early  as November 
2015, some  months  before he contracted with U. He said, It was only after the scam that I 
asked a friend who works in Compliance  to look U up, who found  out all the FCA warnings 
on U applying to the UK. It was soon thereafter  that both the Bulgarian and UAE authorities 
started to investigate this entity as well.
I have seen the warning  about U issued by the FCA on 25 November 2015. It reads:
We believe this firm has been providing financial services or products in the UK 
without our authorisation. Find out why to be especially wary of dealing  with this 
unauthorised individual and how to protect yourself  from scammers.
It goes on to say:
Almost all firms  and individuals offering, promoting or selling financial services or 
products in the UK have  to be authorised by us. 
However, some firms  act without our authorisation and some knowingly run scams 
like share  fraud.
This firm is not authorised  by us but has been  targeting people in the UK.
We strongly advise you only deal with financial firms that are authorised  by us
The above  warning doesnt indicate that U was operating as a scam, only that it wasnt 
authorised to carry out regulated activities in the UK. It then provides a more  general 
warning about  scams and how consumers can protect themselves. There are no warnings 
about W on the FCA website.
The above  warning was also available to the public at the time Mr D made the payment, so I 
think he could have  found it on the FCA website  if he had looked for it. Ill comment  on this 
again later.
Ref: DRN38729594When asked about the due diligence  that he undertook before making  the payments, Mr D 
said he did not have  access  to the advanced  sanction and negative  news lists that 
financial institutions have  access  to investigate U further in detail.  But Mr D says he did 
check the Bulgarian  regulator websites, which I assume didnt contain any warnings at the 
time as Mr D hasnt said that they revealed  any concerns with U or W. 
A warning about U was issued by the Bulgarian Regulator but this was a couple of months 
after Mr D made  the payment in question. So, I dont think  this had or could have had any 
bearing on the decision Mr D made  at the time.
Mr D said that at the time of making the deposit with U he did look at the Bulgarian  
regulators website and could see they were regulated and he was aware  that U was not 
regulated in the UK. He said he even  challenged that Us website said they were not able to 
receive funds from the UK and discussed  this with them in some  detail. Ive seen copies of 
these conversations. Ultimately, he says he thought  this was because U had not done  their 
regulatory passporting to the UK. But then later this restriction  seemed to be lifted.  In these 
conversations, Mr D clearly demonstrates some knowledge and understanding of regulation 
and how it applies,  and how he can work  around  Us systems to avoid these issues by 
agreeing to send  money to W (rather than direct to U). I think this has a bearing on whether 
the warnings at the time would have  made  a difference to Mr Ds decision in making  the 
payment. 
Theres no suggestion in this case that Citibank  was asked (or undertook) to provide Mr D 
with financial advice.  And I cant see it was under any specific or general duty to investigate 
the recipient of a transfer instruction, who didnt bank with it, before executing  it. That duty 
wasnt owed by Citibank  to Mr D under  the current PSRs; its only duty, in my view, was to 
have a conversation  with him because of the unusual/uncharacteristic trigger that would or 
should have resulted from this high-value transfer. However, I dont think this would have 
resulted in a different outcome, taking into account:  the warnings in place  at the time Mr D 
made the payment, and his own knowledge. I say this because:
-The FCA warning highlights that U is not regulated in the UK. I can see from Mr Ds 
conversations with U that he was already fully aware of this but had no issue with 
proceeding with the payment.
-Mr D has detailed his financial background and has some  knowledge  of payment 
systems, regulations  and regulators and, as such, I think  it is fair to conclude he was 
or ought reasonably to have been  aware  of the protections that are and arent  in 
place when sending  money to unregulated firms outside the UK and EU.
-I note that Mr Ds instruction didnt  in fact tell Citibank to transfer  money to U, or that 
U was the intended  beneficiary. Rather, it was to transfer money to Ws bank, for Ws 
benefit. And Mr D hasnt suggested that W was the subject  of any FCA warning.  
Ref: DRN38729595-As mentioned, Mr Ds payment instruction did not in any way mention U; it was a 
payment direct to W. If a discussion about the payment had been triggered and taken 
place between him and Citibank, its possible they might have discussed  the end 
recipient. But that in itself doesnt  lead me to conclude that Citibank would or should 
have then stopped the transaction. First, this was something Mr D was fully aware  of 
and had discussed with U prior to agreeing to make the payment. He knew why the 
payment was being made to W and not U and had done his own research on U 
knowing they werent regulated in the UK. Second, I havent seen any evidence  that 
Citibank knew or ought reasonably to have  known that U was operating  a scam at 
the time  so all it could  have done  was give Mr D a warning about potential  scams 
and give him the opportunity to carry out his own due-diligence checks. And that 
information was already in the public domain (of which Mr D had constructive if not 
actual knowledge). He seemed satisfied after his own research.
-Mr D had made investments before, albeit he says these were low risk. But he had 
some experience and understanding  on investing in different  products. I think this 
added to his confidence about making the payment.  And I havent  seen anything to 
suggest he was concerned or suspicious prior to making  the payment.
Ultimately, Mr D appears to have carried out his own due diligence and had been in detailed  
conversations with U before making the payment. And he said U had come  very highly 
recommended from trusted  friends and colleagues.  So, Im not persuaded, if Citibank had 
warned him about possible investment scams  in general (as per the FCA warning already in 
the public  domain), that he wouldnt have  gone ahead with the payment  in any event. 
In all the circumstances, whilst I do think Citibank  erred by not acting on a potential trigger  
given the unusual or uncharacteristic  size of the payment, I am not persuaded this would 
have resulted in a different outcome or prevented Mr Ds losses. Had the bank challenged 
the payment with him, it seems likely  that he would have asked it to proceed nonetheless  - in 
light of his investment  experience, general liquidity, own due diligence,  and attitude to risk. 
Citibank would probably have gone away reassured and proceeded  and the scam  would 
still have succeeded.   
Finally, I am satisfied Citibank did all it reasonably could, in line with its PSR obligations, to 
try to recover the lost monies from the payee  bank when it was eventually notified of the 
scam. By that stage, the payee account was already closed and the money had gone. 
Ultimately, and despite my natural sympathy for Mr Ds predicament, I do not consider 
Citibank to be responsible for his loss. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out here, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3872959