K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. turned down his guaranteed  asset  protection (GAP) insurance claim.
Reference to Mapfre includes its agents.
background
Mr Ds car was stolen. His motor insurer paid the claim for its total loss. Mr D claimed on his 
GAP policy  for the difference between that settlement  and the greater of: the invoice price of 
his car or the early  settlement balance owing  on it to the finance company. Mapfre  refused to 
pay the claim. Mr D brought his complaint about that to us. Our investigator didn't think  
Mapfre had dealt with Mr D fairly. So he said it should settle his claim and add simple  
interest to that at a rate of 8% a year. He added that Mapfre  should pay Mr D £100 
compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Mapfre didn't agree  so the complainants been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
At the time of the theft Mr Ds son, whos a named  driver on the car, was about to take 
Mr Ds 12 year old granddaughter  to school. She was in the car when her dad briefly  
returned to the house  leaving the key in the car. Two thieves then attacked Mr Ds 
granddaughter ejecting her from the car and injuring her in the process. They then stole  the 
car and left at speed.
Mr Ds motor insurer paid his claim for the market value of his car. But Mapfre refused his 
GAP claim. It said that the policy excludes:
Any claim where the Insured Vehicle is stolen or driven without Your  consent by any person 
who has access to a removable  ignition device, including but not limited  to family members, 
spouse and partner, unless access was gained  through  forcible  means.
Mapfres said that as Mr D's granddaughter  is 12 years old she couldn't have prevented  the 
theft. And that if the key (a removable ignition device) hadn't  been left in the car then the 
thieves wouldn't  have  been able to steal it.
It seems  that Mapfre is arguing that as the key was in the car the thieves didn't need  to use 
force to have access to it. It said the fact that the thieves  removed  a minor from the car was 
irrelevant. But I think thats  a very narrow  and unfair  interpretation of the policy wording.
Its usual for motor or GAP policies to have exclusions where keys are left in a car. And 
generally I think thats fair. Thats because I wouldn't expect an insurer  to pay a claim where 
a policyholder has acted carelessly or recklessly  leaving  a car in a situation which makes it 
likely or easy to be stolen. And leaving keys in a car unattended would certainly fall into that 
situation. But I don't think  that's the case here.
Ref: DRN36940922Mr Ds granddaughter  was sat in the front passenger seat at the time of the theft. So she 
was within  reach of the key. And while she wasn't  sat directly in front of the key I certainly  
think she was near enough to it to act as a deterrent to the majority of would-be thieves. I 
don't think  her age meant that she wasn't  a deterrent. The fact that in this case the thieves 
were prepared to use force, injuring Mr Ds granddaughter in the process, doesn't  mean  that 
she wasn't a deterrent  or that she or her dad were allowing the thieves access  to the key. It 
simply means that in this case  the thieves were  particularly  determined to complete the theft 
regardless of that deterrent.
Also, given that the thieves did use force in order to complete the theft I don't think its 
reasonable to say that they had access to the key without the use of force.  So I don't think  
its fair for Mapfre to rely on the above exclusion.
In order to put things  right I think that Mapfre should settle Mr Ds claim. It should add simple 
interest to its settlement at the rate of 8% a year from the date it initially  declined  the claim,  
19 February 2019, to the date it makes payment. And as the unfair  refusal of the claim has 
been a source  of distress and inconvenience for Mr D I think Mapfre should pay him £100 
compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Mapfre  Asistencia, 
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to:
Settle Mr Ds GAP  claim. It should add simple interest to its settlement at a rate of 
8% a year calculated from 19 February  2019 to the date it makes payment1.
Pay Mr D £100 compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr D has accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Mapfre  considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3694092