K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs T payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The sale of the PPI took place about  22 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case. However,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why:
I think its likely Bank  of Scotland made  Mr and Mrs T aware that the PPI was optional, 
but that they still chose to take it. And I dont have any evidence  that this wasnt  the 
case. 
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ts particular circumstances. But it looks  to me as though any 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based  on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Ts situation at the time. Its likely Mr and Mrs T were eligible for the policy. 
And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to significant  difficulties. The PPI 
would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr T (the person covered) received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the time when they would 
need to fall back on any savings or other  means they may have had for paying the 
mortgage. This all would have put Mr and Mrs T in a more secure position, if theyd 
eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not been 
told anything to suggest they couldnt  afford the PPI when they took it out. So I think the 
PPI would have  been potentially useful,  and so a recommendation  was suitable. 
 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs T took the PPI.
Ref: DRN31830212Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would have  been affected by any of these. And 
theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel  it at any time without further cost if 
their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3183021