K821x#15complaint
Mrs B and Mr F are unhappy with how Union Reiseversicherung AG handled their claim.
Mrs B and Mr F have brought their complaint through a third party representative,  but for 
simplicity, Ill refer to all submissions as being  made by them personally.
background
Mrs B and Mr F went  on holiday abroad  in June  last year. Sadly,  on the last day of their 
holiday, Mrs B slipped  and fell  breaking her hip (the neck of the right femur).  She was 
taken to hospital the same day (26 June) and URV was informed  about  the accident.  Mrs B 
needed an operation to fix her injury but she wanted  to have this at home. URV did not think  
she was fit to fly, given the extent  of her injuries and so she had to have surgery that 
country. 
Mrs B and Mr F said URV  handled  their claim poorly. They  said it did very little to help in 
terms of making arrangements for treatment,  maintained very little contact with them, and 
caused lengthy and unnecessary delays which in turn impacted Mrs Bs health  and recovery.  
Both also said that they incurred huge  costs  in phone  bills because they were continually  
having to chase URV for updates. 
URV accepted it could  have handled  things better and made an offer of £350. It 
acknowledged there were  some  delays in obtaining Mrs Bs medical  records  and felt the 
above compensation fairly reflected this.
Our investigator did not think this was fair. She said Mrs B and Mr F went through a terrible  
time and that URV should have  done  more to support them. Overall, she thought  URV had 
caused delays  of up to four weeks and so she felt £4,500 compensation was more reflective 
of the trouble and upset it had caused. Our investigator  also thought URV should cover 
Mrs Bs call costs  of £611.37 and that it should  pay a further £200 to Mr F. 
URV agreed  with the recommended settlement, but Mrs B and Mr F did not. They said the 
impact of URVs actions has seriously affected Mrs B and that shes  finding it difficult  to 
close the chapter  on what happened  whilst  they were away. They both tried to leave  the 
country at the beginning of August as they felt abandoned by URV, only to be stopped and 
detained by customs  officials because of their outstanding  hospital  bills. 
Both also said their health was severely  impacted because of URVs actions and its decision 
not to pay the hospital bill in good  time or offer a guarantee  of payment. This means Mrs B 
and Mr F were  not given  food regularly by the hospital and this affected their weight and their 
health considerably.  
Mrs B and Mr F would like more compensation as they feel the offer is too low. And so its for 
me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I wont  be asking URV to 
pay any more than our investigator has recommended. I say that because I think the 
Ref: DRN33363072compensation package shes described is fair. I know this is likely to disappoint 
Mrs B and Mr F, but Id like to explain  why.
I wanted to acknowledge the difficult time Mrs B and Mr F went through last summer.  Having 
carefully considered  the events between 26 June and 12 August  when  they finally made  it 
home  I can only describe them as traumatic. That said, some of the components that make 
up the event history are factors  beyond  URVs control or influence. And so it would be unfair 
for me to hold it responsible for these. This includes the way Mrs B and Mr F were treated by 
customs officials and the conditions of the treating  hospital. For the purposes  of my final 
decision. Ill be considering URVs obligations under  ICOBS (insurance Code of Business 
Sourcebook) and whether it treated Mrs B and Mr F fairly. 
ICOBS says URV must  handle claims promptly and fairly. It also says it should not 
unreasonably reject a claim, or try to avoid one. Its not in dispute  that URV caused  delays 
here, but I wanted  to be clear about where I believe it could have handled  things better. 
where should Mrs B go for treatment?
URV was made aware of the accident  the same day it happened. It was sent some medical 
records, although these  were not legible.  It was clear Mrs B wanted to fly home to have the 
operation and the Doctor assessing her said she was fit to fly home to receive this treatment. 
But URV took a different stance  which its entitled to do. But Ive not seen any evidence  
from URV in terms of a medical assessment of her condition for example, medical notes 
from URVs Doctor  or evidence that URV  actively engaged  with the hospital. 
Im not saying URV made  a mistake in terms of a clinical decision Rather,  Im unable  to 
assess what information it used  to base its decision on. From the evidence available,  
however, it is clear that URV thought it crucial that Mrs B would need surgery  as soon as 
possible. It was therefore  disappointing to see that Mrs B was not operated  on until 3 July, 
almost eight days after sustaining the injury. 
URVs records show very little happening during this time and I believe thats because  it did 
little to help Mrs B and Mr F. Both have described,  in some detail, what happened during this 
time and Im persuaded  by their detailed and credible version  of events. Mrs B was initially  
taken to a hospital close to where  they were staying. This is where  she was initially 
assessed and URV  were  kept informed about  her situation. However, the hospital she was 
at was not properly equipped to administer the treatment she needed. And so she was 
transported by road ambulance on 1 July to another hospital, some 750 km away.  
Mrs B has described this journey as one of complete torture,  as I believe most people can 
only begin to imagine.  It took more than 12 hours  to travel by road and without air 
conditioning. The roads were also of a particularly poor quality and so the ride was 
especially uncomfortable. The reason Ive highlighted this is because  URV felt strongly 
enough about Mrs B receiving treatment in this foreign  country, but it appears not to have 
taken any steps  to assist  Mrs B in accessing  treatment or taken steps to support her with the 
move. It also raised concerns about her having  treatment  as soon as possible, yet from the 
evidence Ive seen,  made no attempt to find out whether  she could have the operation  at the 
first hospital,  or even  when this would happen. 
It was two days after Mrs B was admitted to the hospital that she found out shed have  to 
move across  the country,  before she could have the operation. And so given it was URVs 
recommendation she stay to receive treatment abroad, Id have expected  it to take a much 
Ref: DRN33363073more proactive role in making sure she was able to have the operation and in good time. I 
also would  have expected that it take responsibility  for supporting  Mrs B and helping  her to 
get to a hospital that could treat her injuries. Ive also not seen  evidence  that URV 
proactively looked  into finding a hospital which was nearer  to where Mrs B was staying. 
the delays
There were a number of delays throughout the life of this claim. On 10 July, URV was 
informed the treating  Doctors had completed a full hip replacement  for Mrs B. And so it 
decided itll need  to look into her medical history, which would mean itll need to write  to her 
GP back home.  This appeared at odds with URVs decision to authorise Mrs Bs cover on 
28 June. I can see from its notes an entry which stated cover verified.
But it was not until two weeks later on 24 July that URV appeared to do anything to arrange  
for the release of Mrs Bs medical history. It asked her to sign an authority form so it could 
request this information. It was at this time URV changed its mind about  accepting cover for 
Mrs B. Its notes  suggest it changed  its position from cover verified to under investigation. 
There was an accompanying entry which suggests  it initially  authorised cover on 26 June as 
a mistake and that it needed more investigation  into Mrs Bs medical  history. 
Mrs B and Mr F believe  URV was attempting to avoid paying  their claim. I cannot say for 
certain that this was the case.  But I was left concerned when  I saw an email  exchange  
between URV and its underwriters and a particular comment does appear to infer it may 
have wanted avoid paying this claim;
Again we have  a case where we cannot  link the undeclared  previous medical history 
with the claim
I take on board this comment could be subjective, depending on its audience,  but given 
Mrs B and Mr Fs concerns about  URV treating them  fairly, I think  its relevant and should be 
highlighted. Under ICOBS  URV  has an obligation  not to avoid claims. In any event, URV 
eventually accepted the claim and paid the hospital  although because  it took so long, Mrs B 
and Mr F were  subjected to an even more  unpleasant and difficult time. 
Both have  described  the hospital as not providing them with proper meals which they have  
attributed to URVs decision not to pay for her treatment in good time.  Given  URV had 
initially accepted  Mrs Bs claim in June,  Id have expected it to send a guarantee of payment, 
as is the usual good industry practice,  or perhaps make another arrangement  with the 
hospital to cover the cost of the care and treatment,  but I note this did not happen either. 
And so I think it sounds plausible  that the hospital may have behaved in such  a way towards 
Mrs B and Mr F because URV had not taken  the necessary steps described above in good 
time.
Mrs B was discharged from hospital on 19 July. But they were not repatriated until almost a 
month later on 12 August. The reason for this is partly explained  above,  but also, URV had 
not paid the hospital  bills until 8 August  due to the delays  with validating the claim. And so 
Mrs B and Mr F were unable to leave the country.  They had attempted  to prior to this date, 
only to be detained  and sent back to their hotel until they had paid. This must have been 
very distressing for them. 
All throughout this time Mrs B and Mr F were  continually  calling  URV  asking for updates  and 
when they can come home. URV  appeared not to handle things promptly  here either. I think 
Ref: DRN33363074it could have done much  more  than it did by proactively offering updates  to both 
Mrs B and Mr F, especially as they had explained on more  than one occasion that they were  
now unable  to make  outgoing  calls because of the costs they had incurred. But up until 
cover was approved  for the second  time, URV  did not maintain good or open 
communication,. Instead Mrs B and Mr F were  the main driving force  behind  updates and 
regular contact. 
Things seem to improve from 7 August and URV  send a guarantee of payment to the 
hospital and begin to look at flights home  for Mrs B and Mr F. The tour operator  and the 
hotel arranged the extend their stay, free of charge, until 10 August. After which,  Id have 
expect URV  to cover additional accommodation  costs, given both customers were ready to 
fly home.  I think  its most  likely that it was this deadline which  prompted  URV to arrange the 
flights as an internal email  stated;
..so we need to organise flights by then [10 August]
Theres no doubt in my mind that Mrs B and Mr F have  been through a very difficult and, at 
times, traumatic  experience throughout the life of their claim. Im also not surprised to hear 
its still impacting them  now. But theres  a limit to what  I can do here. Ive considered  URVs 
actions as a whole and agree it should have  done more to support both its customers.  I think  
things were made more  complicated by the holiday destination as medical treatment  was not 
as readily available as in the UK . But URV  has agreed with the recommended 
compensation suggested by our investigator  and I think this is fair. 
my final decision
I uphold Mrs B and Mr Fs complaint and agree that the offer is fair and reasonable. Union 
Reiseversicherung AG must now:
Pay Mrs B and Mr F £4,500 compensation for the overall trouble and upset it caused 
and;
Pay a further  £200 compensation for Mr Fs trouble and upset and;
Pay Mrs Bs increased phone bills totalling  £611.37 plus 8% simple interest.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3336307