K820x#14complaint
Mr T is complaining that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont  reopen his credit card 
account. He also doesnt think its made reasonable adjustments to take his protected  
characteristics into account.
background
Mr T got into financial difficulties in 2015  and, with the support of a debt assistance charity,  
he entered into a repayment plan to repay the balance on his credit card. Barclays  agreed to 
allow Mr T to pay less than his minimum monthly repayment and it reduced  his interest rate 
to 3%. Barclays closed  his credit card in November 2015. Barclays  subsequently  recorded a 
default against Mr T in May 2018, but backdated  it to July 2015 which it said was when Mr T 
was first in financial difficulties.
Mr T continued to make  repayments to his account over the following three years. And in 
November 2018  he paid the final balance off. He asked Barclays to reinstate his credit  card,  
but it wouldnt do so. It said Mr T could apply for a new credit  card,  but it said it couldnt 
guarantee it would  approve the application.  Mr T says that hes since  applied  for a new 
Barclaycard account  but Barclays has declined his request. He thinks its done so due to his 
protected characteristic.
Mr T is also unhappy that Barclays has sent him correspondence in the post. He said, given 
his protected characteristic,  hed asked for all correspondence to be sent to him by email. So 
he doesnt think Barclays has made reasonable adjustments to take into account his 
protected characteristic.
Barclays says that its internal processes  dont  allow it to reopen his account, given his 
previous payment history. It also said that it cant ensure that all correspondence is sent by 
email, but it thought it had taken reasonable steps to take Mr Ts protected characteristics 
into account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that she cant require Barclays  to 
continue a relationship with Mr T. And she said it was up to Barclays to decide whether or 
not it wishes to continue to provide services to Mr T. She said her role was to assess  
whether Barclays had treated Mr T fairly.
The investigator thought that Barclays had taken reasonable  steps to assist  him. But she 
said that, given  Mr T hadnt been able to keep  up with his contractual repayments for a 
period of time, she didnt think it was unreasonable for it to record  on Mr Ts credit  file that he 
had defaulted  on the account.
She also said that Barclays wasnt required to send everything by email.  And she said it was 
standard practice to send default  letters by post.  She was satisfied that Barclays had 
explained this to Mr T on a few occasions.  She thought it had taken reasonable steps  to take 
Mr Ts protected characteristics in account.  
Mr T didnt  accept the investigators opinion. He said that she hadnt taken into account  that 
the credit  card account had been open for seven years and was closed without any 
reference to him. He said it was only when he complained that he was told that he needed to 
submit a new application. 
Ref: DRN35042332As Mr T didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
is it fair that Barclays wont reopen Mr Ts credit card?
I note Mr T thinks it was unfair for Barclays to have closed his credit card account. And he 
thinks Barclays closed it because of his protected characteristic.
The terms of his contract with Barclays set out that:
We [Barclays] may close your account and require immediate  repayment of your total 
outstanding balance if we reasonably believe that youve broken this agreement regularly.
Mr T had been on a repayment  plan since April 2015, paying less than the minimum 
payment he was contractually required to make. And in November 2015 Mr T didnt make a 
payment towards  his credit card.  Barclays then closed the credit card account to new 
transactions in November  2015. So Mr T hadnt been meeting  his contractual requirements  
for around  seven months. I think the terms and conditions  of the account entitled Barclays to 
close his account  in these circumstances and I dont think this was unreasonable. I also 
dont think it did this as a result of Mr Ts protected characteristic.
Further to this, the terms of the contract also sets out that:
If you or we close your account, the following  will apply:
Youll need to make  all payments that are due on your account
No further payments  will be made from your account so youll need to cancel any regular 
payments and make other arrangements to pay
You will not be able to reopen your account and so you should destroy all cards.
So, given Barclays had fairly closed Mr Ts account,  Mr T was unable  to reopen it. I 
acknowledge that Mr T thinks this is unfair, given hed had the account for over seven years.  
But I cant say that it was.
Mr T is unhappy  that Barclays hasnt allowed him to reopen a new account. But Barclays is 
entitled to decide who its willing to provide lending facilities  to  including providing credit 
cards. Mr T says he thinks  Barclays wont give him a new account because  of his protected 
characteristic. But I havent  seen anything to show thats the case. And I, ultimately,  havent  
seen anything to show that its treated Mr T unfairly in this respect. 
has Barclays treated Mr T fairly in respect to adding a default marker against  him?
A business will record a default marker  where  the account holder fails to keep up with their 
financial commitments. It seems to me that Mr T had largely been in a repayment plan for 
the majority of the time since  April 2015 paying  less than the required minimum payment. So 
he was paying  less than what he was required to pay and he wasnt keeping up with his 
minimum payment. So I cant say that it was unfair  for it to record  a default marker against 
Ref: DRN35042333him. I note Barclays has backdated the default to July 2015 when Mr T first got into financial 
difficulties. And I think this was fair.
Mr T is also unhappy that it sent the default notices in the post despite him asking that it 
send all correspondence by email due to his protected characteristic. Barclays  says that it 
was legally required to send it by post.  I can understand Mr Ts unhappiness in this respect,  
because he did clearly  ask Barclays to only contact him by email due to his protected 
characteristic. And Barclays was required to adhere to this where reasonably  practical. But 
in respect to default  notices, Im satisfied the regulations required Barclays  to send  them in 
the post. In particular the regulations say:
Any notice to be given under a provision of these Regulations shall be in writing and given 
to the debtor  or hirer in paper form.
Given this, while I can understand why Mr T was unhappy the letters  were sent in the post, I 
cant say that Barclays  acted unfairly  in doing  so.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3504233