K821x#15complaint
Mr B is unhappy with the service he received from Aviva Insurance  Limited when he claimed  
on his home  emergency  insurance policy. 
background
Mr B had an Aviva Homeserve home  emergency policy.  Any reference  I make to Aviva  
includes their agents. Mr B is unhappy with the service he received in 2017 and 2018 during 
the course of a claim relating  to his boiler.  
In summary,  Mr B is unhappy because he says Aviva didnt correctly deal with a gas leak 
and boiler replacement at his home. He says that the leak was identified in November 2017.  
Hes unhappy the leak wasnt  sorted  out because it left the house unsafe. He says nothing 
happened until January 2018 when, after more visits, the leak prevented Aviva from fitting a 
new boiler. 
Hes explained he had to get an engineer to turn the leak off and that he had to pay for a lot 
of extra  gas during the time it was leaking. Hes also unhappy that Aviva  dug out a trench  but 
left it open which wasnt safe. He explained  he ultimately arranged for a new boiler to be 
installed by different engineers. Mr B says he is out of pocket by several thousand pounds 
for the costs he incurred  during this period of time.  
In February 2018  Aviva  issued a final response  letter. They said that the engineers  attended 
to fit a new boiler but couldnt because of the gas leak and that the gas meter  also needed 
upgrading. The letter also invited Mr B to send in an engineers report if he was unhappy 
with their engineers  conclusion  that the boiler was beyond economic repair.  
Our investigator looked into what had happened. She assessed the complaint and made  a 
number of recommendations, which  both sides disputed. Her final recommendations  were  
that Aviva  should pay for: 
Mr Bs estimated gas bill of £70.56 for the period of time the gas was leaking
£386.81 for the cost of a new boiler
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
£250 call out charge  (subject to proof of payment).  
Aviva agreed to the above recommendations but explained that theyd need to see an 
invoice or a bank  payment to a business  in order to cost the cost of the call-out charge. They 
also explained theyd  want  to ensure that the engineers gas safe number was provided as 
well. 
Aviva said the policy didnt cover external gas supply pipes and theyd only completed this 
work because it was necessary as part of the boiler installation. Our investigator  agreed that 
the policy didnt  cover work to Mr Bs external pipe in the circumstances.  
Mr B didnt agree. In summary he remains unhappy that Aviva wont pay for the significant 
costs in relation  to the trench.  He says that he is left open to public  liability claims and cant 
afford to get the trench sorted out. So I need  to make a decision.  
Ref: DRN36309102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers issues relating to the gas supply pipe. The policy  terms and conditions  
define the gas supply pipe as:
The gas installation pipework (up to 3.5mm  diameter running from the outlet of the 
gas meter to the isolation valve of any appliance). 
The policy doesnt  cover  the gas supply pipe before  the meter (on the basis it is the 
responsibility of the National  Grid) or any appliance connected to the gas pipe. 
Aviva has a responsibility to handle  claims promptly and fairly and they shouldnt  reject a 
claim unreasonably.  
Im upholding Mr Bs complaint in part for the reasons Ill go on to explain. 
Theres limited  information about  what happened when engineers first attended  
Mr Bs address back in November  2017. Mr B says a gas leak was identified at that 
point. Aviva hasnt provided  much  evidence on that point  but the notes from the visit 
dont make any mention of a gas leak. In any event Mr B didnt do anything further 
until January 2018. If Mr B had been told there was a gas leak Id have expected to 
see evidence of him contacting Aviva much sooner and more regularly
I understand that Mr B incurred the cost of getting the leak sorted out. I think  it is 
reasonable that Aviva cover the cost of this appointment, subject to Mr B providing 
an invoice or evidence of the payment to a company on his bank account. Mr B will 
also need to provide  the engineers gas safe number. I also think  it is reasonable that 
Aviva pay for the additional gas used in the relevant time period which Mr B has 
estimated to be £70.56.
Mr B has provided evidence that in February 2018 a leak on the gas main was 
identified and the supply was suspended. An engineer visited  again a few days  later 
and explained  that the gas meter was some  distance away  from the main  property.  A 
pipe needed  replacing  between the meter and the main building  
The new boiler  couldnt be installed until all of this was sorted out and this took some 
time to organise  there were  several appointments in February and March but some 
of these didnt  go ahead as planned. For example  Mr B says on one occasion the 
wrong size pipe was ordered. I understand that this left Mr B, in the winter time, 
without use of gas at a time when he was experiencing pneumonia and COPD. 
Although Aviva  offered Mr B some  heaters, by that time hed got his own sorted out. 
So I can appreciate  this caused  him some distress and inconvenience. I think  £250 
fairly reflects the trouble and upset he experienced. 
By April Mr B was understandably frustrated with the time that this was taking. Works  
were progressing  but I can understand why Mr B wanted to go elsewhere.  Mr B 
instructed his own engineers. That was, however, his choice. Aviva has agreed to 
pay the cost of the boiler it would have  fitted, at the price it would have paid. As that 
is what they would have offered Mr B I think thats a fair offer.  
Ref: DRN36309103Aviva  says that their policy only covers  internal gas supply pipes as the external 
supply pipes are the responsibility of the provider. That is set out in the terms and 
conditions Ive referred to above. I can see that the quote  for the trench  said it was 
To replace underground gas MDPE pipe from gas meter to gas lever valve  on the 
side of the building. So I think Aviva  has acted reasonably by carrying  out work on 
the pipe between Mr Bs gas meter  and the valve. This goes beyond what  the policy  
covers and I understand was only done  to ensure the boiler  could be installed 
Ive thought about whether it is fair for Aviva to do anything more  in relation to the 
trench, which Mr B says has been left unsafe. The notes on Avivas system say the 
trench was backfilled. Thats consistent with the pictures Ive seen. Its not 
uncommon for home emergency insurance  policies to exclude the cost of reinstating 
a trench  or garden to how it looked  before the work  was done. Mr Bs policy contains 
similar such exclusions in relation to the plumbing and drainage section of the 
policy. And, as the policy only covers  internal  gas pipes, I dont think it is 
unreasonable for Aviva to decline  to cover  the additional costs Mr B wants them to. 
putting things right 
Aviva needs  to put things right by paying:
Mr Bs estimated gas bill of £70.56 plus 8% simple interest  from the date of the 
estimated payment  to the date of settlement*
£386.81 towards the cost of a new boiler  plus 8% simple  interest  from the date he 
made the payment to the date of settlement*
£250 call out charge  (subject to proof of payment) plus 8% simple interest from the 
date of the payment to the date of settlement*
£250 compensation for distress and inconvenience caused by the reasons Ive 
outlined above.
my final decision
Im upholding this complaint in part and directing Aviva Insurance  Limited to put things right 
in the way Ive outlined  above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 20 October  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
*If Aviva considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest  it should tell Mr B how much  its taken off. It should also give him a certificate  
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3630910