K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Zenith Insurance plc didn't pay a claim on his motor insurance 
policy.
In bringing this complaint Mr Rs had the help of a professional representative.  But for ease, 
where appropriate, Ill refer to the representatives comments  as being those of Mr R.
background
I issued a provisional decision on 8 April 2019 and for ease I've reproduced that below. I 
said:
Mr Rs car was stolen twice. On the first occasion  the car was recovered and Mr R picked  it 
up from the police pound.  Zenith thought the car was stolen using a cloned key. Zenith 
contacted Mr R and said that he would need to have the cars engine  control  unit (ECU) 
reset and new keys issued. Mr R didn't want to pay for that work as he felt that if the keys 
had been cloned once  they could be cloned  again. Zenith told him if he didnt get new keys it 
wouldn't cover him if his car was stolen. 
Two months  later Mr Rs car was stolen again  and he made a claim on his policy. Zenith 
wrote to Mr R to say that it would  pay the claim and, after deducting the excess, would  send 
him a cheque for £14,400. But two days later it rang him to say that it had changed its mind. 
It later confirmed  in writing that it had declined to pay the claim.  
Mr R brought his complaint about that to us. Our investigator didn't think  Zenith had handled 
the matter fairly. So she said it should pay the claim, add simple  interest to that sum and pay 
Mr R £500 compensation  for the loss of use of his car and his distress  and inconvenience.  
Zenith didn't  agree so the complaint's  been  passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely I won't uphold  
it. 
Like all motor policies Im aware of Mr Rs policy requires him to take all reasonable action to 
safeguard his car. Following the first theft Zenith was concerned that if Mr Rs car had been  
stolen with a cloned key or similar device once already then the thief could return using the 
same device to steal the car again.  So in order to safeguard the car Zenith  said Mr R needed 
to get new keys. It explained that to Mr R and I don't find that unreasonable.
But Mr R told the repairers Zenith  instructed to replace  the keys that he didn't want them to 
do the work. Mr R told Zeniths  investigator  that he didn't think  it was reasonable for Zenith to 
have expected him to pay for new keys.  But its not clear how he arrived at that conclusion 
that Zenith  expected him to pay. As long as Mr R claimed on his policy for the first theft, 
subject to him paying the policy excess of £600, Zenith would have paid all the repair costs, 
including the cost of replacement keys,  resulting  from the theft. Zenith wasn't expecting Mr R 
to cover the costs of replacing the keys. So I don't think Zenith  introduced onerous and 
expensive post contract conditions, as Mr R has suggested. Mr R was always required to 
take reasonable steps to safeguard his car. Given the circumstances, I don't think needing  
Ref: DRN37721202the keys changed was onerous,  and given that Zenith would have paid Mr Rs claim for that I 
don't think  it would have been  particularly expensive. 
Zenith was prepared to arrange and pay for the necessary work to Mr Rs car in order  to 
safeguard it. Indeed it instructed repairers to carry out that work. And if that had happened  
and Mr Rs car had been stolen  again, Zenith would have  most  likely paid the claim.  But 
Mr R refused to have the work done. He did so in the knowledge  that there was a thief who 
had a key or device  that would allow the car to be stolen.  But he took no action to prevent it. 
Indeed he went  further than that and prevented Zenith from taking that safeguarding action 
by cancelling  the work with the repairer.  He did so in the knowledge that Zenith had told him 
that if his car was stolen it wouldn't pay his claim. 
In other  words Mr R had made a decision not to safeguard the car. He was aware that there 
was a risk of it being stolen but didn't take action to address that risk. I understand he 
believes that if a thief could  clone  his original key then they could also clone any 
replacement. That might be so but if hed followed Zeniths reasonable requests for the keys 
to be changed,  then it wouldnt have had reasonable grounds  to decline any subsequent  
claim. But as Mr R didn't  allow the keys to be changed I think it was reasonable for Zenith to 
decline his claim. And I don't think its fair to say that because it made a mistake initially  in 
saying it would pay the claim - a mistake it fairly promptly corrected - that it should be bound  
by that mistake.  And I think its worth  noting  that while Zeniths  mistake  would have no doubt 
been disappointing for Mr R, I haven't seen  any compelling evidence  that hed relied  upon it 
and changed his position as a result of it, for example by buying  another  car. So I think  it 
was reasonable  for Zenith to decline Mr Rs claim  once it identified  its mistake.
Mr R didn't think that was fair. Amongst other things he said that, when Zenith  wrote  to him 
to say that it would  pay the claim it had affirmed the contract  and so wasn't  allowed to 
change its mind. Ill explain that affirmation of contract  is a legal term arising,  as I understand 
it, when theres been a breach of a contract  term. And the legal position is that once a party 
to a contract  who didn't commit the breach, in full knowledge of the facts,  decided to treat the 
contract as if that breach  hasnt  occurred, they have affirmed the contract  and they can't go 
back on that decision. 
In this case, the alleged  breach of contract was Mr Rs decision not to safeguard his car. And 
the affirmation  of contract would be Zeniths letter to him saying it would pay the claim. So 
Mr R thinks that Zenith has affirmed the contract and its not allowed to change its mind  
about that and reverse  its decision.
It seems  that in this case the file handler  who told Mr R that Zenith would pay his claim  
wasn't aware  that it had previously told Mr R he needed new keys. Although its not clear 
why that might be, as the information is on Zeniths file. So I don't think  it would be 
reasonable for Zenith  to say that it wasn't aware  of all the facts simply because  one of its file 
handlers overlooked  evidence  that was available to him. So there was arguably an 
affirmation of contract.  And its certainly  possible that a court  might  decide that, by saying it 
would pay the claim Zenith  had affirmed the contract. 
But were  not part of the court system. We are an informal  alternative  dispute resolution 
service. And as such we are an alternative  to the courts not a substitute for them.  However, I 
have taken the law and legal consideration into account, in reaching my findings, and having 
done so - in the specific circumstances of this complaint - I don't think it would be fair to 
make Zenith pay Mr Rs claim.
Ref: DRN37721203As Ive said above  Mr R made a decision not to safeguard his car. He did so in the 
knowledge that there was a possibility that a thief had a key that would enable them to drive  
his car away. And also in the knowledge that Zenith had said that if that happened  it wouldn't 
pay his claim. So even if there had been  an affirmation of contract I don't think  it would be 
reasonable to find Zenith should be bound by it. And in those circumstances I don't think  its 
fair and reasonable to instruct Zenith to pay the claim  on the basis of any possible 
affirmation of the contract.
developments
Mr R didn't accept my provisional  decision. He said, via his representative,  that hed been 
severely traumatised by the initial  theft, had suffered financially and this may have affected  
his dealings with Zenith in his decision making.  He said it was clear from his statement that 
he didn't think Zenith would cover the costs  of replacement keys and it should have done  
more to carefully explain this. He said he only concluded that he would have to pay the costs  
himself because Zenith hadn't explained  it.
Mr R said that its reasonable to suppose that if the thieves were capable  of cloning the initial  
set of keys then they could clone a replacement set. And it wasn't possible to say that if the 
keys were replaced that would make it impossible to steal  the car again.
Relating to Zeniths requirement  to replace  the keys; Mr R said it wasn't fair for Zenith to 
introduce new conditions  to an existing contract, as the time to do so was at the outset of the 
contract.
Mr R added that before putting his complaint to us his representative  had offered to discuss  
a compromise position with Zenith.  And he said I may wish to consider awarding a partial  
payment to him by way of compensation  for the inconvenience of loss of the family car. He 
said the idea of insurance is for peace of mind  and financial  security and the family has 
suffered because of this payment refusal.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
Mr Rs said his trauma from the initial theft and financial impact on him may have affected 
his decision making.  And hes suggested Zenith  needed to take more care to explain it would 
cover the costs of replacement keys.
Its common for those who need  to claim on an insurance policy,  following  a theft or other  
adverse event to experience some inconvenience  and indeed  distress.  And where a 
consumer had been severely traumatised by such an event I might expect an insurer  to 
spend a little more time and care to ensure that the consumer  was aware of what was 
happening and their options.
In this case Mr R hasn't  previously referred  to severe trauma in any of his interactions or 
correspondence with Zenith. And, in any early call with Zenith it comments  that the situation  
was difficult. Mr R replied that it wasn't  a difficult situation but there was too much admin 
going on and he couldn't be bothered  to claim.  So while  he was clearly  frustrated by the 
process I don't think it would have been  apparent to Zenith he had suffered a severe trauma.  
Ref: DRN37721204Its also notable that an investigator interviewed  Mr R but didn't refer to any notion  that Mr R 
had suffered severe trauma that might  have affected  his decision making.  So I don't think 
Zenith could have had any understanding of Mr Rs severe trauma. And in those 
circumstances I wouldn't  expect Zenith  to afford Mr R any further consideration than it would 
its other customers in similar circumstances. So I don't think  its reasonable to expect Zenith  
could have anticipated that Mr Rs dealings with it could  have been affected by his trauma.
I agree  that it would be reasonable to expect Zenith to be clear about  what  costs it would or 
wouldn't cover. And it seems that Mr R concluded that he would have to pay for replacement  
keys himself. But Im not persuaded this was because of any failure on Zeniths behalf as the 
evidence I've considered shows that it would  consider paying the costs relating to the theft 
less Mr Rs excess. And, if Mr R was unclear about this, it was open  to him to ask Zenith to 
be clear about whether  or not the costs  were covered.
Mr Rs said that changing the keys wouldn't necessarily have safeguarded the car. I agree 
that's the case. But in the circumstances where  Mr R and Zenith knew that a thief had a 
device/key that would allow him/her to drive  the car away I think  its reasonable that Zenith 
would want to take action to try and prevent that. So I think  its requirement  for Mr R to allow  
the repairer to change  the locks and update  the ECU was reasonable. And, I don't see that 
as a new contract term. Instead I see it as a focus of the existing requirement for Mr R to 
take reasonable steps, in these specific circumstances, to safeguard his car.
Mr R has again referred  to the question of affirmation of contract. Its not for me to make a 
finding on what decision a court  might  come to on that point.  And while I've considered the 
legal position,  in the circumstances of this case I don't  think its fair and reasonable to expect 
Zenith to pay a claim on the basis that one of its claims handlers made a mistake it quickly  
put right. It is relevant  that Mr R didn't  act upon  that mistake as it means he's not out of 
pocket as a result. 
Mr Rs also suggested that Zenith  should  go part way to compensating him for the loss of his 
car. But I would  only suggest a business compensate a consumer where the business  has 
done something wrong thats caused the consumer some form of loss, distress or 
inconvenience. I don't  think that's the case here.  I appreciate that consumers want  peace  of 
mind from their insurance policies (and in this case  the policy is a legal requirement).  But 
insurance policies  aren't designed to cover every eventuality and they all come with 
conditions that the policyholder must abide by in order to make a successful claim on their 
policy. And in the specific circumstances of this case, as set out above, I don't think  Mr Rs 
met those  conditions. It follows that I think it was reasonable for Zenith  to refuse  his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3772120