K822xComplaint
Mrs O has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly increased 
the cost of her pet insurance policy. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mrs O took out, will continue  to cover any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if claims are 
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mrs O. It has accepted 
the information it gave Mrs O about the policy wasnt as clear as it should have been. And 
RSA has offered to pay her £500  compensation for the trouble and upset shes  been caused 
as a result  of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Mrs Os complaint.
Mrs O has told us she is not happy  with the offer RSA has made. 
Its important to be clear that businesses  are entitled to decide how much to charge for the 
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power  to tell a business what its insurance  
should cost. I would be, in effect,  determining or telling a business how it should operate  
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Mrs Os policy is too high or she should 
have been charged less for the policy.
While Mrs Os premium has seen a significant increase, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest RSA has treated  her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder  
in the same position. So I cant say RSA has singled her out and treated her unfairly
compared to its other customers or that RSA needs  to offer her cover for a lower  premium
going forwards.
I understand Mrs O will be disappointed  with this as this wasnt  the outcome she had hoped  
for. I recognise that the situation has caused her significant upset. From what  Mrs O has told 
us it looks like she has had to cancel  the policy as it has become unaffordable  for her. And 
due her pets ongoing medical condition she is unable  to get cover elsewhere. 
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mrs O the information she needed  to understand 
she could end up in the position she now finds herself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Ref: DRN34608402Mrs O chose to take out pet insurance,  so she wanted some  type of cover for her pet. And, 
as she chose to take out a lifetime policy, she clearly had some interest in the greater level 
of cover it provided. If Mrs O hadnt taken  a lifetime policy, she wouldve either had no cover 
at all, and would have had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a reduced  level of 
cover, where she would still have found herself  in a situation where  her pets  conditions  were 
no longer covered. So I think  its likely  she would still have gone ahead  with the lifetime 
policy, even if shed  known the premium could  increase significantly in the future. 
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Mrs O wasnt so 
surprised and upset  when the cost increased significantly  instead  this would have been 
something she was expecting to happen.  And it wouldve  meant that she could have been 
more prepared for the possibility that she might  not be able to afford  to continue with the 
policy and that her pet might lose cover for their ongoing and pre-existing conditions.
I can see that Mrs O has benefitted from the policy, but the compensation RSA has offered 
isnt to compensate  financial  loss. Its to recognise  that better information about the longer-
term costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the trouble and upset  Mrs O has 
experienced. And I think it fairly  compensates Mrs O.
My final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mrs O £500  compensation is fair 
and reasonable.  I dont  require it to do anything further. 
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3460840