K820x#14complaint
Mr N has complained about The Prudential Assurance Company Limiteds (Prudential) 
handling of his request to transfer  the value of his deferred occupational  pension scheme 
(OPS) benefits to an alternative  plan.  He is unhappy  with what  he believes is Prudentials 
over reliance on the critical yield in order to determine whether  or not the transfer was in his 
best interests.
Mr N states that as a result of Prudentials actions he had to accept  a lower transfer value 
and that he has had to incur  fees that he would not otherwise have had to.
Mr N has argued  that Prudential has not treated him fairly.
background
Mr N was working as an adviser  for Prudential in October 2016 when he asked for a transfer 
analysis to be completed regarding the possible transfer of the value of his deferred pension 
benefits in a former employers OPS.
On 25 October 2016 Mr N had received a transfer  value quote  of over £240,000  as at             
6 September 2016. This was guaranteed for three  months. In the event that the required 
completed forms were not returned  to the OPS administrator by 6 December 2016 the 
transfer value  quoted  would lapse and a new transfer value  would need  to be produced.  This 
letter made it clear that Mr N had to get appropriate  advice  from a qualified financial adviser 
before the transfer could go ahead. 
At the time Mr N was aged  58 and he was contemplating  taking some retirement benefits.   
Mr N had savings of around £39,000, investments of around £315,000  and a self-invested 
personal pension  valued at about  £424,000.
A transfer  analysis was completed by Prudential  which determined that a critical yield of 
20.5% was needed in order to match the value  of the benefits being given up in the OPS. 
Prudential didnt recommend the transfer should go ahead saying the critical yield was 
extremely high.
Mr N complained about the outcome  saying  hed been provided  with internal 
communications which confirmed there could be reasons, other than just the critical yield,  
why a transfer might be considered appropriate.
Mr N subsequently  transferred to another provider and in the process  received a transfer  
value around £20,000  lower  than the amount originally quoted.  This was because the 
original transfer value guarantee period had expired and a new lower  transfer  value was 
quoted.
An adjudicator looked into the complaint  and didnt uphold it. The adjudicator  explained that 
a transfer analysis had been completed. This showed that an investment return  (critical 
yield) of 20.5% per annum would be needed  just to match the value of the benefits  given up. 
The adjudicator considered that it was reasonable for Prudential to have concluded  the 
transfer wasnt in Mr Ns best interests  at the time. He was likely to be worse off in retirement 
if he transferred.
Ref: DRN31635942The adjudicator noted Mr Ns concerns that not all of his circumstances, as recorded by the 
adviser, had been  used  to determine  the outcome of the transfer analysis. However, the 
adjudicators view was that the other  factors that might be considered valid reasons were 
unlikely to outweigh  the significance of the critical yield figure given Mr Ns circumstances at 
the time.
In addition, the adjudicator said that Prudential was entitled to decide what business it would 
and wouldnt  accept.  He also said that, in any event,  it was Mr Ns decision to initially choose 
Prudential with there being no guarantee  Prudential would  conclude the transfer  should  go 
ahead. Consequently  Mr N ought  to have been aware that he might need  to find another 
provider to complete  the transfer for him at a later date if he wanted to proceed regardless  of 
the advice he received.
Mr N didnt agree. He said Prudential had breached several of the regulators key principles  
of Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) and this hadnt  been considered  as part of the 
assessment of his complaint. In his very detailed  response Mr N stated that:
1.He wished to retire early.
2.He wanted  to maximise the death benefits  payable.
3.He did not need to provide any benefits for his wife as she was completely financially 
independent.
4.He wanted  to maximise the tax free cash sum.
5.He wanted  to have the flexibility available under a personal pension  arrangement  to 
alter the level of the income that he was taking.
6.He wanted  to control the overall investment strategy as he had to ensure that his 
assets (both pension  and non-pension)  would have to last for many  years in the 
future.
7.This was probably one of the first pension transfers that the new Prudential Pension 
Transfer Service had considered. If Prudential had looked at his individual  
circumstances then the transfer  would have been  able to go ahead.
However, the adjudicator didnt alter his opinion. He explained hed considered the TCF 
principles and found Prudential hadnt  done anything wrong.
As agreement has not been reached  the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is important  to note that when looking  at pension transfers a business such as Prudential 
has to follow  the requirements that are set down  by the regulator. The regulators 
requirements have  been  set out in their publication dated 24 January 2017. Whilst this was 
published after the transfer advice  that Mr N received the publication did not change the 
requirements on a business.  It just set them out as a reminder.
The regulator set out that:
COBS 19.1.1C
Ref: DRN31635943(1) 7A firm must make a personal recommendation when it provides advice on conversion or 
transfer of pension  benefits.
(2)Before making the personal recommendation the firm must: 
(a)determine the proposed arrangement with flexible  benefits to which the retail 
client would move; and
(b)carry out the appropriate pension  transfer  analysis and produce the transfer value 
comparator7.
(3)The requirement  in (2)(b)  does not apply  if the only safeguarded benefit involved  is a   
guaranteed annuity  rate7.
(4)The firm must take reasonable  steps  to ensure  that the retail client understands  how the 
key outcomes from the appropriate pension transfer analysis  and the transfer  value 
comparator contribute towards  the personal  recommendation.
COBS 19.1.2B
To prepare an appropriate transfer  analysis a firm must: 
(1)assess the benefits likely to be paid and options  available under the ceding 
arrangement; 
(2)compare (1) with those benefits  and options  available under the proposed  
arrangement; and 
(3)undertake the analysis in (1) and (2) in accordance  with COBS 19 Annex 4A and 
COBS 19 Annex 4C.
and finally  
COBS 19.1.3A
(1)To prepare a transfer value comparator, a firm must compare the transfer value 
offered by the ceding arrangement with the estimated value needed today to 
purchase the future income benefits  available under the ceding arrangement using a 
pension annuity  (calculated in accordance with COBS 19 Annex 4B and COBS 19 
Annex 4C
Mr N asked for the appropriateness  of the possible transfer to be considered in the 
knowledge that a transfer analysis would be completed in line with the requirements set 
down by the regulator.
Mr N states that he was aware  of this calculation but that it was inappropriate in his case  as 
his circumstances  were so different from the standard assumptions that the answer 
produced of 20.5% was inappropriate.
I note that Mr N has stated that there were other considerations which might make the 
transfer viable  in his case  the provision of potentially  improved death benefits. 
Ref: DRN31635944However, the transfer analysis was completed  based on the Mr Ns circumstances at the 
time. As Mr N wasnt, for example, seriously  ill he didnt have an immediate need to provide 
improved death  benefits such that this would have overridden the critical yield 
considerations.
I also note that Mr N has argued that as his wife was financially independent  there was no 
need for the Prudential to allow for a spouses  pension to be provided on his death. 
Unfortunately for Mr N the regulators requirement  is to value the benefits  that would be 
available under the previous scheme and this would  include a spouses pension. It would 
therefore be inappropriate to determine  a lower critical yield calculation based just on a 
single life pension.   
In the circumstances it was reasonable for Prudential to have deemed the transfer 
unsuitable at the time.  It considered that it was unlikely  Mr C would be able to achieve the 
required annual investment growth of 20.5% per annum just to match  the benefits being  
given up. Like the adjudicator I agree that at the time the other potential reasons for 
transferring did not outweigh  the significance of the critical yield.
A transfer  analysis of accrued OPS  benefits involves determining the capital value of all the 
benefits being given up on a standard set of assumptions and comparing it to the transfer 
value offered. I understand Mr N might have felt he didnt  need the benefits of the OPS as he 
had other  means  of providing for his retirement and he was interested  in taking advantage of 
a substantial transfer value. However in my opinion  Prudentials conclusion  that Mr N should 
not transfer at the time was reasonable.
I note that Prudential has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with a copy of the 
detailed booklet  that sets out Our Advice  Service. This sets out the charges that it will levy 
for with a Defined  Benefit  pension transfer.
It states:
To determine if a defined  benefit  pension transfer  would  be a viable option  for you, 
we would submit a formal  request for a transfer  value  and conduct  a review of your 
financial situation, including  assessment  by our Pension Transfer Specialists. To 
conduct this analysis a charge of £100  (including VAT) is incurred and is payable by 
cheque.
If we believe that you should not transfer  your pension
.we will write to you providing a summary of our analysis.
If you want to proceed you can request a formal recommendation report  and 
Appropriate Advice  Declaration which may allow you to transfer  to another  provider. 
A £500 fee (including VAT) would then apply.
The booklet  also sets out:
Defined Benefit pension transfer  value
The transfer value  is usually guaranteed for around three months.  This means that if 
you wish to proceed with the transfer, then you would have roughly three months to 
Ref: DRN31635945plan what to do with the money and for us to advise you and complete any 
paperwork required.
We aim to process any transfer within the three month guarantee period, however if 
there are unexpected  delays or if you have  already requested a transfer  value prior to 
us being involved  then a revised  transfer  value may have to be requested.
Most defined  benefit pension  schemes will allow one free transfer  value request each 
year, so requesting an additional one could result in a fee. The value could also be 
lower than the original  transfer value. Please note, where this happens we cannot be 
held responsible.
Mr N was able to transfer to another provider  at a later date. The new providers critical yield 
was similar  to Prudentials. However,  Prudential wasnt prepared to accept a transfer  it didnt 
deem to be appropriate.  It had taken a commercial decision to decline to accept transfer  
values where the critical yield was too high. This was to avoid any future risk that a 
policyholder might come back to complain that they should not have been  advised to 
transfer.  
Prudential has also confirmed that it has taken a commercial decision not to accept pension  
transfers on an insistent  customer basis or on an execution only basis.
Mr N would have been aware that it wasnt guaranteed Prudential would agree the transfer 
was appropriate.  As a result Mr N ought to have  been aware there was the possibility hed 
need to find another provider and in doing so the original transfer value offered in lieu of his 
OPS benefits might  expire and a new transfer figure  would need to be requested.
I note Mr Ns application was submitted  in mid/late October 2016 with the transfer analysis 
being issued on 29 November 2016.  In the circumstances I dont think  Prudential caused 
any unreasonable delays to Mr Ns ability to transfer  or caused him an investment loss.
Mr N has said Prudential breached the regulators Treating Customer Fairly (TCF) principle 
in deciding the outcome of his complaint. However I have looked that the regulators 
statement on the Fair Treatment of Customers that was published on 12 May 2015.
This set out that there are six consumer  outcomes that firms should strive to achieve  to 
ensure fair treatment  of customers. These  remain core to what the regulator  expects of 
firms.
1.Consumers can be confident they are dealing with firms where the fair treatment of 
customers is central to the corporate  culture.
2.Products and services marketed and sold in the retail market are designed  to meet  
the needs of identified  consumer  groups  and are targeted accordingly.
3.Consumers are provided with clear  information  and are kept appropriately informed 
before, during and after the point  of sale.
4.Where consumers receive advice, the advice is suitable and takes  account  of their 
circumstances.
5.Consumers are provided with products that perform as firms have led them to expect, 
and the associated service is of an acceptable standard and as they have been  led to 
expect.
6.Consumers do not face unreasonable post-sale barriers imposed by firms to change  
product, switch provider,  submit a claim or make a complaint.
Ref: DRN31635946I have reviewed Mr Ns complaint and I consider that Prudential  has treated Mr N fairly. In 
this case I agree with Prudential that given Mr Ns circumstances at the time it was not 
unreasonable for it to decline to accept the transfer given the very high critical  yield required 
to match  the benefits that would be given up.
It is clear that Prudential did warn Mr N that its advice  might be not to transfer and that if that 
was the case  he would  have to transfer to a new provider if he could find a provider willing to 
accept the transfer  sum on offer.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ns complaint against  The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2017.
Adrian Hudson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3163594