K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that he was mis-sold a term assurance policy by Barclays Bank UK PLC. 
background
Barclays rejected the complaint. In short, it said it has no record  of the sale and wasnt 
responsible for the sale of the policy. The insurer  also confirmed that it has no record of an 
application from Barclays. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The evidence suggests that Mr E submitted an application direct to the insurer.  
If Barclays was responsible for the sale of the policy,  it wouldve been in receipt of 
the commission and there would have  been a record of it, but there wasnt. 
The insurer has confirmed that an application  was received from a business  which  
has subsequently become a part of it. 
Mr E disagrees with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. He 
maintains that Barclays was responsible  for the sale. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. On 
the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr E says Im unable to safely  say 
that Barclays is responsible for the sale of the policy. 
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mr Es strength of feeling  about this matter.
 
He has provided  detailed submissions to support the complaint, which  Ive read and 
considered very carefully. However, I hope  he wont take the fact my findings focus on what 
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by Mr E and Barclays, and reach what  I think is an independent, fair 
and reasonable decision  based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
Barclays, nor the insurer, has any record of Barclays providing advice in relation to the sale 
of the policy  or receiving  any commission for any such advice. 
Ref: DRN31937042The evidence suggests that a third party business  was potentially responsible for the sale of 
the policy. Regardless of whether or not it was responsible, Im unable to say that it was 
Barclays who was responsible. Im also mindful that Mr E made  an application directly for the 
policy or possibly through a third party. 
Whilst I appreciate the points made  by Mr E about  Barclays  that its possible Barclays  was 
responsible for the sale of the policy  based  on the available evidence, Im unable  to safely 
conclude that it was. 
I appreciate Mr Es frustration, but on the face of the available evidence, Im unable to 
uphold this complaint and give him what he wants.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Dara Islam 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3193704