K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains through his broker that Clydesdale Bank Plc delayed producing a revised 
mortgage offer which meant Mr G had to pay additional interest of about  £660. Mr G would 
like this refunded.
background
Mr G made  an application  for a mortgage  and got an offer for £250,000 on 7 September 
2018 which Mr G received on 10 September 2018. Mr G applied for a further £1,250  on top 
of the amount offered.  The request went to Clydesdales underwriters and a revised offer 
issued on 28 September.  During this period Mr Gs mortgage interest rate was based on his 
then lenders standard variable rate (SVR) which  was higher than the interest rate being 
offered by Clydesdale. Mr G believed that the reason  he was paying  the higher rate because 
of the delay by Clydesdale in processing  his mortgage application. 
Our adjudicator didnt  believe  that Clydesdale had caused any delay  and didnt recommend 
that this complaint should be upheld. Mr Gs broker disagreed saying in summary  that there 
was plenty of evidence to show that Clydesdale was at fault for the delay. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs concern is that he had to pay an SVR after his mortgage  product came to an end and 
complains that Clydesdale delayed issuing his mortgage offer. Although  Mr Gs brokers  
complaint relates  to delays after the broker requested  a revised offer the real issue for Mr G 
and Clydesdale  is whether it was the lenders fault that Mr G had to pay the SVR. The 
application appears to have been  begun in early  August. Clydesdale  says that the normal  
timescale for completion is 6 to 8 weeks. It seems to have issued a mortgage offer by 7 
September and a revised offer by the end of September which  is within this timescale. There  
is no suggestion that Clydesdale promised to process the application within  a timescale to 
ensure that Mr G would  avoid having  to pay the SVR.
I can see that the broker had some  frustration in its dealings with Clydesdale after it applied  
for an increased loan on Mr Gs behalf on 10 September. But I noted that in one call that the 
broker was anxious  that the revised  offer be made before the end of September and that is 
in fact what occurred.  It also seems to me that there  were other ways that Mr G could have  
avoided having  to pay the SVR.  It seems that Mr G made his application on 2 August and he 
told Clydesdale that he began paying the SVR on the 20 August. That looks to be a very 
short period  to expect his application to be processed. Mr G presumably could have avoided 
paying the SVR had he applied a reasonable period before the 20 August. If Mr G made  the 
application for the full amount of his borrowing at the time of the initial application, the 
mortgage offer would presumably have  been through by the 10 September.  Finally  there  is a 
gap between the revised mortgage offer being issued at the end of September and the 
redemption of the original mortgage  on 19 October. Mr G paid the SVR during that period 
and I cant see that was the fault of the bank.
Ref: DRN37887062Mr Gs broker  has asked me to look at any delays in Clydesdale  issuing the revised 
mortgage offer after 10 September.  There does  seem to have been  some staff issues and I 
noted that a case  manager was off for a short while during this period. But these  were  short  
term issues such as might effect  any organisation. In relation to the application as a whole 
for the reasons set out above,  I dont  see that Clydesdale has done  anything wrong and I 
cant fairly find it liable to pay the extra  interest that Mr G had to pay. For those reasons I 
cant fairly uphold  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3788706