K820x#14complaint
Miss Ms unhappy with the condition of her house deeds received from Standard Life 
Assurance Limited.
background
Miss M finished paying her mortgage and in August 2018, was sent the property paperwork 
held by Standard Life. Miss M said that when she received the documents,  some  of them  
were either damaged,  missing or unrelated  to her property. She would like Standard Life to 
put things right by paying for replacement  copies. 
Standard Life said it hadnt damaged the information  as it was kept in a secure  environment  
with minimal disruption. It also said that it sent Miss M everything in relation  to her property. 
It said the additional information  Miss M was looking for wasnt  something itd usually hold on 
to. In particular, the conveyancing plans, Standard Life suggested  this would usually be held 
by the solicitors acting  on the customers behalf  and so referred  her back there. 
Our investigator said it was difficult to determine  whether the damage occurred whilst  in 
Standard Lifes  possession. However,  he also didnt  think  the damage  was severe, or 
beyond the realms of general wear  and tear given the documents  had been in storage for 
around 20 years. 
But Miss M didnt agree.  She said that Standard Life has a legal responsibility to ensure her 
documents were  looked after and free from damage  upon redemption. She also said it was 
in possession of the other  information, like the conveyancing plans, because it had already 
sent this information 10 years  ago to her solicitors  following a boundary  dispute with her 
neighbour. 
And so, its now for me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The documents Miss M received back following  the redemption of her mortgage were  slightly 
damaged. Miss M suggested perhaps it happened  whilst being photo copied. Having 
carefully considered  this, I agree  the damage  looks consistent with this as tears  appear 
along either side of the document. I also note the document  had attempted  to be repaired 
with tape. 
Im persuaded that it wasnt Miss M who damaged  the documents, but I cant  say with any 
degree of certainty  how this happened  or whether Standard Life was responsible for the 
damage. However, for the purposes  of this decision,  I can reach a decision based on 
probability, whether  I believe  its more  likely  than not that the damage occurred whilst in 
Standard Lifes  care. 
Prior to reaching my decision I asked Standard Life for more information about  where  these 
documents were  kept. It explained  they were carefully stored in a sealed plastic  file  with all 
necessary information  pertaining to Miss Ms property  at a secured location. It said only 
trained members of staff had access to this information  which  Im persuaded was the case. 
Ref: DRN39661952So, Im satisfied Standard Life has sent Miss M all the relevant documentation  it held as it 
was kept together in a sealed plastic bag with a minimal chance of contamination.  I 
acknowledge Miss Ms argument that it sent additional information to her solicitor 10 years 
ago, but theres  no evidence  of this happening and so I dont  think it fair to uphold  that part 
of her complaint either. 
Standard Life checked back through its contact  notes and was unable  to locate any entry  
related to that event. Miss M subsequently said that she wanted to provide further evidence 
to support her complaint,  but I note nothing new was received.
Standard Life explained the secured  documents  were  moved  twice  in 20 years,  however that 
they remained sealed and so I think its unlikely  damage or loss occurred  as a result. 
I think its also worth highlighting  that theres  no evidence  to show  the condition  of the 
documents when  Standard Life first received them. The damage  could have  been  caused by 
any of the parties  that handled them previously, including solicitors or other vendors. 
Miss M referred  to bailment legislation  suggesting that Standard  Life breached  its duty of 
care by failing  to look after her documents adequately. But given what  Ive just explained,  I 
dont think this is relevant  as theres no persuasive  evidence that Standard  Life caused the 
damage. Further, given what it said about how the documents were stored, Im persuaded it 
took all the necessary steps to ensure they were reasonably cared  for. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3966195