K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  plc(BoS)   mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr C and his late wife, Mrs C, took out a mortgage  with BoS in 2004. At the same time Mr C 
was sold a PPI policy  which  wouldve covered  the repayments on their mortgage for up to 
two years at a time if Mr C couldnt  work. 
Mr C says he didnt know he had the PPI.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Cs complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr C disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Neither party has retained any documents from the sale of the mortgage,  which  includes the 
PPI. This doesnt surprise me as the sale took place over 14 years ago and the policy was 
cancelled over 12 years ago. But I havent  seen  anything  to suggest BoS didnt follow  its 
usual processes and ensured Mr C knew he had a choice about the PPI. The premiums 
were collected separately to the mortgage, so I think Mr C wouldve known that he was 
paying for them. If he didnt know what the payment was for I think he would have queried 
this with BoS at the time. 
So, on the very limited  information I do have, I think its more  likely Mr C understood that the 
policy was optional and he chose to take it.
BoS advised Mr C to buy the PPI, so it had to take reasonable steps to make sure the policy 
was right for him. Looking at Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale,  I think  that it was.
Mr C was eligible for the policy and doesnt  seem to have been  affected  at the time of sale 
by any of the terms which mightve made  it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, 
such as those related  to existing medical conditions  or unusual  employment. Mr C has told 
us about serious  medical problems he has had more recently, but these happened after the 
sale, so I wouldnt expect  BoS to have been able to take these into account.  Sadly,  Mr C 
couldnt claim on the policy either as it had been cancelled  by the time he became  ill.
Mr C only had statutory sick pay from his employer.  I think hed have been entitled  to some 
statutory redundancy pay, too. So if Mr C hadnt been able to work  I think Mr and Mrs C 
wouldve found it difficult to meet their mortgage  repayments and all their other expenses too 
without the PPI. The policy wouldve paid out for up to two years at time, so I think it 
provided a useful benefit.
Ref: DRN30560322The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar products on the market at the same 
time. And I havent  seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs C. Its 
possible that Mr C didnt  receive all the information he ideally shouldve done about  the PPI. 
But I dont think more  information wouldve changed  his mind about buying  the policy. I think 
it wouldve  just demonstrated that the policy was suitable for him in the way Ive described. 
So I dont  think Mr C lost out as a result  of anything BoS did wrong,  so BoS doesnt need to 
refund everything  Mr C paid for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr C back  some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
If it hasnt  already, BoS will make arrangements to pay Mr and Mrs N now Ive issued my 
final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3056032