K821x#15complaint
Ms Ds complaint is about investment advice from GFS (Moray) Ltd (GFS)  in 2017. She 
says the advice was unsuitable and has led to financial loss.
background
Ms D had a Friends Life (now Aviva) Investment Bond (IB)  the Aviva IB. A 2014  
statement from Aviva  says she invested  in the Aviva IB in 2010.
The parties agree that GFS advised  Ms D in 2017 to surrender the Aviva IB and to reinvest  
in a Prudential  policy. The parties differ on the purpose for which they met in 2017  Ms D 
says she sought  advice on withdrawing £5,000 from her investment to support a property 
purchase, but GFS says she sought  to review the Aviva IB as she was unhappy with it. 
Ms D accepted GFS advice to surrender  the Aviva IB and around £75,000 was realised from 
it. In March 2017 £70,000 of the proceeds was reinvested in the Prudential policy.  In 2018 
Ms D complained about the surrender and reinvestment because the Prudential policy had 
depreciated by around £4,000.
In the main,  GFS says:
The Aviva  IB was a purely distribution  and closed  fund with a yield of 3.5%: it was not 
actively managed; Ms D made withdrawals of 3%; she paid 0.7% in adviser fees;  and 
paid a 1% annual management charge.
Ms D sought the investment switch because she was unhappy  with the Aviva  IB and 
the level of service, from the provider, associated with it.
The Prudential policy was a cautious  actively managed fund that offered a 4.5%  yield 
and no adviser charges; however  Ms D made  withdrawals at the rate of 5%; and 
Prudential made a deduction  of 0.95% in annual management charges and, 
erroneously, adviser fees (which  Ms D was invited  to stop by signing documentation 
to the effect).  With the addition  of income, the policy performed better than Ms D 
describes. It was to perform better  from 2018 due to switches made within  it to higher  
risk sub funds, which were done  to aid better  growth.
Performance of the Prudential  policy was affected by Ms D withdrawing more  than its 
yield. However, it was a suitable reinvestment  for her that provided better 
performance, active management and no adviser fees (other than that which  was 
erroneously deducted and was not stopped  by her).
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should be upheld.  In 
the main,  he said:
The balance of available evidence  supports  Ms Ds contention that she met with GFS 
in 2017 in order to look into making  a withdrawal from her investment for her property 
purchase; given  that the sum invested  in the Prudential policy  was around £5,000 
(which is what  she sought  to withdraw) less than she realised from surrendering the 
Aviva IB.
There is fact find evidence that Ms D had a balanced risk profile as an investor  and 
she was retired at the time of the event.  The initial cautious Prudential policy was not 
a mismatch to her risk profile but the subsequent switches within the policy to higher 
risk sub funds mismatched her profile and was unsuitable.
Ref: DRN33650922There is evidence that suggests around 2013  Ms D had some difficulty  dealing with 
Friends Life; the same applies  to 2014; but, also from 2014, there is evidence  that 
she was pleased with the Aviva IBs performance at the time; and her favour  for its 
performance continued into times more recent  to 2017; so, she appears to have been 
contented with the Aviva  IB at the time she was advised to surrender it.
Contrary to GFS  assertion, there is evidence that the Aviva IB was an open 
distribution fund with sub fund switching facilities.
Whilst there is evidence of GFS advising Ms D of the sub fund switches in 2018 there 
is no evidence of a risk suitability assessment for the Prudential  policy  in 2017.
Overall, Ms D does not appear to have  been  unhappy with the Aviva  IB and does not 
appear to have asked  for the investment switch  in 2017; she should not have been 
advised to conduct  that switch given that she was contented  with the Aviva  IB; and 
the Prudential  policy became too risky and unsuitable for her in 2018.
The investigator proposed redress for Ms D to put her back  into  the position she would be in 
if she had not surrendered  the Aviva IB  with the Aviva IB as the specific  benchmark for 
calculation of redress due to her. He also proposed a net refund of fees to Ms D and £200 
for the trouble and upset  caused to her. 
Ms D accepted this outcome. GFS appears to have neither  accepted nor disputed  the 
outcome, but it made enquiries  related  to the proposed redress. All parties, including the 
investigator, thereafter sought and established  clarification  of information relevant to the 
redress calculation exercise.  The matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I consider that the 
investigator has given  meaningful  treatment to the complaint and that his conclusions  are 
well founded. I have  drawn the same conclusions for the same reasons he expressed.
In the absence of evidence  that Ms D expressly  requested the surrender of the Aviva IB and 
reinvestment in something else, the primary consideration should be whether (or not) the 
surrender and reinvestment ought  reasonably to have been  recommended  by GFS. I am not 
persuaded that either should  have been recommended.  
As the investigator  noted, evidence of Ms D having some  issues with the Aviva  IBs provider 
appears to pre-date  the events of 2017 by a number  of years and there is notable evidence  
that she was pleased with the Aviva IBs performance (in terms of income and growth)  up to 
around 2017. There is also enough  evidence  from the deduction from the surrender 
proceeds to support, on balance, Ms Ds assertion that what she wanted in 2017 was advice 
on making a withdrawal from her investment  not the surrender and reinvestment that 
resulted. 
In addition, available evidence suggests that the characteristics of the Aviva  IB were not as 
deficient as GFS has claimed and, with the exception of the adviser fee element, it does not 
appear to have been less favourable (or notably less favourable)  than the Prudential  policy.
The conclusion that the Aviva IB should not have been surrendered is arguably sufficient, on 
its own, to uphold M Ds complaint. The recommendation  to do so was unsuitable. It was 
compounded by the unsuitable sub fund switches in 2018 which, by GFS admission,  
populated the Prudential  policy with higher  risk contents which it hoped would improve  the 
Ref: DRN33650923policys growth rate. Ms Ds risk profile did not change in 2018, it remained balanced and 
GFS would  have been aware of this and should  have  been aware that this was important in 
defining what would  be suitable for her. Exposing  her to higher risks in this context was also 
unsuitable.
Overall, on balance and in the main,  I conclude that Ms D was given unsuitable investment 
advice in 2017 to surrender her Aviva  IB and to reinvest the majority  of the proceeds in the 
Prudential policy.
fair compensation
I consider that fair compensation will be to put Ms D as close as I can to the position she 
would probably  now be in if she had not been given unsuitable advice by GFS. I consider 
that, but for GFS recommendation, she would have retained and continued with the Aviva 
IB. The Aviva IB therefore stands as the natural and precise benchmark for the benchmark  
based redress exercise I have ordered  below.  
I also agree  with the investigators view that Ms D should receive a net refund of fees (the 
monthly renewal fees)  and £200  (for the trouble and upset caused to her by the unsuitable 
investment switch in 2017 and caused to her in the course of her complaint).
what must  GFS do?
To compensate Ms D fairly,  GFS must:
Compare the performance of the Prudential policy with that of the benchmark shown 
below (the Aviva IB) and pay Ms D the difference between  the fair value and the 
actual value of the investment. If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no 
compensation for financial loss is payable.
Pay Ms D £200  for the trouble and upset caused  to her as described above.
Refund to Ms D the monthly renewal  fees that GFS has agreed to refund, with 
interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of each fee payment to the 
date of settlement.
Provide the calculation of compensation to Ms D in a clear  and simple format.
investment status benchmark from (start date) to (end  date)additional 
interest
Ms Ds 
Prudential  
Policy    
    
   Still  exists The Aviva IBDate of surrender of 
the Aviva IBDate of 
settlementNot applicable 
(because the 
calculation end 
date is the date 
of settlement)  
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the Aviva IB as a benchmark.
Ref: DRN33650924Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted  from the 
fair value  at the point  it was actually paid out so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point  on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept GFS to total all those  payments and deduct  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Ms Ds complaint. I order  GFS (Moray) Ltd to perform 
(and pay her) redress as ordered above and to provide  a calculation of redress to her in a 
clear and simple format. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Ms D to accept  or reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3365092