K822xcomplaint
Mr T and Mrs L complain  they were  mis-sold  a mortgage by an appointed representative of 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited.
background 
Mr T and Mrs L had a mortgage taken  out in 2006. Just over a year later, in 2008,  they re-
mortgaged on L&Gs advice. In doing so they paid an early repayment charge (ERC) to their 
existing lender of just under £3,000. They consolidated some unsecured debt, and also 
financed advice on the making  of a will provided by a third party.
Mr T and Mrs L are now represented by a claims management company  (CMC).  On their 
behalf, the CMC says the advice was unsuitable. They shouldnt have re-mortgaged,  or not 
then, and so shouldnt have incurred the ERC.  And they shouldnt have been advised  to 
consolidate their unsecured debt.
L&G thought  the mortgage was broadly suitable. But it offered  to refund the interest  incurred 
by adding the cost of the will to the mortgage, plus £150 compensation. Our investigator also 
thought that Mr T and Mrs L shouldnt have been advised  to consolidate their credit card 
debt  though he thought doing  so with the loan was suitable. So he suggested the cost of 
that should be refunded, and a further £150  compensation paid. As that didnt resolve the 
complaint, it now comes to me for a final decision to be made. Ive reached a different view 
of the case, and so I issued a provisional  decision first so the parties  could comment  on my 
thinking. I said:
I cant see any good reason as to why this mortgage  went  ahead   or, at least, went 
ahead at this time.  It was only just over a year since Mr T and Mrs L last took out a 
mortgage. They dont  appear to have  been  in financial difficulty. Their monthly 
disposable income wasnt huge,  but neither was their overall income   so in relative 
terms they werent, it seems, struggling. 
Ive not been given  any evidence that there was a particular urgent need  to 
consolidate their debt. The record of suitability says that the reason for doing  so was 
that Mr T and Mrs L wanted  one manageable  payment  each month  but I dont think 
having three direct debits  is significantly less manageable than having one each 
month. And given the costs of achieving this, I dont think this was a suitable course 
of action. 
A very small credit card balance, and a personal loan with three years to run, were 
added to a mortgage term of over 20 years  significantly  increasing  the overall 
interest paid. A £3,000 ERC, plus additional interest  on the debt, was paid to achieve  
a saving of less than £100 per month. The additional  costs are substantial, and I 
dont think there was any pressing need  to incur them. A re-mortgage could have 
awaited the end of the ERC period,  and I dont think there was any need to 
consolidate the debt, then or later.
I accept that Mr T and Mrs L signed statements confirming they were happy to 
proceed. I dont doubt they were.  They were acting on the advice theyd  received   
but that doesnt make it good  advice.  I think its fair that the ERC  and the additional 
costs of debt consolidation are refunded to them.
Ref: DRN33271282L&G has offered  to refund the interest charged on the will, plus £150 compensation. I 
think thats a fair offer. I dont think the compensation  needs  to be increased beyond 
that. Ive set out above that the advice caused Mr T and Mrs L financial loss, which  
needs to be refunded to them. But Ive seen no evidence that the loss caused them 
particular distress or inconvenience   or even  that they were aware of it until advised 
by the CMC.
The CMC didnt reply to my provisional decision.  L&G did, and it didnt accept what  I said.  It 
said it had already agreed to refund the costs  of consolidating the credit  card.  It said Mr T 
and Mrs L were aware of the ERC and decided to go ahead  without waiting. And it provided  
an internal note the broker  wrote at the time,  suggesting Mr T and Mrs L wanted  to 
consolidate the debts to reduce their outgoings, so they could use the savings to make  
overpayments  so they could pay their mortgage off sooner to move abroad.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and having reconsidered 
all the evidence, I havent changed  my mind. As I said in my provisional  decision, theres no 
doubt Mr T and Mrs L knew they were  re-mortgaging and paying  the ERC,  but thats not the 
issue. The issue is whether that was suitable; I dont think  it was.
The note about  moving abroad  is new evidence that L&G hadnt provided before. But I dont 
think it adds much to the question of whether the mortgage was suitable. If Mr T and Mrs L 
did want to pay their mortgage off sooner, its not clear why the adviser recommended 
increasing the balance and not shortening the term. And this note doesnt  match  the advice 
recorded in the recommendation at the time  that it was better for Mr T and Mrs L to have 
one direct debit each month rather than three.  The note says that there are initial costs to 
consolidation but larger savings overall; but I think in fact its the other  way round. Mr T and 
Mrs L would  reduce their outgoings  but incur much greater costs overall. If Mr T and 
Mrs Ls objective really was to pay their mortgage  off as soon as possible,  Im not persuaded 
this recommendation  achieved  it.
Ref: DRN33271283my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct Legal  & 
General Partnership  Services Limited  to:
Refund the ERC, adding interest  at the mortgage rate Mr T and Mrs L have  paid from 
time to time;
Refund the additional costs of debt consolidation, calculated as
oThe interest charged to date at the rates Mr T and Mrs L have actually  paid 
from time to time; plus
oThe amount  of the debt currently remaining outstanding on their mortgage 
balance; less
oWhat it would have  cost to pay the debt off unconsolidated
Refund the additional broker  fees charged  as a result of the increased  balance due to 
the ERC  and debt consolidation, adding interest at the mortgage rates Mr T and 
Mrs L have paid from time to time;
Pay the offer previously made  of an interest refund and £150 compensation in 
respect of the wills advice.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3327128