K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs W bought the policy  in 1996 at the same  time as taking out a mortgage. She applied for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in branch. 
I can see there is some evidence of the involvement of a different business  an 
intermediary - in the sale of the mortgage  and possibly the PPI. But the evidence is not 
conclusive and BoS has said it is taking responsibility for the sale of PPI and therefore the 
complaint. As such I will decide this complaint  against BoS.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs W for disability and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £250 a month towards Mrs Ws mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £12.45  a month.  
At the time,  Mrs W was employed as a nursery nurse. She has told us she was entitled to at 
least six months full sick pay as well as six months  redundancy  pay. She has said she had 
no other means of repaying her mortgage should  she be unable  to work. Mrs W has said she 
had a medical condition some  years before the time of the sale.  I will address  this later on.
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  closed in March 2008.
Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Ws representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs W wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ws 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs W about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs W and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
Ref: DRN39820672The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mrs W received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ws complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in March  2008. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
Ref: DRN39820673The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ws case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman (the seller  was Halifax Building  Society at the time)  might  have been 
expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under  the Building  
Societies Ombudsmans  terms  of reference the Ombudsman was required to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs W with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs W, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs W suffered  loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN39820674Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs W and BoS,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below.  
did Mrs W know  she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
This was a sale by branch meeting. And BoS has provided copies of the paperwork 
completed at the time. This includes Mrs Ws mortgage and PPI applications. Looking  at the 
mortgage application, I can see there  is a separate section about  PPI titled  Accident, 
sickness and unemployment insurance , which after a broad description of the cover  asks 
the applicant to indicate by signing in the appropriate box, either Yes,  I would like to take 
advantage of Mortgage Repayments Insurance or No, I do not wish to take advantage of 
Mortgage Repayments Insurance  Mrs W signed the Yes box. If she didnt  want PPI she 
could have indicated  as such and signed the No box.
I can also see that Mrs W signed a separate PPI application, which  set out the cost of the 
cover and the chosen benefit level. 
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs W knew the policy  was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Mrs W says she cant  remember whether BoS provided advice during this sale. BoS says 
this was an advised sale. Because BoS own testimony is that it provided advice  and 
because it doesnt  disadvantage Mrs W in any way  I will consider this complaint on the 
basis that BoS provided advice.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mrs W with reasonable  care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that BoS took some steps to establish whether the policy was a suitable recommendation for 
Mrs W. The adviser had information  about some  of Mrs Ws financial circumstances as part 
of the mortgage  application. And although  a separate  PPI application was completed, which 
had some questions  to try and establish whether Mrs W had a need for the policy   by 
asking questions about her employment and whether shed seen a doctor in the last 12 
months  I dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. 
For example its not clear  from the evidence about  whether Mrs W understood the context  of 
the questions  being asked   in particular about her health. And theres nothing  to indicate 
that Mrs Ws existing means were explored to understand the extent to which she might  
have already been able to manage  her repayments  if she wasnt  working.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mrs W given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN39820675While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mrs W, I do think  its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable 
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Mrs W met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mrs W had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mrs Ws ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if she was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for the employee benefits  she 
says she would  have  been entitled to. Mrs W didnt have  any savings she could fall 
back on, so I consider  the policy would have helped her manage  the consequences  if 
she was unable to work.
-Mrs W was solely  responsible for the mortgage payments.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mrs W.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mrs W. There 
was nothing about Mrs Ws employment  or occupation  which  would have made it 
difficult for her to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions  Mrs W has told 
us about a problem with her foot she had before  the sale (1989.) But based  on the 
available evidence  and the policy wording around the limitation for claiming  for 
existing conditions, this doesnt appear to be caught  by the specific terms. I say this 
because the policy  only excluded things Mrs W saw a doctor about in the 12 months 
prior to taking the policy out and which recur  within the first two years of cover. 
Mrs W says she cant  remember whether she saw a doctor about her condition in the 
preceding 12 months. But the contemporaneous evidence - the PPI application - 
records that she answered No when she was asked about this. Im mindful too that 
the her condition happened seven  years prior to the sale.  So despite  Mrs Ws 
representative describing her condition as ongoing (albeit in her PPI questionnaire 
Mrs W has not said that her condition persisted or caused her ongoing problems) I 
dont think this was likely  the case  or certainly not to the extent that she was caught 
by the specific  policy  terms for this condition. I therefore dont think Mrs Ws condition 
made the policy unsuitable for her.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mrs W be disabled or unemployed 
for 30 days before she could  make a claim and the fact the policy would  only pay 
benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still provided 
valuable cover given:
Mrs Ws circumstances, including her employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
period) and the limits to those  provisions, which mean the policy  could play an 
important role after those  provisions  were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mrs W be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her home.
Ref: DRN39820676Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mrs W sufficient information  
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BoS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mrs W was given a broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if she was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment.) I have reached this conclusion  
because I think its unlikely Mrs W would have taken  out the policy without any sense of what  
the policy was for. Im mindful  too that both the mortgage and the PPI applications  outlined  
the nature  of the cover.
Im satisfied Mrs W understood the cost of the cover and the benefit amount  both of these 
things were set out clearly  in the PPI application. But the evidence  from the time of sale 
doesnt tell us whether BoS gave  sufficient information about the exclusions or limitations 
before Mrs W agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mrs W, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mrs W all of the information  she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ws representative  has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ws. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ws representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ws representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs W has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
Ref: DRN39820677what effect did BoS shortcomings have on Mrs W? To what extent  did Mrs W suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs W. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs W 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs W 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BoS done  things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mrs W, I have found that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mrs W has suffered  loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, 
Mrs W would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken  out the policy  in any 
event.
Mrs W says she wouldnt  have taken it out and believes  I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mrs W had some interest  in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised her that there was a suitable  product 
she could buy that would  protect her mortgage payments in the event she was unable to 
work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded she wanted that 
product. But she made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  she 
thought she was getting is not exactly what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mrs Ws circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, the information Mrs W was given  about  the cost and the 
benefit was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the 
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs W thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease or condition  that Mrs W 
had seen a doctor about during the 12 months before the start date where that 
sickness, disease or condition recurs within 24 months of the start date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
Ref: DRN39820678The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs W 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs W be unable to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified her to do; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mrs W pause for thought   and may well have caused her to conclude the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs W from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mrs W says she had a medical  
condition prior to taking  out PPI, for the reasons I set out in detail above  I dont think  her 
condition was caught by the policys existing medical condition  limitation.  And I havent seen 
any evidence to suggest she wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions. So I 
still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs W might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs 
W from taking out the policy, Mrs W, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to 
take it out.
If Mrs W had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if she was unable (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
BoS may not have told Mrs W that any claim she made would be limited to a 12-month 
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for. But 12 
months was a longer period than she would have received full sick pay for and what  she said 
her redundancy entitlement was. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mrs W would  still have  thought a policy that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  she be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure her home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  her sick pay or redundancy money for other use, such  as ongoing 
fixed household  expenditure.
Ref: DRN39820679So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mrs W would still have  taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if she was made redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. Mrs W was solely responsible for her mortgage payments and 
she didnt have any savings to fall back. And in these circumstances I consider it more likely  
than not Mrs W would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the limitations 
on cover.
Mrs Ws representatives say the rules  about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs W would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs W 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs W believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process  
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs W in the position she would have  been  in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
BoS should pay Mrs W compensation,  as that would  put her in a better  position  than she 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ref: DRN398206710Im also aware that Mrs W thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BoS 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to act fairly  
and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  
but because the overall  information BoS gave Mrs W, in the way it did, was insufficient to 
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 1996 when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ws representative says a court  might  take if it 
were to find BoS negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mrs W and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs W in a better position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3982067