K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has acted unfairly  and 
unreasonably by refusing to allow them to pay their mortgage using a pre-paid credit card. 
They want  to be able to use the card to pay the mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs L had a mortgage with Tesco. Mr L was a director of a company and wanted to 
use a pre-paid credit card in the companys  name to either pay lump sums  or regular 
payments into the joint personal mortgage  (in order to benefit  from loyalty  points). Tesco  
refused, saying that its terms  and conditions made it clear monthly payments were to be 
made by direct debit,  and credit cards werent  in the list of acceptable methods for lump sum 
payments in the terms and conditions. It also noted that the mortgage wasnt in the 
companys name; Tesco said the mortgage had to be paid from a personal account from a 
party to the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to us, saying  that the credit  card couldnt be used if there  wasnt 
money on it (so it wasnt really a credit card in their view), and the company was solely 
owned by Mr L. The investigators view was that Tesco wasnt at fault. She pointed out the 
terms and conditions of the mortgage  made  it clear  credit cards werent an acceptable  
method of payment, and these were  accepted by Mr and Mrs L when they took out the 
mortgage. The investigator didnt think it was unfair or unreasonable to require  payment  of a 
mortgage from a party  to the mortgage  (or from their personal account).
Mr and Mrs L disagreed. They said a pre-paid credit card should  be acceptable, as should 
payment from a company. Mr L also added that few people read the terms and conditions.  
The investigator explained that this service cant require a business to change  its business 
practices.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the mortgage form part of the contract between the parties.  
Mr and Mrs L accepted  the terms and conditions  when they accepted  the mortgage offer. 
The terms and conditions  are clear that monthly payments can only be made  by direct debit 
and for lump  sum payments, credit card payments arent accepted. Legally, Tesco isnt at 
fault.
But I also thought  about whether Tesco is acting fairly and reasonably  in relying  upon  the 
terms and conditions. I think it is. The terms and conditions  are clear about  credit cards not 
being acceptable. And there are good policy reasons why credit cards  arent  acceptable  
effectively, debt is being used to pay another  debt. Credit card debt is generally more 
expensive than mortgage debt, so using  a credit card to pay a mortgage can be a warning  
sign of financial difficulties. The conversation about not being able to use a credit  card can 
lead to the lender gaining enough  information  to help such a consumer.
Mr and Mrs L say that a pre-paid credit card is different. I appreciate  their point, but its still a 
credit card and lenders  should treat all consumers wanting to use credit cards in the same  
way (allowing for exceptions where  appropriate;  this isnt such a case in my view). 
Ref: DRN35456492Mr and Mrs L also said that most people dont read the terms and conditions; that is their 
choice but its fair and reasonable  for lenders to expect consumers to do so. 
Due to money laundering regulations and other  legal  issues, its fair and reasonable for 
lenders to require  payments towards a mortgage to come from a personal account held in 
the name of a party to a mortgage.  A company is a separate legal person to its director  or 
shareholder, and cant be treated as the same  person as the director  (to so do would defeat 
the whole  point of limited  liability). Using company money could lead to the money  being  
recovered from Tesco at a later date if the company became insolvent.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to accept or reject  my decision 
before 10 October  2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3545649