K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid)  irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four payday  loans  that Quick Quid provided to Mr R from September  
2009 onwards.  Mr Rs last loan was provided in June 2010.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and thought  the complaint about loans two 
to four should  be upheld. 
Quick Quid disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr R 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans two and three would most 
likely have shown that:
Ref: DRN37404202the loan repayment required represented  a significant proportion  of Mr Rs income.  In 
these circumstances,  there was a significant  risk that Mr R wouldnt have been able 
to repay  this loan without undue difficulty or borrowing  further.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Quick Quids lending history with Mr R, I think that 
Quick Quid should  reasonably have  seen that Mr R was unlikely to have  been  able to make 
his loan repayments in a sustainable manner when it provided loan four. I say this because:
by the time of loan three, Mr R had owed Quick Quid  money  for a period of 
approaching nine months. And loan four was for more than double what Mr R first 
approached Quick Quid for in September 2009.  In my view,  Mr R owing Quick  Quid  
money for this period  of time, in these circumstances, was in itself a clear 
demonstration of Mr Rs inability  to settle his loans over the life of the credit 
agreement.  
Mr R was given loans  for periods that cannot reasonably be described as short-term. 
And, in my view,  Mr R paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service an 
increasing debt to Quick Quid over an extended period.
I think that Mr R lost out because Quick  Quid provided loans two to four because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Rs indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of deferrals and the extended  period of time he owed Quick  Quid  money 
was likely to have  had negative  implications on Mr Rs ability to access mainstream 
credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans two to four and Quick  Quid should  put things 
right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loans two and three;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all interest and charges applied to loan four from the outset. Any payments  
Mr R has made towards loan four so far should be deducted from the new starting 
balance;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Its likely  that an outstanding balance will remain  on loan four even after all the interest  and 
charges are removed. Quick Quid can deduct this outstanding  balance  from the 
compensation it now needs to pay Mr R should  it wish to do so.
my final decision
Ref: DRN37404203For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3740420