K821x#15complaint
The Homeowner  complained about  their building  warranty  provider National House-Building 
Council (NHBC). Having  bought their property they found a number of issues with it, and 
continued to do so over the coming years. NHBC agreed to resolve some issues  but not 
others, and The Homeowner  remains unhappy  with its replies.
background
The Homeowners house  was built in 2013/2014. When it was completed NHBC issued a 
warranty for it. That was February  2014.  
The Homeowner  contacted NHBC about  various problems theyd found with their home. 
NHBC agreed that some issues amounted to defects,  but not others. The matter  rumbled on 
over an extended period  with The Homeowner ultimately complaining to us as they were 
unhappy about what NHBC had said it was and wasnt liable for. The Homeowners initial 
concerns were decided  upon by one of my ombudsman colleagues but when The Homeowner 
made a further  complaint (with NHBC having  issued  three final responses,  made a settlement 
offer and paid £400 compensation for upset caused), that came  to me. I noted  that 
The Homeowners concerns dealt with a number  of issues and that our jurisdiction to consider 
complaints about  activity  undertaken  by NHBC is limited. I, therefore,  considered  and decided 
upon which parts of The Homeowners  complaint I could issue  findings on.
In short,  I told both parties that I can and will consider:
NHBCs liability under section 1 for all issues detailed  in the pre-completion work list.
NHBCs liability under section 2 for cavity wall insulation, fans  including NHBCs 
settlement for this issue, the kitchen being  cold  including  NHBCs settlement for this 
issue;
NHBCs decision to refuse cover/liability for the firewall, creaking ceiling and burst pipe, 
stairs creaking;
The content and reasonableness of the November  2017 settlement offer.  
How NHBC handled the matter after 16 June 2017.
Both parties  then provided some further  comment for my consideration, and NHBC provided 
further evidence.  I considered  all that, as well as reviewing the relevant evidence  already held, 
and made  a provisional decision  on the parts of The Homeowners complaint Id said I could 
consider (as summarised in the bullets above).
In short  I recommended that NHBC provides  settlement  for resolving  the issue  with the fan in 
the kitchen and replacing a wooden panel. I also thought it should pay The Homeowner £100  
compensation. 
NHBC said it accepted my findings. It said it proposed to provide a cash  settlement for these 
items paid against  a quote from The Homeowner to show  what the cost to them will be for 
completing these two specific pieces of work.
The Homeowner  was unhappy with my findings. They said the warranty had been  issued in 
February 2014 not July 2014  as my background had stated (Ive now changed this). They  said 
They felt my approach  was wrong  and needed reviewing as their concerns about the property, 
which theyd drawn  to our attention throughout their complaint, particularly in respect of the 
firewall, equated  to a serious risk to life. 
Ref: DRN35474212my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry  my provisional findings upset The Homeowner, and I can assure them that I have 
not at any time sought to dismiss or diminish  their complaint. But as Ive explained in my 
previous jurisdiction decisions, my remit, in terms of what  parts of their concerns I can 
assess, is limited. This service is also not the regulator for either the insurance  or the 
building industry.  So whilst I know The Homeowner is concerned about NHBCs practices,  
as explained in previous  decisions, I cant comment on that. Nor does such an accusation  
give me extended powers to assess parts of their complaint  that are otherwise,  as explained 
in previous decisions, outside of my jurisdiction. 
Ive set out my key provisional findings below. Ive interspersed them  with The Homeowners 
replies and my final findings. With regret for the further upset I know this will cause 
The Homeowner, my view on their complaint has not changed.
I said provisionally:
Section 1
I explained in my previous decision why I felt able to consider The Homeowners complaint 
that NHBC should provide settlement to them under section 1 of the policy.  In short, 
The Homeowner  has been  given a list of works that NHBC had determined needed to be 
done during the course of the propertys construction.  Ive previously  referred to this as the 
pre-completion worklist but, to be clear, that is a title Ive ascribed to it for ease of 
reference. When it was shared  by NHBC with The Homeowner it had no title. The 
Homeowner thinks the work detailed in this list was never completed and NHBC should now 
undertake it due to the cover afforded by section 1. The Homeowner thinks that many of the 
issues set out in the list are causing  the problems they have been experiencing with their 
home, including issues claimed for and declined by NHBC under either section 2 or 3 of the 
policy or both. NHBC says there are a number  of reasons why a claim under section 1 
should fail. Notably for me, its explained  how the list of work  came  about, and that no 
deadline for completion of this work was given.
The policy says (NB: throughout Ive been referring to the developer of The Homeowners 
property whereas here NHBC  uses the term Builder):
We will pay you the Cost of any work  that (before the date of Completion  and at our sole 
discretion) we instruct the Builder to do to complete  the construction  of your Home and that 
the Builder does not complete in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with NHBC
Requirements within the time set by us.
So for me to say NHBC  has any liability under  section 1 for any work set out in the 
pre-completion list, before I even get to the point of considering evidence about  what is or 
isnt outstanding, I have to be satisfied  that NHBC:
Instructed the developer to do work to complete the construction of the property; and
That the instructions  werent completed  within the deadline  set. 
Ref: DRN35474213In respect of The Homeowners home NHBC was not in control of it being  built.  NHBCs sole 
interest was to undertake inspections in order to determine whether it was willing to bear the 
risk of offering its warranty for the property. So when NHBC set out a list of work for the 
developer of The Homeowners home  to complete, it did so in respect of ensuring the risk it 
was looking to take on was agreeable to it. It did not do so with a view to ensuring the 
developer completed  the construction of the property. Nor did NHBC set a deadline by which  
the work  it said was required needed  to be done.  
So with regret for the upset I know this will cause The Homeowner, Im not prepared to give 
further consideration to their request for NHBC to be made to settle  for certain works by 
reason of the cover afforded by section  1 of the policy. That is because it is my view that the 
pre-completion work  list does not amount  to an instruction by NHBC for the developer to 
complete the construction of the property by a certain deadline.  As such the claim under 
section 1 fails.
The Homeowner  said they feel Ive manipulated the policy wording to NHBCs advantage. 
They said they feel that where any timeframe  is referenced in respect of a house being built,  
it is implied this will relate  to activity before the build is complete. So The Homeowner thinks 
it isnt fair for their claim to fail under section  1 merely because  NHBC didnt specify  a 
timeframe beyond that which was always implied.  The Homeowner conceded that NHBC 
was not in control of the build of their property but said this doesnt  absolve it from 
responsibility  it was assessing  the risk at the property so, The Homeowner said,  it had a 
legal and moral obligation to ensure the property was safe. And they have call recordings 
which evidence it wouldnt offer a policy where something like a firewall is missing.
I have applied the policy wording as I am required to do in a complaint such  as this. In 
compiling the work list in question NHBC was not instructing the developer in respect of 
completing the build of the home, rather it was telling it what  was needed for it to provide a 
warranty.  So Im satisfied  that the cover under section  1 isnt available to The Homeowner in 
the circumstances here.  And, whilst I fully understand that The Homeowner is concerned  
about how NHBC acted  in respect  of the pre-completion/pre-warranty checks  that it did, Ive 
previously explained  that the rules which I have to abide  by mean I cant  consider this 
non-regulated activity.  I understand  that this is an extremely important and worrying  issue  for 
The Homeowner  and Im sorry  my findings,  which dont generate  the positive outcome they 
were hoping for, have  caused and will cause  them further upset and distress. But I remain  of 
the view that NHBC is not liable  to The Homeowner under section 1 of the warranty.   
My provisional findings continued with consideration about  issues related to section 2 of the 
warranty: 
Section 2
I said provisionally:
cavity wall insulation
NHBC had told the developer in a resolution  report in 2016 to rectify and replace any 
missing insulation and this was not done by the deadline set of 30 September 2016. But 
I note that the report also referred to this being missing insulation  and air ingress as 
identified by the thermal imaging report undertaken in March 2016. Ive considered  that 
report and it does not identify any issues with cavity  wall insulation. And the insulation issues  
that are identified, are included in NHBCs 2017 settlement offer.  I know  The Homeowner  
Ref: DRN35474214feels the house is cold and that cavity wall insulation must be missing,  but Ive seen no 
evidence either  of this or of NHBC being  liable for such under section 2 of the policy.
The Homeowner  said theyd shown previously that there was cavity wall insulation  missing 
and had offered  to provide further evidence in this respect. They  feel Im not clearly  
representing all of the available information.
I know The Homeowner feels that many  of the issues at their home are interlinked and 
theyd like everything reviewed in light of that. But Ive explained before I cant  do this. 
NHBCs liability under section 2 of the policy for resolving  cavity wall insulation rests  solely  
with any issues found or identified  in the thermal imaging report  it commissioned. The 
Homeowner has seen a copy  of that report; it identifies a number of issues  causing and 
allowing heat seepage from the home. Upon review I note this does include an issue with 
insulation potentially missing from a wall in the front bedroom. But this is the only reference I 
can see to anything that might relate to missing cavity wall insulation. And, as I explained in 
the section of my provisional findings  entitled  kitchen is extremely cold NHBCs 2017  
settlement offer took into account all the causes of heat seepage identified by the thermal  
imaging report. Im not persuaded NHBC has any further outstanding liability in this respect, 
so Im not going  to direct  it to do anything more.  
My provisional findings on section  2 continued:
fans
The Homeowner  has a lot of issues with the fan system in place at their property, and they 
believe NHBC has offered an amount for resolving  these issues  within  its 2017 settlement. 
But they are unsure how it could do that when  it has never got to the heart of what  system 
they actually have at the property. Whilst I dont wish to cause The Homeowner further 
upset, I dont think NHBC is offering  to resolve  all their concerns about the system as a 
whole. NHBC, in its settlement offer said specifically that it accepted liability for the following:
Fan to kitchen blows  out then gets taken in via other fan, and is weak.
But I note that when NHBC showed  us the breakdown for its offer, there  was no work 
detailed therein which would resolve  this issue. So the monetary total of its settlement offer 
did not include a cost for this work.  I know  NHBC  now says its offer of settlement for this 
issue was a mistake, which is why a cost for it was not included in its schedule of works, but 
I think its a bit late in the day for that argument  to reasonably be given any weight. NHBC 
set out very clearly  in its final response  of November 2017 what  it accepted  it was and 
wasnt liable for. It said it accepted liability  for this single issue regarding  the kitchen fan. 
I think NHBC reasonably has to make an additional  payment to resolve this issue. To date 
though Ive not seen  any estimate detailing what this would entail or cost. Ill consider  
proposals in response  to my provisional  findings.  Or, if none  are forthcoming, my final 
decision will include a direction for this to be resolved.
The Homeowner  said I need  to take into account the back story  of this issue,  the errors 
NHBC made  during  its assessments undertaken as part of the resolution service. They said 
they cant currently get a quote for this work.
Ive explained  previously that I cant  consider everything The Homeowner would like me to in 
respect to the concerns they have about the ventilation fan system in place at their home.  
Im not going  to go over that again here. NHBC offered to resolve the issue of Fan to 
Ref: DRN35474215kitchen blows out then gets taken  in via other fan, and is weak. But the 2017  settlement 
offer it made didnt  allow for that work.  It reasonably  owes The Homeowner a settlement in 
this respect. I realise it will be difficult for The Homeowner, at this time, to obtain a quote  for 
this work  but, once  They are able, they can forward it to NHBC.
My provisional findings on section  2 continued:
the kitchen is extremely cold
The Homeowner  believes  a heater is needed in the kitchen. NHBC assessed the kitchen and 
accepted some further work was needed to bring the room in-line with its technical  
requirements. It says it included the cost of this work in the cash settlement set out in the 
November 2017  final response. But it said it doesnt  agree with The Homeowner  that a heater 
is needed.
On reviewing the file I note that the developer  has actually offered to fit a heater  for The 
Homeowner. But they believe  that alone  wont resolve the problem  particularly as insulation 
will need  to be removed  from under kitchen units to fit the kickplate heater. The developer 
offering to fit a heater,  in my view, reasonably absolves NHBC from any liability  it might  
otherwise have for that issue. But I still need to look at the other repairs suggested for the 
kitchen.
The thermal  imaging report found  cold spots in the house; largely at the front of the house 
where the kitchen  is situated. The settlement NHBC offered of £1,741  takes into account  the 
work recommended in the thermal imaging report felt necessary to resolve  the cold spot 
issues, not just those in the kitchen. I know The Homeowner feels  that removing the insulation  
from below  the kitchen units will allow further drafts into the home, but Ive seen no evidence  
of that. Hopefully  resolving the cold air ingress issues,  as identified by the thermal imaging 
report and allowed for by NHBCs offer of settlement, along with installing the heater as 
offered by the developer,  will improve the temperature  in the kitchen. I certainly see no reason 
why it wouldnt and I dont  think that it is unfair to try and resolve the matter in this way. 
For the avoidance of doubt I think the sums NHBC has allowed for this work are reasonable. 
Ive seen nothing  from The Homeowner  that makes me think  it will cost them more to do that 
work.
The Homeowner  said I clearly didnt understand that fitting a kick-plate heater with insulation  
stuffed under the cabinets and no firewall,  would present a real risk to them  and the property. 
They said Im not linking issues together as theyve stated  time and again I should do, 
because there are issues with the thermal imaging report and issues  causing  heat loss that 
arent included  in it.
I didnt say that in order  to resolve matters, the heater should merely  be fitted. I said that the 
programme of works as a whole should  prevent the heat seepage/air ingress at the property, 
thus meaning the insulation under the units is no longer needed, which  could allow the heaters 
to be fitted. This, as a package, as far as the issues that I can consider are concerned, should 
resolve the issue of the kitchen being cold. If the kitchen remains cold, then that may well be 
caused by issues  which I cant consider  as part of this complaint.  
My provisional findings continued with consideration being  given to NHBCs decision to refuse 
cover/liability for certain issues:
Ref: DRN35474216NHBCs decision to refuse cover/liability
I said provisionally:
firewall
The Homeowner  says one side of their loft doesnt  have  a firewall, and the local council have 
told them  there should be one. NHBC has said that if this is a defect it wasnt identified  to it 
or the developer within the first two years (which  ended in 2016). Regarding the part of the 
warranty for cover in years  three  to ten, NHBC says there is no cover in this respect for this 
issue because there is no damage.
The Homeowner  has recently told us that they only became aware  of this issue  in 2018, at 
which point they drew it to NHBCs attention. But NHBC and The Homeowner were  
discussing and considering the firewall  issue long before that. I say that as it is mentioned in 
NHBCs May, June and November 2017 final responses. I noted in my previous  jurisdiction  
decisions that The Homeowner had said this was first identified  as a problem in 
January 2017.  
Unfortunately for The Homeowner,  whichever  of the two dates they have given is used, and 
whilst I know this is a serious concern for them, I cant  reasonably say NHBCs position  is 
unfair. The warranty does  not offer cover for every defect whenever its found. And that is 
regardless of the fact that the homeowner, and beneficiary of the policy,  is not usually an 
expert in building matters.  Cover  for defects  only operates  where the issue  is drawn to the 
developers attention during the first two years of cover.  Here  that ended in 2016.  If a defect, 
in certain parts of the houses structure,  causes damage, and the damage is drawn to 
NHBCs attention in years three to ten of the warranty, then NHBC will be liable for resolving 
the damage. But the absence of a firewall, assuming for a minute  that is a defect which the 
cover in years three to ten would  respond to, is not causing damage.  I dont intend to make  
NHBC resolve this issue. 
The Homeowner  clarified that it was 2018  when they had received expert confirmation in 
respect of the firewall,  and this had come  from a surveyor.  They said they felt it was telling 
that I had neglected to mention the surveyors involvement. The Homeowner thinks  its unfair 
that reliance is put on this issue  not being  identified by them  in the first two years  because 
they think NHBC was aware  of it the whole time, since before the property was completed. 
They said this is a serious issue and it wasnt fair to minimise it by merely assessing it 
against the policy terms. 
I can assure The Homeowner that I know this is a very serious issue  for them. But a matter 
being serious doesnt mean I can reasonably ignore the terms of the warranty in place. 
Whilst this service operates under a fair and reasonable remit, that applies equally against  
both the complainant and the respondent. Our starting point is always  the terms and 
conditions of cover. From  there if there have been  failures by a respondent that give us good 
cause to make it act outside of the policy then our findings and award will reflect  that. But 
here Ive not seen  any good reason which would allow me to fairly and reasonably find that 
the policy requirements should be set aside. Im satisfied that NHBCs view that the claim for 
the firewall isnt covered under either  section  2 or 3 of the policy is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN35474217My provisional findings continued:
creaking ceiling and burst pipe
A pipe in a ceiling burst and The Homeowner  felt this was related to a creaking noise theyd 
been hearing for a long time and had told the developer about. When they fixed  the leak 
they discovered the wrong type of pipe had been  used. They think  this means that the 
pipework at the property  as a whole is likely to be defective. NHBC said it couldnt  look at 
this as a potential defect under section 2 because it didnt think it had been  reported to the 
developer in the first two years  of cover, and it wasnt reported to it until after that time. It 
also declined liability under section 3.
The Homeowner  reported  to the developer that the heating was banging and noisy,  and 
NHBC investigated. But The Homeowner says what they meant  was that the whole system; 
boiler and pipes was noisy, which they felt means  the creaking  ceiling  was identified too. Im 
not persuaded that I can reasonably say that is the case. Ive seen the original snagging list 
prepared after The Homeowner bought the property. Whilst it does include heating banging 
and noisy, it doesnt refer to the ceiling creaking. I know  that following investigations by their 
home insurer it was determined that a leak which had occurred in the area the ceiling was 
creaking had resulted from the wrong  type of pipe being used. But it seems  this defective 
installation was only discovered around the time the two-year defects period expired and 
I dont see that it was drawn to the developers attention at that time. I know the creaking 
noises at the property continue and The Homeowner is very concerned that this might mean 
there are other problems  with pipework yet to be discovered  but I cant currently  fault 
NHBC for saying the issue  of the creaking noise, including the defective pipe, isnt covered 
under section 2.
NHBC hasnt been  entirely clear  as to why it declined liability under section 3 of the policy. In 
terms of the ceiling creaking, that aspect,  if it were thought to be a defect covered by 
section 3, was not causing damage. And damage is required for section 3 to apply. The leak 
which occurred was damage but this wasnt caused by the creaking ceiling. In respect of the 
leak, I think NHBC believes its position  was prejudiced by The Homeowner completing work  
without giving it a chance to look at the pipework they had concerns about. I can understand 
that NHBC would  have concerns in this respect, but I also understand why The Homeowner 
had to do the work. And I see their home  insurer has explained what  it found  when  
completing repairs. I think that its reasonable to rely upon those findings.
The home insurer found that the leak, and the damage which  resulted, had been  caused 
because a piece  of inlet pipe had been  used as part of the heating system when it shouldnt 
have been. On this basis  it concluded that piece of pipework equated to a defective 
installation. So, in simple  terms,  a defect (incorrect  pipework) caused damage  (a water leak). 
Damage caused  by a defect is covered under section 3. But the cover is limited  it doesnt 
apply to any and all defects which cause damage.
Having considered the policy, section  3 would not respond where damage has been  caused 
by defective pipework. The list of defects is clear and the only reference made which  could 
be seen as referring to pipework is regarding below-ground drainage. That is not relevant to 
the issue in question here. 
Whilst Im sorry to disappoint The Homeowner, I think it was reasonable for NHBC to say 
there was no cover  available for either of these issues under either section 2 or 3. 
Ref: DRN35474218But I think I should be clear at this stage  even if I change my mind  on this, theres nothing  
that would  allow me to reasonably say NHBC should now check all of the pipework at 
The Homeowners home. The policy only requires NHBC to respond to specifically notified 
defects or instances of damage caused by defects  just because  one defect is found  
doesnt mean the whole  installation is likely faulty, and just because  one instance  of damage 
has occurred, NHBC doesnt have to act to prevent the possibility of any similar damage 
occurring in the future. As I understand it the defective piece of pipe was replaced and the 
water damage was resolved  so there is nothing left for NHBC to do.
The Homeowner  said they feel that Ive failed to review all of the evidence  which  links 
everything together. They think  Ive twisted their words to make it look like they dont have a 
claim. The Homeowner  said they think Ive contradicted myself as whilst Ive acknowledged 
NHBC had a chance to check  the pipes, Ive referred to NHBC having  accused them  of 
having prejudiced its position by repairing the leak before it had the chance to assess the 
incorrect pipework.
Ive explained  before that I cant link all the issues The Homeowner has been concerned 
about together. But I have considered everything that has occurred regarding  this issue. In 
doing so Ive taken The Homeowners testimony and the evidence of what  they have told 
NHBC and the developer,  at key points, at face value. I can assure The Homeowner I have  
not set out to twist their words or to pick from them in an effort to achieve a pre-conceived 
outcome for this complaint. I havent contradicted myself. I noted that NHBC had a chance to 
check the pipework in the early stages of the claim and that later, when a leak occurred, it 
felt The Homeowner had prejudiced its position  by not letting it see that particular piece of 
pipework which had caused the leak. But I concluded that The Homeowner had not been 
caused any prejudice. The Homeowners comments in reply havent given me cause to 
change my provisional findings.
My provisional findings in this section about the issues which had been refused concluded 
with consideration  about the staircase at the property:
stairs creaking
The Homeowner  told NHBC the stairs were creaking and, later, that theyd  come  away from 
the wall. NHBC  said the matter hadnt  been reported  to it or the developer  in the first two 
years, so there was no cover under section 2. It said there  might  be cover  under section  3, 
but the cost of repair was less than the mandated minimum claim value, meaning the claim 
was not valid and it was not liable for resolving the issue.
I accept that The Homeowner  did identify an issue with the stairs to NHBC in the first two 
years of the policy. But that was that they were creaking  at the top. Much  later  into 2018, in 
so far as I can tell from the file details  The Homeowner said the staircase was moving and 
coming away. They provided three reports that identify issues  with the structure of the 
staircase, these show it is made  poorly,  from inappropriate  materials and is not capable of 
bearing loads.
I think the reports show a defect with the stairs  as a whole. But that was not identified to 
NHBC or the developer in the first two years  of the policy. The Homeowner having  noted 
what might  be seen  as a symptom of the defect in 2015, that there  was creaking at the top, 
is not the same as the defect itself being  identified and drawn  to the developers  attention. 
And that is what the policy requires for cover  under Section 2 to apply.
Ref: DRN35474219When The Homeowner found  the creaking of the staircase was being  caused by a deeper 
routed problem they obtained a cost for repair. It is telling that the contractor felt the issue  
could be repaired.  He quoted £996 to do so and this included  fitting support batons to 
minimise movement of the staircase. The Homeowner  has said the problem actually requires 
replacement  but I think that is suggestive of the problem having got worse  over time  if 
the contractor had felt a repair wasnt possible or a safe remedy then he wouldnt have  
quoted for such. The sum for this work fell below the minimum claim value of the policy. So 
NHBCs response that the matter wasnt covered by section 3 was fair and reasonable. The 
fact that repair  costs later increased and then The Homeowner looked at the cost for 
replacement which was higher again,  doesnt change the fact that the cost for repairing the 
initial damage reported to NHBC fell within  the minimum claim value required for cover under 
section 3 to apply. I dont intend  to make NHBC resolve this issue.
The Homeowner  said the stairs were reported  in time; period. And that all their evidence  
shows the stairs were  never fit for purpose from the time they were installed. Theyd 
originally asked a joiner  to provide  a repair cost but he wasnt a stair expert. 
I understand from The Homeowners reply that they are dissatisfied with my references to 
and reliance on what the NHBC warranty covers. However, the warranty  is the core basis for 
my assessment as it is the agreement that exists between both parties  setting out what  each  
is obligated to do and/or entitled to receive. It is quite specific. For there to be cover for a 
defect, the defect has to be notified within the period set. It isnt sufficient for a policyholder  
to draw attention  to an issue  which is only a symptom  of a larger,  as yet unknown  defect. 
And to later,  once the defect has been notified, evidence  that the defect has been  there  all 
along. Whilst The Homeowner asked the joiner for a repair  cost and he, they say, is not a 
stair expert,  I wouldnt  expect any professional trader  to offer to repair  something if they 
either felt it was beyond  their capability or would equate to sub-standard work. My 
provisional view on this issue has not changed. 
I continued in my provisional findings  to look at the settlement offer NHCB made in 2017:
 November 2017 settlement offer
Ive mentioned this already above  in respect of the kitchen being cold and the problem with 
the kitchen fan. The settlement was also said though to cover  the finish of the stair handrail, 
loft insulation (which  is part of the thermal imaging  recommendations mentioned in my 
commentary above about the kitchen being cold) and the garden path flooding.  Ive seen the 
breakdown schedule provided  by NHBC and work for resolving these issues  is included.  
I think that for these  issues, the settlement is reasonable.  And Ive seen nothing from The 
Homeowner to show that they will have to pay more than the sums allowed by NHBC for this 
work. 
As also mentioned  above, other  work  identified in the thermal imaging report also forms part 
of this schedule  and cost. Those costs also seem reasonable. 
But the settlement  is also meant to cover:
Wooden panel underneath sink to be replaced and original base put in place.
This work is not detailed on the schedule  that NHBC provided which shows the work it has 
agreed liability for totals £1,741. However, Ive seen some comments  on the submissions 
that make  me think NHBC was undertaking this piece of work. If so, it wont  have to pay for it 
Ref: DRN354742110as well. If this work hasnt been done,  Ill consider proposals for the cost of it in response to 
my provisional findings. Or, if none  are forthcoming, my final decision will include a direction 
for this to be resolved.  
The Homeowner  said they disagreed with my findings about the settlement offer being fair. 
They said theyd provided detail about  this before.  
I understand The Homeowners frustration. I also understand from their previous 
submissions that they think the settlement offer simply doesnt go far enough to deal with all 
of the issues at their home. I dont doubt that. But my focus here was on whether it was fair 
and reasonable in light of what  it was purporting to offer costs  for. My view on this remains  
unchanged.
I continued in my provisional findings  to look at The Homeowners concerns about  how 
NHBC had handled  matters since the middle of June 2017:
Post 16 June 2017 handling by NHBC
As of 16 June 2017 certain works were outstanding, whilst NHBC was prepared to do this 
work, The Homeowner  had asked for it to be put on hold. The Homeowner continued to 
discuss with NHBC  the concerns they had about  problems they had identified  with their 
home which NHBC wouldnt  accept liability for resolving. NHBC then issued its final 
response on all the outstanding  issues in November 2017, complete with the offer of 
settlement. It wasnt minded to pay compensation for anything which had occurred since  its 
previous final response issued on 16 June  2017.
I think NHBC generally handled things fairly at this time;  The Homeowners emails were  
responded to in a mostly timely manner. Into August and September the time for replies  to 
be made from NHBC became more  drawn  out, but in the complex circumstances of this 
claim Im not persuaded it was unfair for NHBC to take time to consider its position  before 
replying.   
That said,  I think NHBC did fail The Homeowner in a couple of ways  at this time. NHBC 
didnt answer the concerns The Homeowner had raised with it about the firewall  and the 
position it had left this issue in at the point of its final response in June was that it was to be 
looked into. When NHBCs point of contact for The Homeowner  told them  that following their 
email communication  that all of their concerns had already  been  answered, I accept this was 
frustrating for them. I also see that NHBC was to find out some  information for 
The Homeowner  from the developer about a previously reported  leak.  This information  was 
sought but I cant see it was ever communicated to The Homeowner. And the point  of 
contact The Homeowner had been  dealing with, passed it over to someone  else and went on 
holiday without checking to see that the information was or had been  passed on. Again I can 
understand why, in the particularly drawn out and complicated circumstances of this claim, 
that was frustrating for The Homeowner.  I think  NHBC  should  pay £100 compensation. 
The Homeowner  said they felt Id said it was fair for NHBC to have delayed and had, 
therefore, taken  NHBCs  side. They said they felt NHBC had caused delays with a view to 
making them give up.
If I felt NHBC  had acted in that way I would have said so. I fully understand why 
The Homeowner  thinks  this is what occurred  but it isnt what I see from the email and file 
details from the time. And Ive explained  that I think there were flaws with the way 
Ref: DRN354742111The Homeowners claim was handled during this period, and that those failures caused  her 
upset. I accept, in this situation,  that warrants a compensation  award. I remain  of the view 
that £100 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Finally in my provisional decision, I provided  a summary of my provisional findings:
Summary
Insofar as Ive previously  explained I am able,  Ive reviewed everything  the parties have 
provided. Having  done so, Im not persuaded in respect of most of the issues considered to 
make NHBC do anything  more. I know The Homeowner feels  very strongly that there are 
many issues  at their home which  NHBC  is or should be liable for. To the extent that Ive 
been able to assess their concerns, I find Im unable to agree that is the case. Although  
I have found that, in respect of the kitchen fan, the wooden panel and compensation, NHBC 
should provide  some  further remedy.  
The Homeowner  said that the awards  Id recommended were  minimal compared to the 
problems at their home that they believe NHBC is liable for, which  theyd complained to it 
and us about. They said I may as well not make the award. As noted above NHBC said it 
agreed to my awards  and it confirmed how it intends  to implement them.
As I said at the start of these findings,  I understand this is upsetting  for The Homeowner. 
I also understand how important it is for them to see their home and asset restored so it isnt 
suffering from the defects  and/or damage theyve complained  to NHBC and us about. 
I recognise that my awards dont do that. But I am satisfied that NHBC is liable for resolving 
these two repair issues and paying  £100  compensation. Therefore, its still appropriate for 
me to make this award and The Homeowner can then choose whether or not to accept my 
final decision. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  National House-Building Council to: 
provide settlement to resolve the issue with the kitchen fan;
if the issue of the wooden  panel has not been  resolved, to provide settlement for this;
pay The Homeowner £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask The Homeowner 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 May 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3547421