K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complained that Zenith Insurance plc has taken too long to pay his motor insurance 
claim. 
background
Mr F had an accident in April 2018. He contacted  Zenith to claim on his policy.  Zenith 
arranged for an engineer  to inspect the car and for an accident  investigator to interview Mr F 
about what had happened. 
Zenith initially told Mr F his car would be repaired but then told him it would  be written-off 
and offered him a settlement amount. Before Zenith paid this it said it needed some more 
information to validate the claim.  In August  2018  it asked for a copy of his V5 document, 
proof of payment  and contact details for the cars  seller. Mr F was unhappy with how long 
Zenith was taking to process his claim and complained. 
Zenith said it needed to validate his claim but offered him £100 to compensate  for problems 
hed had arranging  a courtesy  car. Mr F remained unhappy and brought his complaint  to us. 
After doing so he provided  Zenith  with the information it had asked for.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Fs complaint be upheld.  He didnt think  Zenith 
had caused any unnecessary delays  and thought it was reasonable it would want  the 
information it had asked for to validate his claim.  
Mr F didnt  agree. He was unhappy Zenith still hadnt paid his claim and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
This decision is only considering Mr Fs complaint about delays in Zenith validating  his claim 
up to September  2018. I understand hes raised further points since  then but Im not going to 
address them in this decision and they would need to be raised with Zenith separately.  
Mr F reported the accident  to Zenith  on 9 April. It arranged for an engineer to inspect the car 
and at the end of April arranged for an accident investigator to interview him. I can see 
Zenith then continued  to look into Mr Fs claim and on 3 August wrote to him to ask for proof  
of ownership to validate his claim.  Mr F provided  this information to Zenith in September.  
I understand Mr Fs frustration at being offered a settlement  for his car and it then telling him 
it needed further information to validate  the claim.  But the terms and conditions of Mr Fs 
policy say he must  provide any documents Zenith  asks for. And I think its reasonable Zenith 
would want to confirm  the circumstances of the accident and that the accident  was covered 
under the terms  and conditions of the policy. 
It can take some time for an insurer to investigate  a claim and I havent seen that Zenith 
caused any unnecessary delays. I also dont  think the information it asked for to validate the 
claim was unreasonable  as it needed the information to show the accident was covered by 
the policy.
Ref: DRN33584822I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr F was hoping for but I think  Zenith  acted fairly  and 
reasonably in how it dealt with his claim up to September 2018  so Im not going to ask it to 
do anything differently. If Mr F is unhappy with the decision Zenith ultimately comes to about  
whether to settle his claim he can raise that separately.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN3358482