K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr L says Capital One (Europe)  plc mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Although a call recording or call notes arent available,  Ive considered  what we know  
more widely about how Capital  One sold PPI during  telephone calls around the time 
this policy was taken  out. 
I havent seen  evidence that Capital  One didnt follow  their normal sales process  
during this sale and I think its more  likely  than not that Capital One made it clear that 
Mr L didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why he might  not remember this.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Mr L so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr L got the information he needed  to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because:  
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because Capital One didnt tell 
Mr L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr L has said - including what hes said about  not needing PPI 
because of his existing means of making his repayments. Mr L has said that he had a sick 
pay entitlement of 6 months full pay after which it would decrease to half pay for 6 months. 
Ref: DRN30195612But this PPI policy would have paid out for up to 12 months  per accident or sickness claim. 
So I still think that Mr L could have found the PPI useful. 
Ive also noted  what Mr L has said about savings he had. But when Ive considered their 
value alongside  Mr Ls salary, the PPI could have paid out for considerably  longer than 
Mr Ls savings would  have lasted if he was relying on them  to replace his normal income  and 
make his credit card repayments if he was made unemployed. 
Having the PPI would also have allowed Mr L the option of not needing to use his savings to 
make his credit card repayments and instead he could keep them intact  for future  use or 
hed also have the option of using them to help pay for other living  expenses  that he may 
have had.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done this, I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3019561