K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr R has complained that Santander UK Plc continued to address statements 
and other  correspondence to him despite  being notified he had died.
background
Mr R died in 2010.  At the time of his death he held an account with Santander. The executor 
of his estate says Santander was informed that he had died and was provided  with a copy of 
his death certificate.  Despite this, Santander  continued to send annual  statements 
addressed to him.
Mr Rs executor, who is also his widow, complained  to Santander  in 2018. It apologised and 
paid £100 in compensation. It subsequently  increased the compensation to £200.
Mr Rs executor wasnt happy with Santanders  response and referred  the complaint to this 
service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said this service 
could only consider the effect Santanders actions had had on the estate and wasnt  in a 
position to recommend Santander increase the amount  of compensation.
Mr Rs executor didnt agree with our Investigators recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regard to this complaint Santanders  customer was originally Mr R. When  he died, the 
benefit of his account passed to his estate. I can only consider the affect Santanders  actions 
had on the estate. I cant look at the affect they may have had on third parties.
I can understand that Mr Rs widow was upset when she received letters addressed  to him 
long after he died.  But that upset was caused  to her in her personal capacity not in her 
capacity as the executor of Mr Rs estate. Given this, I cant  reasonably require Santander to 
increase the compensation its already paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is I dont uphold  this complaint. I make no 
award against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr R 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 December 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3156218