K822xcomplaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in November 2004.  The policy was 
added to Mr Bs credit  card account  when he applied for the card in person. The policy  cost 
78p per £100 of the outstanding card balance and following  a successful claim, it would 
repay 10% of the outstanding balance at the point of claim,  for up to twelve  months. Mr B 
cancelled the policy in August 2007.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think  Halifax  made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose  to take it. 
Ive seen a copy  of the application  form and note that the option  of PPI was checked 
and the application form was signed  by Mr B. Ive taken note of the fact that the 
application form was pre-populated, but on the basis that this was an advised sale,  and 
was conducted  in a branch, face to face,  I think its reasonable to assume  that a 
discussion took place. And I think that the form, including  Mr Bs personal details; his 
name; date of birth; mothers maiden name;  employer;  salary; outgoings was typed 
because the form was completed on-screen  during that discussion. Moreover, as this 
was a monthly policy it wouldve appeared on Mr Bs monthly credit card statements  
so I think he wouldve queried it much sooner if it had been added  to his account  without  
either his knowledge or his consent.
Mr B says he felt pressured into taking the PPI policy, but he didnt tell us precisely what 
Halifax said or did to make him feel that way. I accept  hes given us his honest  
recollections of what happened that day, but I dont think  theres enough  evidence  to say 
Halifax acted in a way to unfairly pressure him into agreeing to the PPI.
Halifax recommended the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him 
based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time. I say this because  Mr B 
wasnt caught by any of the exclusions or limitations which would have made the policy 
less useful for him, such  as being  self-employed  or having  a pre-existing medical 
condition. Whilst Mr B had some sick pay  just statutory  sick pay  he told us he had no 
savings, and only had his parents for support if shed  needed it. Taking  all this into 
consideration, I believe the policy  provided him with a sufficient benefit,  which  
outweighed its cost.
Ref: DRN34451432Its possible  the information Halifax gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But he chose  to take out the policy and so appears  to have wanted this type 
of cover. And it seems like it wouldve been useful for him if he wasnt working  because  
of an accident,  sickness or unemployment as he had limited  work benefits  this policy  
wouldve paid out in addition to these  and for longer. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the 
cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said, but these points dont change my decision. This 
means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need to refund everything Mr B 
paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered  to give Mr B back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr B now Ive issued my final decision.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3445143