K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy  that it 
turned down a claim under his policy and cancelled his two car insurance policies.
background
I considered this complaint and outlined the background to the case and my thoughts in my 
provisional decision as follows;
Mr Ns car was stolen on 19 January 2018  which he reported to Admiral and the police. It 
investigated the circumstances surrounding the theft but turned down the claim and 
cancelled his policy. This was because it didnt  believe that Mr N had given it a true account  
of the circumstances surrounding the theft of his car.
Mr N had the use of a second classic car. He parked his main car near where he stored his 
second car while he drove his classic car for the day. When he returned to his car the 
following day he realised it had been stolen and reported it to the police and Admiral. The 
police informed Mr N that his car had been abandoned on a country road near to a motorway  
and that there wasnt any damage reported.
Mr N reported this to his insurer and his mum took him to collect the car from the country 
lane. When he got to his car it was unlocked and he realised it had in fact been damaged. 
His car had been  set on fire and there was damage  to the dashboard and seats  of the car. 
The car was recovered and over the following few months  Admiral  undertook  its own 
investigation into the theft of the car and turned down the claim. It wasnt  satisfied that the 
theft had taken place as Mr N described.  This was mainly  because there wasnt  any theft 
related damage  to Mr Ns car.
Mr N wasnt happy about this and complained to this service.  Our investigator looked into 
things for him but didnt uphold his complaint.  He was satisfied  that Admiral had undertaken 
a thorough investigation into the theft and that its conclusions were reasonable.
As Mr N didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
It is clear that Mr Ns car was stolen and partly burnt-out. Mr N reported this to his insurer 
and the police, who provided  a crime report.  While I agree that Admiral  undertook  a 
reasonable investigation into the circumstances surrounding the theft of Mr Ns car. I dont 
think Admiral has sufficient  evidence to say that Mr N hasnt reported the theft circumstances 
correctly.
Admirals investigator interviewed Mr N and found  him to be a credible witness. And his 
general account and description  of the circumstances  surrounding  the theft has been  
consistent. He has given a clear  account of where he left the car and his timings are clear.
Ref: DRN36209612However, Admiral believes that Mr N hasnt told them  everything.  This appears to be mainly 
based on the fact that there  was no theft related damage to the car. While  this is true, and it 
isnt easy to steal modern  cars without  a genuine key, there are plenty of examples of 
modern cars being stolen  quickly and easily without the use of a genuine key.
In this instance Mr Ns car was stolen and parked on a country lane near to a main 
motorway. We dont know when it was actually stolen but it is more than possible that it was 
stolen for criminal purposes and then the thieves tried to burn the car out, to avoid leaving 
any evidence, unsuccessfully.
The only other plausible explanation was that Mr N was involved  in the theft of his own car 
and looked to burn the car out himself.  But the forensic engineer has said that the car was in 
good order both internally and externally, bar the fire damage to the car. So I cant  see any 
reason why Mr N would look to arrange the theft of his car himself or not just collect it if he 
found it undamaged.
Ive asked Admiral if the engine  control  unit (ECU) was checked in order  to ensure any 
relevant data was extracted but it says it wasnt. Admiral said that this is because the car 
was damaged in the fire. But the fire damage was all internal  and didnt appear  to affect the 
ECU in any way so Im surprised by this.
Furthermore, Admiral hasnt looked to find out from the police  or other  sources if there had 
been any crime in the locality that could be linked to the theft of Mr Ns car or whether theft
of similar  type cars was prevalent  in the area. I know Admiral may feel that this isnt relevant  
and is speculative, but given that it doesnt have any other evidence to link Mr N to the theft I 
would have expected it to extend its enquiries.
In turning down  Mr Ns claim (and ultimately  cancelling both his cars insurance policies) it 
has cited its fraud clause. But it doesnt  have any evidence to suggest that Mr N was
involved or has been untruthful with it or its investigators  certainly  not to the extent that it is 
free to allege fraud and cancel all his policies with them.
Overall Im not persuaded  that there  is sufficient  evidence  to conclude that Mr N has been 
untruthful in reporting his theft claim.  He has two keys (although it doesnt appear that 
Admiral asked for both);  his car was stolen and reported to the police; he went with his mum 
to collect the car when  he was told where it was; they found it partially burnt out; and Mr N 
has fully cooperated  with Admirals forensic  investigator, who found  him a credible witness,  
and the police.
To compound all of this I understand  that Admiral  has disposed  of the car without agreeing  
this with Mr N. The car was still his property and should have been kept or returned to him. It 
is possible that Mr N couldve had the car repaired or sold the car for scrap in order to limit 
his losses. Admiral certainly didnt have  the authority to dispose of a car it didnt own without 
the owners permission.
So, I think the fair and reasonable thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for Admiral to deal with Mr Ns theft claim and pay him 8% simple  interest  from the date of 
the claim until the date of settlement as he has been without the car or cash settlement.
It should also pay him compensation for the time he has been without his car. Although it is 
fortunate that Mr N had use of his second car it mustve been very inconvenient for him to 
have to use his classic  car every day. And it mustve been very inconvenient for Mr N to 
Ref: DRN36209613have both policies  cancelled and then to find out that it had disposed  of his car without his 
permission. So I think Admiral should  pay Mr N £1,000 in compensation.
replies
Both sides responded. Mr N highlighted that he had a GAP  insurance policy  that had expired 
and he wasnt able to use. And he said he had to take a loan for the outstanding finance  on 
the car.
While Admiral said that it wasnt  happy  with the provisional decision. It said that Mr N had 
tried to part exchange the car a month or so before and thought  that it would be worth  a lot 
less than if Mr N claimed on his insurance.  It went onto say that it couldnt get any ECU 
reading from the car as main dealers refused to look at fire damaged cars as it was too 
dangerous.
Admiral also asked me to consider reducing  the compensation level as it felt that it had told 
Mr N that he could collect his car if he wished.  And it said that Mr N had in fact placed  a 
different car on cover so he wasnt left just driving around in his classic car.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive focussed on the further 
representations made.  Having  done so Ive not been persuaded to change  my mind.  Ill 
explain why.
Admiral hasnt really raised  any new issues in relation to the claim itself.  Im aware  that Mr N 
looked to part exchange his car previously. But I dont think the fact that a consumer looks  at 
part exchanging their car means that they were  involved in any subsequent theft a few 
months later, certainly not without any other  evidence to support that theory. 
I had taken account of this in my provisional decision. Ultimately,  I was satisfied that Mr Ns 
car had a market  value  and Im sure he wouldve  looked to sell it privately if he wanted  to get 
more for it, as opposed to organise  its theft. There is nothing  within  the evidence  before me 
to suggest that Mr N wouldnt have just looked  to sell his car himself rather  than involve 
others, including his mum, in the theft of his car, especially as there  wasnt  anything wrong 
with his car. Indeed, Ive seen Admirals  engineers  valuation of Mr Ns car, which was in 
good condition,  and that value is in line with the outstanding finance  Mr N had on the car. 
Admiral has also said that main dealers wouldnt have looked at the ECU  as the car had 
been fire damaged. But Im sure other  engineers would do this and I note that its appointed 
investigator suggested other lines of enquiry to undertake. Given  the harsh outcome 
involved I wouldve expected it to undertake these enquiries.
Turning to the level of compensation, Ill explain why Ive awarded the level I have. 
Admiral has clarified that Mr N insured another car in March 2018  which  is helpful. But that 
still means that Mr N had a few months  using his old classic car, which  wasnt  very practical,  
when he shouldnt have.  Mr N also had to raise additional money to buy a new car which  
mustve been inconvenient  in the circumstances. Plus,  as outlined previously it was wrong 
that Mr N had his additional  policy for his classic car cancelled alongside this one, which 
caused an additional amount of stress and cost.
Ref: DRN36209614I know Admiral  say that Mr N couldve taken the salvage  back  at any time. But Ive read its 
letter explaining  this to Mr N when it declined his claim. Admiral said it would sell the salvage  
in order to reduce  the money he owed,  and it wanted to pursue him for, or it would tell him 
the costs involved  in having the car returned. I dont think  this explained things  to Mr N in a 
way that he wouldve realised that he could  have got his car back  and been  able to sell it or 
put it back on the road himself. And Admiral hasnt provided any evidence  to show that it 
looked to agree the disposal of Mr Ns car before  it did so.
Mr N has said that he has had to take out a loan to cover the outstanding finance. And this 
mustve been stressful  for him and impacted on him financially as well. Furthermore,  Mr N 
had this policy and his classic car policy cancelled which mustve caused him additional  
stress and additional  costs.
So I dont  propose  to change the level of compensation as I think Mr N has had to face a 
significant amount  of stress and inconvenience and financial difficulty  throughout this time. 
So I think that £1000 is a fair level of compensation in the circumstances. And Admiral  
should send him a letter explaining that it cancelled  his policy  in error.
Finally, I can understand why Mr N was worried that he wouldnt be able to use his GAP 
insurance that hed paid for. But he should  be able to advance that separately with the GAP  
insurer once Admiral has dealt with his claim.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited  to deal with Mr Ns theft claim and pay him 8% simple interest 
from the date of the claim until the date of settlement. It should also pay him £1000 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3620961