K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about the way CIS General Insurance Limited handled  their buildings 
insurance claim. 
They are being  assisted in their complaint  by their son. 
background
Mr and Mrs T have  Saga  home insurance. The buildings insurance is provided by CIS and 
the contents by another insurer.  
On 16 February 2018, Mr and Mrs T were  warming up a heat pad in their microwave,  which  
was situated in their utility  room. On opening the door they discovered  a smoke fire had 
started. They opened the door and called the fire brigade. 
They made a claim under  their policy on 20 February 2018  and a mutually  acceptable 
appointment was arranged  for the property to be inspected. This took place on 23 February 
with the report  finalised  three days later. The report concluded that there was damage in the 
utility room, the work top and units needed  cleaning and as the door was opened some 
smoke particles were also present in the dining room.  The floor in the utility  room also 
needed replacing. 
The work couldnt be completed until a strip out had been done and the area cleaned  and 
dried. The strip out was completed by 5 March 2018 and over the next few weeks  cleaning 
and drying of the property took place.  
During this time, Mrs T contacted CIS on a number of occasions, not clear on what  was 
happening by who or when. And she wasnt happy  that she had to arrange some cleaning  
herself. CIS agreed to reimburse these costs along  with the increase in electricity  costs due 
to the drying.  
Mr and Mrs T were  unhappy with the cleaning of the kitchen floor and were told this was 
beyond economical  repair and that it would  be replaced. Following this, the floor was re-
cleaned and re-inspected  with the conclusion the floor had been returned  to its pre-incident  
state and that any damage was actually wear  and tear. The works to the utility room  were 
completed by 24 May 2018.
Mr and Mrs T complained to CIS about  the delays, the lack of communication,  that a visit 
recorded as happening didnt take place and that the kitchen floor wasnt  replaced. CIS 
upheld the complaint in part, and agreed  it hadnt  communicated well and offered £200 
compensation. But it didnt think it had done anything else wrong. The matter  was 
considered by one of investigators who concluded it had fairly settled the claim.  
Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree  and have  asked for the matter to be referred  to an ombudsman.  
They werent happy that cleaning that should  have been arranged by CIS was done by them.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have decided  that CIS 
has already fairly settled  this complaint. I explain why below.  
Ref: DRN39309902Although I have only summarised  the background and arguments  above, I would like to 
reassure all the parties that I have read and considered everything  provided in its entirety. 
A lot of confusion has been as a result  of two different insurers  dealing  with different aspects 
of the claim. But thats a result of the way Saga  has decided to offer insurance. And whilst 
this is of little comfort to Mr and Mrs T, I dont think I could fairly find any of that the fault of 
CIS, a different company.  I can see from the records that each time they called, CIS 
endeavoured to explain  what was happening  with regards to what it was dealing with, even if 
that wasnt always from the same member  of staff. 
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy that the cleaning that should have taken place didnt.  CIS would 
only be responsible  for cleaning  areas  made dirty by the smoke. But I would expect it to 
make sure that it did complete what it should have.  So its disappointing  Mr and Mrs T 
needed help. I can see CIS has already refunded this cost to Mr and Mrs T as I would have 
asked it to, had it not already done so. 
But it seems  Mr and Mrs T are also asking for areas  to be cleaned  that have been  assessed 
as not being related to the incident. And having seen some pictures of the kitchen area,  
including the cooker hob and work  surfaces,  this does appear to have been  grease and dirt 
built up over time rather than solely as a result of smoke. Im also aware  that contractors did 
in fact clean some areas not affected,  such as the bathroom  floor and chairs. But that 
doesnt mean CIS is required to go any further  than that. 
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the delays. Buildings claims can sometimes  take many 
months to complete,  depending on the complexity  of what  happened. Here strip out works 
were needed  in addition to cleaning  and drying  before  any repairs could be carried out. 
Although there were  some minor delays during the process, I dont  find the delays were such  
that I would award  additional compensation for them. And I can see Mr and Mrs T, and their 
son, called  on numerous times for an update, sometimes with only a day or two in between. I 
think it is, perhaps, somewhat unrealistic to expect substantial  or much progress to be made 
in such short spaces  of time.  
That said,  CIS acknowledges it could have been more  proactive with its updates and contact  
with them.  And it agrees  this has caused inconvenience on top of that caused  by the incident 
(for which it isnt responsible). CIS has offered Mr and Mrs T £200 for the distress  and 
inconvenience this caused. In all the circumstances, I consider this to be a fair offer.  
Ref: DRN39309903I turn now to the flooring  and whether CIS has indemnified Mr and Mrs T for the damage  
caused as a result of the smoke. The policy sets out what  is covered and excluded under the 
insurance. It does cover  fire, and I understand this is the insured peril under which the claim 
was considered. However,  there  are a number of exclusions  within the policy  including for:
11. Loss or damage  arising  from:
-gradual causes
-wear and tear
-corrosion, deterioration  or similar  causes
-wet or dry rot
CISs contractors cleaned a number of areas  of the flooring. But when  Mrs T complained  that 
it hadnt been cleaned properly, it was right for CIS to arrange  for the floor to be inspected 
and cleaned again. It would appear  Mr and Mrs T were told the floor was beyond economical  
repair and would need replacing. But when the utility room  was being repaired,  the 
contractors knew nothing  about this. Mr and Mrs T contacted CIS who again arranged for the 
floor to be inspected.  The contractors confirmed  the floor had already been reinstated to a 
pre-incident position  and that the floors condition was due to wear  and tear rather  than 
smoke. But Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy and so a further inspection  was carried out, 
that also agreed the floor was worn.  
I appreciate Mr and Mrs T want their kitchen floor replaced. But CIS is only responsible for 
repairing or replacing anything damaged as a result of an insured  peril (buildings only)  in 
this case the smoke.  More than one contractor  has inspected the kitchen floor and 
concluded it hasnt  been damaged as a result  of the smoke. Mr and Mrs T havent provided  
a comparable report to show those conclusions were wrong. And having  seen photographs  
of the flooring, I dont find CIS was wrong to accept the conclusions of the contractors. In the 
absence of any persuasive evidence the floor was damaged as a result of the smoke,  I dont 
find any basis on which to ask CIS to replace it. 
Overall, there were  occasions when CIS could have done better. But I find its offer of £200 
fairly compensates for that. I make no further award. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that CIS General Insurance  Limited  has already 
made a fair offer to resolve this complaint.  I require  it to pay Mr and Mrs T £200 if it hasnt 
already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 July 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3930990