K821x#15complaint
Miss L is unhappy about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited  dealt with her claim
following an accident.
background
Miss L was involved in an accident in October 2018 in which her car was damaged.  She
reported the accident to her motor insurers, Admiral,  but told them she wasnt responsible for
the accident, she wanted the other drivers  insurers to pay for the repairs to her car, and she
didnt want a claim registered against  her policy.
Miss L was unhappy from the outset with the time it was taking to obtain an admission of
liability from the other drivers insurers, and with how Admiral  dealt with her claim.  She
raised a number of complaints which were dealt  with by Admiral.
The other driver continued to dispute liability, so Admiral instructed solicitors to act on behalf
of Miss L. The solicitors felt that Miss Ls claim had poor prospects of success and that a
50/50 settlement  should be sought.  Miss L agreed to this and so did the other drivers
insurers, but they gave their driver  until 14 February 2019 to respond to them regarding the
proposed settlement.
Admiral agreed with Miss Ls solicitors that, once the other drivers insurers  had confirmed
the 50/50 settlement, they would  then register a claim for 50 percent of her damage against
her policy,  and they agreed  her policy excess would be waived and the claim would have no
impact on her no-claims bonus. This wasnt to happen before 14 February 2019 when the
50/50 settlement  had been confirmed.
On 11 February 2019 Admiral issued a payment to Miss L in respect 50% of her claim.
Miss L received this on 12 February  2019.  She called Admiral  to find out why shed  received
the payment,  and why a claim had been  logged against her policy,  which wasnt  what had
been agreed. She felt that Admiral had acted illegally. Admiral  agreed to reverse  the logging
of the claim and the cheque was cancelled. On 15 February  2018  Admiral sent Miss L a
cheque for £1060.31 in respect of half of her claim.
Miss L raised a complaint  with Admiral about  the claim being processed  earlier  than agreed,
which they rejected.
In March 2019 Miss L raised a further complaint about incorrect information being provided
to her during a telephone  call, Admiral not contacting  her solicitors as theyd promised to do
and a call being  made to her from a public place.  Admiral  offered Miss L compensation of
£100, which she didnt  think  was adequate.
Further problems then arose as Miss L didnt receive the settlement cheque for 50% of her
claim from the other drivers insurers. When she called Admiral, on 7 March  2019, she was
told the other insurers wouldnt pay the VAT element of the repairs until they had a copy  of
the repair invoice,  to show the car had been repaired.
Miss L raised a further complaint about  delays  in settling  her claim, not being paid the
amount Admiral had agreed, being asked to obtain  an invoice from the garage,  her claim
being dealt with unreasonably  and Admiral changing  what had previously been agreed.
Admiral upheld Miss Ls complaint about  further delays in settling her claim  and not being
Ref: DRN31996762paid what had been agreed and offered her a further £150 compensation. The rest of this
complaint wasnt upheld.
Miss L remained  unhappy with how Admiral had dealt with her claim and complained  to our
service. Our investigator considered the case and said Miss L was unhappy  with a lot of
things, relating generally to the customer service  provided by Admiral throughout her claim.
This covered delays,  poor communication and not following her instructions, particularly
when processing  her claim, as shed said she didnt want  to make a claim.
But while he acknowledged at times there had been  delays, he felt these were due to
Admiral awaiting a response from the other  drivers insurers. He agreed  at times
communications could  have been  better. And he said Miss L had made it clear she didnt
want to make a claim and at one-point Admiral  processed a claim without her consent, which
it shouldnt have done. But once she let them know she was unhappy about this the mistake
was rectified.
He also said as Miss L had made a claim on her policy, regardless of the 50/50  agreement,
so shed have  been required to pay her policy excess of £660. But Admiral had agreed to
waive this, and including the excess,  they offered her around £1200, including  a payment  for
car hire which wasnt covered by her policy. He felt theyd done  more than we would have
expected to put things right and their offer was fair and reasonable. So, he didnt recommend
Miss Ls complaint  was upheld.
Miss L didnt  accept our investigators opinion. In response she said hed treated  payments
Admiral had agreed to make and the waiving  of her policy excess, which  were  agreed
following her earlier complaints, as part the complaint shed brought to us, when they
werent. And she didnt  feel hed dealt with the outstanding sums  she thought were still due
to her, including  the VAT on the repair costs which Admiral hadnt  explained  would only be
paid once she provided a receipted invoice, or compensation for Admiral  breaching  the
agreement reached  about the timing of processing  her claim.
Miss L remained  unhappy, so the case came to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 17 December 2019. In it I said:  -
Its clear from the correspondence  and calls in this case that Miss L has been upset and
dissatisfied with how Admiral have dealt with her case  from the outset. Miss L has told us
that shes satisfied  with Admirals resolution of her earlier  complaints but remains dissatisfied
with the following:  -
Admiral processing a claim on her policy before the date agreed by her solicitors;
Further delays in resolving her claim;
Not being  paid the sums agreed;
Being  asked to obtain an invoice from the repairing garage,  before the other insurers
paid the VAT on 50% of the repairs, when she hadnt previously been told this would
be needed;
Admiral changing  what  had previously been  agreed in relation to the settlement  of
her claim.
Miss L made  it clear  she didnt want to make a claim on her policy but wanted  to pursue a
claim through the other  drivers insurers. Admiral referred Miss L to their solicitors  to pursue
her claim. Miss L doesnt have Legal Expense Insurance, so when she told Admiral,  she
Ref: DRN31996763didnt wish to make a claim on her policy, they werent required to do this. But the referral  to
solicitors was made and an agreement  reached  about how her claim would  be resolved.
Admiral could have  managed  Miss Ls expectations  about how her claim would be dealt with
better, from the outset. I think they should have been aware how stressful and upsetting
Miss L found  dealing  with her claim.  This is clear from her correspondence and she refers  to
it in all the calls Ive listened to. And I think they should have  appreciated that once theyd
agreed to do something, such as processing  her claim once the 50/50 settlement was
confirmed, Miss L expected this to happen as agreed.
Miss L learnt  her claim had been  processed, earlier than agreed,  on 12 February  2019  when
she received a cheque from Admiral.
When she called Admiral  to find out what had happened, she was clearly upset and
distressed. Initially Admiral didnt handle things  well as she was told her solicitors  had
authorised the settlement, even though they hadnt. And it wasnt  helpful for Admiral to
comment, at this stage,  that it didnt make any difference, as the claim would go through
anyway in a few days, when they knew how strongly Miss L felt about the timing of her claim
being processed.
But Admiral  did then acknowledge the mix-up regarding  the claim and that the claim had
taken longer than it should have done  to resolve.  They offered to pay Miss Ls claim, to
resolve matters, and then pursue a recovery against the other insurers.  Its important to
remember that they didnt need to do this. But Miss L wasnt  happy with this suggestion,  or
with the £100 compensation offered for processing her claim before the agreed date.
From the calls I listened to, Im not sure that Miss L fully understood that Admiral  were
offering her more than she was entitled to and trying to bring  matters  to a close  for her, by
offering to settle  her claim in full. Although  I accept  that Admiral  tried to explain this to her.
But what  is clear from the calls is that she wanted the claim  settled in accordance  with the
agreement reached  by her solicitors.  She never wavered from this and its clear  a lot of the
distress she experienced  arose from this not happening. And this was as a result of
Admirals actions.
Further problems arose after 14 February, as the other drivers insurers  wouldnt pay the
VAT element of Miss Ls repairs,  until they received the repair invoice.
But Miss L hadnt been told this would be required, and it wasnt  part of the agreement that
her solicitors  had reached. Admiral accept  that they should have explained to
Miss L that an invoice  would be required  and managed her expectations.
To resolve  the matter Admiral offered again,  to pay Miss Ls claim and then look to recover
50% from the other drivers insurers, subject  to her providing the repair invoice to them. And
to assist Miss L they were happy  to accept the invoice when she was able to get the repairs
completed. Miss L maintained  that obtaining an invoice wasnt  what  had been agreed,  and
she wasnt prepared to ask the repairing garage to email this direct  to Admiral.
I think Admirals  offer to pay Miss L the amount  she was expecting  from the other insurers
was a reasonable way to resolve things for her. And I dont think  it was unreasonable  for
Admiral to ask her to request the garage to send the invoice direct to them. But
Miss L should have  been told, before any agreement was reached about how her claim
would be resolved, that the other insurers would need to see the repair  invoice. If this had
Ref: DRN31996764been done, a lot of the later confusion and upset could have been avoided.
Miss L told Admiral obtaining the invoice would cause her a great deal of additional stress
and inconvenience.  But if Miss L had asked  the garage to send the invoice to Admiral, she
could have left it to them to do any necessary chasing. As Miss L didnt agree, Admiral paid
her a further £715.98,  which  was the other insurers 50 percent of the repairs, less VAT. So,
shed received the total of the repair estimate. Miss L has told us that she hasnt  had her car
repaired, although she still has it, so its not possible to send  Admiral  the invoice.
Admiral made a further payment  of £344.32  to Miss L on 13 March 2019.  Miss L has told us
this was compensation, and this is how Admiral have described it, so she believes shes  still
due a payment  of £176.16 for her hire charges. But Admiral have told us the payment
represented the cost of a hire vehicle for the period Miss L would require one. By referring to
this payment as compensation Admiral  caused  further confusion.
Admiral have paid Miss L the full amount shed have been  entitled to, in respect  of repairs
had she made a claim through her policy. This includes the VAT on the repairs, even though
shes not incurred  this cost. And theyve paid her hire charges which arent  covered by her
policy. But Admiral agreed  to make these  payments  even though Miss L wasnt entitled  to
them.
Admiral have made Miss L two compensation payments, totalling £251, relating to the
complaints Im considering. Given the payments Admiral have made to Miss L, I would
usually say that they had adequately  compensated her for the mistakes they accept have
been made. While,  when  things went wrong  in February and Admiral  made  an offer to
resolve Miss Ls claim,  which she didnt accept, shed made it clear  from the first time she
spoke to Admiral how she wanted to deal with her claim. And Admiral agreed to this, even
though her expectations werent reasonable. Miss Ls expectations  on how her claim would
be handled should have been  managed  from the outset.
Its clear from all the conversations Ive listened  to that Admiral should have appreciated that
Miss L wanted things  dealt with in accordance with the agreement reached by her solicitors.
In one call Miss L says, I dont cope  well with change.  But Admiral  didnt  do what  was
agreed. They prolonged the claims process  by not explaining clearly  to Miss L what would
be needed from her to resolve  her claim. And Im persuaded that Admirals  actions caused
Miss L distress and inconvenience,  over and above what would be normal  after an accident.
So, while I accept Admiral  have  paid Miss L more  than she was entitled  to in settlement of
her claim, in the circumstances  of this case I dont  think the compensation Admiral has
offered Miss L is enough. So, I require Admiral to pay her £250, in addition to the sums
already paid for the distress  and inconvenience  shes experienced as a result of how her
claim was handled.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Miss Ls complaint.
In response to my provisional decision Miss L has said that Admiral told her the payment of 
£344.32 was compensation, and she didnt call it this. She acknowledges that shes  received 
the equivalent of two payments of £1060.31  from Admiral. But she says she was due to 
receive these two payments. One from the other drivers insurers  and one from Admiral. 
Admiral paid her £715.98 on 15 February 2019  to enable her to arrange to have her car 
repaired and then made a further  payment of £344.32 on 15 March 2019. But Miss L says 
Ref: DRN31996765she is still due a further payment of £176.16  in respect of the hire charges the other drivers 
insurers agreed to pay. 
Admiral have said they dont think a further £250  compensation payment is warranted.  They  
say they did all they could to accommodate  Miss Ls requests regarding  the settlement of her 
claim, even  though these were outside their standard protocol. And they dont accept that 
they prolonged the claim process. They say that as Miss L had comprehensive insurance 
her car could have  been repaired at any time, but she wouldnt agree to this, or to any of the 
other options they proposed, as she wanted  an admission of liability  before submitting a 
claim. 
Admiral have also said that had they been allowed to deal with the claim in the normal  
manner, the same settlement outcome would have been reached, without  the need to 
involve solicitors and in a much  shorter time.  And they ask me to note that the policy  excess 
was £660 as, in addition  to the £60 compulsory  excess, Miss L chose  to add a voluntary 
excess of £500,  and she wanted to use a non-approved repairer, for which theres  a further 
£100 excess. 
Admiral have also said that Miss L asked them to call the other drivers insurers  daily for 
updates. And that although they tried to accommodate this, they ask me to agree that this 
was unreasonable. Once solicitors had been instructed Admiral  were advised the prospects 
of success if the matter went to court were  low. So Admiral agreed to waive  
Miss Ls policy excess and allow her no-claims bonus. And Admiral  dont agree they caused 
Miss L distress and inconvenience  over and above what  would be normal after an accident.
Admiral also say they didnt describe the payment  of £344.32 as compensation and refer to 
their final response letter, which confirms the payment  was for the full value of the hire 
vehicle for the duration of repairs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admiral have confirmed  they received the following  estimates after Miss Ls accident:-
Repair estimate    £1480.24
VAT       £  296.05
Hire estimate       £  344.32
Total      £ 2120.62
Based on these estimates Admiral made a payment of £1060.31 to Miss L on 15 February  
2019., which was 50% of the total estimate  for repairs and hire. They then made  a further 
payment of £715.98  which  they said was to facilitate Miss Ls repairs. And a final payment of 
£344.32 on 13 March  2019. This payment is referred to in the final response  letter  as being 
in respect of hire charges,  but Admiral have also referred to this as compensation. In total 
Admiral have made payments to Miss L in respect  of her repairs  and hire of £2120.62,  the 
full amount of the repair and hire invoices.
So I dont  accept any further payment is due to Miss L.
Ref: DRN31996766I accept that Admiral have  made payments to Miss L which exceed the sums she was 
entitled to receive  under  the terms and conditions of her policy. But they agreed to make 
these payments having considered the advice from Miss Ls solicitors. 
Im aware that Miss L had a fully comprehensive policy  and could have had her car repaired  
at any time. Miss L didnt  want  to make a claim on her policy, without an admission of 
liability, because she couldnt  afford  her policy  excess. Regardless of how this excess was 
made up, Admiral  agreed to deal with Miss Ls claim in accordance with the agreement 
reached by her solicitors.
Had Miss L allowed  Admiral to arrange  her repairs its probable  that her claim would have 
been resolved  sooner. But theyd agreed to proceed  as she wanted, and to her submitting a 
claim after liability had been resolved.  Ive acknowledged that I think the offer Admiral  made 
to resolve Miss Ls claim in March 2019  was reasonable.  But Ive also said that its clear  from 
all the calls I listened to that Miss L wanted her claim resolved as her solicitors had agreed it 
would be. Admiral had agreed to this, and Miss L never changed  her mind about this. 
While Ive considered  all of Admirals comments,  I havent changed my opinion that the way 
they handled Miss Ls claim  prolonged the claims process. And theyve acknowledged to 
Miss L that there were delays in handling her claim. 
Admiral didnt manage Miss Ls expectations  in a consistent way from the outset.  And they 
agreed that her claim would be handled  a certain  way, and then failed to follow  what had 
been agreed. 
  
So, while I accept Admiral  have  paid Miss L more  than she was entitled  to in settlement of
her claim, in the circumstances  of this case I dont  think the compensation Admiral has
offered Miss L is enough. So, I require Admiral to pay her £250, in addition to the sums
already paid for the distress  and inconvenience  shes experienced as a result of how her
claim was handled.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold Miss Ls claim against Admiral  Insurance Company Limited.  And to put things right I 
require them to pay Miss L £250, in addition to the sums theyve already paid, for the 
distress and inconvenience shes suffered as a result of how her claim was handled.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3199676