K821x#15complaint
Mr G, on behalf  of the estate of Ms R, complains about the service he has received from 
The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland. He says that BOI has made  errors and 
has been over bureaucratic and unsympathetic.
background
Mr Gs sister had a mortgage  with BOI. Mr G called BOI on 14 March 2018 to report  that his 
sister had died. And he asked for a form of authority to allow him to act on behalf of his 
nephew, who he said was interested in staying on in the family home.
Mr G wrote to BOI the same  day, sending it a copy  of the death certificate. He explained in 
the letter that, as his sister had died without  a will, he was applying  for grant of letters of 
administration.
BOI sent Mr G a letter of authority allowing his nephew to nominate him to act on his behalf. 
And it responded to his letter on 23 May 2018. In its letter, amongst other things, it returned 
the death certificate and asked for certified  copies of ID verification documentation for the 
named executors/administrators.
Mr G wrote to BOI on 20 June 2018 enclosing the grant of letters  of administration, asking 
for the current  arrears balance on the account and explaining that the estate assets  were  
unlikely to be enough  to redeem the mortgage.
BOI responded on 3 July. It returned  the grant of letters of administration, confirmed that the 
account had not accrued arrears and asked for future payments to be maintained.  It also 
asked him to forward ID verification documentation if this had not already been  provided. 
And it said he should seek legal advice in relation  to the estate assets,  and that his nephew 
should contact  the mortgage department  regarding  his options.
Mr G complained to BOI on 6 July 2018.  He said, in summary:
he was unhappy with the delay in responding to his correspondence, and 
BOIs insistence on sending letters by special delivery;
he was unhappy BOI had asked  for payments on behalf of the estate but 
hadnt included  DD forms or given bank  details;
he felt that BOI should not have suggested that his nephew  contact  the 
mortgage department regarding taking  over the mortgage  as he had been  
appointed as his nephews representative.
Mr G sent a further letter on 11 July 2018  complaining that BOI had quoted a premium 
phone number in its correspondence when it should have given a 0345  number.  And he 
wrote again  on 24 July to reiterate his concerns and to say that bank staff had promised 
to send out a direct  debit form but that it hadnt been received.
BOI issued its final response letter on 3 August 2018. It said,  in summary:
It had responded to Mr Gs correspondence  within the Banks timescale  of 10 
working days. And its letters  were sent by recorded delivery as they included  
originals of the documents provided to the Bank;
Ref: DRN32041422It was unable to accept direct debit payments in cases where a sole borrower 
had passed away.  After  the necessary certified ID verification  documents  had 
been received it could receive  payments either through  a standing order or by 
debit card. It apologised that this was not made  clear  to him when he enquired  
about continuing with payments;
It couldnt see that it had provided Mr G with a premium phone number to call;
It had been unaware that Mr Gs nephew  was in a vulnerable  state and would 
not be able to contact the Bank  to discuss the possibility of taking the 
mortgage over in his sole name. While authority  had been provided, it would 
prefer where possible to speak  to the applicant directly;
It noted  that Mr G had contacted BOI on 10 July to discuss the matter with the 
mortgages department. And it confirmed that the Banks position remained 
unchanged and that it couldnt  consider  his nephews  application as he didnt 
meet BOIs criteria.
Mr G wrote to BOI on 8 August 2018. He enclosed a copy of his passport and an original  
council tax bill, but these  copy documents were uncertified. He also asked for account 
details.
Mr G also raised  a complaint regarding the provision  of a copy  of the title deeds.
BOI issued a follow-up to its final response on 23 August. It said that its position 
remained unchanged. And it explained that to continue accepting payments on behalf of 
the estate it required  certified ID verification documents, which  it had not received. It had, 
however, investigated  the delay in requesting the copy of the title deeds. It agreed that 
the initial request  had been submitted on 20 July but not completed.  It apologised for the 
delay, and offered  him £50 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr G rejected BOIs offer of compensation. And he said he remained unhappy that he was 
unable to pay money despite many attempts to get bank details. He was also unhappy 
with some errors in the correspondence.
On 8 September 2018 Mr G sent BOI a cheque for £400 on behalf  of the estate while  
waiting for direct debit  or standing order details. But BOI didnt accept the cheque, and 
returned it to him. It said that as it hadnt  received the required ID documents  it was unable  
to accept payment on behalf of the estate.
Mr G says he was subsequently able to pay the outstanding mortgage  balance over the 
phone by visa debit.
Mr G brought  a complaint  to this service.  But our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint and 
so Mr G has asked  for it to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 9 October 2019.  I said, in summary:
Ref: DRN32041423In his view letter our adjudicator had said that an estate could not suffer 
distress and inconvenience. But, although  I agreed that an estate could not 
suffer distress,  it was not correct  to say that it couldnt be inconvenienced;
Mr G said that he was unhappy that BOI refused to accept payment from him 
on behalf of the estate but then wrote  to him to say that the account  was in 
arrears. BOI had explained  that it was unable  to accept the cheque Mr G had 
sent as he had not supplied  the required certified ID documents it had 
requested. I could see from the evidence supplied to me that it asked Mr G for 
them on a number of occasions.  And I agreed  that it was entitled to put in 
place processes and procedures to allow it to meet its obligations;
But, although I was not persuaded that BOI made an error in requiring the 
certified ID documents, I did think that its correspondence wasnt clear. It 
didnt initially explain that these  documents were  required before money could 
be paid to the mortgage  account.  And, while it has explained  to this service  
that the documents were needed  under anti-money laundering guidelines, I 
cant see that this has ever been  explained  to Mr G. I think  that if BOI had 
explained these issues to Mr G he would have understood earlier the 
necessity of supplying certified documents. And my provisional  view was that 
this lack of clarity in the correspondence has caused the estate 
inconvenience;
Mr G was also unhappy that BOI said it would  send him a direct debit form, 
but failed to do so. BOI said, and I accepted, that it was unable  to accept 
direct debit payments in cases  where  a sole borrower  has passed away. And it 
explained that payments could only be accepted once the necessary certified 
ID documents had been received. But, again, Mr G was promised on the 
telephone that he would be sent a direct debit form, and he then spent time 
chasing it when it wasnt received. So, again, I provisionally  considered  that 
the estate had been  caused  inconvenience as a result of this error;
Mr G says that BOI took too long to respond  to his correspondence. But, 
having considered the evidence available to me I wasnt persuaded  that BOI 
caused unreasonable delays;
I noted  that Mr G felt that BOI should  not have sent correspondence by special 
delivery. And I appreciated that he found  it inconvenient, as he had to go to 
the sorting office.  But BOI had explained that it did this as the letters included 
original documents provided to the Bank.  I didnt think  it was unreasonable  for 
it to do so;
I noted  that one of BOIs letters referred to a 0845 number rather than a 0345 
number. But alternative  numbers  were given at the top of the page. And, as I 
was not persuaded  that Ms Rs estate suffered any loss as a result  of the 
error, I wasnt  persuaded that any compensation was due;
BOI had recognised  that it was slow in providing copies of the lease. It had 
apologised, and had offered Mr G £50 compensation. I noted  that Mr G had 
previously rejected this offer. But, having considered the circumstances, my 
provisional view was that the offer was fair and reasonable;
Ref: DRN32041424In summary, my provisional view was that BOI could  have  been  clearer  in its 
dealings with Mr G. And it had accepted that it was slow in providing copies of 
the lease. Taking account of these issues, my provisional view was that BOI 
should pay Ms Rs estate £100 to compensate for the inconvenience caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G hasnt responded to my provisional decision. But BOI has responded. It says,  in 
summary:
it requested certified identification documentation from Mr G in May 2018 but he 
failed to supply  this until February 2019;
While  its reasons for requiring certified documentation  were not initially explained it 
did apologise to Mr G and provided  a full explanation in August 2018. Mr G then 
refused to send  the required documents which further prolonged the matter;
Mr G had previously  worked in the finance  industry and should have been aware of 
the relevant regulations requiring certified documents;
It doesnt agree that any further  redress is appropriate. 
Ive carefully considered  what BOI has to say but, having done so, I havent been  persuaded 
to change my view. Although I agree that it is unfortunate that Mr G failed to provide certified 
documentation after the requirements were  properly explained to him, my provisional  
decision related  to BOIs initial  failure to provide Mr G with clear  information and the delay  in 
providing copies  of the lease. It did not relate to any further delays after it had explained the 
requirements to Mr G. So this doesnt  change my decision.
I also note that BOI says that Mr G should  have been aware of the relevant regulations due 
to his former  employment. But, again, this doesnt  change my decision. Im satisfied from the 
correspondence Ive seen that Mr G was initially unaware of the need for him to provide 
certified documentation.
As Ive not been persuaded to change my decision I confirm  it here.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order The Governor and Company of the 
Bank of Ireland  to pay Ms Rs estate  £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G on behalf of 
the estate of Ms R to accept or reject my decision before  3 January 2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3204142