K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc (RBS) removed £650 from his account 
without good reason  and without telling him that it was going to do so. 
Background
Mr F received a credit of £650 into his account with RBS. He lets properties  and the 
narrative on his account statement indicates  that the payment was a rental  deposit.  
However, it seems that the payer of the money told their bank, Halifax,  that theyd been the 
victim of a scam and asked Halifax to retrieve the money. Halifax  contacted RBS and, as is 
usual in such situations, agreed  to indemnify RBS. Having received the indemnity, RBS 
returned the money to Halifax and debited Mr Fs account. The effect of the indemnity was 
that, if Mr F was entitled to the payment after all, Halifax would return  it to RBS and debit its 
own customers account.
Mr F says that RBS didnt  tell him what was happening  or why it had returned the payment, 
and it does seem that it wasnt  until nearly  a year later that it told him what the sender had 
said about the payment. It offered him £50 in recognition of the fact that staff hadnt been  
able to provide  him with that information earlier, but it wouldnt return  the £650.  
Mr F referred the matter  to this service, and one of our investigators considered it. Initially,  
he felt that RBS should return the money, with interest. But RBS didnt agree and the 
investigator changed his view. He still considered  though  that RBS should  have given Mr F 
notice that it would be debiting his account and that RBS should pay Mr F a further  £100  in 
recognition of that (making £150  in total). The bank agreed, but Mr F asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS was faced  here with a situation  where it was told that its customer,  Mr F, had received 
a payment he wasnt entitled  to. The sending bank, Halifax, had provided  an indemnity  in 
effect agreeing  to take the risk if that wasnt right.  In those circumstances, I agree with RBS 
that it had no real option but to return the payment. The practice  of providing indemnities in 
situations like this is well-established and can facilitate the quick return  of money to fraud 
victims. 
But this also means  that money might be returned  in other circumstances too  for example, 
where theres simply a dispute between payer and payee, or the payer has changed their 
mind about  a purchase. In this case though,  Halifax was told by its customer that the 
payment was the result of a scam,  and when  RBS was told the same  thing,  I believe it was 
right to act in the way it did and to return the money  to Halifax.  
Mr F hasnt  been able to provide any documentation to show that he was entitled  to the 
money that was paid into his account. Because of that, I dont believe that I can fairly 
conclude that RBS should return it. Of course, if he is owed the money, hes owed it by the 
original payer; Im not aware of any reason  why he shouldnt seek payment from that person.
Because the banks agreed  to the investigators  recommendation  that it pay Mr F a further  
£100, I dont need to discuss  in detail the reasoning for that. The investigator  thought  RBS 
Ref: DRN31396362should have told Mr F before removing the money.  I would comment  only that I wouldnt 
expect that in every case. Whilst RBS does not suggest that Mr F has done anything  wrong  
here, theres  a risk in some cases that giving advance notice would mean  that funds could 
not be returned at all.
Overall, I believe that the investigators recommendation was a fair one here.
my final decision
My final decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland plc should, in full and final settlement  of 
his complaint, pay Mr F a further £100. Under  the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3139636