K821x#15complaint
Miss D has complained that Everyday Lending  Limited (EDL) lent to her irresponsibly .
background
Miss D was given a loan of £6,000  by EDL in June 2018. The loan was due to be repaid in 
48 monthly instalments  of about £320. The total amount payable, including  interest was just 
over £15,373. I understand the loan is outstanding.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. He didnt think  EDL should have provided 
Miss D with the loan and he asked EDL to put things right. EDL didnt agree with the 
adjudicators assessment . As the complaint hasnt been settled, it has been passed  to me to 
resolve the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible  lending complaints  
on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good  industry  practice and law. 
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Miss Ds complaint.
I think there are some overarching  questions  I need to consider in order  to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular  complaint:
Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Miss D 
would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable  way? If not, what would reasonable 
and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately,  did EDL make a fair lending decision? 
Did EDL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
EDL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss D irresponsibly. 
The lender  was required to carry out a borrower  focussed  assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower  focussed  so EDL had to think  about whether 
repaying the loan sustainably  would  cause difficulties or adverse consequences  for Miss D. 
EDL had to carry out reasonable  and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Miss D would 
be able repay her loan sustainably.  There  was no set list of checks that EDL had to do, but it 
could consider a number  of different things such as the loan amount, the length of the loan 
term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers  overall financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate  check ought generally  to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
Ref: DRN35992612the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
EDL was required to establish  whether Miss D could  sustainably  repay  her loan  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of 
course, the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a consumer 
could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. 
This is because the regulations define sustainable as being  without undue difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ds complaint.
EDL asked Miss D for information about  her income and expenditure. EDL also acquired  a 
credit report  and reviewed bank statements from Miss D. EDL allowed around 35% of Miss 
Ds monthly income for regular living expenses and it calculated  her monthly payments to 
outstanding creditors.  From what Ive seen,  I think the checks that EDL carried out before it 
agreed to lend to Miss D were reasonable and proportionate, in the circumstances.
However, I dont think that EDL made  a fair lending decision on this occasion.
EDL was aware from its checks that Miss D had around £12,374  of debt from at least  5 
credit cards and two loans .  Miss  D told EDL that she wanted to consolidate some of her 
debts, to try and clear  as much as possible.   
EDL calculated that Miss D had to make monthly  repayments to her existing  creditors  of just 
over £491.  By applying  her EDL loan to consolidate some of her debt, EDL calculated  that 
Miss D monthly repayments to her existing creditors would be reduced  to around £357. 
But Miss D would then also have to pay £320  per month for her EDL loan.  So, the amount 
she would  pay to her creditors overall each month  would rise from £491 to £677 per month   
an increase of around £186 each month for the next 48 months.
EDL says that Miss D was previously only making  minimum payments to her credit  cards.  It 
says that by taking  the loan, EDL enabled Miss D to start reducing  her debts over a period of 
time rather than indefinitely.
But I think EDL would have been  aware that even after consolidating some  of her debts, 
Miss Ds existing debt would still be around  £8,300.  And she would also have  to repay  her 
loan from EDL in the next four years. 
I think EDL ought reasonably to have been aware that taking further,  costly  lending was 
unlikely to help Miss D make sufficient  inroads  into her overall existing debt position - and in 
fact it potentially increased her indebtedness  over the longer term. I think  EDL ought to have 
Ref: DRN35992613realised that it was unlikely that Miss D would be able to sustainably  repay  her loan over the 
extended loan term. And so, it should have declined to lend to her.
I also note that after paying her regular  expenses,  her existing creditors  and her EDL loan 
repayments, EDL calculated that Miss D would be left with just under £42 per month as 
disposable income. I think EDL ought  to have realised this would most likely not have been 
sufficient to enable  Miss D to meet unexpected emergencies over the next four years. 
Overall, I think EDL ought fairly to have realised  that Miss D was most likely going find it very 
difficult to manage her financial position and that it was unlikely that she would be able to 
sustainably repay  her loan over the extended loan term. I think in these circumstances, EDL 
should reasonably have  concluded that it was not appropriate to lend to Miss D. 
So, I am upholding Miss Ds complaint that she should not have been given the loan.
I havent seen  anything which makes me think that EDL acted unfairly or unreasonably 
towards Miss D in some other way. But taking  everything into account,  I dont think EDL 
should have agreed to provide the loan to Miss D. So EDL needs to put things right.
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss D to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has had to pay interest  and charges on 
a loan that shouldnt have  been  provided to her.
If the loan is still outstanding,  EDL should  try to agree an affordable repayment arrangement 
with Miss D - bearing in mind the need to treat her positively and sympathetically in those  
discussions.
If EDL has sold the outstanding debt it should  buy it back, if its able to do so and then take 
the following  steps. If EDL isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the results outlined  below.
EDL should:
Remove  all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Miss 
D made  as payments towards the capital. 
If reworking Miss Ds loan account results in her having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then EDL should  refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  from the 
date the overpayments would have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled*. 
If an outstanding balance remains, then EDL should try to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss D.
Remove  any adverse information recorded on Miss Ds credit  file in relation  to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should give 
Miss D a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN35992614my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Everyday Lending Limited  to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3599261