K820x#14complaint
Miss B has complained  that CIS General Insurance limited didnt tell her it had settled a 
claim under her car insurance policy as a fault claim. Miss B doesnt think CISs decision is 
fair. 
background
Miss B bought  a car insurance policy with CIS. In June 2018 she was involved in an incident 
with a road sweeping vehicle.  Miss B said the driver of the third party  vehicle (TPV) caused 
the collision. The other driver said Miss B caused the collision.  
An engineer  decided that the damage  to Miss Bs car meant it was uneconomical to repair.  
So CIS settled the claim by paying Miss B the market value for her car, minus the excess.  
CIS investigated the claim. Initially it defended it. But on receiving  evidence  from the other  
drivers insurer,  it offered  to settle the claim on a shared 50%50%  liability basis.  But the 
other drivers  insurer  rejected CISs offer. They didnt  make a claim for repairs  to the TPV. 
In September  2018 CIS decided that it had no prospects of recovering its costs  from the 
other drivers  insurer.  So it closed the claim as a fault claim against Miss B. 
In November 2018 Miss B received a quote from CIS for her renewal premium. She 
complained to CIS. She said it didnt tell her it had settled the claim as a fault claim. She 
believed it should  have been settled  as a non fault claim. Miss B was unhappy  with the 
impact the claim had on her premium  at renewal. Miss B made  a Subject Access  Request  
(SAR) but she was unhappy  with the timescale CIS gave her to reply to it. 
In November 2018 CIS said it had written to Miss B to update her about the claim. It was 
sorry she hadnt received  its letters  but said it wasnt responsible  for this. CIS said it had 
reached its decision fairly after properly considering the information  it had. CIS said it 
intended to reply to her SAR within 30 days.  
In December 2018 Miss B asked us to look at her complaint.  Our investigator explained that 
we dont decide liability as this is a role for the courts. But we can look at whether an insurer 
has properly investigated  a claim and reached  its decision reasonably   and line with the 
policy. The investigator  thought overall  that CIS hadnt acted unreasonably. 
Miss B didnt agree. She feels CIS should  have done more to contact  her while  it was 
dealing with the claim. So shed like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
CIS received a statement, diagram and images from Miss B  and it received  the same  from 
the other driver. There were no independent witnesses or CCTV footage. 
Ref: DRN30417862The circumstances of the incident have  been described differently by each party.  Miss B 
says she safely overtook the road sweeping vehicle,  which was moving slowly. She says she 
then pulled  back in and stopped behind a car in front - which was stationary at the end of the 
road, waiting  to turn right. Miss B says she was stationary  with her handbrake on  when the 
TPV collided into the rear of her car. 
The other driver says that he was stationary in the road sweeping  vehicle - waiting for traffic  
to clear in front of him - when Miss B overtook his vehicle. As she pulled back in, the rear of 
her bumper collided  with the front bumper of his vehicle. He believed Miss B caused  the 
collision as she pulled in too sharply.  
CIS initially looked to defend the claim.  But the other  drivers insurer said it wasnt prepared 
to accept liability. CIS looked to settle  the claim on a joint liability  basis.  But the other  drivers  
insurer insisted that it wasnt  prepared to accept any fault for the incident.  They  said the 
images and the account given by the road sweeper supported their view that Miss B was at 
fault. 
At this stage, CIS considered whether  it had enough evidence to pursue the matter to court. 
It didnt believe it did. So CIS said it decided to close the claim and abandon any plans to 
seek recovery from the third party. 
CIS wrote to Miss B a number of times while it dealt with the claim. Miss B says she didnt 
receive its letters which updated her about how it intended to settle the claim. While  I think  
this is unfortunate,  it seems Miss B received other  letters CIS sent her- for example- its letter 
confirming the total loss settlement offer and the verification documents  it needed  to pay this. 
So I cant say that CIS acted unreasonably  because  it didnt also email or call Miss B. And I 
cant hold it responsible for any postal issues. Im satisfied that CIS wrote to Miss B to 
update her about how it intended to settle  the claim.
I understand Miss B says she had a phone conversation with a representative from the third 
party. She says this representative told her the third party had settled the claim as a fault 
claim by them. However,  there  isnt anything in CISs claim or complaint notes which  support 
this. 
I understand Miss B is unhappy  with the impact  the claim has had  as she says her 
premium has gone  up and shes had to borrow the money to pay for it from a relative.  Miss B 
would like CIS to compensate her for the upset its decision to record  the claim as a fault 
claim has caused her. 
But I think CIS has recorded the claim correctly and in line with the policy.  Miss Bs policy  
has a very common term which allows it to settle  a claim in Miss Bs name  even  if she may 
not agree  with CISs decision.  We dont object to this term provided an insurer can show its 
carried out a proper investigation  and reached  its decision in a fair and reasonable way. 
From what  Ive seen, I think CIS did this. And CIS could decide that it was better to settle the 
claim than risk significant costs in taking the matter  to court  where it believed its chances 
of succeeding  were low. 
As the investigator  explained, we dont  decide  liability. She also explained that  even if CIS 
had settled the claim on a shared 50%50% liability basis, the claim would still have  been  
recorded as a fault claim. And so the impact on Miss Bs renewal  premium  would have been 
the same   as most insurers charge a higher premium where a recent fault claim has taken 
place  compared to what they would charge a customer who hasnt.
Ref: DRN30417863I realise Miss B will be disappointed with my decision. But even if Miss B had received CIS 
letters telling her how it intended to settle the claim, I dont think it would have made a 
difference to the outcome. As I think CIS reached  its decision reasonably,  I think the way it 
recorded the claim stands. And so this means I dont think  it should  do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3041786