K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  about the quality  of a second-hand car he acquired  though  a hire purchase
agreement financed by First Response  Finance  Ltd. 
He also complains that he was treated inappropriately when he tried to return  the car.
background 
I set out the background  to Mr Ls complaint in my provisional decision. But I repeat  that 
background again here in summary.
In July 2018 Mr L entered into a hire purchase agreement for a used car with FRF Ltd. When 
it was supplied, the car was over ten years old and had done around 100,000 miles.
Mr L complained about a number of separate issues in relation to how the car was running.
These were  investigated by two separate experts.  Both sets of experts produced  reports.
The first experts report suggested  some  of the problems might have been there from the
point of sale. The second expert  thought the issues it found, were  most likely to be wear and
tear items.
After quite a bit of back and forth between  Mr L and FRF Ltd, Mr L decided to leave the car
with the dealership because of his concerns about the quality of the car. This was not
something he had agreed, in advance, with the dealership or with FRF Ltd. This happened in 
October 2018.
Subsequently he found out that FRF Ltd had sold the car at a loss and it wants him to make
up the shortfall. He is unhappy that FRF Ltd is pursuing him for this money.
FRF Ltd said Mr L could  only reject  the car if he could show  that when the car was supplied
its quality was not satisfactory. It pointed to the report from the second expert which  showed,
it said, that Mr L had no proper grounds for rejecting the car on the basis  of its quality.
Further, its records showed  it had offered  to take the car back as a goodwill gesture. Mr L
agreed to this then changed his mind, worried that with his credit  history he could  not get
further new finance. It told us having  agreed to keep the car Mr L then, without warning, 
changed his mind again and dropped  the car off at the dealership.  
From FRF Ltds point  of view by leaving  the car at the dealership,  Mr L abandoned the car. 
This in turn meant the car was in jeopardy and this in turn could  have prejudiced its rights.  
The agreement says if this happens  it can sell the car and if this does not cover what  he 
owes then he has to pay it the balance. 
From FRF Ltds standpoint,  it has done  nothing wrong, all it has done  is ask Mr L to stick to 
the terms of their agreement.
Dissatisfied and worried Mr L came  to our service.
Once his complaint was with us, Mr L told us that he could not afford the car. To underline  
this point, he told us hed entered into a debt relief order, shortly before taking out the hire 
purchase agreement  with FRF Ltd. Further, he explained that he had been  experiencing 
mental health difficulties  when  he entered  into the contract. He suggested, that when he had 
Ref: DRN35469372the car he had been perhaps, been  looking for faults  with the car. He also told us about  his 
current mental health.
I looked at Mr Ls complaint in my provisional decision. I recommended  upholding it in part. 
In summary,  I very much regretted  to hear about  Mr Ls mental  health  difficulties  and the 
impact that he said these had had on him when deciding to enter into the agreement. I told 
him I had heard what he was saying about  not being  able to afford the finance.  These  were  
very serious  matters, but they were also new points. I explained why I could not look at these 
new points in this complaint.  I said these are issues that had not been looked at by FRF Ltd 
in its final response or investigated by us during the course of this complaint. Therefore, I 
didnt have the power to look at them in this complaint.
That said,  I told Mr L I wasnt saying these matters  could not be looked  at. Mr L indicated he 
wanted to raise a new complaint with FRF Ltd about these issues  which I believe he has 
done.
As to this current complaint, I concluded,  in the circumstances, that it was more  likely than 
not that the car was of satisfactory quality  when it was supplied. But I also concluded that 
FRF Ltd had not treated Mr L fairly in relation to ending the agreement. In particular, I didnt 
agree by leaving the car with the dealership, who have  a close  relationship with FRF Ltd, Mr 
L had abandoned the car and put it in jeopardy. The car was securely held by the dealership 
so securely held indeed that FRF Ltd suggested  it thought the dealership  was going to 
charge it for storage.
Instead, I concluded Mr L had surrendered the car and that is how he ought to have been 
treated. Further. Mr L had mentioned feeling  bullied by FRF Ltd and I thought this was 
concerning. I also thought  FRF Ltd ought  to have realised that Mr L was a vulnerable 
consumer and treated  him as such at the time. I reminded it given that Mr L is a vulnerable 
consumer it ought  to be mindful  of this in how it treats Mr L from now on as well. 
For all of these reasons I said I intended  to ask FRF Ltd to:
1.Treat Mr Ls agreement  as if Mr L had voluntarily surrendered  the car at the point 
when he returned  it to the dealership.
2.Remove any adverse  information that it has registered on Mr Ls credit file in relation 
to the agreement from the time he surrendered the car to it.
I invited both Mr L and FRF to respond to my provisional decision.  They  both did.
FRF Ltd accepted my recommendations. But it said Mr L owed it money  and it would have to 
reflect this on his credit  file. It suggested  an arrangement  to pay plan might be the best 
option here.
Mr L responded to say he accepted my provisional decision. He also told us he would be 
pursuing his new complaint.
my findings
I thank both Mr L and FRF Ltd for their responses  to my provisional decision. Ive 
re-considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN35469373Both parties  have accepted my provisional decision. On that basis,  I find no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  that I reached in it. It follows, Ive come  to the same conclusions, for 
the same  reasons, as I did in my provisional  decision.
I understand the point FRF Ltd is making  about the information it may register  on Mr Ls 
credit file. I think  it was prudent it mentioned this just in case  Mr L might  have  thought 
nothing was going to be registered on his credit file in relation to this agreement. Mr L did 
surrender the car with money owing. Both parties  seem to accept that is so. We would 
expect FRF Ltd to register true and accurate information with the credit reference  agencies.
That said,  if Mr L is able to agree a repayment plan with FRF Ltd that might  be a positive  
way forward in these  circumstances. The parties  will need to discuss this directly.
Ill take this opportunity to remind FRF Ltd that, Mr L is a vulnerable consumer and FRF Ltd 
must take account  of this in how it deals  with him. In particular, I also want to remind  FRF 
Ltd that it has obligations towards consumers who are vulnerable which  it is expected to 
know about and stand by. 
my final decision
My final decision is that First Response Finance Ltd must:
1.Treat Mr Ls agreement  as if Mr L had voluntarily surrendered  the car at the point 
when he returned  it to the dealership.
2.Remove any adverse  information that it has registered on Mr Ls credit file in relation 
to the agreement from the time he surrendered the car to it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3546937