K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the way UK Insurance  Limited  (UKI) has dealt with his travel  insurance 
claim. 
background
On 16 April 2018, Mr K travelled to Florida to attend  a wedding. When he got to the hotel, he 
discovered that several items of clothing  were missing as well as £440 in cash.  He stayed in 
Florida until 23 April 2018 and then went  to Spain. 
While he was in Spain, Mr K contacted UKI to report the missing items and to put in a claim. 
He was informed  during  this call the documents it would require from him and that the cash  
would not be covered.  Mr K submitted the information but this wasnt  sufficient and further 
communication took place between the two parties.  UKI tried to contact Mr K to inform  him it 
hadnt received  sufficient  information and Mr K had to send numerous  emails to chase the 
claim. 
It wasnt until beginning of August 2018  that matters  progressed substantively. Following 
confirmation from the further  information Mr K provided and confirmation from the flight 
operator of what  it covered  under  its policy, UKI settled the claim on 11 August 2018 for the 
sum of £989.99. 
Mr K was unhappy with the service provided  by UKI throughout the claim handling and 
raised a formal complaint. UKI decided to pay Mr K £175 for the trouble and upset caused to 
him and apologised. 
Still unhappy with UKI, Mr K brought the complaint to our service.  Our investigator looked 
into the complaint  and he thought UKI did fail in providing good customer  service. However, 
UKI did settle the claim,  accepted its failings and offered £175 for the trouble and upset 
caused. The investigator said he thought this was fair and reasonable.  
Mr K didnt agree so the case has been passed  to me to make  a decision. He says that 
UKIs service was very poor in the way it handled his claim and he doesnt feel that £175  
reflects all the trouble hed been  put through. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My understanding of the complaint is that UKI has now settled the claim and therefore I now 
need to consider whether  the offer of £175  is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. And 
having reviewed  the complaint, I think the offer of £175 made by UKI is fair and reasonable. 
Ill explain  why. 
I completely understand that Mr K was inconvenienced and has experienced delays as well 
as poor customer service. He had to send numerous  emails and make many  calls to 
progress the claim.  But I can also see the delays caused werent entirely  UKIs fault. It asked 
Mr K to send in further information and also confirmation of whether  he had contacted his 
flight operator to see if it would cover any items he was claiming for under its airline policy. I 
dont think this was an unreasonable request from UKI. And, indeed, it would have been  
Ref: DRN38539442difficult to assess the claim without this as there  could potentially  be duplicate  claims 
ongoing between  UKI and the flight operator. UKI asked for the information it required to 
assess the claim. But it wasnt until July/August that it received anything  substantive  in order 
to decide whether it would  accept the claim.  Once it had received the information it required, 
a decision was made quickly and the claim was settled soon after.
While I acknowledge that there were delays  and the customer service could have been 
better, thats not enough for me to say that an offer of more  than £175 is justified in this case 
as there  was also a level of responsibility  Mr K had to take in order  to progress  the claim. 
Overall, Im satisfied that an offer of £175  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint and I dont  think UKI needs to do anything further. 
my final decision
UK Insurance Limited  has made an offer to pay £175. I conclude that such  an offer is fair 
compensation in the circumstances. My decision is that UK Insurance  Limited should pay Mr 
K £175  if it hasnt  already done so  within 28 days  of receiving notice  of his acceptance of 
this decision.
Mr K should  note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt  be able to take legal action over this matter  for additional  
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between him and UK Insurance Limited as to whether the £175 
offer still remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding  on the 
offeror after rejection of it has been  communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Nimisha Radia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3853944