K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about his TV warranty provider Caversham Finance Limited.  The 
screen on his TV was broken and he made a claim which it declined.
background
Mr C purchased a TV with a warranty. In June 2018  the TV was replaced  after Mr C visited 
the store he purchased it from and said the screen had been broken when items  were 
thrown at it by his child/children.  The store reportedly felt the insurance wouldnt cover  this 
matter but replaced  the TV anyway and the insurance remained in place for the new one.
In August  2018  Mr C made a claim to Caversham. He said the TV screen had been broken 
when something  was thrown at by his child/children. Caversham noted the details from when 
the TV had been replaced in June 2018.  It looked at the policy terms and noted  an exclusion 
for damage  caused  by wilful acts, neglect or misuse. Caversham decline the claim. Mr C 
complained to this service.
Our investigator initially felt Cavershams  decision  had been fair. However,  Mr C then 
provided more information  about how and what had happened. Based  on the new evidence  
she was satisfied that the damage hadnt  been caused wilfully or by neglect or misuse.  She 
said Caversham should accept the claim. 
Caversham disagreed. It said that as Mr C had known  of a risk to the TV (because the same 
damage had occurred before), he shouldve taken  precautions following the first incident. 
Because he hadnt he had been neglectful.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Caversham is reluctant  to pay a claim again for circumstances that have  
occurred or are similar to that which occurred  before. However,  it offers cover for single  
incidents of damage  and this was a single incident. There  is no exclusion for damage  which 
is repeated. 
Ive considered how this incident is said to have occurred. Im not going  to set out personal 
details here but suffice to say Mr Cs adult son has a condition which means  he isnt always  
in control of himself  and his actions and that Mr C does what  he can to safeguard against 
that. I accept  that one cant  entirely  eliminate all possible risks in that scenario. Im satisfied 
that this incident didnt  happen as a result  of a wilful act, neglect  or misuse. 
In light of that I cant see any reasonable grounds  on which to say Caversham can fairly rely 
on the exclusion stated  to decline the claim. As such it will have to accept the claim and 
settle it in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Caversham Finance Limited  to accept the claim and settle it 
in line with the remaining policy terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN31545452Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3154545