K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that MBNA  Limited  defaulted  her credit card account.
background
In December 2018 Mrs L received a default notice about nearly £500 of arrears on her 
MBNA credit card account. Three weeks later she phoned MBNA and said she would pay 
£430 in January. MBNA told her that if she paid £179 by 15 January 2019, which was the 
deadline in the default notice, then this would  be enough  to avoid the default  for a further 
three months. Mrs L said she would pay half the arrears by that date,  and clear  the rest of 
the arrears over the next couple of months. But she paid £200 on 18 January,  and so MBNA 
defaulted her account. She complained about this to MBNA. She also said that she was told 
in a call that she could ignore any notices or arrears letters MBNA sent her, which MBNA 
denies. However, as a gesture of good  will MBNA  offered  her £150, which she declined.
MBNA said it had none nothing  wrong, so Mrs L brought this complaint to our Service. But 
our investigator did not uphold it, because she had not paid on time, and so he thought the 
correct default  process had been  followed. Mrs L asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it, for broadly the same  
reason as our investigator gave. Mrs L didnt have  to pay all the arrears  at once, but she had 
to make a payment  by 15 January 2019.  She paid more than the minimum necessary, but 
she was three days late. So I dont think MBNA was wrong to default  her account, as she 
hadnt done what she needed  to do to avoid it.
I dont think its likely  that MBNA told Mrs L she could ignore regulatory  notices. But even if 
she didnt read them,  I dont think that makes  any difference, because she was told on the 
phone to make a payment by 15 January 2019, and she agreed she would. So if she ignored 
what she was sent in the post, she still knew when the deadline  was.
I have thought about whether I should still uphold this complaint on the ground that although 
Mrs Ls payment was late, she had still demonstrated her intent to pay back all of the 
arrears, so that MBNA  should have reassessed the situation and perhaps drawn back from 
defaulting her. But I think  that the default accurately and fairly represents  Mrs Ls financial 
position at the time. When MBNA did an income and expenditure check in December 2018, 
it found that she had a negative disposable income.  Her account history shows  that she had 
been in difficulty  since 2017, and had exceeded  her credit limit for some time.  MBNA had 
already withdrawn her credit facility, reduced her monthly minimum payments to zero,  and 
supressed interest and charges. That is essentially a defaulted account in all but name. So 
I dont think it was unfair, or premature, to make it official.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3540473