K820x#14Complaint
Mrs M complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A (Mapfre)  treated her unfairly  in only settling her travel cancellation claim for 
her and not for her husband.
Background
Mrs M took out an annual  travel insurance  policy with Mapfre  in February 2018. The policy  
certificate listed Mrs M as the only insured person.
Mrs M and her husband had a holiday booked for September 2018. Unfortunately  Mrs M had 
an accident three days before they were  due to travel. She suffered injuries  which meant 
that she wasnt well enough  to travel. Mrs M and her husband had to cancel their holiday.
Mrs M made  a claim to Mapfre  on her travel insurance for the cancelled trip. She provided 
medical evidence  showing that she couldnt  travel.  Mapfre  settled her claim for the 
cancellation by paying half of the cost of the trip, less the amount paid for Airport Passenger  
Duty (APD) and ATOL protection fees.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us as she felt Mapfre should have settled the claim for the 
full cost of their trip, not just her half. She felt that the deduction for APD was unfair and that 
she wanted to be reimbursed for her loss from currency exchange rates  and fees.
Our investigator looked into the circumstances and didnt  uphold the complaint. His view was 
that Mapfre had fairly  settled the claim.
Mrs M disagreed, and the complaint has been  referred for an ombudsman decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From Mrs Ms explanation I can see that this was a special trip and cancelling it at the last 
minute cant have been  an easy decision.  There is no question that she was too ill to travel,  
nor that her husband  would be expected to have travelled without  her. The main issue  is that 
Mrs M feels  that her insurance should  have paid for her husbands half of the loss too. 
Mapfre explained that Mrs Ms Husband wasnt covered on her policy.  Mrs M explained that 
her husband  had a travel  insurance policy, but it expired three weeks  before  the claim and 
they hadnt realised. This unfortunately meant  that he couldnt make  a separate  claim for his 
loss.
Ive looked at the terms of Mrs Ms policy to see what she was covered for. The relevant 
section of the terms and conditions  said If you have  to cancel or cut short your trip.we  will 
pay.for unused travel  and accommodation expenses  that you have paid or have agreed to 
pay under  a contract and which you cannot  get back  (bold  is my emphasis). The policy  also 
defines you and your as each  insured person named on the validation certificate and that 
each person must have paid the appropriate  premium. I think  this condition clearly explains 
that the policy is intended to cover Mrs M, as the insured party, for what she paid. In this 
case Mrs M explained that she and her husband paid for the holiday, so I think its fair and 
reasonable to treat this as a joint loss rather than Mrs Ms loss alone.
Ref: DRN32395682I looked at Mapfres  decision to deduct the cost of the APD and ATOL  fee from the 
settlement. Under the special exclusions part of the policies terms, it explicitly says that 
APD charges and ATOL  protection werent covered. I think  this condition was clearly worded 
and was fairly applied in this case.  I therefore  think it was fair and reasonable for Mapfre  not 
to cover this part of the loss.
I looked at whether I thought this policy covered  any loss due to currency  exchange rates.  In 
addition to accommodation expenses, in the event  of a cancellation the policy also covered 
losses for: prepaid excursions; tours or activities;  and reasonable extra travel costs. In the 
general conditions,  it excludes losses not directly covered by the terms and conditions of the 
policy.  In this case I dont  think that Mrs Ms policy covered her for her loss due to currency 
exchange rates, so Im satisfied that Mapfres decision was fair and reasonable.
I know that Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision. I can see Mrs M and her husband 
have suffered loss through no fault of their own and have no other  way to claim this back. 
But I think that Mapfre have treated her claim in a fair and reasonable way and it follows  that 
for the reasons Ive given  I cant  uphold  this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given my decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020
Gary Lane
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3239568