K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that she was mis-sold a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy  in April 2000.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL in my decision.
background
I issued my provisional decision in September 2019, a copy of which is attached  and forms 
part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I wasnt intending on 
upholding Miss Js complaint. I asked  everyone to send me any further comments  and 
information before I reached a final decision.
Neither Miss J nor FICL responded with anything further for me to consider.        
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Ive not received any new evidence,  
Ive reached the same  conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision, for the same 
reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold      
Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Miss J complains that she was mis-sold  a monthly premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy in April 2000.
Its been  agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, 
should accept responsibility for the complaint.  To keep  things  simple, Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
Ref: DRN33023842background
Miss J bought the policy in April 2000. The PPI was sold to her when  she applied for a store  card by 
filling in a leaflet while in a store.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the complaint 
has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Miss Js case.
Ive provisionally decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
FICL has provided us with a copy  of Miss Js credit agreement. This shows Miss J was given the 
option of adding the PPI to her account. Under the section Account Cover, Miss J was asked to sign 
if she wanted the PPI. Looking  at Miss Js credit agreement,  I can see she signed next to the 
statement Yes, I would  like to protect my Account with Account Cover (subject to eligibility). Please 
debit my Account  with the relevant premium until further notice.
Ive also noted that under  the same section on the application form, Miss J had the option of selecting  
whether or not she wanted  the Card  Protection Plan. Miss J didnt select  this product,  so I think  she 
would have known she had a choice  about taking out either product. Overall, I think its more likely 
than not Miss J would have  understood the PPI was optional.  And I dont think she would have 
selected the PPI if she didnt want to take it out.
FICL says it didnt recommend that Miss J take out the PPI. Miss J on the other  hand says it did. So 
Ive thought about what both parties have  said,  taking  into account  the available information  from the 
time of sale.  Having considered this, I havent seen anything to suggest  that FICL  assessed Miss Js 
circumstances at the time and recommended that Miss J take out the PPI. This means  the lender 
didnt have to check if it was right for her. But it did have to make sure Miss J got the information she 
needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have been  
particularly about the things it didnt  cover. But Miss J chose to take out the PPI, so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it looks like she 
was eligible for the cover and it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the main  things the policy 
didnt cover - so it would have been useful for her if something  went  wrong. It also looks like the PPI 
was affordable.
Miss J has told us she didnt need PPI as she would  have  received generous sick pay from her 
employer if she was too unwell to work. Shes also told us she had some savings  which she could 
have used to cover  her store card repayments. 
The adjudicator upheld Miss Js complaint. He thought that Miss Js circumstances at time of sale 
meant that she wouldnt have found the PPI good value for money.
Ive thought about what Miss J has told us about her sick pay. She says she would have been entitled 
to six months full pay followed by six months  half pay from her employer if she was too unwell to 
work.  Using what I know about Miss Js profession, her employer  and the length of time she was 
employed, I think its unlikely she would have received the level of sick pay she says she was entitled 
to. Our adjudicator asked Miss J for some information to support what shes told us about  her sick pay 
entitlement. Unfortunately, Miss J hasnt provided us with any additional information.
Ref: DRN33023843While I dont  doubt Miss Js employer did offer generous  benefits  to its employees after many  years of 
service, in my experience its unlikely she would  have been  entitled to the level of sick pay she said 
she was after only two years of service. So, I dont  think the sick pay Miss J was likely to have  had 
would have meant the PPI wasnt useful for her. I say this because the PPI would  have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay Miss J would  have received from her employer and would  have paid out for 
longer than she would have received full pay. The PPI also would have paid a benefit if Miss J was 
ever made  redundant.
Ive also thought  about  what Miss J has told us about her savings. Again, I dont think  this would have 
meant that she had no need for the PPI. In the event of a successful  claim, the PPI would have paid 
out a benefit for up to 12 months.  This would have enabled Miss J to use her savings for any other 
financial commitments she may have had at what could  be a difficult time.
So overall, I think  Miss J could have found the policy useful if she ever fell on hard times and
I dont think that any better information would have put her off from taking out the policy.
Based on what Ive said above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Ive also thought  about  whether the Financial Conduct  Authoritys (FCA) new rules regarding 
undisclosed commission are relevant to Miss Js complaint.  
The Supreme Court  decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v Paragon  
Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)   who make the rules for financial 
businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to follow when  theyre  looking 
at PPI complaints. This means  businesses  will sometimes need to give consumers  back some of the 
commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But the new rules are about  what  lenders  need to do in cases where the rules apply, so this doesnt 
make a difference to this complaint about Financial Insurance Company Limited  as they arent a 
lender.
my provisional  decision
Based on what Ive said above, I dont currently think this complaint should  be upheld.
Margaux Stride-Noble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3302384