K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about his home insurer Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar)  Limited  in 
relation a claim he made after an oil leak occurred at his home.
background 
There was a leak on a pipe in the wall of the utility room in February 2018. Admiral attended 
and extraction units were  fitted to remove contaminated  air from the house.  It was 
December 2018  before the claim was finalised.  
Initially it was felt mainly external work  was required  and that was due to start at the end of 
May 2018 but was delayed as no skip was delivered. Mr Cs dogs were  placed in kennels,  
for what everyone thought would be a few weeks. At the end of June air samples were taken 
again, tested for contaminants and failed.  More significant internal works  were 
recommended which  required the family to move out of their home. This occurred at the end 
of July and disrupted  plans  the family had for the six-week holidays.
Mr C noted hed asked  for regular updates  from the loss adjuster,  which  he believed the 
adjuster had tried to provide,  but told Admiral that the prolonged claim was now taking its 
toll. He noted his whole  family were being affected  not least  because a relative had been 
unable to come and visit and, until they moved out, the family had been  living  with everything 
from the utility stored around the house, along  with temporary heaters.
In August  one of the familys dogs suffered a stroke. Mr C believed this was due to the stress 
of being in the kennels for a prolonged period and asked Admiral  to pay towards  vet bills. 
Admiral wasnt  inclined to accept it was likely this had occurred due to its delays and wasnt  
prepared to pay anything.
The family returned from holiday in September, expecting their heating system to be up and 
running and their house to be clean. But this wasnt what  they found. Admiral  resolved this 
but the situation did cause  additional anxiety and stress which  Mr C believes could and 
should have been avoided. 
Into October  Mr C said again how the prolonged claim and constantly revising deadlines for 
completion were affecting his family.  He pointed  out hed been doing a lot of project 
management work, including meeting contractors on site to arrange access. He said no 
guarantees for what had been done had been provided.
Admiral issued a final response letter to Mr C. It accepted  the claim hadnt been  handled in a 
timely manner and the way it had been handled had impacted Mr C and his family. Admiral 
acknowledged the problems with the boiler had caused the family further difficulty and 
accepted it should have  told Mr C it was going  to have third-party companies contact him 
directly. It didnt  accept any liability regarding the familys dog. Admiral offered  £350 
compensation. Mr C remained unhappy  so complained  to us.
Our investigator felt that whilst Admiral had accepted it had caused  upset by the way it 
handled this claim. He didnt think the offer of compensation fairly and reasonably  made up 
for that. He suggested it pay a total of £750,  which Admiral agreed to do.
Mr C remained  unhappy. He said he believes the total claim amount, said by Admiral  to be 
around £70,000 must be wrong as the works couldnt possibly have cost that much.  The total 
Ref: DRN35354712was affecting  his ability to get alternate insurance.  He confirmed Admiral had now provided  
guarantees for the work,  but they were out of date. He felt the impact  on him and his family 
had been under estimated  and wanted  this to be reviewed. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr C is concerned about the overall  cost of the claim  but it isnt just repair  
works that add to that overall  total  there  are costs for the family living elsewhere and fees 
for the various  parties involved, such as the loss adjuster, to take into account  as well. And 
all costs incurred are added in, even those that only arose due to delay or mismanagement  
of some kind. But whilst the total cost of a claim may sometimes  influence  a prospective 
insurers decision on whether or not to offer cover, the fact of a claim,  particularly  one that is 
leak related, will usually  have some bearing.  Whilst I understand Mr Cs concern in this 
respect, Im not convinced  I can reasonably  blame  Admiral for any issues  hes found in 
obtaining alternate cover.
I see that this claim wasnt managed as well as it should have been. It took longer to resolve 
than it should  have done and Mr C clearly  put in efforts towards that end beyond  that he 
would have done if Admiral had managed things better. Ive no doubt that, as time went  on, 
the distress and inconvenience  felt was magnified, especially once more  extensive work was 
found necessary  and the claim continued  over the summer months. Returning home in 
September to find things  hadnt been  done as expected was clearly  and understandably 
upsetting and frustrating.
I also see that as time, and the claim went on, the communication  from the loss adjuster 
became more sporadic. I see Mr C had to chase for updates more. And this despite the 
adjuster knowing  how important updates and planning were to Mr C.
It is quite common for insurers to share policyholder  data with third-parties. It would often be 
difficult for claims to progress otherwise. But Admiral accepts that, as a matter  of courtesy, it 
should have let Mr C know  it was doing  that.
I fully understand  how worried  Mr C has been about his dog. I was sorry to see it had been  
taken ill during the claim  and with the family  being  apart I understand this must have been 
hard. But Im not persuaded I can fairly conclude that the dog likely only became ill due to 
Admirals failures. Whilst I know that Mr Cs belief about the cause is based on what  the vet 
told him, I havent seen  anything direct from the vet to support this contention. I also have to 
bear in mind  that placing pets into a kennel environment  will often cause them stress  
regardless of how long they are there, and sometimes older pets are more sensitive to major  
changes in their routines  and lifestyle. I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of Admiral 
to refuse  to pay or contribute towards  the vet bills.
Having reviewed everything, I think our investigator  was right to say, given the distress  and 
inconvenience that had been caused,  that Admiral should pay more  compensation than the 
£350 it had offered. I know  Mr C thinks that £750 is also not sufficient  but I do think  its fair 
and reasonable.  Im satisfied this sum is in line with other awards made by this service  in 
similar circumstances.
Ref: DRN35354713my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited  to pay Mr C a total of 
£750 compensation (if any part of this has been  paid already, the outstanding balance  now 
need only be paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3535471