K821x#15complaint
Mr L says PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans  Mr Lender provided to Mr L between March 
2017 and October  2017. Mr L borrowed £200  on five occasions  from Mr Lender.  He repaid 
his loans in three monthly instalments with the highest  expected  amounts ranging between  
£101.86 and £135.46. The loan repayments didnt overlap. There  were no significant  breaks  
between the loans. From what  I can see, Mr L repaid all his loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ls complaint  in part and thought loans four and five shouldnt  
have been given. Mr Lender disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr L 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN33454152Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
Mr Lender asked Mr L for information about  his income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. Mr L said his monthly  income  was about £2,250. He said his outgoings ranged 
between about  £1,000  and £1,900  a month. Mr Lenders credit checks  didnt  find anything 
untoward that should have prompted  further checks. 
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Ls 
circumstances at the time and his history with Mr Lender, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed  to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr L provided or the information  that 
Mr Lender shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mr L was saying. The repayments  looked affordable  for Mr L. So I cant  say 
Mr Lender was wrong to have provided  loans one to three.  
But by loan four, I think there were signs that Mr L was having  problems managing  his 
money:
Mr L had borrowed the same amount four times  in three months. 
Hed borrowed again shortly after repaying his loans several times.
The amounts  Mr L was borrowing didnt decrease. 
So I think there was a significant risk that Mr L would be unable to sustainably  meet  his 
repayments for loan four and any subsequent loans. So I think Mr Lender shouldnt  have 
provided loans  four and five and it should put things  right. 
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Mr Ls credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Mr L a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN33454153my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Ls complaint. I 
require PDL Finance  Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to pay Mr L compensation as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3345415