K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained about Liverpool  Victoria  Insurance Company Limited (LV). He isnt 
happy about the way it dealt with a claim  under  his car insurance policy.
background
Mr H told LV about a minor incident  he was involved in. When  he called LV he said that he 
had been involved  in a small accident but there was only a very small amount of damage.  
He thought that was the end of the matter  as he didnt think there was any real damage.
LV didnt really  keep  Mr H up to date, but the other driver continued with their claim. Mr H 
only realised this when  his premium went up at renewal. So, he complained to LV. It said it 
didnt feel it could defend Mr H and thought the best it could  achieve  was a split liability 
(50/50). 
This was because Mr H acknowledged there had been some kind of coming together when 
he first let them know about the claim even though he couldnt explain what happened. But 
LV did acknowledge that it should have kept Mr H up to date about the claim and offered 
Mr H £100 by way of compensation. Mr H remained unhappy and complained to this service.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mr H but didnt  uphold his complaint. She thought LV 
hadnt acted unreasonably. She agreed that it should have kept Mr H informed about  the 
claim. But didnt  think it had acted unreasonably in deciding liability.
As Mr H didnt  agree the matter has been  passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
I can understand how frustrating this is for Mr H. I say this as he was at the scene at the time 
of the incident and doesnt feel that there was an accident. But, as the investigator 
explained, this service doesnt look to take sides and doesnt decide liability as that is a 
matter for the courts. However, we do look to ensure insurers  act reasonably when making  
their decisions  about claims.
LV, just like most insurers, have  a clause in the contract that allows them to take over the 
settlement of the claim.  This gives it the right to decide how it will settle Mr Hs claim and 
decide whether  it is prepared  to defend  Mr H if the matter did proceed to court.  And court  
proceedings are uncertain and expensive, so insurers  are cautious about  going to court. 
Insurers consider the costs involved  and the likelihood of success  in making these decisions.
But this service does  look to ensure insurers act fairly in deciding whether to settle matters  
and make reasonable assessments  of claims. We look to ensure that decisions are based 
on a clear understanding of the evidence  and the general circumstances surrounding the 
accident. With this in mind, I have  carefully considered how LV has handled Mr Hs claim. 
When Mr H first contacted LV it did advise him it might settle the claim  50/50  from the 
account he gave  them about the incident.  He said he didnt know  what happened, but he did 
Ref: DRN30586792say when he called that he had a small accident  and he didnt know  if it was his fault or the 
other drivers  fault. Mr H went  on to describe some minor damage to the other drivers car 
that he could only see when he wiped the area of the other drivers car with his hand. He 
also said there was some  damage  to his car around the front wheel arch, but he did say it 
was almost nothing.
Mr H described  how he was in the middle lane with the intention  of going straight on and that 
the other driver was in a filter lane turning left. He didnt know how the accident  had 
happened and said he heard a noise. I know English isnt Mr Hs first language, but I have 
listened to the call and he was clear  about all of this and that there had been some  kind of 
very minor accident.
I know Mr H said later that there  wasnt any coming together  of the cars and he changed his 
account about what lane he was in and where he was going. And while  I accept peoples 
recollections can be affected over a period  of time,  I think  it would be very difficult for LV to 
argue that there hadnt been an incident at all. I say this as Mr H was very clear in his initial  
call to LV that something happened  at the time. He heard a noise and stopped to look at the 
other drivers  car and his own. Indeed, he described some  damage  although I accept the 
level of damage he described was very small.  
Ive seen the pictures Mr H took and there appears to be some damage to the third partys 
car. I have also looked at the road layout where the incident happened.  And given all of this I 
agree it would be hard for LV to argue that there  wasnt  an accident, however small. 
As such,  I cant say LV has acted  unreasonably. It did try to defend Mr H but without any 
CCTV or independent  witness  evidence it would  be difficult for LV to defend  Mr H if the 
matter went to court. I know  Mr H feels that he has a witness to support him. But as this 
witness was his partner  their evidence isnt independent. And, as outlined above,  Mr H 
changed his account slightly when he realised, he would be held at fault.  So, I dont think LV 
acted unreasonably in settling liability 50/50.
But I do agree  that LV shouldve made sure Mr H was kept up to date. I know  it suggested 
the matter was most likely  to be settled 50/50 when  he first called. But it mustve  been 
disappointing to not be told how the case was progressing and only realise this had been  
settled when his premium went up at renewal.
Finally, I know  this has affected Mr Hs premiums, especially as he has a fault claim 
recorded against him. But as I dont think LV has done anything  wrong  in deciding liability, I 
wont be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020.
Ref: DRN30586793Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3058679