K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about Rooftop Mortgages  Limiteds administration  of his mortgage.  He says: 
-Rooftop has been asking for two payments each month instead of one and it changed  
his payment dates,  which has resulted in his payments being  received late and more 
interest being charged; and
-the arrears, interest and charges on the mortgage are unfair,  and a court  order made  in 
2010 is stopping  him from re-mortgaging to another lender.
background
Mr K took out a mortgage in 2006,  and some additional borrowing in 2007. The original 
mortgage lender  transferred the mortgage  to a new lender in 2008. That lender took legal 
action because Mr Ks mortgage  was in arrears. In 2010, there was a hearing, and the court 
issued a suspended order for possession of Mr Ks property
Rooftop took over the mortgage  in December 2016. Mr K says the previous lender told him 
the mortgage would simply continue as it was following the transfer to Rooftop. But Rooftop 
broke that promise by changing the payment dates and how it collects  his monthly 
payments. Mr K complained, and said he feels trapped  as he cant  re-mortgage.
Rooftop said it had done nothing wrong and, while it had changed the way it administered  Mr 
Ks mortgage payments in May 2017,  it had told Mr K what was happening.  It also said it 
hadnt changed the mortgage payment date, and it hadnt charged Mr K any fees for late 
payment since it took on the mortgage in 2016.  
Our investigator found that the payment due date on the mortgage had never changed. He 
thought Rooftop had explained why Mr Ks monthly  payments needed  to be split and it had 
told Mr K about this in 2017. The change hadnt resulted in the payments increasing, so he 
said this hadnt  resulted  in any loss to Mr K. 
The investigator also concluded that Rooftop was entitled to add interest to the mortgage 
arrears, as well as to any earlier fees that had been  charged.  The rate was the same as the 
rate on the main  mortgage balance, and he didnt think  the interest was excessive or unfair.  
He also thought Mr Ks circumstances, rather than anything Rooftop had done, were  causing 
difficulties for Mr K in moving his mortgage.
Mr K didnt accept that conclusion. He thought the investigator was biased, and had ignored 
Rooftops acceptance that it had sent him threatening letters  about missed  payments when 
he had in fact paid on time. He said the investigator  had also ignored the previous lenders 
promise that nothing  would change following the transfer of the mortgage to Rooftop, and 
explained why he felt the mortgage should  not be showing  as in arrears.
The investigator said the matters of the letters Mr K had received and the recording of 
arrears were  being considered separately, so that Rooftop could respond to Mr K first  so 
he had not taken a view on them.
Ref: DRN31498992my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, I think  its important to be clear that our service is impartial. A decision not to 
uphold a complaint isnt evidence of bias, and I can assure Mr K that I have considered his 
complaint impartially  and independently.
Rooftop did split Mr Ks monthly  payments in 2017,  and this was clearly a change from how 
the mortgage had previously been operating. However, Im satisfied that Rooftop told Mr K 
what was happening.  It has explained  that a change in its systems  means  it can only accept 
two separate payments each month,  instead  of one single payment, because Mr K has two 
mortgage accounts: one for his main mortgage  and one for his additional borrowing. 
Importantly, I find nothing  to indicate  that this has resulted in any loss or material 
inconvenience to Mr K. The total amount he needed to pay each month stayed  the same, 
and Rooftop has said he can set up direct debits to avoid  any inconvenience. 
I dont think the payment  due date on the mortgage  has changed. Rooftop has provided a 
copy of Mr Ks signed acceptance  of the mortgage in 2006.  That says he wanted to make his 
payments on the 1st of each month. The mortgage  statements satisfy me that this is how the 
mortgage was set up  and it hasnt  changed.  Rooftop has, however,  said Mr K can change  
the date if he wants, and I can see from its records  that it has had discussions about  this 
with him in the past. If Mr K would prefer a different date, its for him to contact Rooftop to let 
it know.
I have carefully considered Mr Ks mortgage  statements, but I have seen no evidence  of fees 
for late payment  having been  added  to the mortgage since  Rooftop took it on in 2016.  
Rooftop has added interest to the mortgage arrears and any earlier fees that had been 
charged. It was entitled to do that under  the mortgage terms, and I dont  think  this was unfair  
in the circumstances.
Mr K has explained that he feels trapped and cant move his mortgage.  I dont think the 
suspended possession order that was issued in 2010 is likely to stop him from re-mortgaging  
 and Rooftop didnt take the legal action  which gave rise to the court order  in any event. 
The ongoing  arrears  may well have more of an impact.  Changes in regulation  and the 
lending environment also mean its much harder to move an interest-only  mortgage to a new 
lender. That,  though,  is not down to Rooftop,  and I dont find Rooftop has done anything to 
prevent Mr K from re-mortgaging  elsewhere  or put barriers in his way.
I recognise that Mr K is very stressed  and worried about his mortgage, and I would 
encourage him to keep in touch with Rooftop  about  his circumstances. 
Mr K has told us he is unhappy about other  aspects of Rooftops administration  of his 
mortgage, including the way it has recorded  the mortgage arrears and letters  he has 
received about  missed  payments. These  matters are being treated as a separate  complaint, 
so I have not considered them here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN31498993Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3149899