K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Legal & General Insurance Limited (L&G) has avoided  (treating 
it as if it never existed) their home  insurance policy and refused  to deal with a claim.
background
Mr and Mrs K bought the policy  through an administrator in 2015 and renewed it in 2016  and 
2017. The administrator acts on behalf of the insurer so Ill refer throughout the decision to 
the insurer - L&G.
Mr and Mrs K said in December 2017  their water company contacted them  as it had 
identified a water leak.  When it came to fix the leak it told Mr and Mrs K a pipe had burst and 
it mayve been leaking  for a number of years and the water  was escaping  under their 
property. It asked them if they had any problems with the property. Mr and Mrs K said they 
hadnt noticed anything except for the paving just outside and leading to the property was 
separating but they thought that was down  to the clay soil. 
Mr and Mrs K say around the same time they were  fixing  their perimeter fence and noticed 
tree roots coming  from their neighbours property. The roots  were passing  the same  place 
where a previous repair had been done on the property prior to them  buying  it in 2007 and a 
crack had formed.  It was also at this time they realised that the extension on the house  was 
getting cold and they found  the floor had dropped slightly.  So in January 2018 they 
contacted their insurer L&G.
L&G arranged for a surveyor to attend  the property. The surveyor  thought the crack damage 
and distortions were  historic and saw that monitoring  studs  were  on the wall. Mr and Mrs K 
said they had been there  prior to them moving in and didnt know what they were. L&G 
requested information  from when Mr and Mrs K moved into the property in 2007.  On receipt 
of this it declined  the claim for subsidence and avoided Mr and Mrs Ks policy because it 
says they misrepresented  information  not declaring previous subsidence. L&G say that 
had 
Mr and Mrs K made it aware  of the previous subsidence issues it wouldn't  have provided an 
insurance policy for the property.
Mr and Mrs K say they were not aware of the previous  subsidence at the property. They say 
at the time of buying the property they were  led to believe  that the crack on the property was 
caused by a drain problem and it had been  fixed.  They say they didnt have sight  of the 
reports L&G have relied on and that they only obtained these from their lending bank and 
solicitor when they were  gathering the information that L&G requested.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought that on balance  Mr and Mrs K 
wouldve been aware of the previous subsidence. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree and so the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances I need to take into 
account relevant  law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of 
practice and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
Ref: DRN31479372time. The relevant  law here is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representation) Act 
2012 (CIDRA). Under this legislation a consumer has a duty to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.  The law sets out a number of considerations including how clear 
and specific a question  is. 
Mr and Mrs K first approached their bank for a mortgage in March 2007. The bank carried 
out a valuation report on the property  to see if it would be happy  to lend. The valuation report  
identified structural movement and recommended  a report should be obtained from a 
structural engineer. Mr and Mrs K have said they didnt receive a copy of this valuation 
report at the time. I appreciate that our investigator  thought they wouldve received this but 
Im aware that sometimes banks  dont always release these types of report. The report  is 
more for the banks  use to see if theyre  happy  to lend. But Ive considered  even if the 
valuation report wasnt directly given  to Mr and Mrs K, the bank mustve informed either 
them or their conveyancing solicitor that they werent happy to lend at the time and given 
reasoning. I say this because I can see between April and September  a variety of activity 
happened. 
The property was surveyed by a couple of different businesses - these  surveys  were done 
for the benefit  of the previous owner vendor. I shall refer to these reports  as report  A and 
report B.
Report A - was completed in April 2007. It looks to have been completed as a result of what  
was found out by Mr and Mrs Ks lending bank. I can only presume Mr and Mrs K or their 
solicitor wouldve told the vendor  or estate agent why the bank wouldnt lend. I say this 
because the banks relationship is directly with Mr and Mrs K and their legal representative, 
so its highly unlikely  that the bank would inform the vendor directly. The report identifies 
movement and recommended  underpinning the front extension  and using helibar cemities  
and brick  stitch repairs to repair the cracked  masonry. It said it would recommend trial pit 
investigations were  completed and examined  by a chartered structural  engineer.
The latter of the reports - report B was completed in June 2007. This was done as a result of 
the vendor claiming for subsidence on their insurance policy. The report is titled  subsidence  
claim and in this report a drain problem is identified as the probable  cause although it refers 
to previous cracks reopening  and the extension separating from the main building.  An 
addendum report was issued  in August 2007  and this said As mentioned in our previous 
correspondence, there is clear evidence by way of repairs  to damage predating the inception  
of this policy and only comparatively  minor  further  movement has occurred since  inception.  
In the circumstances therefore  we regret that insurer cannot  accept the claim and we must  
decline liability on their behalf.
On the back of the vendors insurer declining the claim it looks  like the vendor decided to get 
the remedial work completed.  Ive seen the letter dated 18 September  2007 sent from 
Mr and Mrs Ks solicitor  to the lending  bank enclosing  a copy of the invoice showing the 
works completed, a letter from the vendor which set out the work undertaken relating to that 
invoice and a copy of report B. It asked the bank:  if you could inform us whether the 
information we have sent meets with your approval and your instructions on how you wish us 
to proceed in this matter.  So I think this is clear evidence that Mr and Mrs Ks solicitor had 
sight of report B.
The bank on receipt of this information  and doing some further checks with its original 
surveyor that completed the valuation, agreed to release the funds. Mr and Mrs K finally 
completed on the property  in late September 2007.
Ref: DRN31479373From what  Ive seen Im satisfied that both Mr and Mrs Ks lending  bank and solicitor  knew 
that there  was structural movement. Mr and Mrs Ks solicitor was their legal  representative 
and acting on their behalf,  it therefore had a duty to keep its clients  fully informed. I think  it 
more likely than not that this information  was passed onto Mr and Mrs K and they shouldve 
reasonably known about the issues. Especially as it took from March to September  before 
the bank would release the funds  for the mortgage,  Im sure Mr and Mrs K wouldve wanted 
to have known  what was holding up the sale of the property. 
The question Mr and Mrs K were  asked when taking out the policy  and at renewal  times  
was:
The building is:
a) in a good  state of repair
c) free from signs of and has never  been  damaged by subsidence,  heave,  landslip, tree
root damage and neighbouring subsidence
I consider these questions  to be clear and wouldve enabled Mr and Mrs K to provide an 
accurate answer.  Mr and Mrs K answered  yes to both these questions.  However, this wasnt 
correct. From the photographs Ive seen of the property, you can see evidence of the 
previous repairs  diagonal cracks have been filled on the external wall and there are 
monitoring studs on the wall - although I can appreciate Mr and Mrs K may not have known 
what these were, they have a duty to find out if they were unsure. So I dont think  the 
building was free from signs of subsidence. So I think on balance Mr and Mrs K did not take 
reasonable care and made a misrepresentation.
CIDRA details that an insurer has a remedy  against  a consumer (here  Mr and Mrs K) where 
the consumer  has made  a misrepresentation in breach of the duty to take reasonable care,  
and the insurer  shows that without the misrepresentation it wouldnt have entered  into the 
contract at all (or would  have but on different  terms). Such a misrepresentation is referred to 
as a qualifying  misrepresentation and is either i) deliberate or reckless,  or ii) careless.  In this 
case Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ks misrepresentation was careless. 
CIDRA says where a misrepresentation  is careless,  and the insurer  wouldnt  have  provided  
the insurance on any terms, it may avoid the policy and refuse all claims, but it must return 
the premiums. In this case  LG has shown me its underwriting criteria and Im satisfied  it 
wouldnt have offered insurance at all if it had known about the previous subsidence.
In line with CIDRA, L&G has avoided the policy and returned the premiums from inception.  
Im satisfied that this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So I wont be asking  
L&G to anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons Ive given above. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to accept or reject my 
decision before  6 October 2019.
Angela Casey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3147937