K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains Allianz Insurance  Plc unfairly  rejected his claim for storm damage to his roof 
on his property insurance.
background
Mr R submitted a claim to Allianz for storm damage  to his roof in October 2017. He said the 
damage was discovered in July 2017. Allianz  told Mr R a storm occurred in his area in     
June 2017, but not around the time he reported  the incident. 
Mr R said his son only noticed the damage when  water began leaking through  the ceiling. 
He said the pitch  roof meant it would take time for water to soak  through  and become visible 
on the ceiling,  which explained the delay in making a claim.
After some delay, Allianz sent a loss adjuster to assess Mr Rs property in December 2017. 
The loss adjuster declined the claim for the damaged roof. She said the damage wasnt  
consistent with a storm but with wear and tear. She accepted the claim for the internal 
damage. Allianz also offered Mr R £100  compensation  for the delay  in appointing the loss 
adjuster. Mr R was unhappy with Allianzs decision to reject  the claim for his damaged roof 
and referred the matter  to our service.
Our investigator reviewed  the complaint and recommended  it shouldnt be upheld. He 
concluded the storm highlighted an existing problem with the roof. He said the photographs 
of the internal damage indicated a gradual  leak of water over time. And he was persuaded 
by the loss adjusters report,  which stated  the issue was more  likely a result  of nail fatigue  
and wear and tear. So he didnt ask Allianz  to pay the claim for the damaged roof.
Our investigator also considered the Mr Rs claim for internal damage to the property, and 
Allianzs offer of £100 compensation for the delay  in processing the claim. He thought  Allianz 
had acted fairly in assessing this part of the claim and didnt ask it to do any more.
Mr R disagreed with our investigator. He said the photographs of the internal  damage were 
taken some time after the incident occurred. He said the appearance  of mould was due to 
the ceiling  becoming wet and then drying  out. He said it wasnt an ongoing leak  if it was 
the damage wouldve been  greater.  And he said he notified Allianz  as soon as the leak was 
detected.
Mr R asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint, so its been  passed to me to make 
a decision.
Ref: DRN38290402my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why below.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I need  to consider  whether Allianz has assessed Mr Rs 
claim fairly under the terms and conditions of his policy. And to do this I need  to consider:
1.Was there evidence of a storm event  around the time of the claim?
2.Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3.Was the storm the main cause  of the damage?
In order for the claim to be successful, the answer to all three questions  must be yes.
Ive also checked  the terms and conditions  of Mr Rs policy.  The conditions  state  the insurer 
will pay the full cost of repairprovided that the Buildings are maintained in a good  state  of 
repair. So I need  to consider if Allianz  has rejected the claim fairly under this condition  too.
Allianz says there werent storm conditions present at the time Mr R says the damage was 
first noticed.  Ive checked the weather reports for this date and I agree there wasnt a storm 
present. But Allianz  has considered a storm that occurred in the area on 6 June 2017, and 
the weather records  Ive seen support this. So Im happy to accept there were storm 
conditions near to the time Mr R says the damage  was first noticed.
Ive seen a photograph of the roof provided by Mr R before the repairs  were  completed. This 
shows some  tiles were clearly dislodged  and cracked in different areas  of the roof. So Im 
persuaded that the damage  caused to the roof was typical with damage that would be 
caused by a storm.
Ive then considered  whether the storm was the main cause of the damage. Mr R says the 
roof had never leaked prior to the storm. Allianz  says Mr Rs roof was in a poor condition and 
showed several areas of damage. 
In order to determine this, Ive considered  the photographs provided by both Mr R, and 
Allianzs loss adjuster.  Ive also considered Mr Rs testimony, and the loss adjusters report. 
Having carefully considered everything, Im persuaded by what  Allianz has said here. I say 
this because the loss adjusters report states if the roof damage  occurred at the time of the 
storm in June, then the internal damage wouldve been  more  severe. This is because there 
was further heavy rainfall between the date of the storm, and the date the damage was first 
noticed. 
In addition, the report stated there had been  more instances of heavy rain between July and 
October  when the claim was reported  to Allianz   and this wouldve caused further 
damage. Ive thought about  Mr Rs comments that the pitch roof wouldve meant it took more 
time for the water to leak through. But based  on the photographs provided, Im persuaded 
the damage seems  more  consistent with a gradual leak of water,  as opposed  to a sudden  
one-off event. 
Ref: DRN38290403Whilst Mr R states  the appearance of mould  was caused by the ceiling becoming wet and 
drying out some time after the incident,  I think its more likely  a result of the affected  area 
becoming damp over a period  of time.  And Im persuaded by the loss adjusters argument  
that further heavy  rain wouldve caused more damage than appears  on the photographs.
So based  on everything Ive seen, I dont  think the storm was the main cause of the damage  
to Mr Rs roof. And because I think the damage happened gradually  over time, I think it was 
fair for Allianz to say the damage was caused  by wear and tear to the roof. So I dont think  
the claim should succeed, and Im not going to tell Allianz to do anything  further.
Allianz have settled Mr Rs claim for internal damage in line with the policy  terms, and 
offered £100 compensation  for the delay in assessing his claim. Ive considered  the 
avoidable delays  in Mr Rs claim to decide  if this is fair. I can see there was a delay between  
October and December 2017  Mr R submitted  an invoice and then had to chase for 
someone to come and view the damage. But it looks like Allianz got things back on track 
after that, and there  were  no more avoidable delays. So I think  Allianzs offer of £100  
compensation is fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3829040