K820x#14complaint
Miss L complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited: 
unfairly held her to be at fault for a collision between  her car and a third party  car; 
and
told her it intended to cancel her motor insurance policy  because  it thought  she had 
driven dangerously with the intention  of causing the collision  and getting 
compensation for injuries suffered.
background
In October  2018, Miss L was driving  her car, which was insured by Tesco Underwriting. She 
says she wanted  to overtake a third party car, the TPC, and another vehicle in front of the 
TPC. She says that as she started  to do so, the TPC swerved out towards  her. She 
managed to pass the TPC and pull in in front of the TPC but behind the other vehicle.  
She says the driver of the TPC continually flashed  his lights and made  offensive hand  
gestures, which  intimidated her. She decided to let the TPC pass her. The road ahead  
broadened into two lanes. So she says she intended  to brake at the beginning of the two 
lane section so that the TPC could pass her.
She says she misjudged her braking and braked too hard. The result  was she stopped 
before the two lane section, and the TPC was unable to overtake her, or stop in time, and hit 
the rear of her car.
The insurer  of the TPC told Tesco Underwriting  that it held Miss L responsible for the 
collision, and the damage to the TPC. The TPC had a dash mounted camera. After  viewing 
the recording from this, Tesco  Underwriting  considered  that after overtaking the TPC, Miss L 
pulled back  in front of it, and made  an emergency stop when there was no road hazard 
requiring her to do so.
It considered Miss L had performed  a dangerous manoeuvre  so that the TPC driver was 
unable to stop in time and hit the rear of Miss Ls car. Tesco Underwriting said if the claim 
went to court, on the evidence available it would be unable to dispute liability.
Police had attended the accident.  Tesco Underwriting considered waiting  for a copy of the 
police report. However  it decided  that the camera  evidence was clear enough for it to come  
to a decision. So it paid the TPC drivers  claim.
Tesco Underwritings  engineer decided Miss Ls car was uneconomic to repair.  Tesco  
Underwriting said it would treat it as a total loss. Miss L said she would keep the car and 
have it repaired herself. So Tesco Underwriting  paid Miss L £1,214, being  the market value 
of the car before the accident,  less the excess of £600 on Miss Ls policy and the salvage  
value of the damaged car. This happened  before Tesco Underwriting had seen the camera 
recording.
Tesco Underwriting told Miss L that it thought she had driven dangerously with the intention 
of causing the collision and getting compensation for injuries suffered. So it gave her seven 
days notice that it intended to cancel  the policy. Miss L disputed this. But because she didnt 
wish her insurance record to show cancellation by an insurer, she cancelled the policy 
herself and arranged alternative insurance.
Ref: DRN33861892She had some ten months remaining on her policy  at the time, and expected a refund of 
some of the premium she had paid. However Tesco Underwriting  said that under the policy 
terms she wasnt entitled to any refund because she had made a claim on the policy. Miss L 
said having to cancel the policy early  had cost her some  £200.
Miss L wanted Tesco Underwriting to refund this to her, and to withdraw the accusation  that 
she had caused  the accident  deliberately.  She also said the TPC driver had been mainly 
responsible for the accident, and Tesco Underwriting shouldnt  have admitted fault on her 
behalf.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He said the camera 
didnt show the inside  of the TPC, so he couldnt  say how the TPC driver was behaving 
before the collision.  It wasnt clear whether the TPC driver moved  out maliciously as Miss L 
was overtaking,  or because he was trying  to overtake the vehicle in front of him at the same  
time.
What he could see was that Miss L did overtake the TPC, and then applied her brakes 
heavily in such a position on the road that it would've been  very difficult for the TPC driver to
avoid crashing into her. While it wasn't his role to determine who was responsible for the 
crash, he didn't think that Tesco Underwriting's decision to hold Miss L responsible  was 
unreasonable.
He considered Tesco Underwriting had handled  the claim fairly, because  there  wasnt  
enough evidence  to support Miss L's argument  that the TPC driver's behaviour contributed  
to the crash  happening.  
Miss L claimed the TPC driver had admitted  to the police that he veered out intentionally in 
an attempt to stop her overtaking.  The investigator said he hadnt seen this admission. But 
even if it were true, he thought Tesco Underwriting had acted fairly, and the camera  
evidence was clear  enough for it to settle the claim without waiting for a police report.
He said the policy terms allowed  Tesco  Underwriting to cancel the policy  for various  
reasons, and on serious grounds,  and made it clear the list of reasons quoted  wasnt 
exhaustive. Having reviewed all the information  around the accident, Tesco  Underwriting 
decided it no longer wished to provide Miss L with cover because  it felt she caused the 
collision deliberately.  
Having considered the same information, the investigator didnt think  Tesco Underwriting 
had acted unfairly or unreasonably in taking this position, and giving  Miss L seven days  
notice that it intended to cancel the policy.
Miss L didnt  accept the investigators recommendation. So this complaint has been  passed 
to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the recording from the camera mounted  in the TPC car. Having done so, my 
conclusions on the issues Miss L complains  about  are as follows:
Ref: DRN338618931.Did Tesco Underwriting act fairly  and reasonably  in deciding  that, on the evidence 
available, Miss L was at fault for the collision  between the TPC and her car?
The camera  recording  shows the TPC driving steadily on a fairly busy  road with a single lane 
on each side, following the other  vehicle. When an opportunity to overtake it appears, he 
pulls steadily out, but then pulls back in again.
Miss Ls car is then seen  overtaking the TPC and pulling in sharply in front of it just in before 
a central reservation  appears. Within  three  or four seconds, Miss Ls car brakes suddenly 
and comes to an immediate stop.  The TPC hits it in the rear.
As the investigator  said, it isnt our role to apportion responsibility for a road accident  that 
is for the courts to decide. But we will decide if an insurer has acted fairly  and reasonably  in 
considering a claim, bearing in mind  the terms of the policy  and the evidence  available.
The camera  recording  doesnt  show what was happening within the TPC. So it doesnt show  
how the driver was behaving. It doesnt show the TPC driver driving erratically  or 
aggressively, or tailgating Miss L. The TPC driver  moves out steadily to overtake the other 
vehicle, and then moves back in. Theres nothing to say, as Miss L says, that this was done 
maliciously to hinder  her overtaking. And she hasnt produced any evidence  that the TPC 
driver told the police  this.
I agree  with the investigator that the result  of Miss Ls manoeuvre, and sudden braking,  was 
that the TPC driver  was left with little time or road space to avoid colliding with Miss Ls car.
Tesco Underwriting concluded  that a court viewing the camera  recording would hold Miss L 
fully responsible for the collision. It thought the evidence  was clear, and so it didnt  need  to 
wait for a police report. It accepted 100%  liability  on Miss Ls behalf,  as it was entitled  to do 
under the terms  of the policy. I cant say Tesco Underwriting acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in coming to that decision.
2.Was Tesco Underwriting entitled to cancel Miss Ls insurance  policy  because it 
believed she deliberately carried out a dangerous manoeuvre  which  resulted in the 
collision?
The policy terms say Tesco Underwriting can cancel the policy for a valid reason or on 
serious grounds by sending [the policyholder] seven days  notice of cancellation to [their]  last 
known address. A number of valid reasons/serious  grounds are listed in the policy,  but its 
made clear that these  are example and not a complete list.
Tesco Underwriting wrote  to Miss L on 30 October 2018 telling her that payment  of £1,214  
had been sent to her bank account  in respect of her car. However  when it viewed the 
camera recording later in November 2018,  it concluded that Miss L had deliberately 
slammed on her brakes in front of the TPC driver, which caused him to hit the rear of her 
car. The road ahead  was clear so there was no motoring reason for her to do this.
Initially Tesco Underwriting thought  Miss L might have done this deliberately  to claim on her 
insurance as a crash  for cash. In the phone discussions between Miss L and Tesco 
Underwriting on 27 November 2018,  which  Ive listened to, Miss L denied this. But Tesco 
Underwriting remained of the view that Miss L had deliberately carried  out a dangerous 
manoeuvre which had caused the collision.
Ref: DRN33861894Tesco Underwriting decided this constituted a serious ground/valid reason under the policy  
terms which entitled it to cancel the policy after giving Miss L seven days notice of its 
intention to do so. Tesco Underwriting told Miss L by phone  what  it was going to do. She 
was unable to persuade  it to change its mind, and so cancelled  the policy herself  rather than 
wait for this to happen.
On this aspect too, I cant say that the conclusion Tesco Underwriting came to on the basis  
of the camera evidence, - that Miss L had deliberately carried  out a dangerous manoeuvre 
which had caused  the collision -  and its decision that this was a serious  ground/valid 
reason that entitled it to cancel the policy, was unreasonable  or unfair to Miss L.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against Tesco  
Underwriting Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3386189