K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mrs S says National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs S says she wasnt told about the PPI being  added to her mortgage.  So the first 
thing Ive thought about is whether Mrs S was given  a fair choice about buying the 
PPI. Ive been provided with a copy of Mrs Ss completed mortgage application. I can 
see that there is a section headed protecting your mortgage  payments. This part of 
the form has been ticked to show that she wished to apply for cover  for accident, 
sickness and unemployment. And the monthly  benefit has also been selected. The 
section also has a part which says I do not require Mortgage Repayments Protector 
insurance. So Mrs S could have filled in this part of the form instead  if she didnt 
want the cover. And I can see in order to apply  for the PPI Mrs S completed a direct  
debit mandate.  All the forms  have been  signed  and dated.  Overall, taking everything 
into account I think NatWest made  it clear  that Mrs S didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember 
this as the sale took place  so long ago.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs S. So it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her circumstances.  But it did have to make sure Mrs S got the information 
she needed to decide if it was right for her.
   Mrs S says she didnt receive  any paperwork about the policy  and she wasnt given 
information about the cost. Its possible the information NatWest gave Mrs S about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks  
like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on 
the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also 
looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mrs S has said - including what she has said about receiving 
six months full pay followed by six months  half pay, from her employer, if she was off sick. 
And shes told us she had a pension and redundancy pay. She also says she could have 
borrowed around £200 from family members and she had £300  in savings. So she says she 
didnt need the cover. But the policy  would  have paid out in addition to any sick pay she had 
and likely for longer  than her full pay would have  lasted. It also meant  she could have used  
any savings she had for other essential expenses. And reliance on family cant always  be 
guaranteed as circumstances  can change.  As the mortgage was secured over her home, 
there was a significant risk if she was unable to meet her repayments. I think she might  have 
valued the protection it gave her if she fell into difficulty. So these points dont change my 
decision.
Ref: DRN37102952Ive also thought about the commission Mrs S paid on her PPI  and whether NatWest  
treated her unfairly. 
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mrs Ss PPI was less than half of what she paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how NatWest has been working this out and based on 
what weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Ss commission  was less than half the cost of 
the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed  to tell her about the commission  so I 
dont think NatWest treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mrs S back  any 
of the commission  she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3710295