K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Canada Square Operations Limited (trading as Egg) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs A bought the policy in 2003  at the same time as taking out a credit  card on the internet. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs A disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs As case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs As complaint because:
 The online application  form presented Mrs A with a choice   she had to tick a yes or no 
box to indicate  if she wanted PPI. So I think Canada Square made Mrs A aware that 
she had a choice  about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it.
 Canada Square didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs A so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for her. 
 Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Mrs A doesnt  appear to have been affected  by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover   and based on what  I know  about her 
circumstances it looks like the policy couldve been useful to her. She had some sick 
pay but the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this for up to 12 months,  meaning her sick 
pay could be used  for other things. And it also provided similar cover for in case of 
unemployment. So I dont think better  information  wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mrs As comments,  including what  shes said about having savings. 
But these  points dont  change my conclusion. Shes not provided  sufficient  evidence  of what, 
if any, savings  she had. So I cant say they wouldve made any difference  to her decision to 
take out the policy if shed  been given clearer information about it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3152188