K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs E say National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
The policy only covered  Mr E. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Es case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
I think that its more likely  than not that a discussion  took place about PPI and that  
Mr and Mrs E chose  to take PPI, understanding that it was optional.
Ive considered a copy of a mortgage offer document - which  is unsigned. It states 
You have  selected  a monthly benefit of £200 under Mortgage Repayment 
Protector. This suggests that there was some discussion  and decision made prior 
to Mr and Mrs E receiving the mortgage  offer. As Mr and Mrs Es mortgage 
successfully completed,  I think its likely that they signed this document. 
Ive also seen a separate  direct debit mandate form thats been signed  to set up 
payment for the PPI. This suggests that Mr and Mrs E would reasonably  have been 
aware that PPI was separate  to and not a condition of their mortgage as they were  
paying for it by a separate direct debit.
Although Mr and Mrs E have said that they were  pressured to take PPI and were told 
that they were  less likely  to be approved  without  PPI, Ive not seen evidence to 
support what theyve said. As this sale took place  so long ago, its a possibility that 
Mr and Mrs E might  not recall  everything clearly now.
Natwest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr E got the information he needed to decide  if it 
was right for him. 
Its very possible  the information Natwest gave Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  In particular, about the exclusions  relating to pre-existing 
medical conditions  (PEMCs). But having considered  the nearest relevant policy 
document, how it defines PEMCs  and based  on the detailed background information 
that Mr E has given us about  an injury he suffered in 1995,  I dont think that it would 
have been very difficult for him to make a claim  relating to his condition. 
I also think that they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of Mr Es circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the other usual exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
- so it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks like the 
PPI was affordable.  
Ref: DRN33152832So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover and I dont think that Mr and Mrs E have lost out because of anything  that 
Natwest may have done wrong. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs E have  said - including  what theyve said about  
their existing means of making their repayments  if Mr E was unwell and unable to work  or if 
he was made unemployed. 
But based  on what Ive seen and been told, Mr Es sick pay would have decreased to half 
pay after six months. This PPI policy could  have paid out for up to 12 months.  So I still think 
that Mr E could have  found it useful if he needed  to claim. Ive also considered what Mr and 
Mrs E have told us about savings that they had. But this policy would  have paid out for 
longer than I think savings  likely would have lasted.
Having the policy would  also have allowed Mr and Mrs E the option of keeping  their savings 
intact for future use, rather than using them to make their mortgage repayments.
So these points dont  change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs E paid on their PPI  and whether 
Natwest treated them  unfairly. 
Natwest has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Es PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Natwest has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Es commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Natwest treated them  unfairly.  This means  it doesnt  need to 
pay Mr and Mrs E back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3315283