K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about two single premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies  
taken out in May 1999 and July 2000 in connection with unsecured  personal loans. Mr and 
Mrs T say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold  the policies.
my findings
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the 
sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Mr and Mrs T say the first policy was taken out in a branch meeting and the second policy 
was taken out following telephone calls with Nationwide. Nationwide agrees and it says that 
all its PPI sales were  carried out on a non-advised basis, (irrespective of whether the sale 
was carried out on the telephone or face to face). It says that it provided information about  
the policies but did not provide  advice or a recommendation to Mr and Mrs T; it sold the PPI 
policies on an information only basis.
 
This means  that Nationwide didnt need to ensure that the policies were suitable  for 
Mr and Mrs T, but it did have to provide clear information to enable  them  to make an 
informed choice about what they were  buying. If adequate information was provided, it was 
Mr and Mrs Ts responsibility to assess whether or not the cover met their needs, taking into 
account any benefits or policies that they already had, before making  the decision to 
purchase. If adequate information wasnt provided,  I need to think  about whether this 
information wouldve  influenced Mr and Mrs Ts decision to take the policies.
May 1999 sale
Mr and Mrs T contacted Nationwide for a personal loan of £5,000 to be repaid over four 
years. At the same time a PPI policy was purchased that provided cover for them.  The policy  
covered Mr T only and it provided accident  and sickness cover for the full term of the loan 
and also 12 months cover  in the event of unemployment. It also provided life cover.
July 2000 sale
In July 2000, Mr and Mrs T contacted Nationwide for a personal loan of £11,000. At the 
same time a PPI policy was purchased. The policy provided cover for Mr T, and covered him 
for accident and sickness for the full term of the loan and also provided 12 months cover in 
the event of unemployment. It also provided  him with life cover.
Were the PPI policies  optional?
I dont know what Nationwides representative said during the discussions  in 1999 and 2000. 
And in the absence  of any recording of those discussions it is of course  much  harder to 
come to a clear view on exactly what was said during conversations  that took place nearly 
20 years  ago. And while I have taken  into account  Mr and Mrs Ts recollections,  I am also 
mindful of the fact the passage of time is likely to create difficulties in recalling exactly what 
happened all those  years  ago.
Ive considered this matter carefully,  but based  on the documentary evidence Ive seen, Im 
not persuaded that the policies werent presented as being optional. 
Ref: DRN30999442Nationwide no longer has a copy of the loan paperwork  from 1999   but I dont think  this is 
surprising. But I have  been given a sample  loan application that Nationwide  says is 
representative of what Mr and Mrs T wouldve seen and completed  at the time. The 
paperwork shows PPI to be optional  and customers are given two, equally prominent  
choices  to confirm they want, or dont want PPI. Furthermore, the sample loan agreement  
for 1999 and the actual loan agreement for 2000  detail  the costs  of the policies under a 
heading Optional Credit  Insurance. The Loan  Agreement Terms and Conditions  state You 
understand that the credit insurance is Optional. And I understand that a personal loan 
welcome booklet would also have been  issued to Mr and Mrs T following each sale and that 
they made reference to the optional  nature  of the insurance policies.
Ive noted that the loan agreements wouldve been  pre-populated and Ive considered this 
carefully. But on the basis that the sales took place following a discussion with a Nationwide 
representative, and the fact that the loan details for the 2000 sale,  together with Mr and 
Mrs Ts personal  details are typed on each  set of paperwork, I think that the sales 
representative simply completed the paperwork  on-screen before giving it to Mr and Mrs T to 
sign.
So while I accept its possible they was told they had to have PPI, Im not persuaded there is 
sufficient weight of evidence for me to conclude  that this was more  likely. I consider it just as 
likely that the policies were presented as being optional  and that they chose to take them  out 
as they had some interest in protecting them loan payments.
Did Nationwide give clear,  fair and not misleading  information?
At the time of both sales, Mr T was employed, resident in the UK and in good health and was 
therefore eligible  for the cover that the policies provided, and would not have been caught by 
any of the significant limitations  and exclusions of the cover such as those relating to health 
or unusual  employment terms. 
Mr T says that he had the benefit of some  occupational sick pay; six weeks  full pay followed 
by six weeks half pay. However, as a non-advised sale, it was incumbent  on Nationwide 
only to provide clear, fair and not misleading  information about the PPI policies; it was not 
required to take into account any existing cover  arrangements or to comment  on the policies  
suitability for Mr and Mrs T. The policies were optional, and the sales were  on a non-advised 
basis; it was therefore  Mr and Mrs Ts choice whether to purchase  the policies and add to 
their existing arrangements.
Information was provided  in the loan agreements about costs. The loan agreements  set out 
the separate cost of the loan and the PPI, what interest was applicable to each element and 
the monthly repayment that applied respectively. I am therefore satisfied the cost of each 
policy was made clear.
Ive noted that both policies provided  a pro-rata  rebate of the single premium amount upon 
cancellation. So Mr and Mrs T wasnt disadvantaged  if they wanted to repay a loan early or 
cancel a PPI policy.  Furthermore, the term of each policy  (and the protection  it offered) 
matched the term of the corresponding loan,  so the policies were flexible to meet their 
changing needs and circumstances.
Ref: DRN30999443I accept it is possible that Mr and Mrs T may feel that their information  needs may not have 
been properly  met, but I am not persuaded that they was disadvantaged  to the extent  that 
they would  most likely have acted differently  and declined either policy  had they been more  
fully informed about it.
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI from the sale in July 2000 because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because Nationwide  didnt tell them, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T. But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr 
and Mrs T any commission  and profit  share it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium for 
the policy that was sold in July 2000. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3099944