K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is about what  HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) has done with the compensation 
due for a mis-sold payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy associated with his credit card.
background
Mr B took out a credit card with HSBC in June 1998  and at the same time took out a PPI 
policy. Mr B has complained the PPI was mis-sold and HSBC has upheld that complaint and 
offered £3,817.72 in compensation.
HSBC said Mr B went into debt on his credit card and the debt owing of £6,837.98 was 
passed to its recoveries department in May 2008. So HSBC was using the compensation 
due to Mr B to set against the debt Mr B had with the bank.
Mr B doesnt  agree  he has a debt on the credit card. He says HSBC  hasnt been able to 
prove any debt exists. And even if he did have a debt when the card closed, he says that 
debt is now statute barred  under the Limitations Act so HSBC cannot set the compensation 
against it.
Our adjudicator said they thought what HSBC had done was fair. Mr B didnt agree and 
asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B took out the credit card and PPI in June  1998.  The PPI was cancelled in March 2007. 
Because this was all over ten years  ago HSBC doesnt have full records  of the account. It 
only has some data records recorded on its computer systems.  This isnt surprising as 
businesses have no legal liability  to retain  records for more than six years.
Mr B has no records  from the time and has said he had no recollection of a debt with HSBC  
or of being  chased for a debt. He also has stated that even  if he had a debt in 2008  this is 
11 years  ago and is statute barred.
So the only evidence  available  is the computer records available from HSBC  which  Mr B 
says are unreliable  and possibly doctored. Mr B submits this is not acceptable paperwork 
and doesnt prove he had a debt.
Many businesses only have computer records when dealing  with matters  from many years 
ago. These  are generally accepted as being  reliable, although they only provide some  basic  
information.
The records  from HSBC show Mr B opened  his credit card account in June 1998 and he 
took out the PPI at the same time. Mr B hasnt disputed that this information  is correct. 
These records also show that the PPI was cancelled in March  2007 and that the account  
was in debt and passed to the HSBCs recoveries department in May 2008. In 2008 the 
credit card account wouldve been frozen  and no further interest charged after this date. But 
Ref: DRN33086522is it very likely Mr B had not been paying  regular  monthly payments for some time and this 
also may be why the PPI was cancelled in 2007.
I can only look at what is fair based on the evidence that is presented by both parties. Mr B 
has told us he was mis-sold the PPI but hasnt  been  able to provide any further detail about 
his credit card account at all. Although he has disputed he owes  a debt to HSBC, he has 
indicated that even if he did have a debt it was now statute barred. 
The Limitations Act does  place restrictions on recovery of debts  that have not been 
acknowledged within six years. This then means active  recovery action cannot be taken for 
the debt. However  it doesnt mean  that a debt no longer exists.
In this case Mr B used his credit  card and had the benefit of what  he spent but then didnt 
pay everything back. He hasnt been able to show he ever repaid the full debt on his credit 
card when it was closed or afterwards through the HSBC recoveries department. HSBC 
records show the balance  was £6,837.98 when the account was passed to its recoveries 
department on 6 May 2008 and no payments have been received since.  
The fact HSBC didnt  chase for the money  Mr B owed may have  been  due to his 
circumstances at the time. But it doesnt mean Mr B doesnt owe that money. He borrowed 
the money to spend and he had in effect  a contract  with HSBC to pay it back.
The PPI was charged to the card and in fact would be deemed to form part of the balance  
until the balance  was cleared. So it did form part of the money Mr B owed on his credit card 
when he stopped paying. By using the compensation to set off against the credit card debt 
does mean  HSBC is actually removing the costs of the PPI from the amount Mr B owes. And 
Mr B would still owe HSBC for over £3,000  for other spending on the credit card.
HSBC does have  the right of set off as this PPI compensation  is a debt HSBC owes Mr B. 
And the money  spent by Mr B on his credit card is money he owes  HSBC.  As both these 
debts related to the same  account  it means  that HSBC can set one debt off against  the 
other.
I also note the issues  raised about  the different amounts  of debt stated in the offer letter 
HSBC sent to Mr B. The £6,837.98 is the debt Mr B owed on his credit card when he 
stopped making  payments to it. Mr B also owed HSBC £5,650.36  which was for his bank 
account with a flexible loan facility.  
Because the PPI was charged to the credit card it was directly  linked to that account and 
debt. So HSBC had a right to set off the compensation against that particular account. 
However the other debt on the bank  account  and loan facility  were separate  to the credit  
card account, so not closely linked to the PPI sold with the credit  card.  HSBC gave Mr B the 
choice of using  the PPI compensation to pay off his debt on these other accounts in the offer 
letter if he wished, but it couldnt use the right of set off for this debt. So the letter set out 
both options, which may have been a little confusing.
I have considered the offer of HSBC and how it has worked that out. It has used the actual 
data it has for the PPI costs from March 2005  to March 2007.  For the time before this it has 
estimated the costs  of the PPI. I think how HSBC has calculated the costs Mr B wouldve 
paid for the PPI is fair based on the limited  information available.  
Ref: DRN33086523HSBC has also worked out some  8% simple interest  which  was £2,067.69.  This is paid to 
compensate a consumer  for being  out of pocket. In this case Mr B actually wasnt  out of 
pocket from 2007  as some of his debt was caused by the PPI and that wasnt  repaid as the 
debt has never been cleared. So this compensation is probably  more than HSBC needed to 
pay.
In summary  I think what HSBC has offered to settle  Mr Bs complaint  and what  is has done  
with the compensation is fair.
my final decision
I think what HSBC UK Bank  Plc has offered for the compensation related to the mis-sold PPI 
policy and what it has done  with that compensation is fair. And Im not telling it to do 
anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3308652