K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained as she thinks Paragon Finance Plc, trading as Idem Servicing, is 
chasing her for a debt that is unenforceable.
background
Ms M made  a request  to Idem Servicing under section  77/78 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974 (CCA)  for information about the debt. Idem Servicing has accepted that it is unable to 
provide the required information, so Ms M thinks the debt is unenforceable  and she shouldnt  
be chased for it anymore.  But Idem Servicing says the balance of the debt is still outstanding 
and payable, so it will continue to pursue  Ms M for it.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  Ms M didnt accept our 
investigators recommendation and so the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this compliant.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why below.
The information Ive seen on this case relates to the debt on four accounts that Idem 
Servicing has been communicating with Ms M about. Idem Servicing has said that two of 
these accounts,  ending 1436 and 9617, have now been paid in full, and so I wont address 
these further.
For the remaining  two accounts, ending 7268 and 5608, Ms Ms representative says she has 
disputed the debt. Shes also made  a request under section 77/78  CCA for a copy  of the 
credit agreement.
Under section 77/78, when  asked to do so, the creditor must supply the debtor with a copy  of 
the executed credit  agreement, as well as certain other information about the state of the 
account and amounts due. If the creditor cant do so, section 77/78 says it cant  enforce the 
agreement.
Idem Servicing accepts  that it cant provide a copy of the agreement for accounts 7268  and 
5608. But it isnt the role of the Financial  Ombudsman Service  to decide  whether a debt is 
legally enforceable. Only a court can decide this. We can look at whether its fair for a debt 
collector to continue asking for payments or to continue  taking  steps to recover  the money 
though.
In this case, Idem Servicing has provided  a reasonable amount of information  about the 
debts, including  the dates the accounts were sold to them, the outstanding  balances when 
they were sold and the most recent outstanding balances  of the accounts. Its also provided 
statements for both accounts  showing the payments made towards them  going back  several 
years.
And Ms M has said shes been making payments towards the accounts.  So it doesnt appear  
that she disputes that the debts were  owed by her at some point. But she has said that, 
Ref: DRN34544912given the payments she has made,  she thinks the debts should have been settled some  time 
ago.
The statements  for both accounts show regular payments  being  made,  both by cheque and 
then through a debt management  company, which suggests that Ms M felt the balances 
were correct, at least initially. These  payments have been correctly reducing  the outstanding  
balances on the accounts. And I cant see that any interest or charges have been applied to 
the accounts, or any other errors have been  made  affecting the balances,  since  Idem 
Servicing has been responsible for them. So I think its likely that the current outstanding 
balances shown are correct.
Given the information Idem Servicing has provided  about the accounts, and the fact that 
Ms M has been making  payments towards them for a number of years, I think its likely that 
Ms M is responsible for the debts. And, from the statements  Idem Servicing has provided,  it 
also seems likely that Ms Ms previous payments have been  correctly added but that there 
are still outstanding balances on the accounts.
As I explained above, I cant  comment on whether  the debt is legally enforceable. But as I 
think Ms M is responsible  for the debt and there is still an outstanding balance, I think  its 
reasonable that Idem Servicing is requesting  payment from her. While  Idem  Servicing cant  
provide copies of the agreements, I dont think this has disadvantaged Ms M or means that it 
would unreasonable for Idem Servicing to continue to pursue her for the debt.
Idem Servicing has said that the debt for account  5608 has now been sold to another 
company. And so it will now only be pursuing  Ms M for the debt for account  7268.
Ms M hasnt given us much detail about  why she feels  Idem  Servicing has acted 
aggressively when  pursuing the debt. And I dont think that the letters  Ive seen from Idem 
Servicing to Ms M about the debt are aggressive  in their tone. They  simply explain that no 
repayment plan has been agreed and ask Ms M to contact it about  the debt.
As I feel Idem Servicing  is still entitled  to chase  Ms M for repayment  of the debt, I dont think 
the fact that it is sending  letters is unreasonable. And I dont think  the letters Ive seen are 
frequent enough to amount to harassment.  Idem Servicing has also said that the last time it 
phoned Ms M about the debt was in October  2017. 
Ms M has asked that Idem Servicing  send all communication  about the debt to her 
representative, rather than her. But her representative cant  make repayments on her behalf.  
So I think its reasonable that Idem Servicing  has continued  to contact her directly about  the 
debt.
I dont think theres enough evidence for me to say that Idem Servicing acted  aggressively  or 
unreasonably when chasing  the debt. Or that it should have to pay Ms M any compensation 
as a result.
Ref: DRN34544913my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision by 10 October 2019..
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3454491