K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc will not allow  him to continue his 
business loan on the terms he says were  agreed.
background
Mr S took a business  loan for £23,500 in May 1998. In May 2018  RBS wrote to him and said 
that he needed to make arrangements  to repay  the loan that month  as it had expired. He 
disagrees and says that he was told that this was an evergreen, or revolving, loan and that 
he could repay it when he retired and sold his business in 2025.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that:
-RBS had not been able to provide a copy of a signed loan agreement  from 1998. 
However, it had been able to provide system  information showing that the term of the 
loan was set at 240 months   and so expired  in May 2018.
-He accepted that there was the potential for some misunderstanding  when the loan 
was taken out.
-RBS said that it does not currently  offer revolving loans. And it would not be prepared 
to allow  this loan to run on the current terms to 2025.
-He thought it most likely that a fixed term loan had been given to Mr S.
Mr S did not agree.  He said he was not prepared to accept the term agreed as 240 months.  
RBS could not say who had made that entry  about the term on its systems or show  him 
when that happened.  He said that evergreen  loans were not uncommon and that managers 
from that time could  confirm this if we wanted. He objected to RBS calling the loan in and 
forcing him to accept  significantly less favourable terms.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 13 May 2019. I set out below what I said.
Id asked RBS for some  more background information and to confirm the interest rate on the 
loan. It said that this was one percent  over the current Bank of England Base Rate.  RBS 
said that it had contacted  its business areas but was unable to get more  information about 
practices now over 20 years ago or about  how such  a loan would have been recorded on its 
systems. It did accept that the relationship manager for Mr S would at that time have had 
more local discretion. The loan had always been recorded as on a fixed  term so there  was 
no need to review it. It said that the business  team  contacted Mr S as soon as it found  out 
that the loan had already  expired. It could not show that there had been any previous 
correspondence with Mr S about this, but its standard approach would have been to contact 
him in advance of the expiry.
Neither Mr S nor RBS has any formal documentation about the terms of the loan. The 
systems entries to me, beyond that for the term of the loan,  are limited and refer also to 
terms for a repayment loan which are inconsistent with whats  been in place. It seems  that 
the loan was based on a verbal agreement with the then manager  and understandably  no 
case notes now exist.  So I couldnt fairly  resolve the dispute about exactly what was said, 
especially given the passage of time and the change  in business practices since then.
Ref: DRN38451972On any view this was a very long term unsecured  loan facility. I didnt doubt that the intention 
of Mr S was always to repay this when he retired. I didnt otherwise see why he would take a 
loan of this nature and not think about repaying  it at some point over the past 20 years. 
There doesnt seem to have been  any intention to do so. I also had no reason to doubt, as 
he says, that there were  revolving type loans possible at the time the loan was taken. I 
accepted that, as Mr S says, he had no contact  about the expiry of the loan before he 
received the letter from RBS. Further,  the statements Id seen do not give any expiry date to 
the loan.
I thought it would be reasonable and prudent for reviews to be set by RBS,  even if this was 
in fact intended to be a revolving facility. It could not go on forever.  And following from that, I 
didnt think a review  point say after 20 years for such  an unsecured facility would be 
onerous, or unreasonable  on the part of RBS.  There would have to be a mechanism to end 
or change  the terms.
With that in mind, I said I was intending to find on balance that RBS has not acted unfairly by 
deciding that it did not want to continue  this loan on the same  terms after a 20-year period. 
However, I also didnt think it provided Mr S with sufficient notice of that  whether I 
considered this to either be a review or, as RBS maintains, the end of the agreed term. This 
was a not insubstantial amount to expect Mr S to repay very quickly. And RBSs letter - by 
the time he would have  received it - gave him little more than a week  to do so.
My understanding was that while this complaint is being considered  no changes have been 
made to the loan or the interest  rate. I said I was intending  to decide that Mr S be allowed a 
further period  on these  terms of one month from the date of accepting  my settlement  if he 
chooses to do so. This means he can then either accept the new loan that RBS has now 
offered him, or make other arrangements to refinance the loan. That will have  given him a 
reasonable total period  of notice, which is what I thought RBS should have furnished him 
with to start.  
I also intended to require RBS to pay him £300  to reflect the inconvenience caused, and his 
understandable concern about the poor communication from RBS including what he saw as 
a demand for repayment. 
I appreciated Mr S will not be satisfied  with this. He has previously mentioned to our 
adjudicator the need to consider the principles  of contract law. I confirmed with him that we 
provide informal dispute  resolution and are not a court. If Mr S does not accept my decision 
then I said he remains free to consider legal action  subject to any relevant time limits.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS did not make any comments about my provisional decision.
Mr S did not agree.  He said that to do so would mean that RBS would get what it wanted 
which was the early termination  of the loan by repayment or the imposition of new terms on 
less favourable terms. He appreciated  that would be delayed  by at least  13 months  
compared to the original  deadline.
Ref: DRN38451973He said that the loan term was not indefinite. And that it was expressly  fixed to his 
retirement. Mr S said he had always intended  to retire between  the ages of 60 and 65. This 
was known to RBS and discussed. He said he now intends to retire at 60 and so the 
repayment would be at the very start of the repayment window agreed.
He maintained that the law is on his side as he said RBS well knows but did not elaborate on 
this.
As I said in my provisional decision this service is not a court. I set out in my provisional 
decision in any event  the way I was going  to be approaching this. And Ive stated how Ive 
dealt with either the evidence or the lack of it - when making findings on a balance  of 
probabilities. Ive in large part accepted  what Mr S said as his intention for the loan. But I 
also still dont think it unreasonable for RBS to set a review date  whether or not that was a 
formal end of term date as RBS has recorded. So I find that with sufficient notice it was not 
unreasonable for RBS now either  to change the terms of the loan or to expect repayment.
I have considered what Mr S has said again and Im afraid that remains my position on this 
complaint. I dont find that his submissions about  there being  an optional  five year period for 
repayment make a difference. This clearly remains disputed and Ive given my reasons for 
the way in which I think the issues  should be resolved. So I am not going to be departing 
from my provisional decision.  It is now a matter for Mr S to decide if he accepts this 
resolution as set out below. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require The Royal  Bank of Scotland  
Plc to:
1)Extend the current loan term at the existing  interest rate to one month  after the date 
on which Mr S accepts  my final proposed settlement  on this complaint.
2)Pay Mr S £300 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3845197