K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains about changes Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) made to its 
overdraft pricing structure. She says this caused her financial difficulty and left her in 
permanent debt for several years. 
background
Miss W has held two current  accounts with Halifax for several years,  both with an arranged  
overdraft facility in place. In November 2018, she complained to Halifax after it said it was 
about to change its overdraft pricing  structure.  She said the extra cost would make her 
overdraft more difficult to repay. Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. And as Miss W was 
dissatisfied, she referred the complaint  to our service.
Miss Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. She thought  Halifax  ought to 
have realised Miss W was experiencing financial difficulty as early  as 2013, so shouldnt 
have added any more  interest, fees and charges from then.  Specifically,  the adjudicator 
recommended Halifax  to reword Miss Ws accounts  to remove  all the interest and charges 
added to account ending 4310  from 15 February 2013, and between 1 September 2014  and 
17 April 2019 between  for account ending  7184.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2021.  I set out I was intending to uphold  Miss Ws 
complaint. I though it ought to have  been  clear to Halifax  by July 2013  that Miss W wasnt  in 
a position to sustainably repay what she owed on both accounts  within  a reasonable period 
of time. 
From the earliest available  statement  for account ending  7184, I found Miss W took out 
payday loans  each month to cover her outgoings.  In the four weeks leading up to and 
including 1 July 2013, I noted  Miss W had taken out four payday loans. I considered this 
showed she was in a cycle of repeated payday  borrowing. I thought  in these  circumstances, 
Halifax ought to have realised Miss W was at a significant risk of being unable  to repay what  
she already owed. 
I also noted Miss W hadnt seen or maintained a credit balance on either  account  for an 
extended period  of time. I explained Halifaxs own literature suggested overdrafts are for 
unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So, I thought  
Halifax should have  stopped providing  the overdraft  on the same  terms and treated Miss W 
with forbearance  rather than charge even more interest, fees and charges on the overdraft .
I explained Miss W ended up paying  additional interest, fees and charges on her overdraft 
on both accounts  and this ended up exacerbating difficulties she already had in trying to 
clear it. I thought Halifax didnt treat Miss W fairly and she lost out because of what  it did 
wrong. 
I invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision.
Miss W accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide further comments  for me to 
consider. 
Halifax said it was minded to accept my provisional decision and made  further comments:
-it thought Id used some of the current regulations  retrospectively   it gave an 
Ref: DRN30176572example of Miss Ws use of payday lending which it said wasnt an activity it was 
required to consider in 2013; 
-it questioned  the date of July 2013 Id said the refund  needed to be from  it asked if 
this was an error on my part as the statement for account  ending 7184  showed the 
overdraft renewal  date of 1 September 2013;
-it said it would remove the overdraft facility on both accounts  immediately  after 
providing a refund  in settlement of this complaint. Halifax said it didnt feel the usual 
notice period was required  in this instance;  and
-it wanted us to check with Miss W if account  ending 7184 can be closed at the point 
of settlement. Any overpayments due on this account would be paid into account 
ending 4310.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their responses. Ive considered  the additional comments Halifax  has 
made and respond  as follows.
I dont agree with Halifaxs assertion Ive retrospectively applied current  regulations  when 
considering Miss Ws complaint. The relevant  regulator may have changed over time, but the 
requirement to take reasonable  steps to assess whether a prospective  borrower  is likely to 
be able to meet repayments in a sustainable manner  its important to mention overdrafts 
are repayable on demand  was present even in 2013. So, consideration ought to have 
been given to how Miss W was funding her accounts and the risk of being unable to pay 
what she already owed.
In relation to the refund date, Id like to reassure Halifax there  hasnt been  any oversight on 
my part. Perhaps I can provide a clearer explanation. Although statements issued at the start 
of 2013 on account ending 7184 show a renewal date of 1 September 2013, the statement 
issued on 1 August  2013 shows a revised  renewal date of 1 September 2014.This indicates 
a review of Miss Ws overdraft arrangements for 2013 took place earlier than expected, most 
likely at some point  in July 2013. This is the reason  why I consider July 2013 to be the point 
at which  Halifax ought to have started  taking corrective action.
Ive carefully considered  Halifaxs reasons  for suggesting removal  of the overdraft facility on 
both of Miss Ws accounts immediately, and closing account ending 7184.  Any changes  of 
this nature should be carried out in line with the terms and conditions  of the account, and 
appropriate notice  given. So, Halifax needs to discuss Miss Ws future arrangements with 
her directly.  And if it wishes to exercise its rights under  the terms and conditions of the 
account, it needs to give due notice  to Miss W to give her time to make alternative 
arrangements. Of course, if in response to this decision  Miss W says shes  agreeable to 
Halifaxs proposal, our service will let Halifax know accordingly.
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Miss W.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Miss Ws complaint  for Halifax to put things  right by:
Ref: DRN30176573Reworking Miss Ws current overdraft  balance on account ending 4310  and 
account ending  7184 so that all interest, fees and charges  applied to it after the 
renewal in July 2013  are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Miss W to arrange a suitable repayment  plan 
for this. If it considers it appropriate  to record  negative information on Miss Ws 
credit file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the 
process of taking corrective action on the overdraft in July 2013.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Miss W along with 8% simple interest  on the overpayments from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information  from Miss Ws credit file. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Miss W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Miss Ws complaint 
and direct Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) to put things right in the way Ive set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2021.
Gagandeep Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3017657