K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains AXA Insurance UK Plc unfairly  declined her buildings  insurance claim. 
Mrs Gs been represented during  this complaint. For simplicity Ive referred  to the actions of 
the representative as being those of Mrs G. 
background
In 2017 Mrs G made a claim  on her AXA buildings insurance policy.  Her garage wall had 
cracked and was bowing. A boundary wall was also damaged.
AXA said an increase in the height of soil, on Mrs Gs neighbours land, against the garage 
wall had caused the damage. That had happened when the neighbour had remodelled their 
garden. It said over time the pressure of the soil had damaged the wall. So it said it wasnt  
caused by one of the insured events covered by Mrs Gs policy. AXA also said policy  
excludes damage that happens over time and that caused by faulty workmanship and poor 
design. So it refused to pay Mrs Gs claim. 
After Mrs G complained AXA still refused to pay the claim. But it paid her £50 for taking too 
long to respond to a letter. 
Mrs G says landslip, an event covered by the policy, is the cause. So she feels the claim 
should be paid.  She wants AXA to repair the damage to her garage and wall. 
Our Investigator  said Mrs G hadnt shown the damage was caused  by an event covered by 
her policy.  Because  of that he felt AXAs decision not to pay the claim was fair. Mrs G didnt 
accept the assessment. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making AXA pay 
Mrs Gs claim or do anything differently.   
Previously, the soil against the garage wall on the neighbours property, was built up to 
about one metre. Ten or so years ago it was increased to around the full height of the 
garage wall. A retaining wall wasnt installed to protect the garage  wall against the increased 
pressure from the additional  soil. AXA says this work was the cause of the damage. Both 
AXAs and Mrs Gs own engineer report support  that. Mrs G seems to accept it. 
 
Mrs Gs said the damage is covered by the subsidence, landslip and accidental damage  
(AD) parts of her policy. I dont agree it is. The two reports support AXAs view that it was the 
soil height being  increased. But even if I accepted it was covered by one or more of those  I 
still wouldnt  say AXA needed to pay the claim. Thats because  AXA can fairly rely on 
exclusions in the policy to refuse  the claim anyway. The policy  excludes  loss or damage 
caused by faulty workmanship,  poor design  or the use of defective materials. 
  
AXAs report  says the cause is the pressure  from the overburden of soil placed by the 
neighbour against the wall as part of the work  to their property. Mrs Gs own engineer report  
gives two likely causes. The first is the rise in the soil level. The second is the neighbour, 
when doing that, building  a defective retaining wall. 
Ref: DRN30032822Mrs Gs removed some brickwork from the garage wall. She found there wasnt  a retaining 
wall between  the soil and her garage wall. Ive considered AXAs report and Mrs Gs one. 
Having done so it seems  the neighbour failed to ensure appropriate work was undertaken to 
ensure the garage wall wouldnt  be damaged by the load from the increased soil. That 
seems to me to be faulty workmanship or poor design.  
Mrs Gs said the poor design or faulty workmanship exclusion should apply to the original 
design of the garage  and that stood the test of time. But I dont agree.  The exclusion 
doesnt restrict itself to the design or workmanship of the damaged item only. Mrs G also 
says she had no idea the neighbour failed to build a retaining wall. I accept she didnt and 
understand why shes frustrated by the situation. But the damage  was caused by a faulty 
design or poor workmanship regardless  of her knowledge of it. Neither do I agree the 
exclusion wasnt intended to, or would be unfair, to apply to work not carried out by the 
policyholder.     
There are factual inaccuracies in AXAs report according to Mrs G. I accept  there may be 
some. But Im not persuaded  theyre  so significant to make  the report unreliable. In any 
event Mrs Gs own engineer report supports AXAs  decision.  
Mrs Gs made several other points. This is an informal service, so I havent responded to 
each one directly here. But Id like to assure her that I have considered  them all.
I accept this decision will be very frustrating  for Mrs G. But AXA has fairly refused her claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making AXA Insurance  UK Plc pay Mrs Gs claim or do 
anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3003282