K820x#14complaint
Mr P, a director  of H, complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc took about 10 months  to open an 
account for H.
background
Mr P says he attended a HSBC branch  in February  2018 to open an account for H. He says 
by November 2018 the account hadnt been set up. Mr P says HSBC  offered £150 
compensation which he says isnt enough  and would also like HSBC to admit its 
wrongdoing.
HSBC says the original  application required further information and it tried to contact Mr P 
without success.  It says as a result the application  expired but says it was able to process a 
new application in November 2018. HSBC  has offered £150 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr P brought the complaint to us but our investigator thought the compensation offer was fair 
and reasonable.  The investigator  explained  to Mr P that we could only look at any impact the 
delay had on H.
Mr P doesnt  accept that view and says he thinks HSBC has got away with treating him 
badly. He says that hes not seen any evidence HSBC tried to contact him for further  
information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator  for the same  reasons.
There is no real question  here that HSBC should have done more to communicate with H 
after the account application  was made.  I appreciate HSBC says it needed further  
information from H and it tried to contact  it. But Ive not seen any evidence of that 
communication, such as e-mails or copy letters and I would  have expected HSBC to have 
done far more  to obtain that missing information than it did.
So I appreciate Mr Ps concern in those circumstances. But the investigator  has explained 
that we can only consider  the impact on H and not any inconvenience that Mr P was caused 
himself, as H is the complainant here. And Ive not seen any evidence that H suffered any 
financial consequences as a result of the delay in opening the account.  So in those 
circumstances Im satisfied that HSBC  has made  a fair and reasonable gesture of goodwill 
offer of £150.
I appreciate Mr P believes HSBC has got away with making a mistake.  But we are not the 
regulator of banks or building societies and its not our role to punish or fine a business. And 
for the reasons Ive explained I find that HSBC could  have done more in the circumstances 
of this complaint.
I appreciate how strongly Mr P feels about  whats happened and so I will leave it to him if he 
wishes, on behalf of H, to accept HSBCs offer.
Ref: DRN32896512my final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. Hs acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P on behalf  of 
H to accept or reject my decision before 29 August  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3289651