K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Mrs B had three  buy-to-let (BTL) mortgages with NRAM Limited and are unhappy 
with how it has treated them. Theyve  raised  various different complaints over the years  but 
the majority of their complaints relate  to one property  upon which  NRAM appointed a Law of 
Property Act (LPA)  Receiver and then later took into possession and sold.
background
Mr K and Mrs B had three  properties  mortgaged with NRAM. Two of the mortgages  have 
been said to be up to date (at the last point NRAM reported to us). The other mortgage had 
been in arrears and NRAM appointed an LPA Receiver on 16 November 2016. Whilst Mr K 
and Mrs B cleared  the arrears in the following month or so, the property was kept in 
receivership. Ill refer to this property as YC.  The decision was made to take YC into 
possession on 30 May 2017, and it went on the open market in June  2017.  After being on 
the market for over six months  it eventually  sold for significantly less than the outstanding  
mortgage balance.
Mr K and Mrs B have made numerous  complaints over the years about their mortgage  
accounts. These have  included  complaints about  the Receiver, interest rates,  original 
property valuations, and the sale of YC in possession amongst others.
It was decided here to incorporate  all the complaints about these three mortgage accounts  
into one rather than dealing with them all on a piecemeal basis. Two of our case-handlers 
have looked at the complaint and they both were  of the view that no elements of it should be 
upheld. Mr K and Mrs B didnt agree and so the matters been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr K and Mrs B have set out their 
account of events in considerable detail. I trust they wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive 
condensed their complaint in the way that I have.  Ours is an informal  dispute resolution 
service, and Ive concentrated on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses so we dont 
represent either party.
Before I address the underlying merits of the complaint  in detail, there  are some 
observations I need to make about the extent of my remit  to consider this complaint. Where,  
as here,  a lender decides to appoint an LPA Receiver the Receiver, once appointed, doesnt 
act as agent for the lender but for the borrower.  What that means in practical  terms is that 
Im unable to consider  any concerns  Mr K and Mrs B may have about the actions of the 
Receiver, because  it isnt covered by the jurisdictional scope of our service. If Mr K and 
Mrs B have any concerns  about the Receivers actions  or inactions   then theyll  need  to 
make that complaint  directly to the Receiver  themselves.  I cant consider any of that in a 
complaint against  NRAM.
Ref: DRN37546222At the time the Receiver was appointed the mortgage on YC was in arrears, so NRAM was 
entitled to take legitimate steps to recover the money owed  to it. The Receiver was 
appointed on 16 November 2016,  and at that that time Mr K and Mrs B had missed their 
payments in August, September and October  2016. They  went on to make the 
November 2016  late, and then gradually cleared the arrears over the following weeks. The 
step NRAM took in appointing a Receiver was a commercial decision that it was entitled  to 
take. Generally  speaking,  we wont interfere in the way a financial business exercises its 
commercial judgement, and Im not persuaded there are grounds  for me to do so here.
Mr K and Mrs Bs mortgage conditions  state NRAMs right to sell the property - or to appoint 
an LPA Receiver - is exercisable immediately upon Mr K and Mrs B being more than two 
months late with their monthly  payments. Mr K and Mrs B went  over that threshold before 
the Receivers appointment and so Im satisfied NRAM was entitled to take that action under 
the mortgage contract. 
Mr K and Mrs B have said the properties were  overvalued when the mortgages  were taken 
out. We operate according to a set of rules  which determine, amongst other things, who may 
bring a complaint to us, what types of financial products and/or activities  we can look at and 
whether a particular  financial  business  is covered  by our service.  
We cant look at any complaint about the original valuations because  the companies  that 
carried the valuations  out arent businesses that are covered by our service,  which  means I 
dont have the legal power to look at complaints against them.  Ive also no power  to consider 
a complaint against NRAM  concerning  the surveyors  competence  or the valuations  
accuracy, as the firms of surveyors  are completely separate businesses  from NRAM.
The only obligation required of NRAM each  time was to instruct  a professional surveying firm 
to carry out the valuation   a requirement that was fulfilled by appointing a member of the 
Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors. NRAMs not accountable to Mr K and Mrs B for any 
potential shortcomings  in the way a surveyor completed a valuation and NRAM is entitled to 
rely on the figure given by the surveyor. 
I understand Mr K and Mrs B are concerned that NRAM is unable  to provide a copy of an 
original valuation report and feel that means  it is hiding something. Thats not the case. Its 
not unusual after so long for original documents to no longer be available and theres nothing 
sinister in that. NRAM cant provide something  it doesnt have,  and the valuation figure 
would have been disclosed at the time on the mortgage offer.  So if Mr K and Mrs B felt the 
property had been overvalued then the time to raise  that  and to request  a copy of the 
valuation report to see if the figure was correct  was back then. Not now,  over a decade 
later.
NRAM had valuations carried out on YC before it was marketed for sale in 2017 and whilst 
the valuation figures  werent exactly the same  as each other, thats not unexpected. NRAM 
is required to get independent valuations  and follow them in marketing  the property. Thats 
what it did. It relied on the opinions of properly qualified professionals. I dont think it did 
anything wrong  here.
A lender in possession should  get the best price it can. But it shouldnt  hold out too long for 
an unrealistically high price while interest on the debt mounts up. That isnt always  an easy 
balance to strike, but I dont think NRAM got it wrong in this case.
Ref: DRN37546223As our case-handler has explained, sale records show the prices obtained for properties in 
the same  development  as YC have gone  down since Mr K and Mrs B took this mortgage  
out in 2006, so its not surprising that YC followed that same trend. A property is only worth 
what a person is willing to pay for it, and YC was originally marketed at a higher  amount. The 
price was reduced due to a lack of interest and following feedback from the viewings that did 
take place. It eventually sold after over six months for a price broadly in line with that seen 
for similar properties in the area at the time.
YC was placed on the open  market  for over six months. So if it was worth more  then - quite 
simply - it would have sold for more  as it remained on the market  for all that time.
I understand Mr K and Mrs B feel the property should have been handed back to them  rather 
than passed to NRAM to sell in possession. Unfortunately  once they went  over two months 
in arrears  which  led to the Receiver being appointed  they lost control of the property and 
they lost the right to decide what was best to do. As Ive already explained, the mortgage 
conditions set out NRAMs right to sell the property was exercisable  immediately upon Mr K 
and Mrs B being more  than two months  late with their monthly payments. NRAM chose to try 
to get things back on track with a Receiver  first, but it was equally allowed to then sell the 
property if it felt that was the best course  of action long term. Thats  not a decision I see any 
good reason here to interfere with. 
Mr K and Mrs B have queried  the interest rates they paid on the three mortgage accounts.  
Its unfortunate that NRAM  isnt able to provide all the original mortgage offers, but as I 
explained in respect of the valuation report, thats completely understandable considering  
the passage of time. 
Having reviewed the information that is available Im satisfied the mortgage  account ending:
*770 was originally taken out on a fixed  rate basis in December 2004 (when the property 
was purchased).  The rate was fixed until January 2007 at which point  it moved to the 
reversionary rate. That was explained  in the original mortgage offer to be the 
Northern Rock  (as it was then)  Standard Variable Rate  (SVR)  and the offer said that 
would apply  for the remainder of the term of the mortgage.  That rate isnt linked to the 
Bank of England  Base  Rate, and theres nothing in the mortgage offer that could lead 
Mr K and Mrs B to think  it was. That mortgage account has remained on the SVR ever 
since and so has operated in line with the mortgage  agreement  that Mr K and Mrs B 
entered into.
*357 was likely also originally taken out on a preferential rate basis, albeit the mortgage 
offer is no longer  available to show that and NRAM  is unable  to provide the interest  rate 
history before  March  2009. It was fairly usual at the time that mortgage  started  for 
Northern Rock  mortgages to be taken out on a fixed rate basis and Ive no reason to 
believe that wouldnt have been  the case here.  In any event the mortgage  offer would 
have been set out in a standardised format and that would have included a similar  
explanation about  the interest rate both at the time the mortgage  started  and in the 
future as was provided for the account  ending *770. Since  March 2009  I can see the 
account has been on the SVR and remained so until the property was sold.
*651 was taken out on a lifetime  tracker rate. That rate is linked to the Bank  of England  
Base Rate, and changes in line with that. The rate Mr K and Mrs B are charged is the 
Base Rate  plus 1.09% (so, for example, when the base rate dropped to 0.25% they 
Ref: DRN37546224were being  charged  interest at 1.34%) and so that has operated in line with the 
mortgage agreement  Mr K and Mrs B entered into.
We dont provide an auditing service  or carry out a forensic analysis of mortgage  records. 
But Ive looked  at the transaction  histories  and theres nothing on there that appears  unusual 
or incorrect. Of course, its open  to Mr K and Mrs B to instruct an independent qualified 
professional to audit  their accounts. But that would have  to be at their expense  though  if 
errors were found to their detriment, they could complain about them and their costs in 
discovering them could  be taken into account in putting matters  right.  But as things stand, 
Im not persuaded that NRAM  has mis-managed their mortgage  accounts.
Ive not - as I explained above   commented on each individual point Mr K and Mrs B have 
raised over the years as I dont consider I need  to do so to reach the right outcome. I can 
reassure them Ive read and understood everything, and if I felt I needed to answer a point  
or if a complaint point had merit  I would  have dealt with it in this decision. For instance 
Mr K and Mrs B have said NRAM doesnt have the contractual  Right  to Consolidate their 
mortgage accounts, but NRAM  hasnt  consolidated  their accounts  or attempted to do so  
so the point is moot.
Having considered everything  Im satisfied NRAM didnt act inappropriately and so I dont 
uphold this complaint,  and I make no order or award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K 
and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision  before 26 October 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3754622