K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva) has asked her to repay a claim paid 
to her because it believes  that part of her claim has been made fraudulently.
background
Miss M left the UK on 18 July 2018  for a six week trip abroad. This was going to take in visits 
to a number of countries and three weeks at a summer course at a foreign university.  She 
was insured under a group policy with Aviva
Six days into her trip, Miss M took a long bus journey. During the journey there was a 
comfort stop. Miss M has explained that she took her bag off the bus to the toilet with her. 
She says she placed the bag near the toilet.  She then re-boarded the bus, leaving her bag 
behind. She only realised she didnt have her bag when the bus arrived at its destination 
some six hours later. Miss M reported  the loss to the local police and obtained a report. She 
had to abandon her original travel plans and return home before setting off again  to continue 
her trip and attend  her university  course.  
On her initial return to the UK Miss M realised that shed lost more  than shed told the local 
police. She told Aviva  that the stolen bag contained  personal belongings, her passport, bank 
cards, and a large amount of foreign and British currency. It had also contained a shipping  
receipt for a suitcase  that shed  shipped  back to the UK by post. She said that the suitcase 
contained a laptop computer valued  at £1,900 and clothes valued  at £1,000 and she was 
concerned that without  the receipt  shed be unable to retrieve her suitcase.
Miss M made a claim against Aviva for the stolen bag and its contents, and for the 
curtailment of her trip which included  the cost of a number of cancelled flights. It didnt 
include a claim for her laptop computer, and she hadnt reported the loss of this to the local 
police either.  Miss M then set off again to continue her trip and Aviva  began to process her 
claim.
When Miss M finally returned to the UK after her trip on 1 September,  Aviva continued their 
enquiries about her claim. It asked if shed got back the suitcase that shes  shipped, and said 
that if not, it would  be happy to consider the cost of this. It advised  her that her policy didnt  
provide cover for electronic equipment  other than laptops, Netbooks and Tablets, so it 
wouldnt be able to cover  the loss of her camera. On 7 September  Aviva settled her claim for 
£2,000.01.
On 18 September,  Miss M contacted Aviva to query  why her laptop hadnt been included  in 
the settlement  figure and wanted  to claim for it. Aviva was concerned  that Miss M was 
adding items  to her claim. It noted  that the laptop  in question could be purchased  for £1,279. 
It went back to the recording of her first telephone  call to Aviva  and noted that shed  said 
then that her laptop was with other items  that had been sent back to the UK in a suitcase. As 
shed now received her suitcase, she should  now have her laptop. But Miss M hadnt 
mentioned either that she now had her laptop  back,  or that it wasnt in the suitcase.
On 9 October,  Aviva sought further clarification as to why Miss M was claiming for a laptop 
that she had originally said wasnt in the bag that had been stolen as it was in a suitcase 
shipped back to the UK. Miss M said this was a mistake, and she didnt recall  saying it was 
in the suitcase. She said it couldnt  have been,  as electrical goods werent allowed to be 
included in the suitcase for shipping. Aviva said it would update  her shortly.  On 23 October, 
Ref: DRN30564432Miss M told Aviva she wanted to cancel her claim for the laptop as the claim was taking 
longer than she expected. 
On 16 November, Aviva informed Miss M that following  a detailed consideration of her claim, 
it had concluded  that it was a fraudulent claim.  It referred to the following term of her policy:
Fraud
If a claim made by You or anyone acting on Your behalf is fraudulent  or fraudulently  
exaggerated or supported  by a false statement or fraudulent means or fraudulent evidence is 
provided to support the claim. We may:
(1) refuse to pay the claim,
(2) recover from You any sums paid by Us to You in respect of the claim,
(3) by notice to You cancel the policy with effect  from the date of the fraudulent act without 
any return of premium.
Not only has Aviva refused to pay Miss Ms claim for her laptop, its also seeking to recover 
from her what  it had already paid her in respect of her claim.
Miss M is unhappy with Avivas assessment of her claim for her laptop,  which  she has now 
abandoned. She has referred  to learning difficulties she has which affect  her verbally  and 
her memory. She now feels Aviva is accusing her of fraud when she says she just made a
mistake. She brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered that Aviva hadnt  done  enough to establish that it was more 
likely than not that Miss M had acted fraudulently. Aviva doesnt agree with our investigators 
view and has asked that an ombudsman consider the matter. Miss Ms complaint has 
therefore been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Miss Ms complaint 
and Ill explain why.
Aviva is seeking to rely on the policy term that applies  when a claim is fraudulently made.  Its 
seeking not just to avoid  paying Miss M for the value of her laptop, but is seeking to recover 
the £2,000.01 its already paid her in settlement of her initial claim for the loss of her other 
belongings, cards, money, and passport, and for the curtailment of her trip. 
No evidence has been put forward by Aviva that Miss M has acted fraudulently in relation to 
her initial claim. Aviva  relies  only on Miss Ms late addition of the loss of her laptop  to the 
claim.
The evidence that Aviva relies on to say that Miss Ms laptop wasnt in her stolen bag, and 
therefore that her claim is fraudulent, is her statement in her call to Aviva  two days after the 
incident, and after shed returned to the UK, that shed packed it in her suitcase with other 
items and this had then been shipped back to the UK. The shipping  receipt  was in the stolen 
bag. She has since said she doesnt recall saying this, and that it was incorrect,  and her 
laptop couldnt have been shipped in the suitcase as electrical items werent allowed to be 
included. That would  be consistent  with her call to Aviva to query  why the settlement sum 
didnt include the laptop. But she hadnt  included  this in her initial  claim.
Ref: DRN30564433On the other hand, if this statement was correct,  and Miss M believed the laptop was in her 
suitcase, this might explain why she didnt report it to the local police  as stolen, and why she 
didnt initially  include it as part of her claim against  Aviva.
In the absence of evidence,  and recognizing  that there are conflicts in what Miss M has said, 
I have to make a decision based on the balance of probabilities  what I think is more  likely 
than not to be the case.
Miss Ms bag was stolen  on 25 July, just seven days into a six week trip that was going to 
include three weeks at a foreign university for a summer course  for which a laptop  might well 
have been useful or even necessary. It seems to me improbable  that she shouldve left the 
UK with her laptop,  and then decide to send it back home after less than a week.  
Despite the inconsistencies in Miss Ms account,  I think that its inherently more  likely than 
not that Miss M had her laptop with her in the bag that was stolen. Her call to Aviva to query  
why her settlement  didnt  include  the laptop  suggests that she was expecting it to be covered 
by her initial claim. The fact that she didnt include it in her initial claim may have been an 
oversight. Also, after her suitcase had arrived home, she didnt tell Aviva  that her laptop 
wasnt in it. She might  have thought this was unnecessary if shed known it was in the stolen 
bag and she thought shed already claimed  for it. She did provide some evidence  of being 
dyslexic, but Im not in a position to determine  whether this mightve been a contributing 
factor in the confusion of accounts.
I think that Aviva has to provide rather more in the way of evidence  to support an allegation  
of fraud, particularly because of the consequences of such an allegation for Miss M. She 
might face considerable difficulty in getting insurance in the future.  I do appreciate that Miss 
M was inconsistent in the information she gave to Aviva, but it could be argued  that if shed 
intended to be dishonest,  she wouldnt have  said the laptop was on its way back to the UK in 
a suitcase. Shed have  included it from the start in her report  to the local police and in her 
claim to Aviva.  
So Im going to require Aviva  to settle  Miss Ms claim for her laptop,  subject to the other  
terms and conditions of the policy.
my final decision
My final decision is to require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
To settle Miss Ms claim for her laptop,  subject  to the other terms and 
conditions of the policy, without reference to the provision relating to fraud
Remove any fraud markers from her insurance  record with it
Discontinue any claim for reimbursement of monies already paid to her
If Miss M has already  repaid monies paid to her by Aviva Insurance  Limited,  
to pay those back to Miss M together with interest thereon  at the simple  rate 
of 8% a year from the date she made the repayment until the settlement  date.
If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Miss M how 
much its taken  off. It should also give Miss M a certificate showing this if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN30564434Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3056443