K822xcomplaint
Mrs L is unhappy that HDl Global Specialty SE turned down a rent protection  claim made on
her landlord  legal and rent protection policy (the policy).
Any references to HDI in this decision include its claims handlers and administrator of the
policy.
background 
Mrs L and her husband, Mr L, entered into a tenancy agreement to rent out their house (the
house) for three years starting November 2017. There was a break clause whereby either
party could give a minimum  of two months notice to bring the tenancy  agreement to an end,
after it had been  in place for ten months  (the break clause). Rent  was agreed in the sum of
£7,500 per month.
Around the same time as renting out the house,  Mrs L took out the policy.
Mr and Mrs Ls tenants made a rent payment in December 2017 but failed to make any
further payments  due in accordance with the tenancy agreement.
Mrs L says that on 4 January 2018  one of the tenants contacted  the agency whod been
instructed to manage  the house  (the management agency) to say the tenants  were
prepared to give back the keys on the condition that they didnt need to pay any outstanding
amounts owed under the tenancy agreement - or any rent payable in future (the offer).  The
offer was declined by Mrs L.
The tenants didnt  pay the rent due in January 2018 and HDI was notified  that Mrs L would
be making a rent protection  claim under the policy.
HDI confirmed that Mrs Ls claim had been accepted  in March 2018 and paid the 
management agency a sum to reflect the total outstanding rent amount as at that time.
However, before the management  agency  had released the sum to Mrs L, HDI notified it that
they had become aware of the offer and withdrew  permission  for the money to be sent on to
Mrs L.
HDI did fund Mrs Ls claim to cover the costs  of legal action to gain vacant  possession  of the
house. And in June  2018, she succeeded in that claim and the tenants  left.
However, other than the payment received in December 2017,  she didnt receive any rent
from the tenants for the period up to and including the date when they were  evicted. She
says the outstanding rent payments should be covered by HDI under the policy.  HDI says its
relied fairly  on the general conditions in the policy to decline her claim. Mrs L doesnt  agree
so brought her complaint  to us.
Our investigator didnt  think HDI had acted fairly  or reasonably by declining the claim for rent
protection so asked  it to reconsider that claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy.
HDI didnt respond  so the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 May 2019  explaining why I was also intending  to 
uphold the complaint but, as I was planning  on asking HDI to do something different to our 
investigator, I asked  the parties for their comments.
Ref: DRN37064032HDI responded saying they agreed with my provisional decision and will be reconsidering  
Mrs Ls claim. 
Mrs L agreed with much  of what I was planning to ask HDI to do but she did think the 
amount of compensation I was planning  to ask it to pay was a little low. She also asked 
whether some of the payments Id asked HDI to make  could  be paid earlier   especially the 
amount that is currently being held by the management agency.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it.
The policy includes  cover for rent protection where  a claim for repossession  is accepted.
In those circumstances HDI will pay unpaid rent due under the tenancy agreement  for a
maximum of 11 months whilst the policyholder is trying to obtain vacant possession.
Its not in dispute  that the tenants defaulted on all but one monthly rent payment and that
Mrs L was trying to gain vacant possession of the house. So her claim under  the rent
protection part of the policy is covered, subject to the remaining terms of the policy.
HDI are relying on the policys general conditions to decline Mrs Ls claim for rent protection
because she didnt  accept  the offer made by one of the tenants on 4 January 2018.  But I 
dont think its fair or reasonable for it to rely on that offer as a reason to decline her claim.
I accept the policy says failure to comply with the general conditions  may result in a claim
being refused.  And that these include Mrs L:
taking all reasonable precautions to prevent or minimise the risk of a claim occurring
under this policy and to avoid incurring any unnecessary costs;
keeping HDI and the appointed advisor fully informed of any developments;
not acting  in a way which obstructs HDI or the appointed advisor or hinders the
progress of the claim; and
informing HDI immediately if an offer to settle a claim is received and not entering
into negotiations  to settle a claim without HDIs prior consent.
Further, if Mrs L refuses a fair and reasonable offer to settle  a claim, the policy  says HDI is
entitled to withdraw  funding  for that claim and will pay no further costs.
But what  constitutes an offer to settle  the claim isnt defined by the policy.  At the time the
offer was made, Im satisfied Mrs L hadnt  made  a claim and the offer she received wasnt
made in any context to settle a claim. It simply amounted  to the tenants saying they would
vacate the house if Mrs L was willing  to forgo  the money they owed her at that time.  It would
also allow  them to leave  long before the break  clause in the tenancy  agreement came into
force, entitling them  to give notice to terminate the tenancy agreement  early.
Further, in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think  Mrs Ls decision to reject
the offer can reasonably be considered by HDI as a failure on her part to take reasonable
Ref: DRN37064033precautions to prevent a claim occurring under the policy, or that it hindered  or obstructed  
the progress of the claim she made  in any way.
putting things right:
I direct  HDI to reconsider the claim in light of the remaining  terms of the policy.  If, after 
reconsidering the claim, HDI decides to pay Mrs Ls claim for rent protection,  it should
also pay Mrs L:
A.simple interest at a rate of 8%* per year:
-on the amount  it paid to the management agency in March 2018 from the 
date on which it informed the management  agency not to make payment (also  
in March 2018) to the date it makes  payment to Mrs L; and
-on each outstanding monthly  rent repayment due to her. Interest should be 
calculated from 30 days after the date each payment wouldve been made to 
her under  the policy (if the claim hadnt  been  declined in March 2018) to the 
date it makes payment  to Mrs L.
B.£500 as compensation for the trouble and upset she experienced by declining  her
claim, taking  into account the worry she wouldve experienced by being 
considerably out of pocket each month as a result  of not receiving an equivalent 
to the unpaid rent payments under the policy. And the unnecessary time and 
effort involved in her having to liaise with HDI in an attempt  to negotiate a figure 
with it to settle her complaint over the amount HDI owed her (which  ultimately  
couldnt be agreed).
Ive taken into what Mrs L says about the money  being held by the management  agency  but 
until HDI has reconsidered her claim and decided whether it will pay the claim, I cant ask it 
to make a payment  to her at this point. 
Ive also taken on board what she says about having  to borrow money from family to help 
her and Mr L financially  because they were not in receipt of the rent payments. Whilst I 
appreciate this wouldve been  a stressful time,  it doesnt look like Mrs L lost out financially by 
borrowing money  such as paying  interest on the amounts borrowed  and I think  the 
amount of £500  fairly compensates Mrs L for the trouble  and upset caused.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I direct  HDl Global Specialty SE to put things  right by doing  what  Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37064034*If HDl Global Specialty  SE considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off
income tax from any interest  paid,  it should  tell Mrs L how much  its taken off. It should also
give her a certificate showing this if she asks for one. That way Mrs L can reclaim the tax
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3706403