K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T say that Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide)  mis-sold  them  a mortgage
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 2003. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs T disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Nationwide made Mr and Mrs T aware  that they had a choice about buying the 
MPPI, and that they chose to take it. I say this because  of the documents that 
Nationwide has been able to give us from the time of the sale.  
These include the mortgage application  and it is ticked  to show Mr and Mrs T were 
interested in considering the PPI. The mortgage fact find completed at the time 
shows PPI was discussed, quoted and agreed.  And there was a PPI application 
form that was separate from the mortgage  application form, which needed a separate  
signature. The loan acceptance  document also shows  the PPI, and again,  this is 
listed separately from the mortgage.  
Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs T so it had to check that the policy 
was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I 
think it was. Mr and Mrs T were  both employed  and would have both received 
employee benefits of around three  months  if they werent able to work. They have 
also told us they had savings they could have used if they werent able to work.
But in the event of a successful  claim,  if either Mr or Mrs T werent able to work, the 
policy would have  paid out for up to 12 months. And it would have paid this on top of 
any other employee benefits  Mr and Mrs T may have received so they could have 
been used  for other essential  outgoings. Savings are normally  in place for a reason 
and the policy  would have meant those savings remained intact for their original 
purpose. So I think the policy  would  have provided Mr and Mrs T with an additional  
financial comfort in what could  have been  a difficult time. Also, I cant  see that 
Mr or Mrs T would have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI
cover  so they seem to have had a need  for it.
Ref: DRN35209202Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs T about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been. But overall  I think they chose  to take it out - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for 
them if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put them  off taking out the cover.
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because Nationwide  didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs T any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs T any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs T the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide  should  
also pay Mr and Mrs T 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs T can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  So I dont award any 
further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3520920