K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC closed  his bank accounts  when it received a report  
that a payment he had received was fraudulent.
background
Mr A received a payment  of £70 in August 2018.  The person who sent it reported that it was 
fraudulent as it was supposed to be for goods  that hadnt been  sent.  Lloyds wrote  to Mr A to 
say it would be closing  his account  and removed the £70 from his account. He complained  
but it said it wouldnt be changing its decision and Mr A referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator said that Lloyds could decide  not to offer Mr A an account any longer.  And it 
had written to him when  there was a previous report of fraud to say it would close  his 
account if there were  any further reports.  Mr A didnt now have any evidence to show  that he 
was due the money so he couldnt require that this be refunded. And our investigator 
couldnt see Lloyds  had acted in a discriminatory way to him as he alleged. But Lloyds had 
made a report to a national fraud  agency  and he didnt think it had undertaken sufficient 
investigation of this payment to justify this. So he recommended that the marker be removed  
and Lloyds pay Mr A £100 for the inconvenience.  
Mr A didnt agree and said that he wanted  £1,000  in compensation.  He said that this marker 
should only have  been one internal to Lloyds  and not visible  to other  financial businesses.  
He had to go and wait at a branch and phone repeatedly about this and he wasnt  treated 
with respect which  he thinks was discrimination against him. Lloyds  didnt want to hear what 
he had to say and there hadnt been multiple reports of fraud on his account.  Lloyds had told 
him before that he had given a reasonable explanation of the past payment. This marker has 
resulted in him not being able to be paid and stress  for him. He wanted Lloyds to confirm 
that the marker was removed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that our investigator made Lloyds aware of Mr As request for compensation  as it had 
indicated it might be prepared to settle the complaint informally.  But that hasnt been  possible.
Ive considered what our investigator has said about  Lloyds closing the accounts. Here it had 
sent Mr A a letter before when a previous payment he received  was reported as fraudulent.  
Even though  it had seemed to accept his explanation about that payment Lloyds had then made 
clear that it would close his accounts if there  were  any further  reports. That is what  happened 
here. I know  that Mr A had an explanation  of what happened with this payment and says that he 
had correspondence  with his buyer about this at the time. And he is unhappy Lloyds  didnt then 
want to consider this. But although I understand that it didnt have to continue  to offer him an 
account under the terms and conditions. And as I cant know exactly  what  was said to him in 
branch I dont have  a basis  to find that Lloyds  treated him inappropriately.
Ref: DRN35593422I would though have expected Lloyds to undertake an investigation before it added  a marker 
externally that was visible to other  financial businesses. As Mr A says this was more  than 
something simply preventing him having  an account at Lloyds in the future. My 
understanding is that the marker flagged concerns identified - not that fraud had been 
established. But I consider that the bar for adding such a marker was a high one. Lloyds 
couldnt reasonably rely on a number of past reports. The evidence  had to relate to this 
payment and I cant see there was a fair investigation into it.
So I am going to require  Lloyds to remove this marker. I wont be in a position  to require it 
to return the payment. Mr A would need  to pursue that with the buyer if he thinks he is due 
this money.
I need to think  about  compensation for the marker  being in place. Mr A hasnt shown 
evidence that he made  attempts  to open an account  elsewhere which  had been  affected by 
this marker.  Or that he had a specific financial loss. But I dont doubt he was caused  
inconvenience and was distressed to learn  what  happened.  In my view the fair amount of 
compensation for is £200. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
1)Pay Mr A £200 in compensation.
2)Arrange for the removal of the marker referred to. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 June 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3559342