K821x#15complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain that the vehicle they acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  
financed by Oodle  Financial Services Limited was not of satisfactory quality. They  want  to 
reject the vehicle and be compensated  for the costs of hiring a replacement vehicle.
background
For ease of reading Ill mostly refer to Mrs M as shes  been the main correspondent.
Mrs M says the vehicle, a Land Rover, was acquired in August 2018  from a dealer Ill refer to 
as B. She says the original collection date was put back as there  was a problem with the 
suspension sensor. Since then she says shes had numerous problems with the vehicle 
including faults  with the compressor; suspension; and the Engine  Management  Light (EML) 
intermittently illuminating. And she says that at times the vehicle has only been able to be 
driven at a restricted speed of around 30mph. She states she also reported  that the vehicle 
smelt of cannabis at the time of collection and that B failed to get it valeted.  Between  
September and December Mrs M said she tried - without much success  - to raise issues with 
B as the vehicle  experienced these issues and went into limp mode.
Mrs M said she had her own diagnostic test carried out in January 2019. And this indicated 
there were problems with the compressor. She said the vehicle went in for repairs and was 
returned to her in March.  But almost immediately the EML illuminated again. She reports  an 
awful noise with the suspension  and says the door rubbers scraped on the footsteps where 
the suspension was not repaired. Mrs M says she had this repaired  at her own expense.
She said B arranged to have the vehicle  inspected again - but this report blamed driver error 
for overheating the motor  and didnt find any fault with the compressor. So Mrs M said she 
wrote to B and sought to reject the vehicle. Since then she says there  have been  further  
issues with the EML and she doesnt  think the repairs carried  out in January have resolved 
the problems.  As recently as 11 August 2019,  Mrs M told us that the EML had again 
illuminated and the vehicle  couldnt currently be driven at more  than 30 mph.
Oodle issued a final response letter on 25 April 2019. It said that following the March repairs 
and the later report by Mrs M of the EML illuminating, the vehicle had been examined by S, a 
firm. It said that this inspection had revealed no faults. Oodle said the vehicle had covered 
more than 12,000 miles  since  supply and it was reasonable to expect wear and tear issues  
with some of the components. It also said that itd been told by B that the vehicle was due for 
a service and a cambelt replacement. It did not think there were any grounds  to reject the 
vehicle.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 September  2019. I said I was minded 
to uphold the complaint but only in part. I said that I thought the vehicle was probably not of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. But that repairs had been carried out and I hadnt seen 
anything to make me think these  had failed. I also indicated I thought that Mrs M and Mr M 
had suffered inconvenience  and expense in having to hire a vehicle whilst their own was 
repaired. And I felt they should  be compensated for this.
Ref: DRN36803802Since my provisional view both parties  have replied. Oodle didnt supply any further  
information but said it wanted to check that £125  which it said it had already paid in respect 
of a hire car had been taken into account. Mrs M and Mr M replied and said they felt theyd 
no option but to accept  the provisional  decision  - although they said they werent completely 
satisfied.
In the light of these  replies, for which  I thank  both parties, I see no need to alter my provision 
decision. This is largely repeated in my final decision  which  is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs M and Mr M have  experienced several problems with this vehicle.  
Unfortunately, things sometimes go wrong and with an older, high mileage  vehicle such  as 
this the risk is that much greater.
Mrs Ms hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement and our service  
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Oodle supplied the vehicle and its therefore 
responsible for a complaint about  the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law - 
directly - I do take it into account. And relevant law here includes the Consumer  Rights  Act of 
2015 (CRA).
Briefly summarised, this states that theres  an implied condition in every contract to supply 
goods that they will be of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. And satisfactory quality is 
defined as being what a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. Where goods 
are identified within the first six months  after supply as not complying with contract its 
presumed they did not comply at the point of supply - unless its otherwise established.  And 
this means a customer may be able to require the supplier of those goods to repair an item 
that is found not to be of satisfactory  quality within this period.
Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is to say, I decide what  is the most 
likely explanation to account for whats happened. In trying to resolve complaints, we listen  
to what the parties  tell us, and we look to documentary  and other evidence  to help us reach 
a decision.
The vehicle was acquired in August 2018 with a mileage of 88,285  miles according  to the 
MOT history. It was about six years  old at the time.  Although  theres a record of Mrs M 
complaining of faults soon after supply, the first record of repairs  seems to be in January 
2019. This followed a diagnostic  test on 14 January 2019, which Mrs M had ordered and 
where a fault with the compressor  was identified. The recorded mileage at this time was 
96,887 - so the vehicle had been  driven  over 8,000 miles since  supply. It seems  repairs were 
carried out, under warranty, to the compressor  and a cracked inlet manifold. The vehicle was 
returned to Mrs M on 8 March. She was not supplied with a replacement  vehicle for the time 
the car was away for repairs.
On 12 March, Mrs M reported the EML had illuminated again. And Ive been provided with a 
screen shot which shows this to be the case. But unlike  an earlier screen  shot in December  
2018 which identified  a possible fault with the suspension - the screen shot from 12 March 
does not identify a specific issue.
Ref: DRN36803803Following Mrs Ms claim that the repairs  had failed, it seems B arranged for the vehicle to be 
examined by S, a firm which describes itself as specialising  in Land Rovers.  And Oodle 
wrote to Mrs M on 10 April 2019  confirming it would agree  to meet  hire car costs of up to £25 
per day until either the vehicle was rejected or fully repaired.
The vehicle was inspected on or around 11 April 2019. The very brief report by S stated it 
had been asked to investigate the cause of a suspension fault warning and a code warning 
of the motor temperature being exceeded.
It continued:
Check sensor readings and circuit  integrity. Clear and road test. No fault found,  suspect 
compressor overheated due to driver intervention.
On 20 April Mrs M reported  that a warning  light had illuminated and a message had been 
displayed on the vehicles instrument panel screen,  only normal  height  available. 
Subsequently, Mrs M wrote to B on 24 April stating  she intended to reject  the vehicle. And 
Oodle issued its final response letter on 25 April. It said that - as S hadnt found  any faults 
with the vehicle - it (Oodle)  wouldnt agree to the vehicle being  rejected.
Since then Mrs M has continued  to report the vehicle has experienced intermittent problems 
and has on occasions  gone into limp mode. After the vehicle was handed back  in March, it 
seems the EML has illuminated on a number of occasions. This indicates there are issues 
which may require further attention. But the EML itself is not a diagnostic  tool - rather  a 
precautionary warning  instrument. Im aware that Mrs M doesnt think the fault with the 
compressor was repaired  properly. But based on the information provided  to me, I cant say 
there is sufficient information to support  that view.
The report  by S indicates  that no fault was found  - and implies  that if the vehicle did overheat 
it was due to the manner  of driving.  The latter comment by S is purely speculative  and I dont 
rely on it in reaching  my decision.  But as no fault was identified I cant reasonably  say the 
earlier repairs have failed.
Similarly, whilst Mrs M has continued to report that the EML has intermittently become 
illuminated Ive no information which allows me to say this is the result  of failed repairs as 
opposed to an entirely new problem. So in the absence of another  vehicle inspection report - 
which confirmed the repairs  failed - I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to 
draw that conclusion. So I cant recommend that Mrs M be allowed to reject the vehicle. I did 
see that B had offered to assist with the investigation of the EML issue  and it may be that - if 
the offer still stands  - Mrs M may wish to take it up.
In summary,  I think the fault with the compressor  means the vehicle was not of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  A repair was carried out and Ive not seen  any persuasive information 
to lead me to believe the repair wasnt successful. In my opinion, theres not enough  
information for it to be fair and reasonable to say that the later faults were related to those 
problems which initially led to the vehicle not being  of satisfactory quality.
Although I dont think that Mrs M is entitled  to reject  the vehicle, I do accept that shes 
experienced an amount of inconvenience  and expense  due to the various  issues  which  have 
arisen. And Oodle recognised this in offering to contribute  towards  the cost of a replacement 
vehicle.
Ref: DRN36803804Although we would normally  consider it fair and reasonable to order the refund of any 
repayments which were  due whilst the vehicle was unavailable, Oodle has gone further. Its 
offered to pay up to £25 per day to cover  hire costs of a replacement vehicle. So I think that - 
up to this limit - Mrs M should be able to recover the cost of any replacement vehicle she 
used during the period  from 14 January 2019  to 29 April 2019 when her own vehicle was not 
available. The latter date is when the latest period of replacement  hire expired after Oodle 
issued its final response letter.  Shes  supplied invoices and proof of payments totalling  
£1060.64 - and the rate appears to be within  the £25 per day cost which  Oodle offered to 
cover.
Mrs M referred  to other issues  which affected  her use and enjoyment of the vehicle  during  
the weeks after supply  - including the lingering smell of cannabis  in the vehicle. I dont think I 
can hold Oodle responsible for that. It was open  to Mrs M to decline to accept the vehicle 
before that issue had been remedied by B, as it would have been apparent at the time of 
supply.
But I do accept that during  the period from supply until the diagnostic report  was done in 
January, Mrs M experienced impaired use and enjoyment of the vehicle. So I think  some 
portion of the monthly payments should be refunded  to reflect  this. But given that the vehicle  
was still able to be driven  around an average of 2,000 miles per month  during  this period I 
think 10% is a fair and reasonable  figure.
And Im also of the view that she should receive  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by the vehicle being unreliable.  And this includes having to make  the 
80 or so mile round trip to take the vehicle back to B and to collect it. I think £250  is a fair 
and reasonable amount to deal with this aspect.
Im aware that Mrs M has been experiencing financial difficulties, as she was required to pay 
for hire vehicles as well as being  liable for payments  on her own vehicle. And I understand 
this has led to arrears on the agreement.
I think its fair and reasonable that any late payment markers which  Oodle may have 
recorded on the credit files of Mrs M and Mr M should be removed for any period from 
January 2019  - April 2019, inclusive. But if there are arrears of payments remaining, Oodle 
should also be able to deduct these  before  making  any refunds (if any remain due).
Ref: DRN36803805my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  - but only in 
part. And to settle  the complaint, I require Oodle Financial Services Limited to take the 
following action:
1.Pay the cost of replacement car hire between 29 January 2019 and 29 April 2019 in   
accordance with the supplied invoices.
 
Before paying  this sum it may deduct any sums  already paid in respect of vehicle hire 
during this period.
2.Refund 10% of the cost of monthly  payments from date of supply to 28 January 
2019;
3.Arrange for any late payment markers,  recorded in relation to this agreement, to be 
removed from Mrs Ms and Mr Ms credit files for the period January 2019  to April 
2019 inclusive;
4.Pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from date of payment  to date of settlement should 
be added  to the sums arising from items 1 and 2 above.
Before paying  the refund (if any) due to Mrs M and Mr M, Oodle may deduct any arrears 
currently owing on the agreement from payments arising under 1 and 2 above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3680380