K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Shop  Direct  Finance Company Limited (SDFC)  acted irresponsibly
and treated him unfairly  in relation  to his shopping catalogue account. Hes complained
about irresponsible lending and about  the Buy Now Pay Later (BNPL) interest that was
added to his account.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in October  2020  that I summarise  below.
Mr B opened  a shopping catalogue account with SDFC in October  2014 with a credit  limit of
£1,350. I understand that SDFC  increased  the credit  limit on Mr Bs account to £1,550 in
January 2015.  The credit limit was reduced  to £1,200 around a month or so later at Mr Bs 
request.
Mr B says he was in severe financial difficulty at the time his credit  limits were repeatedly
increased and that SDFC never checked  his financial situation. Mr B also says SDFC
didnt give him clear enough  information about  the BNPL  option. He says he was shocked  to
see all the interest from the 'interest  free' period was added to his balance  after the BNPL
period ended.
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that 
SDFC needed to do such as the amount of credit being given, and the consumers income  
and expenditure.  With this in mind, I thought less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate in the early stages of the lending relationship. I said that SDFC was required to 
establish whether  Mr B could afford to repay  what he owed in a sustainable manner.
Ive kept all of this in mind  when thinking about whether SDFC did what it needed to do
before initially agreeing  to open Mr Bs account, and before it agreed to increase  his credit 
limit.
SDFC says it carried  out some checks on Mr Bs credit file when he applied for his account.
And that it used a system  of credit assessment to decide whether to approve his application.
Mr B took this account several ago, and given the time that has passed, there is limited 
information about what Mr B told SDFC about  his circumstances when he applied  for his 
account. Id seen a summary of the information  that SDFC gathered from its checks at the 
time. I thought it would have been proportionate for SDFCs checks to go further  than they 
did. It is difficult to establish whether repayments are affordable without an understanding  of 
a consumers income and normal expenditure. But the amounts Mr B needed  to repay  were  
relatively small compared to his declared income.  So I dont think  it wouldve been 
proportionate for SDFC to ask him for the amount of information that would be needed to 
show the lending  was unsustainable  before initially agreeing the credit  amount.
Overall, I didnt  think SDFC  was wrong to initially open Mr Bs account and provide him with 
an opening credit  limit of £1,350.
Did SDFC unfairly  increase Mr Bs credit  limits?
Mr Bs credit  limit was increased by £200 to £1, 550 in January 2015  around  three months 
after hed first taken  the account.
Ref: DRN36848992I considered the point  at which Mr Bs credit  limit was increased  and how much additional
credit was provided to him at the time.  And I thought about whether SDFC should
reasonably have realised   at that point  - that it needed to carry out more thorough checks
before increasing  the credit it was offering  to Mr B.
SDFC was allowed under the credit agreement to change Mr Bs credit limits. I thought  it 
was fair and reasonable, in the early stages of its lending  relationship  with Mr B, for SDFC to 
rely on less detailed checks before it decided to increase Mr Bs credit limit. Mr B says he 
was struggling to manage his finances and that if SDFC had carried  out better  checks  it 
would have discovered this. Mr B has provided his bank statements from around that time. 
He was regularly  overdrawn  and borrowing from other short terms lenders. But I didnt think  
it was likely that proportionate checks would have  uncovered this at the time.
I hadnt seen all the information  that SDFC gathered and relied  when it increased his credit 
limit. SDFC  says that there was nothing of concern apparent  from its credit  checks and I 
didnt think there was anything from the way that he was managing  his account, in the early 
stages, that ought  reasonably to have  alerted  SDFC to the possibility that he was 
experiencing financial difficulties. As before, I thought SDFC might have wanted to ask Mr B 
more about his income and his expenditure before it increased his credit limit. But I didnt 
think it would  have  been proportionate  for SDFC to have carried out more  in-depth checks, 
such as requesting Mr Bs bank  statements, at that point in the lending  relationship.  I didnt 
think what I consider to be proportionate checks would  have  led to a different decision about 
the credit  limit increase in January 2015.  And I didnt think  it would have been reasonable for 
SDFC to have simply stopped providing credit to Mr B at that point.
SDFC told us it doesnt disagree that the credit limit may have been increased
prematurely. But SFDC  says that this increase didnt cause Mr B any detriment before the
limit was reduced to £1,200 at Mr Bs request around a month or so later. 
From what  Id seen, Mr B didnt  utilise the higher credit limit  so I didnt think he lost out 
from being given  this additional  credit  because he doesnt seem to have  made use of it 
before the limit was reduced. Mr B thinks his credit limit was repeatedly increased but I 
think he is mistaken about this. I hadnt  seen what Mr B told SDFC when he asked for his 
credit limit to be reduced. Or whether he made SDFC  aware  then that he had financial 
problems, such that SDFC ought  reasonably to have stopped providing credit to him. But Mr 
Bs credit limit was reduced to £1,200 around February/March 2015  and it remained
at that level.
BNPL interest
Mr B is unhappy that deferred BNPL interest was added  to his account  after the interest
free BNPL  period came to an end. But from what Id seen, SDFC provided  information to
its customers on their account statements and online that the interest would be added  to
their accounts after the end of the payment free period. And that they could avoid interest  by
paying the cash price  in full before the end of the payment  free period.
The adjudicator thought  that it was unfair that adding the deferred  BNPL  interest to the
balance of Mr Bs account might  have pushed him over the credit limit and that he should not
have to pay any over-limit charges  as a result. SDFC  says it doesnt charge customers for
exceeding their credit  limit. It says its not unreasonable if interest causes  an account to go
over the limit and that if customers wanted  to make a purchase  that exceed  their credit limit,
Ref: DRN36848993it would  be declined. SDFC says that potential interest is not deducted from the credit  limits
made available to customers as this would be unfair.  I thought  it is for SDFC to decide the
terms and conditions of its accounts. From  what I understood, Mr B hasnt been charged
unfairly because  he exceeded his credit  limit, and I think  its likely that he was aware that he
would incur account charges, if he failed to make  the minimum payment due on his account
each month. So I didnt think that SDFC  acted unfairly when it applied BNPL  interest  to Mr 
Bs account balance.
Has SDFC acted unfairly towards  Mr B in some  other way?
It seems  that Mr B told SDFC  in December 2016 that he was experiencing financial
difficulties. I understand  that four repayment  plans were set up with him but Mr B was unable
to keep up with the various repayment arrangements. SDFC say Mr B was not allowed to
continue making  purchases  whilst his account was in arrears. I am sorry that Mr B found
himself in financial difficulties, but I hadnt  seen anything which  made me think  SDFC
failed to treat him positively or sympathetically  at the time.  On the basis of what Id seen, I
couldnt fairly conclude that SDFC acted unfairly towards Mr B in some other way.
I said I did not intend to uphold  Mr Bs complaint and I invited  both parties to send me any 
further comments or evidence. SDFC told us it accepted my provisional decision and had 
nothing further  to add. Mr B disagreed  with my provisional decision and made a number of 
comments which I address below. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered all of the comments  that Mr B made  in response to my provisional  
decision. I summarise what I believe to be the main  points raised below:
Mr B doesnt  think that SDFCs  checks were  proportionate or accurate. He thinks SDFC 
should have been aware of a recent bank loan hed taken clear payday  loan debts.  He 
continued using  payday loans so he thinks SDFC should  have  known that he wasnt  
managing his finances and that he wasnt credit  worthy.  
SDFC says that its initial  credit check didnt indicate  Mr B was in financial difficulties. It says 
there were no defaulted accounts or CCJs on the credit report  it acquired and Mr B was up 
to date on all accounts,  meaning he had no arrears  with other lenders. SDFC says its credit 
checks showed that Mr B had not opened  any accounts in the 6 months prior to his 
application and there were  no recent  credit searches,  which SDFC says suggests he was 
not credit hungry at the time. 
Mr B may disagree with what SDFC says it found  on his credit report  at the time.  But  
reasonable credit searches acquired  by a business  can sometimes  differ  from those carried  
out by consumers  there may be information missing or not updated and recent lending can 
take time to appear on a credit  report.  So the recent  bank loan which Mr B says he took prior 
to his application to SDFC may not have  appeared in SDFCs credit checks. 
Mr B thinks  that if SDFC had checked his bank statements it would have seen he was 
regularly paying  other payday lenders and would have realised that he wouldnt be able to 
Ref: DRN36848994keep up with his account repayments.  He says the opening credit limit was too high for 
someone with a poor credit history and it was too high for him, in his circumstances. Ive 
explained in my provisional decision  that I dont think it wouldve been  proportionate for 
SDFC to ask Mr B for the amount of information that would be needed to show  the lending 
was unsustainable  before initially  agreeing to provide  credit. And I dont  think it would have 
been proportionate for SDFC to have requested bank statements from Mr B when he applied 
for his account. 
Given the amount  of time that has passed,  there is understandably  limited information about 
what happened at the time. And Mr B and SDFC dont agree on what  proportionate  checks 
would have uncovered about  his circumstances when he applied  for his account.  Mr B says 
that other  complaints hes made about short term lending have been upheld.  But I have to 
make my decision  based on the evidence Ive seen about this complaint. Taking things as a 
whole, I cant fairly  say SDFC acted irresponsibly when it agreed to open  Mr Bs account  and 
set an initial  credit limit. 
Mr B says SDFC  increased his credit  limits without proof that he could keep up with his 
repayments. And he requested that the limit should  be reduced because  he knew  a higher 
credit limit wasnt  right for him. But as Ive explained,  Mr B doesnt  appear  to have lost out 
from being given  this additional  credit  because he doesnt seem to have  made use of it 
before the limit was reduced at his request. 
Mr B says he wasnt given clear enough information  about the BNPL interest and he should 
have been reminded  about it. And the interest  being added at the end of the BNPL  period 
should have had a bearing  on the amount of credit  being offered as it substantially  increased 
his credit balance. 
From what  Ive seen, SDFC did remind customers about BNPL interest on their regular 
account statements. It seems that BNPL interest  of £40.15 was added to Mr Bs account  
time in May 2015. Higher amounts were  later charged in November 2015 and February 
2016. I think Mr B would most likely  have  realised after hed paid BNPL interest for the first 
time in May 2015 that a higher amount  of BNPL interest might apply in the future, if he didnt  
pay for the goods  hed purchased in full within the BNPL  interest  free period. Overall, I dont 
think SDFC acted unfairly  when it applied BNPL interest to Mr Bs account. And as Ive 
explained, SDFC says that potential interest is not deducted  from the credit  limits  made 
available to customers as it thinks this would be unfair. 
Mr B says he told SDFC about his financial difficulties when things became too difficult to 
handle. And that his credit file should have shown he was constantly in his overdraft and 
having to service other debt. He says hes tried for years to set up another repayment  
arrangement but SDFC havent been willing to do this and it has caused him a great deal of 
stress.
SDFC says that Mr B told it in early  2016  that he was struggling to repay  the arrears on his 
account and that it accepted a reduced payment arrangement with him. SDFC says that it 
accepted a further four arrangements between July 2016 and December 2018 whilst the 
account remained in arrears. But it seems that Mr B found it difficult  to complete the 
arrangements each time. SDFC  says there isnt a currently an arrangement  in place 
because it believes that Mr Bs last offer of repayment was deemed too low based on the 
most recent income and expenditure assessment in March 2019.  And that Mr B should 
contact SDFCs Customer Arrears Support Team to discuss a way forward.
Ref: DRN36848995I know that Mr B thinks he hasnt been treated  fairly or sympathetically by SDFC but it seems 
to me that SDFC has tried to make various  repayment arrangements with him when he 
found it difficult to repay what  he owed.  I dont have sufficient evidence  for me to say that 
SDFC has treated Mr B unfairly in this regard,  but I remind SDFC of its obligation to treat Mr 
B positively  and sympathetically and to try to reach  an affordable  repayment  arrangement  
with him, if his account is still in arrears.
Id like to thank both parties for all the information  that has been provided about  this matter 
and for responding to my provisional decision.   I know Mr B feels strongly  about  his 
complaint, but his additional comments havent changed my view.
I know Mr B will be disappointed by my decision.  Id like to reassure him that Ive looked  very 
carefully at all the information that both he and SDFC have provided about  this matter, 
including everything  that hes told us in response  to my provisional decision. 
Given that Ive not received any further  evidence or comment that changes my mind about 
this complaint, I confirm  the conclusions I reached in my provisional  decision and I do not 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint or make  any award against 
Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 December  2020.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3684899