K820x#14complaint
Miss G says HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background
Miss G bought the policy in 2006  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.    Miss G says 
she took the policy out online. HSBC cannot identify how it was sold.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in June 2019  I have 
attached a copy of it to this decision. In it I explained I was thinking  of coming to a different 
outcome to that of our adjudicator and I gave  my reasons why. But I asked everyone to 
come back  to me with any further comments before I issued  my final decision.
Both parties  confirmed they had received the provisional decision, but no one had anything  
more to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Gs case.
Having done this, and without any new information  to consider, my decision remains  the 
same for the same reasons. Im not upholding Miss Gs complaint. 
HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss G because:  
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss G about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Miss G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Miss G any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2019.  
Ref: DRN32044712Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
complaint
Miss G says HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy. 
background
Miss G bought the policy in 2006 at the same time as taking out a credit card.   Miss G says she took 
the policy  out online.  HSBC  cannot identify how it was sold.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. HSBC disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion,  so the 
complaint has been passed  to me.
Ref: DRN32044713my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Gs case.
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Miss Gs complaint because:
 I think HSBC  made Miss G aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it. I say this because of what I think is more likely  to have happened around the 
time of the sale.  
Miss G says the policy was bought online  but HSBC  has said for its sales process  in 2006 it 
wasnt possible to complete a full application online.  Miss G wouldve been  able to request the 
credit card and associated PPI online, but it was afterwards  that the agreement  forms wouldve  
been sent to her for her to sign and return.  
Unfortunately HSBC hasnt been able to give me a copy of the agreement that Miss G signed.  
And it cannot give me a sample  agreement specifically  for internet sales.  But it has provided  
sample agreements for in branch, postal and telephone sales that were used around the time of 
sale.  Each of those samples shows that a customer wouldve had to sign separately to indicate  
agreement to both the credit  card and the PPI policy.  And each  of those  agreements says that 
the PPI was optional.  
So while I dont have the agreement signed  by Miss G or a sample  for an internet sale, after 
considering the other samples for the different  sales  methods  at the time, I think  its more  likely 
than not that the internet  agreement  would also have given Miss G the choice to take the policy, 
and she chose  to take it.
 As Miss G says the sale of the policy  was online  and not during a discussion with a 
representative, I think  its unlikely that HSBC recommended the PPI to Miss G so it didnt have 
to check if it was right for her. But it did have to give her enough information so she could make 
her own choice. 
Our adjudicator thought HSBC hadnt  demonstrated what information it had provided  to Miss G. 
But having thought  about  what we know about how HSBC sold these policies around the time, I 
think it wouldve given  her some information.  
But its possible the information HSBC gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Miss G doesnt  appear to have been affected by any of the main  things the 
policy didnt cover  and based on what I know about her circumstances it looks like the policy 
couldve been  useful  to her. So I dont think better information wouldve  stopped her buying it. 
 Which means  HSBC  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss G because: 
HSBC got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it 
should have told Miss G about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Miss G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share that was above  
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive taken into account Miss Gs comments. But these  points dont change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN3204471