K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Forex Capital  Markets Limited (FXCM) applied rollover-fees to 35 
trades.
background
Mr Y was trading CFDs in the Forex market with FXCM and was charged  rollover-fees  
totalling $2, 276.4, when  he closed 35 trades  at 5.00 EST. He says he closed the trades at 
the end of the day and it was unfair to charge roll-over fees before 5.01. The rate was also 
too high. 
FXCM say theyve done nothing wrong.  Mr Ys trades werent closed before 5.00 EST, so 
they applied roll-over fees in line with their terms and conditions. 
Our investigator considered the complaint  and decided not to uphold  it. She thought the fees 
had been applied in line with the terms and conditions.
Mr Y feels  that the business should  not be able to dictate the time at the end of the working  
day and repeats that the relevant closure  time for rolling over would have been 5.01. Further 
he complains about the high level of the roll-over  fees, which he describes as astronomical.
As Mr Y does  not agree  with the view,  the matter has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful if I explain at the outset that we have no regulatory  or disciplinary powers,  
which means we have no power  to tell a business how to operate and no power to punish a 
business for wrongdoing. We provide an informal, dispute resolution service, where we look 
at individual  complaints between a consumer and a business. Where things have gone 
wrong, we seek to put things right on a fair and reasonable basis.
Ive considered the terms and conditions for the account. Schedule A of the business terms 
for rolling  spot forex, states:
5.4 Where  you enter  into a Rolling  Spot Forex  Contract with us and you roll that contract 
from on day to the next, we will charge you a Roll-Over Fee relative  to that Transaction,  
which:
(a)Will vary between currency pairs;
(b)Depend on the Contract Quantity;  and
(c)Is subject to change  from time to time.
The Roll-over Fee may be positive  or negative, meaning that you will either owe money  to 
use or receive money  from us each night a Rolling  Spot Forex Contract is rolled over.  Details  
about the Roll-over fee are available on the Trading  Facility, our website and/or the Rate  
Card.
Ref: DRN387381125.5 Unless you close a Rolling Spot Forex Contract before 17.00 EST we will automatically 
roll over such open Rolling Spot Forex Contracts  on your Account to the next Business Day 
and subsequently charge  you the relevant Roll-Over fee.
I accept that Mr Y assumed he wouldnt be liable for roll-over fees when he closed his 
positions. But Mr Y chose to use this platform  and it was for him to familiarise  himself with 
the applicable terms and conditions. Mr Y candidly accepts  that he signed the agreement 
without reading  the details.  And it was his decision to trade  up to, what  he thought, was the 
last minute.
 
Its not disputed  that the 35 trades  closed  at 5 or 5.01, so I have to find that they didnt close 
before 5.00 EST.  Given  these facts, I cant say that FXCM have done anything  wrong in 
applying roll-over fees in line with the terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions  also explained that the rollover-fee  could vary and change. Ive 
considered that at this time the volatile situation in Turkey had an impact  on the exchange 
rate and roll-over  fees. Further, the effect  of the roll-over, pushing the closures to Thursday, 
meant that the positions were held into the weekend because  forex  is a two-day  deliverable 
market. So, whilst I appreciate Mr Ys frustration at being charged high fees, again, I cant  
say that FXCM have  done anything wrong here.
my final decision
I appreciate that Mr Y will be disappointed  but for the reasons given, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3873811