K821x#15complaint
Mrs W, representing the trustees, complains that The Prudential Assurance  Company  
Limited provided misleading information  about  how the payment of a significant annual 
premium to one of Mr Ws protection plans would be handled.
background
I issued a provisional decision on the trustees  complaint, a copy  of which  is attached and 
forms part of this final decision. In that decision I explained why I felt the complaint  should be 
upheld and compensation paid to the trustees.  In summary, I said:
I think  that if Prudential had handled Mrs Ws calls in a more  professional  manner she would 
more likely than not have recognised how the premium would be handled.  It follows  that she 
wouldve changed to a monthly  payment and so only one-twelfth  of the £22,000  would have 
been paid. Im therefore of the view that Prudential should repay to the trustees  the 
difference between  the full annual premium  paid and one monthly instalment. To this amount 
should be added interest at 8% simple from the date the premium  was paid to the date of 
settlement.
Both parties  accepted my decision. Mrs W also queried whether an additional  award should 
be made to compensate for the trouble and upset that had been caused by the matter.  
I considered this and agreed that such an award  would be fair. I felt this was particularly so 
given the problem was experienced at a time of bereavement and also involved a significant 
amount of money  that Mrs W clearly felt a great  deal of responsibility for in her capacity as 
PoA, executor  and ultimately trustee.
I suggested an amount  of £300, which both parties agreed to. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the responses to my provisional decision and subsequent correspondence, Ive no 
reason to depart from my provisional view that the complaint should  be upheld. 
Ref: DRN37983592my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that the complaint should be upheld.  I direct The 
Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  to pay compensation to the trustees equivalent to 
the difference between the full annual premium paid and one monthly instalment. To this 
amount should  be added interest at 8% simple from the date the premium  was paid to the 
date of settlement.  Prudential should also pay £300  in respect  of the trouble  and upset 
caused by the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the trustees to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 August 2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37983593COPY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mrs W, representing the trustees, complains that The Prudential  Assurance Company Limited 
provided misleading information about how the payment of a significant  annual  premium to one of Mr 
Ws protection plans would be handled.    
background
The plan in question was held under  trust in the joint names of Mr W with his wife. It was set up to pay 
out at the point of the second death.  Sadly, Mr Ws wife had passed away in 2017 and the policy duly 
continued with Mr W as the surviving  life assured. 
The policy premiums were  paid annually  and were  at a very high level  just over £22,000. In May 
2018 Mrs W, acting with power  of attorney (PoA) for Mr W and as a trustee, contacted Prudential to 
discuss payment  of that years premium. She wanted to confirm the amount due, when the payment 
would be taken and also to get some information on options for payment  whether  annual payment 
could be changed  to monthly, or quarterly, etc. She was concerned about  the administration  of the 
policy in her role as PoA/trustee,  particularly because Mr W was in very poor health.
It was explained that a change could be made to the payment frequency. Some  information  about  
this, along with general  information about the policys current value  and guaranteed  minimum  sum 
assured, was sent to Mrs W. She called  Prudential  again shortly after to discuss some  of the issues.  
But ultimately  no change was made to the payment frequency. 
The annual  premium  was due on 16 June  2018.  This was a Saturday,  so the direct  debit wasnt  taken 
until the following Monday, 18 June 2018. Unfortunately this was also the day on which Mr W passed 
away.  
A claim  was made on the policy and the sum assured paid out  just over £275,000. Mrs W contacted 
Prudential to find out how the premium just paid would  be handled; whether it would be refunded in 
part as she felt shed  been  led to believe. 
Prudential explained that no refund would be made. It explained that the £22,000 had been invested 
into the policy  and, in turn, had increased the policys surrender  value. But as this surrender value 
was around £168,000  (before the additional of the new premium), this was well below  the guaranteed  
minimum death benefit of £275,000, which is what it had correctly paid out.  
Prudential did offer Mrs W £500 compensation for failures  relating to its handling of the PoA 
documentation, which Mrs W accepted. But in respect of the key issue  the annual premium  it 
didnt feel that it had done anything wrong, so it didnt uphold the complaint.  
Mrs W then referred the complaint to this service. But our adjudicator reached the same conclusion as 
Prudential. He listened  to the recordings of the telephone calls Mrs W had with Prudential. And he 
didnt think it had done anything  wrong in how it had handled Mrs Ws queries.  
Mrs W disagreed. She also listened to the calls and felt that they showed  that Prudential had 
confirmed to her that in the event that Mr W passed away shortly after payment of the premium  the 
money would  be returned.   
As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN37983594When Mrs W called Prudential  in May 2018 she was clearly, in her role of Mr Ws PoA, seeking to 
ensure that she was administering  the policy  as efficiently as possible. Understandably  she had 
concerns about the size of the premium  and making  such a large  commitment, particularly in light of 
Mr Ws poor health.
She asked  if it was possible to pay the premium  in monthly  instalments  rather  than annually in one go 
and was told that the payment frequency could be changed to monthly, quarterly or half-yearly. It later 
transpired that this was incorrect  as the only actual alternative option was monthly.  
She then also asked what would happen if Mr W was to die in a months time. What would happen to 
the premium if she was to pay the full annual  amount? 
The call handler explained that it would  just go into the policy anyway. If we got a death  notification  
we would start the death claim and that would be included within  that value.     
To my mind this is an ambiguous statement to such a degree that, particularly in the specific context 
of Mrs Ws enquiries, I think it was misleading. The key point is that the policy value  would be 
impacted  it would increase  by an amount  equivalent to the amount  paid in. But crucially  the death 
claim value,  the £275,000 sum assured, would  not be impacted by the way in which  the premium was 
paid. It made no difference whether Prudential received the full annual premium or one-twelfth  of it  a 
significant difference.  
The Prudential call-handler was not giving formal  advice to Mrs W. But I think she nevertheless had a 
responsibility to ensure  any information she provided  was clear and not misleading. Im not satisfied 
that was the case. Mrs W was pro-actively giving consideration  to changing  to monthly payments. I 
think that if shed had her question answered  in a more  proficient manner she would more likely  than 
not have recognised the potential benefit of changing to monthly payments. As it was, she was left 
thinking that in the event of Mr Ws early death the premium would  somehow be included within  the 
claim value. So she decided that there was no need to go to the bother of making the change from 
annual to monthly payments. 
Mrs W did have a subsequent call with Prudential, prior to Mr Ws death. She phoned  Prudential when 
she received  paperwork generated as a result of the initial May 2018 call. She wanted some 
clarification on some  aspects of the policys operation that werent clear  for instance, she queried 
what was meant  by deallocation of units from the fund value; which  meant, in effect, that the cost of 
life cover would be paid for by the sale of units. 
This call provided an opportunity to clarify  things with Mrs W, but that opportunity was missed. There 
was discussion of the sum assured and surrender value on this call, and I accept  they had been 
communicated to Mr W in writing. But given that she was by this point under  the impression  that the 
annual premium would, in part at least, be returned in the event of Mr Ws death occurring shortly  
after payment,  there was nothing in the call that wouldve  put her on notice that she might have 
misunderstood things.           
In Prudentials response to the complaint it acknowledged  that further clarification could have been 
given to Mrs W. And its worth noting that many of Mrs Ws calls with Prudential were  marred  by 
problems  the repeated PoA issue (which I accept has been  acknowledged); the miscommunication 
about the potential payment  frequencies; being incorrectly told that the premium would  be taken on 19 
June. She was also sent withdrawal forms as a result of the May 2018 call, which she didnt ask for 
and had to query on the subsequent call.  
So, in all, I think its reasonable to conclude  that Mrs Ws communication with Prudential could have 
been handled  far better and the explanation  of how the annual premium would be handled was just 
one more  aspect of that  but financially speaking, clearly  the most  important.  
Ref: DRN37983595In summary, I think that if Prudential  had handled  Mrs Ws calls in a more  professional manner she 
would more  likely than not have recognised how the premium would be handled. It follows that she 
wouldve changed to a monthly  payment  and so only one-twelfth of the £22,000 would have been 
paid. Im therefore of the view that Prudential should repay to the trustees the difference between  the 
full annual premium paid and one monthly  instalment.  To this amount should be added  interest at 8% 
simple from the date the premium was paid to the date of settlement.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given,  but subject to any further submissions I may receive, Im currently minded to 
uphold the complaint and direct The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to pay compensation to 
the trustees as set our above. 
Ref: DRN3798359