K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that a car he has been  financing through  an agreement with Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) was not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr W took receipt of a used car in March  2018.  He financed the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  with VWFS. At the point of supply the car had already completed 6,000 
miles and was about five months old.
Mr W was aware  that some refurbishment  was needed to the wheels and this was 
completed before he collected the car. There was also a small paint repair  done to the front 
bumper.
In April, a few weeks after he collected  the car, Mr W contacted the dealership  and told them  
hed jet washed the vehicle and noted  lacquer was peeling off three  of the four wheels and 
that there  was paint  peeling off the bumper in the same  area that the dealership  had 
completed the repair.
The dealership took the car back and repaired  the damage. But shortly after Mr W picked the 
repaired car up he complained to them  again. He said the bumper looked a slightly  different 
shade to the rest of the car.
VWFS didnt  support  Mr Ws complaint. They said Mr W would need  to raise it with the 
dealership. But Mr W was dissatisfied with their response and he therefore  referred  his 
complaint to this service.
Our investigator agreed with Mr W. He reviewed the photographs  that Mr W had sent to him 
and he agreed  that the repair wasnt satisfactory. He said that relevant legislation allowed 
VWFS one opportunity to repair  a problem with the car and he thought it fair to say they had 
used that opportunity. So he suggested that they allow Mr W to reject the vehicle and 
terminate his finance agreement with them. He said they should  also return  any deposit  but 
he thought Mr W had had fair use from the car as he noted hed completed a reasonable 
mileage in it. He therefore didnt think the business  needed to refund any of the monthly 
finance instalments  Mr W had paid and he was persuaded that they been reasonable when 
providing a full tank of fuel; a courtesy car and a discounted roof box, in recognition  of 
Mr Ws difficulties.  So he didnt think it would be fair to provide any further compensation.
VWFS didnt  agree with the investigators suggested redress.  They noted that Mr W had jet 
washed the car and they suggested the damage  could have occurred then. They also said it 
was unfair  to hold them  responsible for the dealerships poor workmanship and they werent 
persuaded the repair was unsatisfactory: they said it was a matter of opinion. So they asked 
for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint VWFS  so please let me 
explain why.
Ref: DRN33586702Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr W acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr W. The car here 
was only about  five months old and had completed  just 6,000 miles at the point of supply so 
I think a reasonable  person would not expect much to be wrong  with it and I dont  think  a 
reasonable person would expect the body panelling to be of different shades.
Ive reviewed the photographs that have been provided and I agree with Mr W that the paint 
finish isnt satisfactory as its not a match. So I think VWFSs attempt at repairing the vehicle  
has been unsuccessful  and as the relevant  legislation allows  them just one opportunity to 
affect a repair  I think it would now be reasonable to allow Mr W to reject the car.
I dont agree with VWFS  that its likely the damage was caused  by Mr W jet washing the car. 
I think its highly unlikely  that if he used the wrong pressure washing tools  he would damage 
the very same areas that had just been repaired  but not damage other areas.  
Mr W has received  some  support.  Hes been  given a discount on a roof box; been  provided 
with a courtesy car whilst his was being repaired and been given a full tank of fuel. So I 
agree with the investigator that, in the circumstances, this is sufficient  and that no additional  
award would  be fair to compensate for the distress and inconvenience  experienced.
Ive also noted  that Mr W has been able to complete a reasonable mileage  in the car and I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest  his usage  of the vehicle has been impaired or that the 
business should therefore refund any of the instalments hes made towards  his finance 
agreement.
The roof box has already  been purchased, albeit at a discount. So theres  no need for me to 
suggest Mr W keeps it, as the investigator  has  its his already.
Ref: DRN33586703my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited to:
terminate the finance  agreement and take the car back  at no cost to Mr W
return any deposit and add 8% simple  interest  from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement
remove any adverse reports that may have been  made  to Mr Ws credit file in relation 
to this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 December  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3358670