K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont tell him if it discloses information to third 
parties about the valuation of his property.  Mr Y wants his questions  answered.
background
In February 2018  Mr Y applied for a mortgage  with Barclays. Barclays instructed a firm of 
surveyors who carried out a valuation. The valuation did not support the amount of the loan 
Mr Y required and he looked for a loan elsewhere. Barclays  told Mr Y that the valuation  may 
be made available to the market as part of an industry process.  Mr Y is concerned that his 
privacy has been breached. Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be 
upheld as she felt that Barclays hadnt breached  any data protection rules.
Mr Y disagrees saying in summary that Barclays  has refused to provide information as to 
what information has been provided to the market.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A surveyor provided a report to Barclays in order to assist it with a decision on whether to 
lend money on Mr Ys property. The estimated value was £505,000 but the valuation  was for 
£385,000. Mr Y looked elsewhere for a loan.
Mr Y is concerned that this valuation has been  shared with the industry. Barclays  has told 
Mr Y that its valuers can share information  regarding property details as part of an industry  
process. Mr Y is concerned as to what this means  and as to whether there has been  a 
breach of his privacy  or unlawful  release of his personal data.
Barclays has told us that the valuation companies it employs share  property information  (not 
personal details  or bank  identifiable details)  with an industry portal. It says that the valuers 
do this to support  the chartered  surveyors requirement for use of comparables  to come to a 
valid valuation on properties.
So the Barclays valuation  of Mr Ys property appears to be available  to the industry in 
relation to the valuations of properties. The valuation  itself was for Barclays  purposes and 
not for Mr Y and as such doesnt belong to Mr Y. If Barclays discloses information about the 
valuation of a property that is information about  the property and not the disclosure of private 
or confidential information about  Mr Y. So I cant say that Barclays has breached any duty it 
may owe to Mr Y. Barclays  and the valuers  of course must process any personal data they 
may hold in relation to Mr Y in accordance with the data protection regulations. If Mr Y has 
concerns about  the processing  of his personal  data that is a matter  more appropriate for the 
Information Commissioners Office  rather than this service. For the above reasons I cant  
fairly uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN30599132my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3059913