K821x#15Complaint
Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
This complaint is about an open-ended credit facility  and ten high-cost short-term credit  
instalment loans that Sunny provided to Mr R. Sunny provided the open-ended  credit facility 
in July 2014 and Mr Rs final instalment loan was provided in March 2016.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Rs complaint and thought  he shouldnt have been  provided with 
any further funds  whilst  he had the open-ended credit facility.  Sunny didnt agree with our 
adjudicators assessment.  So the complaint was passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr R, I think that Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that Mr R was unlikely to have been  able to make his payments  in a 
sustainable manner  by the time it provided the eighth drawdown on the open-ended credit  
facility in October 2014. 
Ref: DRN33048182I say this because  by this stage, it ought to have  been  apparent to Sunny  that use of his 
open-ended facility suggested that there was no reasonable prospect of him clearing  the 
balance within the payment schedule  set out on the credit agreement,  or even a reasonable 
period of time. And it also ought to have been  apparent from his repayment history, which 
Sunny ought to have been monitoring that Mr R may have been  relying  on the facility and 
borrowing further to make his payments. 
Sunny then transitioned Mr R from a facility which its own product literature said shouldnt  be 
used for extended  periods to a series of instalment loans which had the same  effect. Mr R 
then exhibited a borrowing  pattern  of taking out further loans  not too long after repaying  
previous ones. Sunny continued lending to Mr R even when this pattern was repeated  and in 
circumstances where  it ought reasonably to have  realised  that any further loans  were  more 
likely than not unsustainable for him. 
Mr R had to pay interest  and charges on credit that Sunny shouldnt have provided him with. 
So I think that he lost out and Sunny should  put things right.
Putting things  right  what  Sunny needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid from October 2014 onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges, should they 
have been paid, from the date they were  paid to the date of settlement;
remove all information relating to the instalment loans from Mr Rs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr R a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should pay Mr R compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3304818