K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the investment advice he received in relation  to a pension  
transfer. He says that Chequers Wealth Management Limited  failed to tell him that his 
pension was being transferred to another plan. Instead he believed his fund was being 
moved to a holding account where it would  be held at the transfer price. 
Mr M is also unhappy with the fees he paid for the transfer. 
background
In 2017, Chequers  advised Mr M on the transfer  of his occupational pension  scheme (OPS), 
to a provider which would  allow him to withdraw the full amount as two lump sums, split over 
two tax years. Mr M was intending to use the funds to purchase a property. Mr Ms pension 
was successfully transferred and invested  into a governed portfolio by the receiving provider.
In 2018, Mr M complained  about the advice he was given. He said that as the funds were 
invested following  the transfer, he had to wait to withdraw them as the markets had fallen. 
This resulted in him missing out on a house purchase.  Mr M said he didnt understand why 
his pension was invested following the transfer. And he was unhappy  with the fees hed paid 
given that the consultation  only took an hour. 
Chequers upheld  Mr Ms complaint and offered to compensate him for the investment loss, 
and a small payment  for distress and inconvenience. It explained in its final response letter  
that as Mr M was unable  to take the benefits  he held in his OPS as a lump sum it had 
recommended the transfer. And with the benefit of hindsight, rather  than investing  the funds 
in the new drawdown plan,  they should have  remained in the cash account.  
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it shouldnt be upheld. He noted 
that it had been made clear in the suitability report and pension  application that the funds 
would be invested  following  the transfer. In addition, he noted  that Mr M had other  
accessible savings and another  pension  arrangement. Thus following a discussion at the 
time, it had been agreed Mr Ms pension would be invested following the transfer as he had 
access to other funds.
Mr M didnt  agree. Amongst a number of points he stated that the information recorded in 
relation to his assets had been  incorrect and he did not have any accessible savings. He 
also didnt understand why Chequers had paid fees to the introducing  firm, Firm C, and 
overall felt that the compensation offered to him was not enough given that it accepted  it was 
at fault. 
The adjudicator noted the comments  made  by Mr M but felt any discrepancies in the 
suitability report should have been raised  after they had been identified. He also could not 
understand why it had been documented that Mr M had such  an amount in savings if this 
had not been the case. He concluded  that he would  have  to rely on the evidence  available  to 
him, but took into account that Mr Ms intensions for a house purchase were clear  from the 
outset. 
In light of this, he recommended that Chequers  increase the amount of distress and 
inconvenience to be paid to Mr M to £100.  Chequers  didnt agree as it did not believe it 
would resolve the complaint. Mr M also didnt accept  the adjudicators findings. 
Ref: DRN38391992The complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator and for mostly  the same reasons.  
Id firstly  like to confirm that Ive only considered  the issues surrounding  the funds being 
invested and the fees involved in the transfer;  Ive not considered  the suitability of the actual 
advice to transfer the OPS. 
Mr M had a deferred OPS  with a cash equivalent  transfer value of £55,167. He wanted  to 
use the transfer value to purchase an investment property. His usual financial adviser, Firm 
C, didnt have the appropriate  regulatory  permissions to advise on pension  transfers.  So, 
Mr M was referred to Chequers for advice,  as it did have the relevant authorisation to 
provide advice and arrange pension transfers.  
Mr M was unable  to take his OPS benefits  as a cash lump sum from his original OPS  
provider. So, Chequers advised him to transfer the OPS to a drawdown plan with a new 
provider, taking the benefits as two lump sums, spanning two tax years to reduce his tax 
liability. However, rather than the funds being  moved into a cash account within  the 
drawdown plan,  as Mr M has assumed would be the case,  they were invested.  And this 
meant that Mr M delayed  taking the second lump sum because the value of his fund had 
reduced. 
Chequers accepts that in hindsight the funds should  have been  moved  into cash. So its 
offered Mr M the £279.29. This is the difference between what  Mr M initially invested  and 
what he has withdrawn.  Although I appreciate  that Mr M may feel he was sold the wrong 
product, I think that by offering  to reimburse Mr M for any loss, hes being put in the position 
that he wouldve  been in had the fund been  moved  into cash. Its not the role of this service  
to punish or fine businesses. So I can only ask that Chequers out Mr M in the position he 
would have been in, had everything gone as it should.  
At the point Mr M initially complained, he said that hes suffered a loss of around £2000. But 
by the time he took his second lump sum, the fund value had increased and so after taking 
fees into considerations, hes lost out on £279.29. 
I appreciate that Mr M says that he lost a house  purchase because he had to delay taking 
the second lump  sum to allow for the value  of his fund to increase. But it doesnt appear that 
he made Chequers aware that he urgently needed  a specific amount. I wouldve thought that 
if he was at risk of losing  a house purchase solely because the pension value had dropped 
slightly, he wouldve put Chequers on notice of this. Had he done so, Chequers couldve 
taken action to top up the missing funds at that time had it been  bought  to its attention.  I also 
wouldve thought  that if this was the only reason Mr Ms house purchase didnt complete, 
then it wouldve been his main concern when making his complaint. But it wasnt mentioned 
until more recently.
Im also conscious that the initial meeting notes provided by Chequers from October 2017, 
suggest that Mr M had to complete the purchase  within 3 months  of that point. But as he was 
always planning to draw the benefits over two tax years, it was never going to be possible for 
him to have  the full value of the fund within 3 months of the meeting. 
Ref: DRN38391993It seems  the crux of Mr Ms complaint stems  from the fees involved and the fact that he feels 
Chequers made a mistake with the product  it recommended.  
In terms of the fees, I appreciate that the meeting  Mr M had with Chequers lasted less than 
an hour. But Chequers was required to carry out research and additional work in the 
background, that Mr M may not have been aware of. And the initial  adviser fee for the 
service provided is generally in line with others  that Ive seen for pension transfer advice. 
This fee was clearly  detailed in the suitability letter that Mr M was sent. And although  Mr M 
says he wasnt made  aware that an introductory  fee was going  to be paid to Firm C, this 
again was detailed in the suitability that was sent to him. And Im conscious that this was 
taken out of the overall adviser fee, it wasnt an additional payment that was taken from the 
fund. It doesnt seem  to be in dispute that Mr M received the suitability letter  as he says he 
didnt sign it because it contained incorrect information about  his savings. So overall, I think  
Mr M was made aware of the fees therefore  Im not recommending that Chequers refunds  
any of the fees taken.  
In terms of any mistake made  in the product Mr Ms OPS was transferred to, I think its 
important to explain that the only way he was be able to access  the OPS fund by way of a 
cash sum, was by moving it to another pension product.  He then had the option  to either 
take the whole amount as a one off lump sum, which  would have meant a greater tax 
liability. Or by moving it to a pension drawdown plan, as he did, he could  take lumps  sums 
as and when he required. It wasnt possible for it to be moved  directly  from his OPS to a 
holding account;  it always had to go into another pension product in order to access the 
money the way he wished  to. And so the transfer fee Mr M paid, would always have been  
necessary, even if hed been moved to a cash account in another pension  product. 
Ive also thought about the £100 trouble and upset payment recommended by our 
investigator. Having  considered everything thats happened,  I think this fairly  reflects the 
circumstances of this complaint. So Im not asking  Chequers to pay any more  than this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct  Chequers Wealth Management Limited  to pay the redress  as set out in its final 
response letter dated 17 May 2018. And it should make a total payment of £100 for the 
trouble and upset  this matter has caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3839199