K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited unfairly  terminated  a hire 
purchase agreement.  And she further complains  its call handlers were rude and intimidating. 
She wants to be able to continue  with the finance agreement.
background
Mrs M tells us she took out a hire purchase agreement  for a new vehicle  in early 2018. 
Monthly repayments were  set at just under £500  per month for 48 months. She says she 
then lost her employment  and was unable to make  the monthly repayments in July and 
August. Mrs M says a payment arrangement was made, in October, but she could  not keep 
to it as she didnt  receive  payment of an allowance  she was anticipating. She said VWFS 
terminated the agreement on 21 January 2019 - but that she hadnt received any 
correspondence before  this. Mrs M says she told VWFS she was able to repay  the arrears - 
but VWFS would not re-instate the agreement. Mrs M further states  that when she contacted 
VWFS about the agreement being  terminated  the call handler was rude and intimidating.
VWFS said it had terminated the agreement as Mrs M had fallen into arrears and then 
broken the terms  of the payment arrangement. It said its call handler, R, had provided  
factual information  but was not rude. It felt it had acted correctly in terminating the 
agreement.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He said the agreement  
had fallen into arrears  and a notice of default  had been issued.  He found a payment  
arrangement had been set up in October  2018 - but that Mrs M had not kept to this. And that 
in January 2019 VWFS had terminated  the agreement - with arrears of £1481.19 
outstanding. He didnt think it had acted  unreasonably in doing so.
Mrs M didnt  agree with this outcome - which she thought was unfair. As its not been 
possible to resolve  this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mrs M had the misfortune to lose her employment within  a short  time of taking 
on this agreement. It cant have been an easy time for her. And I can accept that she 
probably had many  issues which required her attention.
Where a customer informs a lender that they (the customer) are experiencing financial 
difficulties wed expect  a business to treat that customer fairly. What  this means is that wed 
expect a business to listen to the customer and try to work out the best way to help the 
individual. Exactly what help can be offered will vary on a case to case basis.
Mrs M took out a hire purchase agreement  in February 2018,  which  required monthly 
payments to be made over four years. She made the first four payments as required up to 
June 2018. But payments  then ceased. 
Ref: DRN32275332After VWFS  had sent reminder notices of arrears and a default  warning  notice, 
on 4 October, relating to two months  arrears  a payment arrangement was made dated 
23 October. This required  Mrs M to make three payments of just over £329 in 
November 2018,  December and January 2019,  to clear the arrears. These payments were to 
be made in addition to the scheduled monthly  repayments.
Unfortunately, the scheduled October payment, due 29 October, was not made - although 
this was taken  successfully a few days later. But the first of the arrears  payments was not 
made.
On 10 December, there was a brief phone call between  an adviser and Mrs M about the 
arrears. It seems  it was not convenient  for Mrs M to take the call - so it was agreed Mrs M 
would phone  back the next day. This call wasnt received and VWFS sent a text message 
asking Mrs M to make contact. Theres no record of her doing so until 28 January 2019.
Although Ive seen  evidence  the scheduled December payment was made - the additional 
arrears payment was not. So as the payment arrangement had not been  maintained  VWFS 
terminated the agreement and notified  Mrs M.
Ive listened to two phone calls which Mrs M had with advisers about the arrears and the 
termination of the agreement. Mrs M says she felt humiliated and intimidated by the 
advisers. Im sorry that Mrs M felt this way - and I understand the subject matter of the 
phone calls was difficult for her. So I accept she was distressed.  And this was almost 
certainly increased as it became clear  that she was not going to be able to persuade VWFS 
to reverse the decision  to terminate the agreement.  But I dont think  the advisers were rude - 
they were simply passing on factual  information the nature of which Mrs M did not wish to 
receive.
Im also aware that Mrs M has informed the investigator she didnt receive all the 
correspondence that VWFS sent in relation to the arrears and enforcement action. Ive seen 
evidence of the letters sent by VWFS which included reminders, a default warning, and 
formal notice of arrears. And the default  notice of 4 October set out very clearly  that the 
consequence of not maintaining payments included termination of the agreement and taking 
steps to repossess the vehicle. I think its probable she received  this letter  as there was 
contact with VWFS soon after - which led to the payment arrangement being made.
Its up to a customer to ensure that payments are kept up to date and/or that the terms of 
payment arrangements  are kept.  And whilst I dont doubt that Mrs M was - and still is - 
prepared to pay the arrears and continue with the agreement,  the latter option has now been 
removed.
As Mrs M did not keep  to the terms of the hire purchase agreement  and the subsequent 
payment arrangement I cant say VWFS did anything wrong in terminating  the agreement.
I think it treated Mrs M fairly in making  the payment arrangement and when  the terms were  
broken it was entitled to terminate the agreement.  So Im not going  to ask it to do anything  to 
alter its decision.
I know it will be a disappointment to Mrs M but Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN32275333Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3227533