K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the increases on their home insurance policy premiums held 
with Royal  & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
I issued my provisional decision on 11 February  2020. A copy of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. Broadly summarised,  I 
didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint as I hadnt  seen anything  to suggest that RSA 
increased their premiums unfairly.
I also explained that RSA had made Mr and Mrs P an offer of £750 as a gesture of goodwill 
to resolve the complaint, and it was up to Mr and Mrs P if they wanted to accept it. 
Both parties  responded,  agreeing with my provisional findings.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As both parties agree with my provisional  findings  and as neither party  has given me 
anything else to consider, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. 
So it follows,  I dont uphold this complaint   as I havent seen anything to suggest  that RSA 
increased Mr and Mrs Ps premiums unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and within my provisional decision, I dont uphold 
Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 March  2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN38869532Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy  with the increases on their home insurance policy premiums,  held with 
Royal & Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
Mr and Mrs Ps home insurance  policy  with RSA started in July 1989. Due to the time that has 
passed, RSA no longer has records  of how much the policy  cost at inception. Its earliest records 
indicate that in July 1998 the policy cost £591.48 for the year.
It appears Mr and Mrs Ps policy automatically  renewed each  year. There was some contact with RSA 
over the years  as there were several claims made under the policy. But Mr and Mrs P didnt engage  
with the cost of the insurance at renewal  until 2016. 
The policys  cost had increased gradually over the years. In July 2015, Mr and Mrs Ps annual 
premium was £1,238.88.
Mr and Mrs P opted not to renew  in 2016. They cancelled  the policy  and ended up taking  out another  
policy with RSA.  Mr and Mrs Ps new policy cost around £220 for the year.  
Mr and Mrs P, because of the difference in price between the two policies complained to RSA. They  
considered they had been  treated unfairly and had been overcharged for many years.  
RSA reviewed Mr and Mrs Ps concerns. It said that the premiums charged over the years were 
correct. RSA, as Mr and Mrs P had been loyal customers, offered  to waive  the first years premium of 
their new policy as a gesture  of goodwill.
Mr and Mrs P didnt accept RSAs offer,  and unhappy with RSAs response brought their complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators looked at Mr and Mrs Ps complaint and thought  it should be upheld.  She 
thought it was clear  Mr and Mrs P hadnt engaged with the renewal of their policy each year. And 
based on the information available, there didnt seem to be any risk related  reasons  for the premium 
increasing.
RSA disagreed, and provided more  information about the cost of Mr and Mrs Ps policy  over the years 
and details about why the premium had increased. It said the increases werent  because  
Mr and Mrs P werent  engaging with renewal.  
But RSA, as the complaint  had been ongoing  for some time, offered £750 to resolve  the matter.  Mr 
and Mrs P didnt accept  this.
As the matter  hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs P, so Id like 
to explain why.
I do understand why Mr and Mrs P think they have been overcharged throughout the years they had 
the policy.  The policy increased in price over the years and Mr and Mrs P were  able to get a new 
policy for much  less than they were paying previously. 
Ref: DRN38869533I dont have the power to tell an insurer what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in effect 
determining or telling  an insurer  how it should  operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at 
whether RSA treated  Mr and Mrs P fairly throughout the time they held their home insurance  policy  
with it. 
An insurer isnt necessary  doing anything wrong by changing  the premium each year at renewal  this 
can happen  for a number of reasons. For example,  an insurer will regularly  review how risky it thinks it 
is to insure a particular property and if it thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase according  theres nothing  wrong with this. 
So its not unusual  for the cost of an insurance  policy  to increase or decrease when it renews each 
year. But because  most policies automatically renew, a customer who doesnt shop around or 
negotiate the price of their policy regularly,  may find theyve  been paying  more  than they might have 
been had they taken out a new policy   either elsewhere or with the same  insurer.
Where an insurer knows, or ought to know, its customer isnt shopping around or getting  in touch to 
discuss their premium, it should take care to make sure its treating  that customer fairly. And it should  
make sure it doesnt take advantage  of the situation by increasing their premiums beyond  a fair and 
reasonable point, just because they didnt  engage with the cost.
Our investigator thought this had happened  in Mr and Mrs Ps case. She thought it was clear 
Mr and Mrs P hadnt engaged,  and the premiums had steadily increased each year.  And based on the 
information available  at the time, there didnt  seem to be any risk related reason for the increase in 
cost.
I agree Mr and Mrs P didnt contact RSA about the cost of their insurance for many years. But RSA 
has now given us a lot more information about how it decided how much to charge Mr and Mrs P for 
their policy. Im afraid I cant share  this as its commercially sensitive, but I would like to assure 
Mr and Mrs P Ive carefully considered what RSA has provided.
From what Ive seen, it doesnt look like RSA was increasing Mr and Mrs Ps premiums  unfairly.  It has 
shown there  were changes in its rates,  its view of the risk of insuring  Mr and Mrs Ps property and its 
understanding of future likely  claims.  These are all fair reasons for RSA to increase the premium. 
Theres nothing to suggest RSA was charging Mr and Mrs P more for their insurance, just because 
theyd had their policy with it for a long time and werent engaging with the renewal cost.
Mr and Mrs P made claims under the policy  totalling  around  £150,000. RSA has shown that their 
premiums didnt increase  directly because  of the claims  made. Mr and Mrs P made  a subsidence 
claim in 2003  and their premiums stayed around the same price  the following  year. RSA has 
explained this is because the claims costs, resulting risks and the subsequent premiums are spread 
across its customers. RSA has shown that Mr and Mrs Ps premiums  increased in line with its rates 
for all of its customers. So I cant say Mr and Mrs P have been treated  unfairly and they havent been 
treated any differently to RSAs other customers.
I note that our investigator asked several  questions of RSA around the details it had for the property,  
to ensure Mr and Mrs Ps policy had been priced based on the correct details. For example,  RSA had 
incorrectly recorded the property as having  four bedrooms. RSA acknowledged the mistake  but has 
explained the premium is set on the sum  assured for the property  and not the number  of rooms.  So 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Ps premiums werent  affected by this.
Mr and Mrs P were also concerned that the sum assured changed from a set limit to unlimited   and 
they thought this may have impacted the premium  each year. RSA has advised  that it changed the 
sum assured  to unlimited  for a group  of its policies at no extra  cost to its customers. So, again Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs Ps premiums wouldnt  have been affected.
Ref: DRN38869534I appreciate Mr and Mrs P cancelled their policy and obtained  a much cheaper policy with RSA. But 
this doesnt mean RSA had been overcharging  them. Insurers use different pricing  and risk models 
over time, so a policy taken out some time ago wont be priced the same way as a different product 
taken out many years  later.  Also, the insurance  market has become ever more  increasingly 
competitive and new policies generally  include new customer discounts, to attract new customers. 
These will be recouped over the subsequent years to make the policy commercially viable. I dont  
think this is unfair.
So I dont think it is fair to compare the policy Mr and Mrs P initially  took out with the revised insurance  
product RSA introduced  many years later.
summary
RSA has shown that the increases in Mr and Mrs Ps premiums were  for risk related reasons and the 
increases werent because  Mr and Mrs P werent engaging with the cost at renewal. 
While Mr and Mrs P obtained a cheaper policy with RSA  for the reasons Ive explained above  it 
doesnt automatically  mean that RSA had treated  Mr and Mrs P unfairly during the years they held 
their previous policy. 
All things considered, I havent seen anything  to suggest that RSA increased  Mr and Mrs Ps 
premiums unfairly.
RSA made Mr and Mrs P an offer of £750 as a gesture of goodwill to resolve  the complaint. Its up to 
Mr and Mrs P if they want  to accept it. If they do, Mr and Mrs P should contact RSA directly.
my provisional  decision
As it stands,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3886953