K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms B says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  on a store card.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither FICL  nor Ms B has provided any comments or new information  for me to consider. 
As I havent received anything which requires comment, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33581392copy  of provisional decision
complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the insurer, 
should accept responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the 
seller in my decision.
Ms B says FICL mis-sold  her a payment  protection insurance (PPI)  policy on a store card.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy taken out on a store  account in 2004.
The policy cost was £1.50  per £100 Ms B owed  on her store card. The policy  would have paid 15% of 
the outstanding balance on the card each month if Ms B couldnt work because she had an accident, 
was unwell  or lost her job. The policy  also provided  life cover as well as price  and purchase 
protection.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
I intend to not uphold Ms Bs complaint. Ill explain  why.
FICL had to make it clear to Ms B that the policy  was optional and get her consent  before PPI could be 
applied to the account. Ms B says she was told she had to have the cover.
Ive been given a copy of the application form completed by Ms B at the time of the sale and I can see 
that there  is a section to apply for Account Cover  the name used by FICL  for PPI. In this section it 
says you should only sign if you want to take out Account Cover.
Ms B has signed the section  to confirm she wanted the cover. If Ms B didnt want to take out the PPI 
she could have left this section blank. And Ms B has signed the overall application form which 
suggests it reflected  what she wanted.
So based on what Ive seen and been told, I think FICL made it clear the policy was optional and Ms 
B chose to take it out, knowing she could  refuse it if she didnt want it.
Both parties agree that no advice was given to Ms B about the policy at the time of the sale. And 
from looking at the paperwork supplied,  I dont think FICL did recommend the policy to Ms B. So it 
didnt have to check  if the policy was right for her. But FICL did need to make sure it gave Ms B clear 
enough information about the policy  to enable  her to decide for herself if she should take the policy.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But 
even if FICL  had given her better or clearer information, I dont think  it would have made a difference. 
I still think she would  have taken out the policy. I say this because Ms B was eligible for the policy 
and she wasnt affected by any of the main limitations to the cover, such  as having unusual  working 
arrangements or suffering  from a medical  condition  of which she was already aware.
Ref: DRN33581393When making this complaint  Ms B told us that she didnt need the policy as she was entitled to over 
12 months sick pay from her employer.  Our adjudicator asked for clarification and Ms Bs 
representative replied  to say she was entitled to full sick pay for up to 12 months. The complaint was 
upheld on the basis that, had Ms B been made aware of the true costs of the policy, she wouldnt have 
considered it good value for money, when taking into consideration the benefits  she had. In his 
correspondence, the adjudicator said that Ms B couldnt provide evidence of her sick pay but he 
thought it was likely she was entitled to at least six months full sick pay.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicator. It said that Ms B had stated she was employed  in her job role 
for one year and, based  on what  it knew about  public sector employment, she wouldnt have 
received this level of sick pay after just one years  service.
Ive thought about this carefully and while  I think Ms B would have received some sick pay, I dont 
think she would have been entitled to six months sick pay when she had been in the job role for just 
one year. Based  on what we know from our experience of reviewing these complaints over time, the 
sick pay provided to employees  in the organisation Ms B worked for is dependent on their length of 
service. And with Ms B only being  employed  for one year, I dont think she would have received sick 
pay for six months,  as our adjudicator  thought, or 12 months as Ms B originally told us.
We did ask Ms B for evidence of her sick pay but she has not been able to provide this information. 
Without evidence to show that in 2004 she was entitled  to more than six months  sick pay I cant fairly  
uphold this complaint.
When taking everything into consideration, I think this policy could have provided  a useful benefit to 
Ms B, especially as she didnt have any other means with which to meet  her repayments  if she wasnt 
working. So I dont think Ms B has lost out as a result of anything that FICL  may have done wrong.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I currently dont intend to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN3358139