K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy Aviva  Insurance Limited, trading as Quotemehappy.com  
(Quotemehappy), recorded a claim against  his car insurance policy.  He says he wasnt  
responsible for the incident the claim relates to. Hes also unhappy he was incorrectly  named  
as the driver involved, and thinks hes been  charged higher premiums as a result. 
background
Mr S held a comprehensive car insurance  policy with Quotemehappy  in 2015. The policy  
was in his name and included his now ex-wife as a named driver.  Mr Ss ex-wife  had an 
accident whilst driving his car and a claim was recorded against his policy.  
Mr S has said he only recently became aware  of the claim after receiving a letter from his 
current insurer. And hes said his ex-wife held her own comprehensive cover with 
Quotemehappy which allowed her to drive other cars, so Mr S feels the claim should have 
been recorded against her. Hes also unhappy he was incorrectly  recorded  as the driver of 
the car on the claims and underwriting exchange CUE (the claims database used  by 
insurers).
Quotemehappy says the claim was recorded correctly. Its said his ex-wife  was driving the 
insured interest  (Mr Ss car) as a named driver, so it was right to record the claim against  his 
policy. Its said the only way it can remove the claim is by transferring it to his ex-wife, which  
she has to give her permission for it to do. 
Our Investigator  has looked at the complaint already, but didnt uphold  it. She thought 
Quotemehappy had recorded the claim correctly under Mr Ss policy.  While she 
acknowledged the information  on CUE was initially incorrect,  Quotemehappy  had since  
provided documentation to show this had been updated, so she felt it had done enough to 
put things right. She also thought it wouldnt have made a difference  to Mr Ss premiums.
Mr S disagreed with our investigator  and, in summary, hes said:
He wasnt aware  the claim  had been  recorded  under his policy and feels it 
shouldnt have  been, as at no time did Quotemehappy contact him about it;
He wasnt driving,  so isnt responsible for the accident.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider there to be two aspects to Mr Ss complaint  so Ive addressed them  as follows:
Mr S wasnt  aware the claim  had been recorded under his policy  and feels it shouldnt have 
been
Mr S says he was unaware  the claim was being  registered against his policy, as he had no 
contact with the insurer at the time.  Ive seen from the claim notes that Quotemehappy  
appear to have been speaking with Mr Ss ex-wife.  
Ref: DRN32736542While I appreciate he feels strongly  about  this point, I dont think  I can fairly say 
Quotemehappy have  done anything wrong.  His ex-wife was added  as a named  driver of his 
car on his policy, and she was the one involved in the accident. So it seems reasonable that 
Quotemehappy would have liaised with her throughout the claims process.
Ive seen a copy  of a renewal quote from Quotemehappy which shows a claim was made on 
Mr Ss policy, and the quote charges  a higher  premium than the previous year.  Ive not seen 
anything to suggest Mr S didnt receive  this renewal  quote. So I think Quotemehappy did 
enough to draw his attention to the fact a claim had been recorded  against his policy, and he 
could have questioned it at the time.
Mr S had a policy which covered his ex-wife to drive  his car. And she had the accident while 
driving it. The third party  contacted Mr Ss insurer and registered the claim, and at the time 
they seem  to have  provided details of the vehicle involved. 
Quotemehappy then recorded the claim against  the policy under which  the vehicle involved 
in the accident was insured, which was Mr Ss policy. This policy seems to have covered his 
ex-wife as a named driver  on a fully comprehensive  basis. And I cant  see at any point 
Mr Ss ex-wife  asked for the claim to be dealt  with under her own policy. So I dont think  its 
unreasonable for Quotemehappy to record the claim against Mr Ss policy,  given his ex-wife  
was a named  driver and it was his vehicle involved in the accident. 
Quotemehappy has said the claim could be recorded against Mr Ss ex-wife if she gave her 
permission for it to do so. I can see its still offered this as a solution   and has previously  
asked Mr S for her contact details. But Mr S has said he doesnt have any contact  with his 
ex-wife, and he also appears to have  said that she wouldnt agree to the claim being 
transferred anyway. And without permission from Mr Ss ex-wife  theres  little more 
Quotemehappy can do, so on balance, I think it has done enough to try to assist  Mr S with 
the current position of the claim.
Incorrect information recorded  on CUE
Mr S is also unhappy incorrect information was recorded on CUE following the claim. He 
was recorded  as being the driver at the time of the accident, not his ex-wife. Quotemehappy  
hasnt disputed this  and has now updated  the record to reflect that he was not the driver. 
Mr S thinks  this information affected his insurance premiums in later years.  Quotemehappy  
has updated CUE and provided documentation that Mr S can pass on to other insurers.  I 
think its likely his premium wouldve been  affected by the fact a claim exists, as would 
generally be the case. But Ive not seen anything  to suggest Mr S has lost out as a result of 
the initial information recorded on CUE. If Mr S does  feel other  insurers charged him more  
as a result  of initial information on CUE,  showing him as the driver,  then he may wish to 
contact them  in the first instance. 
So although  I understand Mr Ss strength of feeling on the matter, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think it was fair for Quotemehappy  to record the claim on his policy. And while 
the driver  information  recorded on CUE was initially incorrect  this has been updated and 
corrected too. So I dont think Quotemehappy needs to do anything further.  
Ref: DRN32736543my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Simon Louth
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3273654