K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out some time between 1995 and 
2001. A policy was added to the two cards Mr S took out in 1995, but Lloyds cant  tell us the 
exact date the PPI was sold. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr S disagreed so the complaint has been  
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint because:
 Ive looked  at the ways Lloyds sold these policies between  1995 and 2001  which  
reflects the dates  Mr S held his credit cards. Throughout this period Lloyds would have 
made Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and so on balance I think  he chose to take 
it  although I understand why he can no longer remember this.
 I dont know whether Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr S, but even if it did, it doesnt  
look as if it was unsuitable for him based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the 
time. 
 Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been.  But Mr S chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  
wanted this type of cover.  He was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations 
and the policy  was competitively priced  and apparently affordable.  So I think  it unlikely 
Mr S would have made a different  decision  if better  information had been provided. On 
balance I think he would  still have  taken out the policy.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3738205