K821x#15complaint
Mrs W has complained about the advice she was given by St Pauls  Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer her pension  to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 6 May 2021. The background and 
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold  it were set out in 
that decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to 
consider. 
Mrs Ws representative said it had nothing further  to add.
Alexander David Securities Limited  didnt provide any further submissions. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint. 
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mrs W as 
set out in my attached provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 July 2021.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN34975612Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mrs W has complained about the advice she was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an Appointed 
Representative of Alexander David Securities  Limited)  to transfer  her pension to a self-invested 
personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
The background  to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. In brief,  Mrs W 
had said she was cold called  by St Pauls Marketing  Limited near the end of 2015 and offered a 
pension review.  She recalled receiving several telephone calls about her pension, being told it wasnt 
doing anything, it could do better, and she was guaranteed returns  if she invested through St Pauls  
Marketing. 
St Pauls  Marketing sent Mrs W some promotional material about the investment and a Pension 
Summary Report  dated 30 October  2015.  This report provided information  about  Mrs W existing  
pension including its charges, performance and the schemes rules.
Mrs W was sent applications  forms for a SIPP and stockbroking  account  to complete, which she 
signed and returned by a courier on 15 December  2015.
The SIPP was opened  in February  2016 and approximately £36,206  was transferred into it. The 
majority of the money was transferred to the stockbroking account  and invested in Just Loans 
debentures.
Mrs W, through her representative, subsequently complained to Alexander David  Securities Limited in 
September 2018. I understand Alexander  David  didnt  acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The 
representative subsequently referred it to us. Our investigator asked Alexander  David for its files and 
to provide any other evidence it wanted  us to take into account. However, no files or evidence or 
arguments were received.
The investigator noted  that Mrs W had said she was called  out of the blue and prior to contact  with St 
Pauls Marketing had no intention of changing  her pension provision. Shed  said she wasnt  an 
experienced investor,  had a low attitude to risk and had a minimal capacity for loss. Shed  said she 
wasnt advised  of the risks the investment presented and that in her view St Pauls Marketing 
recommended the investment to her.
The investigator said that St Pauls  Marketing had also arranged the investment. He said COBS 10 
applied (Conduct  of Business Rules). It said:
This chapter  applies to a firm which  arranges or deals  in relation to a non-readily realisable security, 
derivative, or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought to have been aware, 
that the application  or order  is in response to direct  offer financial promotion.
The investigator said he understood the investment  was a non-readily realisable security. He said 
COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess  Mrs Ws knowledge and experience in the 
investment field relevant  to the specific type of product  or service offered or demanded  so as to 
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate.
The investigator said Mrs W had no significant investment knowledge and no experience of making 
investments of this nature.  He concluded that the investment wasnt appropriate for her. 
The investigator also noted one of the Regulators  strategic objectives was to protect consumers, and 
its rules reflected this objective. He said the Principles required St Pauls  Marketing  to, amongst other  
things, pay due regard to its customers interests and treat them fairly. He said St Pauls Marketings  
Ref: DRN34975613interactions with Mrs W had directly resulted in her, as an inexperienced investor with little capacity 
for loss, investing a large proportion  of her pension in illiquid, high risk bonds.  He said in his view, St 
Pauls Marketing had failed to act in accordance  with the Principles or in Mrs Ws best interests.
The investigator sent his view of the complaint to Alexander David. But it didnt respond.  He 
subsequently wrote to both parties explaining  that following receipt  of further information  he thought  
compensation should be calculated slightly  differently. However no further evidence or arguments 
were provided. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt respond  to Mrs Ws original complaint or to the investigators  requests for 
information. So theres only very limited evidence  available to establish  what  happened at the time of 
the transfer and investment.  
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available,  including Mrs Ws recollections of events. The 
investigator set out his thoughts on the matter in his assessment, and Alexander  David hasnt  
disputed what he said or provided  any further evidence or arguments.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence  that is available, that St Pauls Marketing was involved 
from the outset and following  its input Mrs W transferred her pension  to the SIPP  and invested in the 
debentures. In my experience its unusual  for someone of Mrs Ws background  and experience to 
want to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this type of investment without  prompting. 
I think  it was unlikely  to have happened  without  the involvement of St Pauls  Marketing. Im satisfied 
that it initiated the transfer  and investment in the debentures. It was aware  of where the investment 
was going to be made  and facilitated it. 
Mrs W had said she was called out of the blue and prior to contact with St Pauls  Marketing had no 
intention of changing her pension  provision. She said that in her view St Pauls  Marketing  
recommended the investment. Alexander David  hasnt disputed this. 
In all the circumstances, and on the balance  of the limited evidence thats available, I think  its more 
likely than not that St Pauls Marketing advised Mrs W to transfer and invest in the debentures.  In my 
view the investment strategy lacked diversification, was subject to potential illiquidity and significant 
investment risks.  I dont  think it was suitable for Mrs W given her circumstances,  particularly given 
she has said that she was a low risk investor and with little investment experience.  
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mrs W, I think the evidence  shows it was 
involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were  a non-readily realisable security.   COBS 
10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mrs Ws knowledge and experience in the investment field 
relevant to the specific type of product or service offered or demand so that it could assess  whether  
the debentures were  appropriate for her.
Mrs W said she had little investment experience and Alexander David  hasnt disputed  this. Ive seen 
no evidence of Mrs W having a history of making this type of investment. The debentures presented 
significant risks and were  speculative.  In my view they werent appropriate for Mrs W given her 
knowledge and experience and this should have been  clear  to St Pauls  Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances  of the transaction into account, I think  it was clear that the debentures 
werent suitable  or appropriate for Mrs W. And like the investigator, I dont think  St Pauls Marketing 
acted in Mrs Ws best interests.  
Ref: DRN34975614Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mrs W to transfer and invest in the debentures,  
or if it had told her they werent suitable  or appropriate for her she wouldnt have transferred and 
invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mrs W to transfer and invest in a 
product that she would  otherwise not have  invested  into. Im satisfied its failures  caused the losses 
that Mrs W has claimed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
I intend  to order Alexander David Securities  Limited to calculate  and pay compensation to Mrs W on 
the following basis. 
fair compensation  
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs W as close as possible to the 
position she would probably now be in but for St Pauls Marketings failures.  I think  Mrs W would  have 
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what she would have done, but Im satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable  given  Mrs Ws circumstances and objectives  when 
she invested.  
what should Alexander David do? 
To compensate Mrs W fairly Alexander David Ltd should compare the performance of Mrs Ws 
investment with that of the benchmark shown below.  If the fair value is greater than the actual value, 
there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value,  no 
compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  also pay any interest as set out below. If there is a loss, 
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  pay into Mrs Ws pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges  and 
any available tax relief.  Alexander David Securities  Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation  into the 
pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into Mrs Ws pension plan it 
should pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should  be calculated  using 
Mrs Ws actual or expected marginal  rate of tax at her selected retirement  age. 
I think  Mrs W is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at her selected  retirement age, so the reduction 
should equal  the current basic  rate of tax. However,  if Mrs W would have been able to take a tax-free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander David should: 
Pay Mrs W £250  for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied  the matter  has caused her. 
Provide details of the calculation to Mrs W in a clear, simple  format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David  Securities Ltd considers  
that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Mrs W how much it has taken off. It should also give Mrs W a tax deduction  
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN34975615investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate  of 
transferDate  of 
decision8% simple per year from 
date of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified  of
Mrs Ws 
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value 
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date.
Fair value 
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider would  have been worth at the end date 
had it grown  in line with the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value  calculation from the point in 
time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal,  income or other distribution  out of the SIPP  should 
be deducted from the fair value  at the point it was actually paid so it ceases  to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mrs Ws circumstances were consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. And in 
her complaint Mrs W has said she was a low risk taker.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Mrs W would  have transferred but for St Pauls  Marketings 
failures. But her existing  pension was invested in funds presenting a greater degree of risk than she 
has said she was prepared to accept. So I think its likely she would have switched to funds better  
aligned to her risk profile if suitable advice  had been given.  I dont know exactly how she would  have 
invested.  But I think  the index I have outlined above is an appropriate benchmark  and is a reasonable 
proxy for the level of risk that Mrs W was willing and able to take.  
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to their capital. 
Ref: DRN34975616The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mrs Ws risk profile  was in between, in the sense that she was only prepared  to 
take a limited  level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably  put Mrs W into that position. 
My understanding  is that the debentures were redeemed at maturity date (11 January 2021) 
and the monies were  paid into Mrs Ws SIPP. Accordingly, there are no illiquidity issues,  and 
in the circumstances  I dont think an award  for future SIPP fees is appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mrs W to accept  or reject 
my decision  before 6 June  2021.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3497561