K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) caused water 
damage to his car when he called for assistance under his Breakdown  and Recovery  
Assistance policy. 
All reference to LV includes  it agents.
background
Mr and Mrs S requested a number  of call outs in April 2018 as their car wouldnt start. 
Mr S said that their garage  had said it was one of three faults. It had carried out repairs to fix 
two of the three possible faults  but unfortunately Mr Ss car continued to break down.  
Mr S says that during one of the call outs in April 2018, it was raining heavily and an agent 
left the fuse box exposed  to water unnecessarily. He also said that the roadside agent cut 
wires to the fuel pump and didnt re-insulate them. Mr S wants  LV to reimburse him for the 
costs he said he had to pay to repair this damage. He said this came to £100.
LV said the agent didnt agree he caused the damage Mr S claimed  for. It told Mrs S that if 
she could provide an independent  report to say that the agent  did cause the claimed 
damage, it would  consider the matter further.  
Mr and Mrs S didnt  provide evidence  to show this was the case. Our investigator didnt think  
there was enough  to show  the agent  had caused damage to Mr Ss car. 
Mr S didnt agree. He insists the agent  caused water  damage and left wires to the fuel pump 
cut. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S say that when Mrs S asked for a call out on 24 April 2018, she asked the 
agent to recover  their car to their garage. This is because their garage had carried out 
previous repairs to the car in an attempt  to establish  the fault which  was causing it not to 
start. They said it was raining heavily that day and they believe the agent caused  further  
damage by his actions.  Their car was recovered to a garage and Mr and Mrs S say the 
garage asked why the fuse box was soaking wet. 
LV explained  that its standard practice for an agent to try and start a car when it attends a 
call out as this is the purpose of the policy. Its agent  tried to start their car  as he had done 
on previous occasions.  LV says this has been successful in the past. LV said Mr and 
Mrs S had made a number of call outs for electrical problems with their car since  2017.
As the agent couldnt start their car on this occasion,  he recommended  their car be repaired 
at a garage.  Mr and Mrs Ss car was brought to a garage and further repairs were carried 
out. However, when  they drove  away on 30 April 2018, they called LV as their car broke 
down again. 
Ref: DRN31928222Ive looked at the photos of the fuse box provided  by Mr S. I cant  say they clearly  show  
water damage. But even  if it was clear - coupled with the photo  of the cut wire to the fuse 
pump  I dont have  anything to show me that LV is responsible for the damage Mr S claims. 
LVs agent  doesnt  agree  he caused  the damage  Mr S has described. 
A mechanic told Mr S that the problem could be one of three  things: the fuel pump, 
crankshaft or starter motor. It carried out repairs to two areas of the car. But 
Mr Ss car still had starting  problems. 
I appreciate that Mrs S is very clear  about what was discussed and what  happened  on 24 
April 2018. But there isnt enough for me to decide that LVs agent caused damage  to the 
electrics of Mr and Mrs Ss car. I think it was reasonable for the agent to try and start their 
car when  Mrs S called  for assistance on 24 April 2018. So based on what Ive seen, I dont 
think LV has acted unreasonably.  
This means  Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3192822