K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr H says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
 
background
Briefly:
In 2002 Mr H took out PPI at the same time as applying for a credit card by postal 
application  he responded  to a direct  mailing.
The policy provided  protection for Mr Hs credit card payments in the event he couldnt work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment.  The policy would pay out a monthly benefit 
of 10% of the outstanding  card balance and it would do so for up to 12 months per claim.  Its 
basic cost was 89 pence for every £100 owed  on the card.
At the time of the sale Mr H was employed and he said he was only likely entitled  to statutory 
sick pay. He said he had no other means he couldve  used  to make his repayments  and he 
was in good health at the time.
Capital Ones records show Mr H paid around £112  in total for PPI.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mr H chose to 
take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for him. 
They also said Capital Ones offer to pay back an amount in relation to high commission  and 
profit share was fair in the circumstances.
Because Mr H, through his representative  disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mr Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. My reasons are set out below.
did Mr H have a choice about PPI?  
Mr H says he thinks PPI was added without his knowledge.
But I think Capital One made it clear  that Mr H didnt have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant  now remember  this.
This was a sale by post  a direct  mailing   and Capital  One has provided a copy of Mr Hs 
credit card application. Looking at this I can see there was a separate section about  PPI, 
which asked the customer to tick a box to take it out. And Mr H ticked the required box.
So, Im satisfied Mr H chose  to take out PPI.
Ref: DRN38262422the information   
Because this was a sale by post with no staff member interaction, Im satisfied Capital One 
didnt advise Mr H or recommend the cover to him. This means Capital One didnt need to 
ensure the cover was suitable for Mr H. But it did have  to give him enough  clear  and timely 
information about the policy so he could make an informed decision about  it.
There wasnt much said about PPI on the credit card application  instead it referred Mr H to 
some information elsewhere. I therefore accept the information Capital One gave  Mr H about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But as I found  above, he chose to take it out - 
so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And based on his circumstances at the time it 
doesnt appear that it was inappropriate for him - for example he was eligible for the cover;   
he wasnt affected by the significant  exclusions on or limits to the cover  such as those  for 
existing medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances; and without any existing 
means to speak of he appears to have had a need for cover - so it seems  like it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. 
So, I dont think better  information about the PPI would have put Mr H off taking out the 
cover. 
This means  Capital One doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  above Ive decided that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One 
(Europe) plc does  not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3826242