K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that NewDay Ltd lent her money irresponsibly because  it issued her with a 
credit card when she was unemployed and had existing debt. She wants  a refund of all 
interest shes paid.
background
Miss C opened an account  with NewDay  in January 2014. The account had an initial credit 
limit of £250.  In June  2014 the credit limit was increased to £500.
Miss C made payments towards  the account  but by July 2015 she was unable to make 
further payments.
Miss C complained to NewDay.  She said it had acted irresponsibly by giving her the credit 
card. She said that when she applied for the card she was unemployed and had payday 
loans.
In response, NewDay said it had carried  out checks and had taken Miss Cs employment 
status into account but based on her household income the loan was affordable.
Miss C didnt agree and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt  feel that the initial decision to approve Miss Cs application and 
provide a credit limit of £250 was irresponsible, but said that NewDay could  have done  more 
before it offered the credit  increase.  The investigator recommended that NewDay  refunded 
interest and charges on any balance over £250  from the date when the credit limit was 
increased.
NewDay didnt respond to the investigators view so Ive been asked to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whether  its appropriate to advance credit, lenders must undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks to see if lending is affordable.  The checks the lender is required to 
do depend on several factors including the amount  of credit,  the level of repayments, what 
the lender knows  about the customer and the information the customer has provided. 
When Miss C applied  for the card she provided  information about her employment status 
(which she gave as unemployed) and information about her household income (which she 
gave as approximately £18,000). NewDay also looked at information held by the credit  
reference agencies.
It isnt possible to say now what was on Miss Cs credit file at the time of her application  but 
the fact that she had other loans isnt of itself a reason  for NewDay not to advance  credit.  Im 
satisfied that NewDay  carried  out reasonable and proportionate  checks. Based on the 
information Ive seen I cant say that NewDays decision  to advance credit  was wrong.
Ref: DRN36334182Ive looked at how Miss C conducted her account  for the first few months  before  the credit  
increase. I can see that within the first month Miss C exceeded the credit limit, and continued 
to do so in the months which followed. I can also see that in March  2014 there was a missed 
payment. Throughout  the first few months,  Miss C took regular cash  advances  on the 
account. 
The conduct  of Miss Cs account  should  have alerted  NewDay to the possibility that the 
lending was unaffordable.  The relevant  guidance  says that card issuers should  be aware of 
the risk factors before  offering  credit limit increases. These risk factors include regular  
missed or late payments, exceeding the credit limit and making  use of cash  advances.
I think NewDay shouldve looked  more closely at how Miss C was managing  her account. If it 
had, it wouldve identified  the risk factors and in all likelihood wouldnt have offered Miss C a 
credit increase. Because  of this Im of the view that NewDay acted irresponsibly in offering 
the credit  increase and I uphold the complaint.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. NewDay Ltd should
Refund the interest and any charges incurred on any balance  above £250 after the 
credit limit was increased to £500
Pay simple interest  of 8% per year on all suns refunded from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3633418