K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple.
Mrs P says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Mrs P opened a store card account in a shop  in 2003. At the same  time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on Mrs Ps card each 
month if shed been unable  to work  because  of injury or sickness, or if she lost her job. It 
also included purchase and price protection insurance and life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In brief, he said Mrs P 
suffered from asthma when she took the policy out. She wouldnt have been able to make a 
successful accident  or sickness claim under the policy if the claim resulted from that 
condition. And the adjudicator thought that if FICL had given Mrs P clear enough information 
about the restriction on claims for existing medical conditions, shed have decided not to take 
the PPI. 
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint was passed  to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs P 
and to FICL  on 28 August 2019. I summarise  my findings:
Id seen a copy of Mrs Ps application  form for the store card.  It includes a section 
headed Protecting your Account.  It says Yes, I would like to protect my Account with 
Account Cover  (a form of PPI), and it continues  Please debit my Account with the 
relevant monthly premiums  until further  notice.  Theres a space to sign, with instructions 
only to sign if the applicant  required Account Cover. Mrs P signed specifically to indicate  
that she wished to take the cover, separately from where  she signed the overall form.
Taking everything into account,  I was satisfied that Mrs P would have realised that the 
PPI wasnt compulsory. And I thought she decided to take the cover,  knowing that she 
had a choice  although I could understand why she may no longer remember  this, so 
many years later.
FICL  didnt advise Mrs P to take out the policy. This meant it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. But it did need  to make  sure it gave  Mrs P enough information to enable 
her to decide for herself if she wanted  PPI, knowing what alternative means  shed have 
had of making her monthly repayments  if she was unable  to work.
Ref: DRN36167062I accepted that it was possible the information FICL gave Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it should have  been. But Id explained that I thought  she chose to take out the 
PPI - so it looked as if she wanted this type of cover,  even if shes  understandably 
forgotten that now. Based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the time, 
Mrs P was eligible  for the policy.
Mrs Ps told us she was employed when  she took out the PPI. But she cant  remember 
how much  sick pay shed have been  entitled  to. If shed made a successful claim on the 
policy for accident, sickness or unemployment,  it would  have paid a monthly benefit of 
15% of what she owed on her store card. And it would  have  done  this each month until 
her credit  agreement ended, or she returned  to work, or the outstanding balance  at the 
time of her claim  had been repaid - whichever was the earliest. 
I thought it was likely that the policy would potentially have paid out for longer than Mrs P 
would have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in 
addition to any payments  she received from her employer, including any redundancy pay 
if she lost her job. So she could  have used those to cover  other day-to-day expenses, 
and she wouldnt have  had to use her savings to make her store card repayments.
I accepted that it was possible the information FICL gave Mrs P about the cost of the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But I was satisfied that it would  have been  clear 
from the application form that there  would be monthly premiums to pay for the cover. 
Id seen nothing  to suggest  that the policy  was unaffordable for Mrs P. And as she was 
paying for it monthly, she could  have cancelled it without any further cost if her situation 
changed.
I acknowledged that Mrs Ps told us she suffered from asthma when she applied for the 
policy. But the condition had been  diagnosed around ten years  before she applied  for the 
PPI. And Mrs Ps told us that she was taking  medication for it, and has only had the odd 
day or two off work  as a result  of the condition.
To claim for accident or sickness under the policy, Mrs P would have  had to be off sick 
for at least 30 consecutive days.  I thought  it was unlikely  that shed have expected to 
need to take that long off work for her asthma,  or any condition  resulting from it. And she 
could potentially have claimed successfully if shed lost her job, or if shed been off sick 
with any condition that didnt result from her asthma.  
Taking  everything  into account, I wasnt convinced, on balance,  that it was likely that 
Mrs Ps asthma meant that shed have  made  a different decision about taking the PPI 
cover if shed been given better information  about the exclusions relating to existing 
medical conditions. And based on what shes told us about her circumstances at the 
time, she didnt  appear to have  been  affected  by any of the other  main  things  the policy 
didnt cover.
For the reasons  Id set out, I wasnt  convinced  that better information about the PPI 
would have put Mrs P off taking  it out. So I didnt  think shed lost out as a result of 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong.  And based on what  Id seen so far, I wasnt  
planning to uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Ref: DRN36167063further submissions
Mrs Ps representatives have told us that they have  no further information to provide. FICL 
hasnt made  any comments on my provisional decision, and the time for doing  so has now 
expired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Having done so, I cant see any reason to depart from the findings  I set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3616706