K820x#14The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 1999  when    
Mr T applied  for a credit card by post. Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him 
the PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ts case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr T says he cant remember  how the policy was sold. BOS says it was sold alongside  a 
postal application  and it has provided  a copy of Mr Ts application form. The form appears  to 
be a postal one  as it states on it once completed, please return  to Bank of Scotland   (no 
stamp needed) . 
Mr T says he cant remember  PPI being mentioned. Looking at the application form, it asks 
applicants to sign separately from the credit card if they want  the PPI.  Mr T has signed in 
the box for the PPI. There is nothing to suggest that the PPI was compulsory, and Mr T 
could have just left the box blank  if he didnt want the policy.  
So, I think BOS made  it clear that Mr T didnt have to take out the PPI - although I can 
understand why Mr T cant  remember this, over 20 years later.
As I havent  seen anything to suggest  Mr T had any direct contact with a BOS advisor at the 
time of the sale, it doesnt look like BOS recommend the PPI to Mr T. So, it didnt  have to 
check if it was right for him. But it did have to make  sure Mr T got the information  he needed 
to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should have 
been. But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
Mr T says he would have received sick pay benefits from his employer. The policy  would 
have paid out alongside any employee benefits  he received as well as covering his 
repayments if he became  unemployed. Mr T says he didnt have any other means  such as 
saving. Although Ive noted his comments that his family would have been able to help out. I 
dont doubt Mr Ts family would have wanted to help but as circumstances can change,  I 
dont think this help could be guaranteed. So, I think the policy would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Overall, I dont  think Mr T has lost out by anything BOS might have done wrong.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN35043462Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 March 2021.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3504346