K820x#14This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1999 and 2003. Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold them 
the PPI policies.  
The PPI policy sold in 2003 was part of a Total  Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) to cover 
Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage. TMPP can be split into sections  Mortgage Repayments Cover 
(which is a form of PPI), life cover and critical illness cover. Ive looked  at the sale of the PPI 
cover only.  The PPI policies sold in both 1999  and 2003 covered Mr G only.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI policies  were mis-sold. Mr and Mrs G disagreed  so the 
complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case. I dont think  the policies were 
mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
1999 sale
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI policy  and that 
they chose to take it out in 1999. 
In the 1999 sale, Mr G completed  and signed a PPI application labelled mortgage 
repayments insurance application. Details about the PPI cover, as well as Mr Gs 
circumstances  particularly his health and employment status  have been recorded  on the 
form. And Mr G has signed it so I think its likely to reflect what he wanted. Theres nothing in 
the paperwork to suggest the PPI was compulsory. So while I dont know  exactly what 
happened during the sale, based on what Ive seen  I think  its likely the optional nature was 
made clear and Mr and Mrs G chose to take the policy  in 1999.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr G in 1999 so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him (as sole policy holder)  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances when the 
policy was sold, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr G says he was entitled  to some sick pay at the time the policy was sold.  He also says he 
had savings and couldve relied on family support to help make  his repayments. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay he wouldve received  and for up to 24 months  if 
he was unable to work  because  of accident or sickness.  The PPI also wouldve paid out for 
up to 24 months if he lost his job. And the PPI wouldve allowed him to use his savings to 
cover other necessary expenses at what couldve been a difficult time financially if he found  
himself out of work.  It also meant  he wouldnt have to rely on his family  whose ability to 
help would depend on their own circumstances at any given time. So I think Mr and Mrs G 
wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI in 1999  wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
Ref: DRN37346602wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI sold in 1999 to Mr 
and Mrs G.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI sold in 1999 to Mr and Mrs G because:  
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs G about that. Because Halifax didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs to do
Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs G the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Halifax  should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs G 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs G can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
2003 sale
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt have to take out the PPI policy  and that 
they chose to take it out in 2003. Halifax hasnt been able to provide any paperwork from the 
2003 sale. I dont  think this is unusual considering the length  of time since the sale.  Based 
on what I know about how Halifax sold policies like this at the time I think the optional  nature 
wouldve been made clear. And without stronger evidence to support what Mr and Mrs G 
have said, I think its more  likely that Halifax made  it clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt  have to 
take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out in 2003  although  I can understand why 
they cant remember this. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr G in 2003 so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him (as sole policy holder)  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances when the 
policy was sold, I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr G says he was entitled  to some sick pay at the time the policy was sold.  He also says he 
had savings and couldve relied on family support to help make  his repayments. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay he wouldve received  and for up to 24 months  if 
he was unable to work  because  of accident or sickness.  The PPI also wouldve paid out for 
up to 24 months if he lost his job. And the PPI wouldve allowed him to use his savings to 
cover other necessary expenses at what couldve been a difficult time financially if he found  
himself out of work.  It also meant  he wouldnt have to rely on his family  whose ability to 
help would depend on their own circumstances at any given time. So I think Mr and Mrs G 
wouldve found the policy useful. 
Ref: DRN37346603Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI in 2003  wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I think they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  believe  the PPI sold in 2003  was mis-sold.  So 
Halifax doesnt need to refund everything  Mr and Mrs G paid for it. But Halifax has already  
offered to give Mr and Mrs G back some of the cost of the PPI sold in 2003. I dont think it 
needs to do anything more. 
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs G now Ive issued my final decision.  
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. 
But for the 1999 sale, Halifax does  have to pay back to Mr and Mrs G any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3734660