K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about charges when  he voluntary  terminated an agreement  with PSA 
Finance UK Limited.
background 
In February 2015  Mr R was supplied with a second hand car and entered into a finance  
agreement with PSA Finance. The price of the car was £9,995 and the finance was 
repayable over a term of 60 months. An additional amount of £379 was taken on credit  to 
pay for Financial Shortfall Insurance.
In September  2017 Mr Rs circumstances changed  and he needed a bigger car. He asked  
PSA Finance if he could voluntary terminate the agreement.
PSA Finance told Mr R that he was required to pay the amount outstanding in relation to the 
Financial Shortfall Insurance. Mr R agreed to pay this.
The car was inspected and collected  in October 2017. PSA charged Mr R for the following 
items:
Incomplete service  history £800
Missing key £100
Misaligned bumper  £50
Damage to 3 alloy wheels  £195  
Missing front door seal £61.26
Mr R wasnt happy with the charges and complained to PSA Finance. In its response  PSA 
Finance said the charges were in line with the terms and conditions. As a gesture of goodwill 
it agreed to reduce the charges by £200 for a service and also agreed  to reduce the total 
balance by 25%. This left an outstanding amount  of £754.70.
Mr R remained  unhappy and complained to this service. He says he wasnt  provided with 
any terms and conditions  when he was supplied with the car.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. The investigator found  that Mr R was liable for some  
charges but not at the level claimed by PSA Finance. The investigator  recommended that 
the charges were reduced to £454.70.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he would reluctantly agree to pay for the damage but he didnt 
feel that he should have to pay for the services which hadnt been carried  out because  he 
hadnt been told about the requirement  to service the car at the time of entering into the 
agreement.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the finance agreement which Mr R entered into on 28 February  2015.  Ive also 
looked at the Customer  Confirmation dated 28 February 2015.  The Customer Confirmation 
says that Mr R has been given a complete copy of the agreement  including  the terms and 
conditions. Mr R has signed the Customer Confirmation.
Ref: DRN31909292I appreciate that Mr R has said that he was never  given the terms and conditions. However, I 
dont think Mr R would have signed the Customer Confirmation if this was the case. If the 
terms and conditions hadnt been given  to Mr R I would  have  expected him to query  this and 
I wouldnt have expected him to sign the Customer Confirmation.
Because of this I cant reasonably conclude  that Mr R wasnt  given  a copy of the agreement  
and the terms and conditions. 
The terms and conditions  say that if Mr R wanted to end the agreement early  the balance  of 
the total amount payable for the Financial  Shortfall Insurance may be requested.  I 
understand that Mr R has already paid this but for clarity I am satisfied that PSA Finance is 
allowed to charge for this in accordance with the terms and conditions.
The terms and conditions  say that Mr R must  maintain and service the car in accordance 
with the manufacturers  recommendations.  The manufacturers recommendations are that 
the car should  be serviced every 12,500  miles or annually, whichever is sooner.
Mr R has explained that he never  serviced  the car because it always ran well. Hes also said 
that theres no legal  requirement to service a car. In this case, it should be remembered that 
the car didnt  belong  to Mr R, it belonged  to PSA Finance.  The obligation to service the car 
was a contractual obligation arising  out of the terms and conditions  of the finance 
agreement. Because Mr R didnt service the car in accordance with the terms and 
conditions, Im satisfied that PSA Finance is entitled  to charge for any services which should 
have been carried  out. Looking at the time which Mr R has been in possession  of the car 
and the mileage he has covered, I think that PSA Finance  is entitled  to charge for two 
missed services.
The terms and conditions  say that Mr R must  return  the car in good condition and that he is 
responsible for any damage which goes beyond fair wear and tear. In this case, PSA 
Finance has charged  Mr R for a missing key. Mr R has said that he was only ever given one 
key by the supplying dealer. The supplying dealer hasnt been able to prove that it gave Mr 
R two keys. On balance, I think its more likely than not that Mr R was only given one key, so 
I think the charge  for the missing key should be waived.
In relation to the damage to the bumper, wheel  and door, Ive looked at the inspection report  
(including the photos)  and Im satisfied that the damage exceeds  fair wear and tear in 
accordance with the BVLRA guidelines.  Because of this, PSA Finance is entitled to charge 
for the damage  and I think the charges are fair.
Taking all of the available information  into account,  and in view of the comments which Ive 
made about servicing and damage, I think the charges should  be reduced to £454.70.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  PSA Finance UK Limited must reduce the 
charges to £454.70. I recommend that PSA Finance UK Limited agree a payment 
arrangement with Mr R to pay the charges  over a reasonable period of time.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2018.
Ref: DRN31909293Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3190929