K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mrs H says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
I think Tesco made it clear that Mrs H didnt have  to take out the PPI and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant  remember this. I say this having seen a 
copy of her credit card application form which she completed and signed. In this there  is a 
section for PPI where Mrs H signed to agree to the policy. And this signature is separate and 
additional to her signature to agree to the credit.  Mrs H says because the PPI box was 
included in the form it was implied  that she had to take it out. But Ive looked  at the form 
closely and Ive not seen anything which suggests  Mrs H had to sign to take out the policy   
so I think she decided  she wanted  this type of cover. And as this was a postal application,  
she was free to make  this decision in her own space  and time, and without any involvement 
from Tesco other than the provision  of the application form itself.  
Tesco didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if the policy  
was right for her. 
I think its possible the information Tesco gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  
Mrs H also says that she had sick pay and savings, and had a policy with another provider  
so she didnt need this type of cover. But Mrs H hasnt been able to provide any evidence  of 
her sick pay entitlement  or of her savings from the time. I have seen a bank statement from 
2007 which shows that Mrs H had a significant sum in her current account, but this was 10 
years after the date of sale.  So Ive not relied  on this as evidence of her available  funds  in 
1997. 
I accept its likely that Mrs H wouldve had some  sick pay in 1997. But upon  a successful 
claim the PPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months, and this wouldve been  on top of her 
sick pay entitlement. So her sick pay wouldve been  free to use for other expenses.
Ive also considered what Mrs H said about  the policy she had with another provider, but 
from what shes said I think this was a critical illness policy which wouldve covered Mrs H for 
different eventualities  to the PPI in the main. So I still think the PPI wouldve been useful for 
her, and I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the 
cover.
Ref: DRN34743602my final decision
Based on what Ive seen  and for the reasons outlined  above, I am not upholding Mrs Hs 
complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3474360