K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy with how their escape  of water claim has been handled by Royal 
& Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA).
background
In September  2018, Mr and Mrs M contacted RSA about an escape of water  that caused  
damage to their shower room and lounge. RSA asked  one of their contractors to carry out an 
inspection. This confirmed there was cover under the policy  and trace and access  wasnt 
required. Their  report noted our surveyor has inspected the downstairs shower room. There  
is an ongoing leak that is possible coming  from the seals and grout. The seals  and grout 
appear to be in a good condition visible. To settle the claim, RSA offered £3,463.17. 
Mr and Mrs M raised a complaint about  the settlement offered and the way B was carrying 
out the work  to dry the property and remove the tiles. 
While looking  into their concerns, RSA asked more about the source  of the leak.  In 
response, it said the damage had been caused  by the failure of the grout/tiling,  which  is a 
wear and tear issue. So under their policy,  RSA would only consider the resultant water  
damage and not the cost to repair the tiles. Saying that, it would still honour the original  
settlement.
Mr and Mrs M also raised concerns that RSAs contractor broke the flush  of their toilet  and 
in trying to fix it, they now need to replace the toilet  and matching sink. RSA said it would 
pay to fix the flush, but to replace the toilet and matching sink, Mr and Mrs M would need to 
submit a new claim. 
Unhappy with RSAs  response,  Mr and Mrs M brought their concerns to our service. In the 
meantime, they carried  out the repairs using their own contractors. 
I issued a provisional decision in July 2020.  I explained that RSA should  honour its original 
contractors conclusion that this was covered and settle  the claim. 
Mr and Mrs M replied   with quotes and receipts  for what they paid. RSA didnt have 
anything further  to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither Mr and Mrs M or RSA have added comments in response  to my findings. So I see 
no reason to depart from my original  conclusion. But I will comment on my instructions to put 
things right. Mr and Mrs M will need  to submit  reasonable evidence  that shows  a breakdown 
of the works completed and the amount they actually paid. This evidence shouldnt  solely  be 
quotes, as these were  completed before any works  were carried  out. 
Providing they accept  my decision, Mr and Mrs M should submit the evidence directly  to 
RSA. This will allow  it to work out how much it wouldve cost RSA to carry out the works 
covered.
Ref: DRN37041202For completeness, Ive explained my reasoning and award from my provisional decision 
below. 
Ive reviewed Mr and Mrs Ms policy wording.  This sets out cover for water escaping from 
washing machines,  dishwashers, fixed water  or fixed heating systems, and theres an 
exclusion for wear and tear. 
Ive considered how RSA applied  these  terms to the circumstances of the claim. As Id 
expect, it sent out a contractor to carry out an inspection.  They  concluded the claim was 
covered  despite not knowing the exact source  of the leak or suggesting that Mr and Mrs M 
should find out (for example, using the trace  and access section of their policy). They said 
that the tiling/grout was a possible cause, but noted  they looked in good condition. 
It seems  RSA later disagreed, relying  on the contractors own comments about  the 
tiling/grout. But I dont  think  these comments are enough to determine  where  the leak came  
from  its raised as a possibility and they note theyre in good  condition. 
In saying this, I realise its for Mr and Mrs M to show there was an insured event. But here, 
RSAs own contractor said there was cover. So arguably, if RSA disagreed, it should have 
sought another opinion  at the outset. Or at least  been clear with Mr and Mrs M that there 
remained a dispute  over whether there  was insured  event. Instead, by the time RSA raised 
this, work was underway  which I think wouldve affected the ability  to find out how the 
damage was caused. Moreover, RSA wasnt clear that it didnt  think there was cover at all  
its written response suggested  it only disputed  paying  to replace the tiles.
Ive considered RSAs  view that it expected  to find the cause of the leak during the works. 
But the works were  to restore  the shower room and lounge  and that might look quite 
different to works needed  to find the exact cause of the leak.
Now the works have been completed, its not pragmatic, or perhaps  even possible, to 
determine the cause of the damage. Given this, and in absence of anything  else, I think  its 
only fair to rely on the contractors original conclusion that there was cover. And I dont think 
RSA has done  enough to show that the exclusion for wear  and tear applied.   
Ive gone on to consider how RSA should put things right. For the works it agreed to honour,  
RSA told Mr and Mrs M that it could use its own contractors to carry out the work or it could  
offer a cash settlement based on what it would  have cost RSA to carry out the repairs. Thats  
in line with the policy wording. I understand Mr and Mrs M got their own quotes and carried 
out the works using their own contractors. 
I dont expect RSA to settle these quotes  in their entirety. Its likely a higher cash  settlement 
that Mr and Mrs M wouldve  been entitled  to under the policy given that insurers  tend to have 
access to preferential rates. 
Instead, Mr and Mrs M should submit a breakdown  of the works completed and receipts for 
what they paid (as opposed to quotes). RSA should review  these  and calculate  what it 
wouldve cost it to carry out all the works necessary as a result  of the escape of water   
minus any settlement already paid and subject  to policy limits,  excesses, and the remaining 
policy terms and conditions not considered here.  On any amount paid, it should add 8% 
simple interest (less any tax lawfully deductible)  from the date Mr and Mrs M wouldve 
reasonably received the entire cash settlement to the date the matter  is settled.  
Ref: DRN37041203Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Ms concern that theyre being asked to submit  a new claim 
for the damage  caused to the toilet  theyve said this wouldnt have happened if RSAs  
contractor hadnt  broken  the flush.  But Im not persuaded that Mr M needed to fix the flush  
himself. It follows that I think RSA acted fairly here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc should settle  the complaint in the manner Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2020.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3704120