K821x#15complaint
Mr A is unhappy because he feels Hfis Plc gave him wrong advice about how much to insure 
his rental  properties  for.
background
Hfis arranged insurance for two of Mr As rental properties. The properties were insured  for 
£85,000 each.  The policy was index-linked, which  meant the amount each property was 
insured for increased each year with inflation.  So when the policy  renewed the following year 
each property was insured  for £87,550. Later  that year Hfis arranged for a third rental 
property to be added to the policy. That property  was also insured for £87,550. When the 
policy renewed again each property was insured  for £90,177.
Mr A made a claim for water damage  caused to one of the properties after a pipe burst. The 
insurer declined the claim, and Mr A brought a complaint  to us about Hfis misleading  him 
about certain policy conditions. That complaint was looked at by another  ombudsman,  who 
decided that it should succeed.  The ombudsman said Hfis needed to:
agree  an expert with Mr A to decide what Mr As insurer would have paid in settlement of 
the claim, and
pay that sum to Mr A, plus interest (Mr A could then arrange the necessary repairs).
The other ombudsman  didnt consider or decide anything  in respect of a claim for lost rent.
He said Mr A needed to make representations  to Hfis once the repairs  had been completed 
if he wished to pursue  that.
Mr A accepted the ombudsmans  decision, so it became binding  on Hfis.
Since then Mr A and Hfis have been  in contact  with each other regarding settlement. Hfis 
made Mr A an offer. This was based  on what Hfis thought the repair  costs  should be, with a 
reduction because  it felt Mr A was underinsured.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which outlined why I didnt think  this complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant parts of that decision are outlined below.
what I could and couldnt look at
Mr A told us about various  things he was unhappy with following the previous 
ombudsmans decision eg the choice of expert appointed, how the offer was calculated.
Those issues concerned the settlement of Mr As previous complaint following the 
ombudsmans decision. I explained  that complaints about that didnt fall within  the 
Financial Ombudsman Services remit. So I wasnt able to look at or comment  on them 
as part of this complaint. I said if Mr A felt Hfis hadnt adhered  to the ombudsmans 
decision, he needed to get the decision enforced by the courts.
I confirmed that the only issue I considered was any advice Hfis gave Mr A at the sale 
and renewal of the policy about  the rebuild  cost of his properties.
Ref: DRN38815632sale/renewal of the policy
Hfis didnt need to ask Mr A about the amount  each property needed  to be insured for at 
every renewal. Thats because the appropriate sum is established at the start of the 
policy and its then adjusted each year in line with inflation. Hfiss responsibility  at each 
renewal was simply to outline to Mr A how much each property was insured for. It was 
then for Mr A to determine and/or decide whether that was sufficient. In essence  its 
ultimately the policyholders responsibility  to ensure that the sum insured  on any policy  is 
adequate to meet their needs  or the requirements of the policy.
The policy was sold over the phone. No recording of the call was available so I wasnt 
able to establish what, if anything,  was discussed  regarding the rebuild cost of the two 
properties or how much  they should  be insured for. I suggested that it might have been 
something as simple as Hfis asking  Mr A how much he wanted  to insure the properties  
for and Mr A giving  a figure. Or it might have been a more in-depth conversation about 
what the sum insured needed  to represent and how Mr A might calculate  that figure.
I felt it was unlikely  that Hfis set the sum insured at £85,000 or that it said this would be 
the cost of rebuilding each property. Hfis isnt am expert  on house building and wouldnt 
know how much  it would cost to rebuild either property. I thought it was most  likely that 
when he bought the policy  Mr A told Hfis how much  he wanted to insure  them for. And 
once Mr A had set that figure, it just naturally  increased each year.
The addition of the third property to the policy was also done over the phone. No 
recording of that call was available  either.  However,  for the same  reasons as above, I felt 
it unlikely that Hfis set the sum insured at £87,550 or that it calculated this would be the 
rebuild cost of the property. I again  thought it was most  likely that when  he added the 
property to the policy Mr A told Hfis how much  he wanted to insure it for.
The only phone call of relevance that Id been  able to listen to was one where Mr A 
called Hfis before the policy  renewed  in 2017. It was during  this call that Mr A said Hfis 
gave him the incorrect advice about  the rebuild cost of his property.
Mr A had received  a quote from elsewhere  and the main  purpose of the call was to see if 
Hfis could reduce its price. The part of the call that was relevant to the outcome of the 
complaint went:
oHfis told Mr A the renewal price was £285.28
oMr A said that seemed quite high
oHfis told Mr A that a third property had been added since the previous  renewal, it was 
a low rate and there was a discount  applied, there was insurance premium  tax and 
index-linking
oMr A asked  how much was this for1?
oHfis asked (to confirm what Mr A asked)  288 how much is it for the rebuilding cost?;  
and went on to say 90,177, and then said that's the rebuilding cost 90,177
oMr A responded no, the price sorry, the premium  price, how much are you charging?
The conversation  went  from there,  but nothing further was mentioned  about the 90,177.
1 Mr A then mentions a figure but its not clear  whether it is 88 (being  the street number  of the recently 
added property or 288 (being the approximate cost of the insurance).
Ref: DRN38815633It was clear that Hfis said the rebuilding  cost of each building  was £90,177.  So it could 
have been interpreted that Hfis told/advised Mr A that it would cost £90,177 to rebuild 
each of the properties. However, I thought it was fairer, and more  appropriate,  to 
interpret what was said in the context of the conversation at that point. There hadnt  been 
any prior discussion  about the amount  each  property  was insured for or what  that meant.  
The discussion had centred on the cost of the insurance and Mr A had just asked a 
question which I thought amounted to him asking how much cover  he was getting for that 
price. And Hfis responded by telling him how much each  property was insured  for (albeit  
saying rebuilding  cost rather than sum insured or amount each property was insured 
for). The conversation about the cost of the insurance (rather than the rebuild  cost)  then 
continued by Mr A confirming it was the premium price that he wanted confirming.
With that in mind,  I thought Hfis was simply responding to Mr As question about the 
amount of cover. I didnt think it was fair to say that Hfis gave Mr A incorrect advice  about  
how much  it would  cost to rebuild either of the properties or about how much  he should 
insure his properties for. 
Overall, I concluded that Hfis didnt  give Mr A any incorrect  or misleading  advice  that led 
to any possible underinsurance.
lost rent
Any rent Mr A lost might be recoverable from Hfis because (a) he was unable to rent the 
property following the damage because his insurer declined  the claim,  and/or (b) he was 
unable to rent the property because of delays following our consideration of his original 
complaint.
For (a), the previous  ombudsman specifically said in his decision that Mr A needed to 
make representations to Hfis once  the repairs had been completed if he wished to 
pursue a claim on this basis.  I didnt  think we were any further forward  in this respect 
because the repairs  hadnt been completed  and Mr A hadnt made any representations 
to Hfis. So I referred  Mr A back to what was said in the previous decision.
For (b), any lost rent would be a result of either Hfis not adhering to the original decision 
or it delaying adhering  to the original  decision.  Either way, as Id already said,  that wasnt 
something I could consider or comment on here.
compensation
I said I couldnt award compensation for any distress and inconvenience  Mr A might  
have suffered following his insurers initial rejection of his claim. That was because  the 
previous ombudsman had already decided that no compensation was due  and I 
couldnt over-rule another ombudsman.
I said I also couldnt award compensation for any distress and inconvenience Mr A might 
have suffered following the previous  ombudsmans decision.  That was because  anything 
he suffered would be a result of either  Hfis not adhering to the original decision or it 
delaying adhering to the original decision.  And again, either way, as Id explained, that 
wasnt something I could  consider or comment on.
I could only award  compensation for distress  and inconvenience  Mr A suffered as a 
result of Hfis giving  him poor advice about  the sums insured/rebuild  costs. But Id 
Ref: DRN38815634concluded that Hfis didnt give Mr A any poor advice. So there wasnt any ground for me 
to award any compensation.
Overall, for the above reasons, I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
Hfis confirmed that it had nothing further  to add.
Mr A didnt agree with my decision. He provided information on previous discussions hed 
had with Hfis which he felt showed that it had been dishonest.  For example,  he referred to:
-discussions over whether or not Hfis had sent him the relevant policy documentation,
-promises Hfis made to send him recordings, and
-staff members avoiding his calls.
He felt this showed that Hfis was not trustworthy and that its overall  practice is questionable. 
Mr A also referred to Hfis, his insurer and the loss adjuster  being  sister companies2.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Some of the comments  Mr A made in response to my provisional  decision concerned  the 
previous ombudsmans decision and the way Hfis has handled things since  then ie the 
underinsurance allegation. As Ive previously explained, this isnt something Im able to look 
at. I cant  re-visit  a decision  an ombudsman  has already made and the Financial 
Ombudsman Service cant  enforce an ombudsmans decision.  Also,  a complaint  about what  
Hfis has or hasnt done in order to comply with the previous decision isnt within my remit.
Ultimately, the outcome  of this complaint turns on whether its been shown that Hfis gave 
Mr A any incorrect or misleading  advice/information  about how much  he should insure his 
properties for.
I understand the sentiment of Mr As argument  in his view hes shown that Hfis has been 
dishonest, deceitful etc on other occasions  so its more likely  than not it was dishonest,  
deceitful etc during the conversations when he called to insure  the properties. I havent  
listened to the calls Mr As asked  me to listen to. This is because Im looking at information  
given at the sale of the policy (and when  Mr A added the third property)  Im not deciding a 
complaint about  Hfiss actions in respect  of other  issues. And I dont  think the nature of the 
calls is important to my consideration of that issue. But even if I had listened to the calls and 
had concluded  that Hfis had been  dishonest or deceitful (to use Mr As words) on other  
occasions, I still wouldnt be persuaded by Mr As argument as I dont  think  that would give 
an indication  one way or another about what was discussed during the two sales calls.
As Ive already  said, it might have been  the case that when  Mr A called to insure  the 
properties he simply told Hfis how much  he wanted to insure them for. Alternatively, there 
2 I havent checked  whether or not Hfis, Mr As insurer and the loss adjuster  fall within the same  
overall group of companies as I dont think its important to the outcome of this complaint.  But I can 
nevertheless confirm that they are three separate and distinct businesses.
Ref: DRN38815635might have been an in-depth conversation  about this and Hfis might  have given  Mr A 
information about how he might work out the appropriate sums  insured. There are other 
possibilities too. Hfis might not have given Mr A any information at all. Or it might have 
specifically advised  him to insure  the properties  for the amounts he did.
I will never know as theres no recording of the conversations available.  So I can only make  
my decision  based  on what I think most  likely happened given all the circumstances. And 
nothing Mr As said or provided in response to my provisional decision persuades to me to 
change my mind. For the same reasons as already outlined,  of all the possibilities, I think its 
unlikely that Hfis set the sums insured or told Mr A how much the properties would cost to 
rebuilding each property. It simply wouldnt have known as it hadnt seen the properties  or 
had any idea what it would take to rebuild  them. So based on everything Ive seen, I 
conclude that Hfis treated  Mr A fairly during  the sales process.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.  
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3881563