K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains about the service he received from The Co-operative  Bank  Plc (The Co-op).
background
Mr P made on an online transfer  of £3,600  from his Co-op account  to another  bank. The 
transfer didnt  go through  because it was picked up by The Co-ops  fraud prevention 
systems and stopped.  Mr Ps unhappy  about  this and thinks  the banks security measures 
and level of regulatory compliance are too stringent for ordinary customers and have reached 
an unacceptable level.
When Mr P rang the fraud department he was unhappy with the conversation  he had with 
the agent. He says he was asked questions about the source of his recent cash deposits which 
were rude, intrusi ve and offensive and left him feeling violated.  Mr P would like parliamentary  
reform and hes been in contact with his MP about this issue.
Mr P complained to The Co-op but his complaint wasnt  upheld. They apologised for the 
distress and inconveni ence caused but confirmed  his payment was held in line with their 
fraud prevention processes and in accordance with the terms and conditions  of his account.
They also apologised that his conversation with the Fraud Team  caused him so much 
distress and they apologised for any offence caused. They reassured him that this wasnt 
their intention and they explained that they can ask customers questions to allow  them to 
authorise payments  and comply with their regulatory  requirements.
Unhappy with The Co-ops response  Mr P brought his complaint to our service. When our 
investigator looked into Mr Ps complaint she didnt recommend  it should  be upheld.
She thought  the terms and conditions of his account  allowed The Co-op to block the 
payment where  they suspect fraudulent activity. She appreciated his frustrations but she 
didnt think The Co-op had done anything  wrong as the checks carried out are to protect  the 
bank and its customers against fraud and financial crime.
The investigator understood why Mr P might have been offended by the questions  he was 
asked and why he felt the questions were accusatory. But she explained  that its usual for a 
bank to ask questions about the source  of funds or to want  to know more  about his decision 
to pay cash  into his account  rather than transferring  from one account to another.  She noted 
that the payment was released three  days later when  the bank was satisfied  the payment 
wasnt in breach of their legal and regulatory  obligations.
She acknowledged Mr Ps underlying concerns that FCA regulations require reform but she 
explained that this was something she couldnt  comment on.
Mr P disagrees with the investigators view. He thinks we should do more about service  
complaints. He thinks we shouldnt  award  compensation  for failures  in service but should 
instead force  financial businesses  to provide better  advice.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see that Mr P feels very strongly 
Ref: DRN33656262about the way hes been treated  by The Co-op but I find myself in agreement with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
One of Mr Ps concerns is that the FCA regulations give banks  too many  rights when it 
comes to questioning  their customers - the majority  of whom are honest people  who arent 
involved in criminal activities. I realise that it must have  been very frustrating for Mr P to have 
his transfer blocked but I must  explain that we have no regulatory or disciplinary role over 
financial businesses so as the investigator has already explained we cant  comment on this.
In the circumstances of this complaint  Im satisfied that the terms and conditions of Mr Ps 
account allow The Co-op to block payments in certain circumstances  including where they 
suspect fraudulent activity. I cant require  The Co-op  to disclose why his transaction  was 
picked up by their fraud detection systems because that is commercially sensitive 
information. But because  its systems  picked up the transaction as suspicious I cant  say it 
treated him unfairly as such checks are carried out to protect the bank and its customer  
against fraud and financial crime.
Mr P is clearly  upset by questions he was asked by The Co-ops fraud team.  Its unfortunate 
that The Co-op hasnt been able to supply a copy of this call recording and I can understand 
why Mr P might think this is deliberate. However,  where we dont have all the information  
wed like we make  our decision based on the information we have.
I have no way of knowing what was said during the call but I can see from The Co-ops final 
response letter that it apologised for the way the questions made Mr P feel. The Co-op has 
provided copies  the fraud teams notes of the call. I can see from the notes that the agent  
asked Mr P about two cash deposits he made  into his account. The notes suggest hed 
withdrawn these funds  from another account.  This prompted the agent  to ask why hed not 
transferred the money from his other account to his Co-op account.
I havent seen  anything that to suggest the agent said Mr P was involved in criminal conduct. 
And I can see from Mr Ps subsequent call to the customer services  department  that he 
confirmed the agent didnt  go so far as saying this, although he thought  this is where  the 
conversation was heading.
I can certainly understand why Mr P mightve  been  offended  by this line of questioning but I 
agree with the investigator that its usual for a bank  to ask questions  about the source  of 
funds or to want to know more about why he paid cash into his account rather  than 
transferring the funds  from one account to another.
I can see that The Co-op released his funds three days  later after theyd  satisfied 
themselves that the payment was genuine and wouldnt cause them  to breach their legal or 
regulatory obligations. Overall Im satisfied The Co-op dealt with Mr P fairly  and I wont be 
asking it to do anything  further.
I realise my decision is not the outcome Mr P was hoping for but it brings  to an end what  we 
as an informal dispute resolution service  can do to resolve his complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Ref: DRN33656263Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3365626