K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr N holds  with Lloyds Bank Plc; also his former 
employer. Hes unhappy that he was given wrong information about  the rate hed be charged  
once he left the bank and ceased to be eligible for a concessionary staff rate. 
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding  the figures involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, 
it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think it was material  to the 
outcome of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn. Another reason I have left out a 
lot of the detail  is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers  when  my decision is published.
Mr Ns mortgage was on a staff rate with Lloyds when, in January 2019, he decided  to move  
and work  overseas. This meant resigning  from Lloyds, at which  point hed cease to be eligible 
for the staff rate. Mr N spoke to a mortgage  advisor about letting his property  out, and asked 
what the new rate would be. He was told it would be 2%. 
In March 2019, with his emigration now fast approaching, Mr N applied  for the consent to let. He 
was accepted but was told his new rate would be Lloyds standard variable rate (SVR) of 4.24%. 
Mr N says he asked a broker  to look for a buy-to-let mortgage with another  lender, but 
apparently no one was willing to consider offering him a mortgage as he was about to emigrate.
Mr N complained; Lloyds  apologised for the mistake and paid him £500  compensation. Mr N, 
who by now had emigrated, referred  his complaint to us. Our investigator thought  Lloyds offer 
was fair and didnt  recommend any further  redress. Mr N has asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. He says that if hed been told his rate would be 4.24% when he 
first asked in January,  hed have had been able to secure a better deal on a buy-to-let mortgage 
with another lender. As that didnt  happen  Mr N says Lloyds should  honour its mistake and 
charge him 2%.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. In this case Mr N says he was led to believe hed be charged 2% on his mortgage 
after he ceased to qualify for the staff rate. I dont actually need to make a finding  on that as 
it doesnt alter the outcome of this complaint. Thats  because its agreed, Lloyds made  a 
mistaken statement  of facts; otherwise known as a misrepresentation. When were looking at 
complaints of this type, we consider the appropriate  remedy is to place the consumer in the 
position they would be in if the incorrect information  hadnt been given. We dont put them in 
the position they would be in if it had been  correct. 
Mr N has provided a lot of evidence to support  his argument that hed have  been  a good 
credit risk and an attractive business  proposition for another lender. However, I think theres 
Ref: DRN38218882something he has overlooked. If hed been given the right information immediately, and had 
engaged his specialist broker to find him a mortgage  in January 2019 (instead of in March  
when he found  out hed been given the wrong information about his rate) Mr N would still 
have had to tell would-be lenders that he was about  to emigrate. 
Mr N living  overseas was not merely a practical  impediment  because arranging a mortgage 
from another country with substantially different time zones is tricky. Its the reason his 
broker found it impossible  to find a UK lender willing to lend to him, regardless of his 
financial means. The reason, I suspect  (albeit I cant be sure), is that it would be deemed  a 
foreign currency mortgage, and very few UK lenders provide these. Regardless of whether 
Mr N instructed his broker in January or March 2019, hed have faced the same  problem.  
Realistically, Mr N was in all likelihood never  going  to be in a position  where  he could pay 
anything other than Lloyds SVR once hed decided to resign and move  abroad. Lloyds 
mistake didnt cause him any financial loss; it simply raised his expectations to an unrealistic 
level for a period. Of course thats  annoying  and upsetting, but its why Lloyds has paid Mr N 
£500 compensation. For a loss of expectation, thats a generous settlement; if it hadnt been 
paid already, I wouldnt have awarded more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3821888