K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) to him alongside a mortgage in 1989.  
When PPI was sold, BOS was trading as Halifax. But to keep things simple, Ill refer to BOS  
for the rest of this decision. 
background
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr L didnt agree with that view.  
So the matter  has been passed  to me to make a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr L, but I havent upheld this complaint. Ill explain why below. 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mr L in a BOS branch. I cant know what was said 
during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive looked at 
what Mr L remembers about  it. And Ive also considered  some  electronic records  from BOS  
from the time of the sale. 
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether it was made clear to Mr L that the  PPI was 
optional and that he didnt have to take it out if he didnt  want  it. In his PPI questionnaire, Mr 
L said that if hed been asked about PPI, he would  have  declined the policy.  He said if hed 
known about the cover, he would have been tempted to make  a claim as his financial 
position was tenuous. 
I should probably make clear that the PPI would have covered Mr L if he was made  
redundant or if he became  unwell and couldnt work. Mr L wouldnt have been able to make  
a claim just because he may have  found it more difficult to maintain his repayments. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr L said about PPI not being  mentioned  at the 
appointment. I dont  doubt that what Mr L told us is what  he honestly remembers  about the 
sale. But I also have to consider that it is difficult to remember precisely what happened  such  
a long time ago.  I can see from the electronic records  that Mr L answered  some questions 
for the PPI policy about his health  and his redundancy situation. So although I appreciate  Mr 
L doesnt now remember, I think its likely  that PPI was discussed when it was sold. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. Thats a higher test for BOS to satisfy because it then 
had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for Mr Ls needs. To help me decide  whether it was 
suitable, Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. And Ive also thought about 
what Mr L told us about his personal  circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if he had to make a claim,  Mr Ls mortgage repayments would have been 
covered for up to 12 months for each claim if he lost his job or if he became unwell. Mr L told 
us that he couldnt remember how much sick pay hed have received. But I can see that hed 
Ref: DRN30076882only been in his job for three months,  so its likely that the PPI would have paid out for longer 
than any sick pay provision he had at work. 
Ive thought about whether the short length of time hed been  in his job would have affected 
Mr Ls ability to make a claim on this policy. I asked our adjudicator to make some  further 
enquiries about his work. Mr L told us hed been in his previous role for around  a year before 
he left that job. And he hadnt had a break in between both jobs. 
The terms and conditions  say that the insurer would only pay for the unemployment part of a 
claim if Mr L had been in continuous  employment  for 12 months. As he told us he had been 
in continuous  work  for that length  of time, I dont think this condition would have affected the 
suitability of the policy. 
In his PPI questionnaire,  Mr L said that he had savings of between  three  and six months 
worth of his salary. I havent  seen evidence of that.  But assuming Mr Ls recollection is 
correct, I think  that with PPI, he would  have been able to use those savings  on his other 
essential expenditure at what would have no doubt  been a very stressful  time for him if he 
was out of work. Its important for me to say that as this mortgage was secured on Mr Ls 
home, the consequences  of him falling  behind with his repayments  could have  been  
significant. 
Mr L told us he was in good health  at the time he bought the cover.  And I havent seen 
anything unusual about his employment  circumstances that would have stopped him from 
making a successful claim if he needed to.  With all of this in mind, I think the PPI probably 
was suitable for him when he bought it. 
Even so, BOS still had to give Mr L enough information about the PPI so he could decide  for 
himself whether it was a good fit for his needs. I accept its possible that BOS didnt tell Mr L 
everything it should have done.  But Ive set out above how the PPI might have been helpful 
for him if he lost his job. And I appreciate Mr L doesnt now remember, but I think  he 
probably chose  to buy this policy at the time  so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  I 
dont think more or better information would have  put Mr L off taking this policy out. 
It follows that I havent upheld the complaint and I dont need  to ask BOS  to take any further 
action to put things right.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3007688