K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Miss M bought the policy in 2001 at the same  time as taking a credit  card.  She applied for 
the card and PPI at a meeting. 
Miss M was employed at the time as a sales  assistant. The credit  agreement she signed  
says she had been with her employer for over three  years.  Miss M has told us she was 
entitled to redundancy pay - and full sick pay. But she hasnt been able to recall  for how long 
this sick pay wouldve been paid. Bearing  in mind her role and length of service,  I think its 
likely she was entitled to less than a years  full sick pay  probably significantly less. Miss M 
has told us, aside from work benefits,  she didnt have any other  means with which to pay her 
card if she couldnt work. Shes also told us she was in good health at the time of the sale.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness and unemployment, and also had life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful unemployment or disability claim it 
offered to repay  5% of Miss Ms card balance  for 11 months and clear  her outstanding 
balance if the claim  lasted 12 months. The policy at the time cost no more  than 79p per £100 
of the monthly  outstanding balance. The premium would continue  to have to be paid during a 
successful claim  and did attract interest.  The life cover would, subject to its terms, clear the 
account balance  on death.
Lloyds has sent us evidence to show the credit card account closed in 2005.
Miss Ms representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. I 
will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In summary, 
Miss Ms representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Miss M wouldnt have taken  
the policy and the complaint should  be upheld.  Miss Ms representatives believe there  to 
be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The information Miss M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; 
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Lloyds  should  have told Miss M about 
the poor value;  and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Miss M and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim.
Ref: DRN33755002Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Miss M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Ref: DRN33755003Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances  of Miss Ms 
case.
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Lloyds was required to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Miss Ms complaint. 
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-Whether Lloyds gave Miss M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
-If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Miss M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss M suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN33755004Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss M and 
Lloyds, Ive decided  not to uphold  Miss Ms complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Miss M know she had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear the PPI was optional.  The card application  form listed PPI under 
the heading Optional features, with boxes to tick to say either Yes or No to the cover. On 
Miss Ms form, which  she signed, the Yes box is ticked  and I think she wouldve known 
the No box could be ticked  instead  if she didnt want  the cover. Taking everything  into 
account, I think its more  likely  Miss M knew the policy was optional and agreed  to take it 
without undue pressure.  
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Miss M cant recall whether advice was given  during  the sale.  Lloyds says it did give advice. 
With all this in mind, Im persuaded Lloyds gave advice. This means Lloyds  had to advise 
Miss M with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or 
suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Lloyds took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Miss M. It seems  Miss M cant remember  clearly what  happened and 
there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy.  This is unsurprising  
in respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited  information about 
Miss Ms financial  circumstances,  but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Miss M would have been caught by the significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Lloyds considered whether Miss M had any pre-existing medical 
conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded that Lloyds did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Miss M given her circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Miss M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss M had a need for the policy  it seems likely  her ability  to continue to meet her card 
payments would have  been put under strain if she were not working for an extended 
period of time  even allowing for the work sickness and redundancy benefits  its likely 
she was entitled  to given her role and length of service.
-Miss M met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss M.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss M. There  was 
nothing about  Miss Ms employment  or occupation  which  wouldve made it difficult for her 
to claim. And she hasnt  told us about any pre-existing medical conditions that couldve 
Ref: DRN33755005affected her ability  to claim. There were also no additional restrictions on cover  for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim for 
disability or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Miss Ms circumstances 
and the fact the policy could have cleared her outstanding card balance.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Miss M sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  Lloyds 
was recommending to her and make an informed decision  about  whether to follow that 
advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Miss M was given a very broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect her card payments in the 
event she was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Miss M would have been told this  at the very least   during  the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Miss M would have taken the policy without 
any sense of what it was. The application form she signed said the PPI was protection  so 
you can continue to meet  your minimum credit card payments even if you cant  work due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment  which also would  have  given her some idea of what 
the policy was for. Im also satisfied Miss M wouldve realised the policy wasnt  free and its 
likely she wouldve had some understanding of how much it cost before agreeing to take it.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether Lloyds gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Miss M 
agreed to take the policy. Even  if that information  were in a leaflet or policy summary Miss M 
might have been given, I think its more  likely  than not that she based  her decision on the 
things she was told, rather than on anything she was given.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss M, Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Lloyds  gave her all the information  she needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Ms representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Miss Ms representative  considers  to be poor value  and 
the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
Ref: DRN33755006-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Miss M about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  
the significance  of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Ms representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss M has suggested.  And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Lloyds ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Lloyds  shortcomings have  on Miss M? To what extent did Miss  M 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Miss M. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss M 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss M 
would have still taken  the policy, had Lloyds  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss M, I have found  the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss M has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained  things properly, 
Miss M would have acted  differently, or whether she would have taken the policy  in any 
event.
Miss M says she would not have taken it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  I have considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Miss M had some interest in taking PPI. 
By this I mean when  Lloyds advised  her there  was a suitable product she could buy that 
would protect her card payments if she were  unable to work because  of accident, sickness 
or unemployment, she concluded  she wanted that product. But she made that decision 
based on incomplete information,  meaning  what she thought  she was getting is not exactly 
what she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Ms circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. In relation 
to the costs, Im satisfied  Miss M ought reasonably to have known she would have to pay 
Ref: DRN33755007something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of her outstanding  balance. But, I 
accept Lloyds didnt  make clear the on-going cost information. So while  Miss M didnt know  
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what she would reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to 
take the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss M thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability occurring  within 12 months  of the policy  start relating to 
health issues  Miss M knew or shouldve known about at the start or for which shed seen 
or arranged to see a medical practitioner  in the twelve  months before the policy start;
The policy limited,  and in some situations  excluded, unemployment cover if Miss M 
wasnt a permanent  employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a disability claim, Miss M be unable to do her job 
or any work which  in the insurers view she was or might reasonably  become qualified  
for in view of her education,  training  and ability. 
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Miss M pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss M from taking the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she would 
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  Miss M didnt have  any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I think she still had some good 
reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Miss M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.  
If Miss M had known she could only claim for disability if she were not only unable  to do her 
own job but also unable  to do any job which in the insurers view she was or might become 
qualified for in view of her education, training and ability, it might have played  into her 
thinking about what to do. And I accept  it may have given her pause for thought  but given 
her circumstances, on balance I think she wouldve still been interested in taking the cover.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not that Miss M would still have taken the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  she 
thought she was getting and I think it couldve provided a useful benefit in a difficult  time - 
notwithstanding her entitlement to employment  benefits, and taking into account  her lack of 
other means. And in those circumstances,  I consider  it more  likely than not that Miss M 
would have taken  the policy in any event.   
Ref: DRN33755008Miss Ms representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Miss M would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Miss Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  she found  
herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position she wouldve been in had the breach 
or significant failings  not occurred. 
Miss M believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible Miss M wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she would still have taken  the 
PPI had she been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  she was 
buying. So Im not persuaded  it would  be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, to 
conclude Lloyds should pay Miss M compensation, as that would put her in a better position 
than she would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware Miss M thinks Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  I accept there  is a possibility a court might conclude  some of Lloyds 
statements misrepresented the contract. But in my opinion the reason why Lloyds failed  to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Miss M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Ms representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Miss M and about the remedy  
a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of utmost 
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
Ref: DRN33755009reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Miss M in a better position than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 February  2020
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3375500