K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains that Experian  Limited  is showing his address incorrectly on his credit  file and 
this is affecting his ability to get credit. Hes also unhappy with the way Experian has 
responded to his concerns about this matter.
background
Mr V says hes been refused credit by multiple  businesses because Experian  has recorded 
his address incorrectly on his credit  file. He says his address is incorrectly formatted as it 
records the street number  of his property as his flat number. It also records part of his 
postcode in the wrong place, although it does record it in full as well. He says Experian has 
failed to put things right even though hes complained multiple times. And it hasnt complied 
with its data protection obligations as it failed to respond appropriately to his subject access  
request within  the relevant timeframe. 
Experian says it hasnt recorded incorrect information about Mr V. And discrepancies with 
his address information wont  have an impact on him during a credit check as his address is 
only used to help retrieve data when accessing his report. It says that whatever way his 
address is recorded,  it will show all his information  on his credit  report  to potential lenders. 
But it accepts it didnt  respond correctly to Mr Vs subject access request  and paid him £25 
to apologise for the inconvenience  that caused.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Vs complaint because she didnt  think  Experian had done 
anything wrong  in their administration  of his account. She gave Mr V the opportunity to 
provide any evidence to show that hed been declined credit  due to the way his address was 
formatted but he wasnt  able to do so. 
Mr V thought  Experian were at fault and should  have done more  to help him. He said 
Experian failed  to look at the right information and also failed to respond  to his subject 
access request in the correct timeframe. 
As Mr V remained dissatisfied,  his complaint  was been passed  to me. I didnt agree with all 
of the investigators  findings. So I sent a provisional  decision to Mr V and Experian to explain 
why I intended  to come to a slightly different outcome to the investigator. Experian didnt 
respond. Mr V disagreed  with some of the points Id made but said he would accept the 
redress Id recommended by way of ending the matter. Ive considered the points hes raised 
but they havent caused me to change my decision. As such, my findings and decision below 
are substantially the same as set out in my provisional decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr V is clearly  frustrated about  the way his address is formatted on his credit file and 
Experians lack of action  in correcting it. I dont underestimate his strength of feeling.  Its 
clear that the way his address is recorded is incorrect as it has his street  number recorded 
as his flat number. But Experian has said it isnt responsible for the way his address  is 
formatted on its system and, in any event,  the address it has recorded wont, in itself, have 
had any effect  on his ability to borrow. From  the information Ive seen,  I think this is a 
reasonable response to the situation.  Let me explain why. 
Ref: DRN33803042Experian doesnt necessarily hold just one specific address for each individual it holds data 
for. It holds lots of separate pieces of data, such as Electoral Roll records,  credit account 
information and public  record information  all of which might  record  the same address 
slightly differently. When someone  obtains  their report, or if a lender carries out a credit 
check, they will provide  the individuals name, date of birth and address. Any records that 
match or are linked to some or all of this information is automatically compiled into the 
report. This means  that whichever way Mr Vs address  is recorded,  or input into a search  by 
a prospective lender,  all relevant and linked  information will be shown. Mr V has sent us a 
copy of his own credit report which shows this to be true, as it holds different variations of his 
address with different lenders but they still appear  on the same report. So this means  I dont 
think Mr V has been disadvantaged in any way by the way his address is being recorded.  
Ive also seen from Experians records that the incorrect  address showing at the top of 
Mr Vs credit  report is formatted this way because  that is how Mr V provided it when he 
applied for a report. He entered the name of the property against the street and the street 
against the district.  The part post code is also recorded against the town.  
So, in light of the above, I dont think Experian  is responsible for the way Mr Vs address is 
formatted on its system. The evidence shows that Mr V input  the address in that format  
himself so I cant hold Experian  responsible for that. And Mr V hasnt provided  any evidence 
to show that theres  a link between the way his address is recorded on its system and his 
ability to get credit. 
While I havent seen  any evidence that Mr V has been disadvantaged  by the way his 
address is recorded,  I dont think Experian has handled Mr Vs concerns about this issue  
very well. It accepts  that it didnt respond to his subject access request correctly  and the 
Information Commissioners Office  confirmed that Experian didnt respond in the correct  
timeframe. Experian apologised and paid Mr V £25 for the inconvenience caused  by that 
delay and I think that apology and the payment provides suitable redress  for the impact of 
that delay on Mr V. 
Experian also failed  to clearly tell Mr V how to change his address. Its told us that the 
service Mr V has with Experian  is a self-service one and it doesnt have access to it to 
change his address.  It says Mr V would need to change this information  himself by logging  
into his account  and changing the address details himself to show the correct  format. 
From the evidence Ive seen, Experian  first told Mr V it was unable to change his address on 
its system. It then apologised for advising him incorrectly and said that it could format his 
address in the way he wanted.  It now seems  that this wasnt  correct either and only Mr V can 
change his details  via the self-service  system. Experian also told this service  it couldnt  
change the address as it had been  provided by a particular  business, which  it named. But it 
then said that wasnt correct either and said that business hadnt provided  that information.  
All of this has caused confusion and I can understand Mr Vs frustration with the way 
Experian has communicated with him. 
While I dont think Experian has acted  unfairly in not changing Mr Vs address, I do think it 
needs to do more to reflect the impact of the poor communication highlighted above. I think a 
payment of £150,  in addition to the £25 its already given him, would be fair and reasonable 
in light of the trouble and upset caused and the particular  circumstances of this case.     
Ref: DRN33803043my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I partly  uphold this complaint.
Experian Limited should now pay Mr V £150  for the trouble  and upset its caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 December  2019.
Richard Walker
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3380304