K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Santander UK Plc took his monthly credit  card payment five days early.
background
Mr K has a credit card with Santander  and set up a direct debit to meet his minimum 
repayments each  month.  He says his payments are usually taken when theyre due, but in 
April this year his payment was taken earlier than expected  the payment was due on 
23 April but it was taken  five days earlier, on 18 April. 
Mr K was unhappy about this so Santander  looked into his concerns. They explained  that as 
his payment due date was just after the Easter bank holidays, theyd taken his payment on 
the working day before. So they hadnt  done anything wrong. But they did acknowledge that 
a call dropped  during  his first attempt to complain,  so they credited £10 to his account to 
apologise.
Mr K remained unhappy  and asked for our help. One of our investigators looked  into what  
happened but she agreed with Santander. She pointed to the terms of the account that said 
the minimum monthly repayment  should be met before the payment  date.  She felt a working 
day before  the payment was due was reasonable and that Mr Ks statement  told him about 
this too. 
Mr K didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to decide. He says his other direct debits, 
such as for his mortgage, are taken on the day theyre due. And that if Santander  are doing 
this to him, theyll be doing it to others  too, so itll be impacting a lot of people. Mr K also said 
his payment comes  from an interest bearing account, so hes missed  out on this too. So his 
case has been passed to me to reconsider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Ive looked at five of Mr Ks credit card statements  for this year  each mentions the payment 
due date and what the minimum payment amounts to. Each also says the minimum payment 
will be met by a direct debit, and the date on which this will occur. 
Taking Januarys  statement as an example,  the payment was due on 23 February so the 
direct debit was set to be taken on 22 February.  Looking at February and Aprils statements, 
the direct  debits were  also set to be taken the day before the payment due date. This seems 
reasonable in an effort  to ensure payments arrive on time without the need  for late fees.
Looking at the March statement that Mr K says was paid too early, his direct debit was taken 
when Santander  said it would be  on the working day before  it was due  18 April. While 
this was five days  ahead of the due date, the working day before the payment deadline was 
the other side of the Easter long weekend. So I dont think Santander did anything  wrong,  or 
contrary to what they said they would do, in collecting the payment when they did.
Ref: DRN30464202Mr K feels  it was unfair to have to pay five days earlier than the money  was due. But had 
Santander have  waited until after Easter  to claim the payment, there was always the chance 
the money wouldnt have arrived on the same day  running the risk of late fees. 
I think Santander did enough to tell Mr K how much he needed to pay and when he needed 
to pay. So I dont think theyve done anything wrong  here. 
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3046420