K820x#14complaint
Mrs N, who is represented by a third party, has complained to us that Allianz Insurance Plc 
(Allianz) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy in or around  August 
1998. 
Although Marks & Spencer sold the policy, Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz) has taken 
responsibility for the complaint.  For simplicity, Ill only refer to Allianz from now on.
Background
Mrs N bought the policy at the same time as taking out a charge  card.  I can see she 
bought it by filling in a leaflet.
She says she didnt know shed bought PPI and didnt need it.
Although Mrs W filled out the card application, the policy was put in the name of Mr N at 
Mrs Ns request. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Because Mrs N disagreed with the 
adjudicator her complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
Ive seen that Allianz has already offered Mrs N a refund  for undisclosed  commission 
that it got from the PPI sale.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mrs Ns case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ns complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs N says she didnt know she was buying PPI. Ive looked into this very carefully, 
looking at the sale paperwork  and thinking about what Mrs N has told us.
I think its clear  from the application  form that the policy  is optional.  Mrs N had to opt-in  to 
taking it by ticking a box. She also had to write in Mr Ns full name and add his date of 
birth. If the policy wasnt optional, I wouldnt  expect  to see a box for her to tick. And 
although I can see that the form uses  the words strongly  recommend, I dont think  this 
implies the box had to be ticked. If anything, I think the use of the word recommend 
implies that there is a choice.
Also, I dont think the use of the words  strongly recommend in this context amounts to a 
personal recommendation that the policy was right for the person to be covered. So 
Allianz didnt have to check  if the PPI was suitable for Mrs N.  It did, however, have to 
give her clear information about  the PPI so Mrs N could make up her own mind  about 
whether to take it. In this instance, Mrs N decided  to nominate Mr N to be covered by the 
policy. 
Ref: DRN34555442Its possible the information Allianz gave  Mrs N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The application form sets how the monthly cost of the policy  was 
calculated  but I cant see that it says this could attract  interest. And the monthly  benefit  
isnt clearly mentioned  either. But I dont think its likely that better information would have 
affected Mrs Ns decision  to go ahead  with the policy.
I say this because  I think  the PPI was useful to Mrs N, which  in this situation means that 
Mr N ought to have  been able to make a successful  claim on the policy.  From what  Ive 
seen Mr N was eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected by any of the main terms and 
conditions. 
Although Mr N was entitled to some benefits from his own employer, the PPI could still 
pay out the benefit in addition to other sources of income and up until the balance of the 
card was clear. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped Mrs N buying  it and 
putting the cover in Mr Ns name. 
Ive taken into account Mrs and Mr Ns further comments to our adjudicator. But these points 
dont change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ns complaint. And its my understanding  that 
Allianz Insurance Plc has already paid her the PPI commission refund. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 September  2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3455544