K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy with the service  provided by Acromas  Insurance  Company 
Limited (Saga), as their details were added to the National Fraud  Database  (NFD). 
background
Mrs J purchased a car insurance policy with Saga in November 2017.  Mr J was added as a 
named driver. The cost of the policy was £291.39. 
On 18 December, Sagas  fraud team received notification  that Mrs J did not have authority 
to use the aforementioned card.  Saga  carried out an investigation into the fraud alert which 
showed there were  3 different customer  records held on Saga systems for [Mrs J], each with 
a different risk address.  Saga was unable  to find any evidence that Mrs J resided at the 
address provided  on the car insurance policy application. 
On 21 December a Saga representative contacted Mrs J to confirm her address details. It 
was recorded  that the address provided  on the car insurance application was the address 
Mrs J was planning to move to in the new year. 
Mrs Js car insurance policy was cancelled, and made void from the start date. 
Mrs J complained to Saga  about their decision  to cancel  her policy.  She provided statements 
showing no debit or credit relating to Saga had been  made  in November or December. 
Saga responded to Mrs Js complaint in January 2018 saying Mrs Js account  had been 
credited with a refund  of £291.39 on 19 December. By this time,  Mrs J had already taken out 
car insurance with another provider. 
On 31 July Mr J took out a car insurance policy with another provider (provider L), with Mrs J 
added as a named driver. On 13 September provider L cancelled  Mr Js insurance policy. Mr 
J also found out that his details had been  added to the National Fraud Database (NFD)  by 
Saga. Mr and Mrs J also found out that Mrs Js details had also been  added to the NFD. 
Mr and Mrs J contacted  Saga to complain about  their details being added to the NFD. From 
September to December,  Mr and Mrs J remained in contact with Saga about why their 
details had been added to the NFD. On 27 December Saga advised Mrs J:
 the team were  unable to validate  yourself  at the given address and you appeared to hold 
Saga Home  Insurance  at a different address. This led to your policy being declared void 
from inception.
You have  since confirmed the payment  is valid and have provided sufficient documentation  
to support this and an explanation for the different address.  Having referred the matter back  
your policy  underwriter has agreed  to retract  the voidance of your policy and remove  
any fraud alert from your account. You will not be required to declare this cancellation to new 
insurers
On 29 January 2019 Mr and Mrs J received confirmation from Saga that their details had 
been removed  from the NFD.  
Mr and Mrs J contacted  the Financial Ombudsman  Service, as they were  unhappy  with the 
response from Saga. They complained that Saga  hadnt  explained  why their details had 
Ref: DRN35184672been added  to the NFD in the first place, and, theyd  been caused  unnecessary  stress and 
upset in dealing  with Saga and other third parties in trying to clear their name. 
The investigator accepted that Sagas fraud  prevention and security  processes meant that 
they couldnt say too much about  the reasons for adding any customers details to the NFD. 
But the investigator also found  that in this case Saga  didnt do enough to fully investigate  the 
alleged fraud, and provide Mr and Mrs J the opportunity to clarify their information,  before 
adding their details  to the NFD. The investigator  recommend  Saga pay Mr and Mrs J £750 
compensation for the impact  on them  because  of what had happened. 
Mr and Mrs J said that £750  does not go anywhere near compensating for the effect  they 
have had on our lives, our reputation and our pocket. Saga didnt agree with the 
investigators findings saying We do not then go on to notify every person whose details are 
shared with a fraud prevention agency.  If we were to do this then we would  run the risk of 
potentially tipping  off someone  who has committed fraud to the fact that they are under 
investigationon this occasion [Mrs J] was not guilty of committing  fraud and as soon as we 
were made aware and provided with evidence to confirm this, her details were removed from 
the National Fraud Database.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, its been passed to me for decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive focused my comments  on what I think 
is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome.
Saga say that Mrs J misrepresented  the information  provided to them at the time of taking 
out the car insurance policy in November  2017. They say that Mrs J provided details of an 
address she wasnt residing at. Mrs J already had a home insurance policy with Saga, and 
the address shed given as part of her car insurance  application  didnt match this. 
A representative from Saga called Mrs J to clarify her address  details.  Mrs J disclosed on 
this call that the address shed provided was the address  she was planning to move  to. I 
think this was a reasonable and honest response to the question about  why a different  
address had been provided during the car insurance  application process.  
Saga say Mrs J had misrepresented the information  which Saga had used to assess  the 
policy risk at the time.  Because of this, Mrs Js policy was declared  void, and both her and 
Mr Js details were  added to the NFD.  The decision  to cancel Mrs Js insurance policy  does 
not fall within  the scope  of this final decision, for the reasons explained in my jurisdiction 
decision of 18 November  2019. This final decision concerns Sagas decision to add Mr and 
Mrs Js details to the NFD. 
I dont think Saga did enough to allow Mrs J the opportunity to verify the information shed 
given about her address, before adding both Mr and Mrs Js details to the NFD. Saga say 
On the 24th November 2018 [Mrs J] provided evidence to confirm that she had resided at 
both the address on the home policy and the address on the motor  policy,  and that the card 
belonged to herDetails were  then updated  on the national fraud database on 19/12/2018.  
Saga say Mrs J advised us that she was not moving to the address on the motor  policy  until 
a month  or so after the inception date and therefore,  I believe that even if we had provided 
Ref: DRN35184673this information  to her in Dec 17 she would not have been able to disprove that the policy  
risk information had been misrepresented. 
We would  expect a business to take reasonable steps to investigate any suspected  fraud. I 
dont think this explanation goes far enough in demonstrating Saga took all reasonable steps 
to investigate the fraud concern before adding both Mr and Mrs Js details to the NFD.
In this case, Mrs J had explained why there  was a discrepancy in the address information 
provided on her car insurance application  form. Saga  didnt ask for any further evidence to 
support what Mrs J had said about the upcoming house move. So Mrs J had no opportunity 
to provide documentary  evidence  of the different addresses. 
Saga say that Mrs J wouldnt have  been able to provide this in December 2017. But that 
doesnt change  the fact that she wasnt provided with the opportunity  to. She may have 
provided information which Saga felt misrepresented the policy  risk. Given the severity  of 
details being added  to the NFD, including the practical and emotional impact  of this on Mr 
and Mrs J, I think there was a responsibility  on Saga  to have done more to fully investigate 
Mrs Js address information before treating the information as fraudulent. 
Mr and Mrs J responded  efficiently when finding out their details had been added  to the 
NFD. On balance, I think they would  likely  have shown the same  efficiency in satisfying 
Sagas requirements  if provided this opportunity around December 2017. Saga say Mrs J 
was not moving  to the address on the motor  policy until a month or so after the inception 
date. But Mrs J may still have been  able to provide supporting documentation  about this 
potential move, which may have been acceptable  to Saga and the underwriters and 
prevented any fraud markers from being  entered.  Because this didnt happen at the time, Mr 
and Mrs J faced a difficult four months  dealing with the issue  of removing the fraud  markers 
when they discovered  these  in August 2018.  
Mr J says Our names have  been on the NFD since late 2017 until the end of 2018. That is 
12 months when anyone doing a search on our names would have found them and could 
have concluded  that we were involved in fraudulent activity.   I appreciate Mr and Mrs Js 
details were showing on the NFD for a period of 12 months. But when assessing what  level 
of compensation  would be fair in the circumstances, its important to consider the impact on 
Mr and Mrs J, including the timescale and severity  of this impact. 
Mr J says he lost out on work  opportunities because  of the fraud  markers  showing against 
him. The information held by the NFD would  generally be shared  with financial businesses 
so businesses can protect themselves and their customers from fraud.  So I think  its unlikely  
that this information wouldve been  accessed, and used in the way Mr F believes. And I 
havent seen any evidence to support that this is what happened.  Because  of this, I dont 
think it would  be reasonable to include this speculative loss when determining  what  
compensation should be awarded.
When thinking about the period of loss that compensation  should  be awarded for, I think  the 
period August 2018 to December 2018 is the relevant period. This is when Mr and Mrs J 
discovered what had happened, and it had an emotional and practical  impact  on their lives.  
This includes contacting  third parties to find out when and why the fraud markers had been 
added, and speaking with different representatives from Saga in trying to get the fraud  
markers removed. This wouldve been  a very frustrating and upsetting experience  for Mr and 
Mrs J. I think its fair that compensation reflects the upset caused during  this time. 
Ref: DRN35184674The investigator recommended  Saga pay Mr and Mrs J £750 in recognition  of the frustration 
and upset caused. I think this amount is reasonable, and broadly in line with what wed 
recommend in the circumstances. This amount takes into consideration the severity  of the 
emotional and practical impact on Mr and Mrs J, in trying  to put things  right after discovering  
the fraud markers  in August 2018,  but also that the period of detriment was limited to four 
months or so, before the markers were removed from the NFD by Saga. 
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I uphold this complaint.
Acromas Insurance  Company Limited  is directed to pay Mr and Mrs J £750 in recognition of 
the upset and frustration caused  to them following their details being added  to the National 
Fraud Database.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 December  2020.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3518467