K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires,  mis-sold 
them a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997. The policy  was taken out to cover  
their mortgage and was in Mr Ss name  only.  It provided him with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs S didnt 
agree saying, in summary, that they were cajoled into taking PPI and an endowment  policy 
and they didnt want either of them. They didnt think they would get the mortgage if they 
didnt comply with the banks suggestions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),  
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence  and the wider  circumstances.
Mr and Mrs S have  also complained to Birmingham Midshires about the sale of an 
endowment policy.  My decision is only in relation to their complaint about PPI.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint for the following reasons:
From the evidence Ive seen, and from what we know about  policies that were  sold around 
this time, I think its more likely than not that Birmingham Midshires  made Mr and Mrs S 
aware that the PPI was optional and that they chose to take it. 
Mr and Mrs S say they felt they had to follow the banks suggestions so that their mortgage 
application would be successful. I cant be sure exactly what was discussed. I accept its 
likely the salesperson talked persuasively  about the importance of making sure the mortgage 
payments were covered if Mr S couldnt  work. And I accept Mr and Mrs S were keen for their 
mortgage application to be accepted. But, as noted  above, I dont find Birmingham Midshires  
told Mr and Mrs S that they had to have the PPI. And taking the PPI wouldnt have made a 
difference to whether their application was accepted or not.
Ref: DRN32988522Its not clear whether  advice was given so, to be fair to Mr and Mrs S, Ive considered  the 
case to the higher standard of an advised  sale. It doesnt look like the PPI was unsuitable for 
them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
The policy was taken out in Mr Ss name only. He was eligible for the policy  given his 
circumstances and the terms and conditions.
Mr S told us he wouldve received up to six months pay from his employer if he couldnt 
work due to sickness or an accident.  And he and Mrs S had some savings, although 
these were earmarked for a holiday.  The mortgage  was a significant long term financial 
commitment and Mr and Mrs Ss home was at risk if they didnt  keep up with the 
repayments. The PPI would  have paid out for up to 12 months in the event of a 
successful claim for accident or sickness. So I think the PPI couldve been a useful 
benefit in addition to Mr and Mrs Ss existing arrangements. It also covered Mr S if hed 
become unemployed.
Mr S wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting the policys  main  benefits such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover  I think  it unlikely he needed  better 
advice or information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
I cant  see that the cost of the policy was clearly communicated  to Mr and Mrs S before 
they agreed to purchase it. I dont think they knew it would cost £22.77 each month until 
after theyd applied for it. For this reason I have considered whether clearer information 
about the cost would have affected Mr and Mrs Ss decision  to purchase the policy. 
They had chosen  to take out the policy, knowing  they would  have to pay something for 
it. The policy was competitively priced  and apparently  affordable.  So I think it unlikely 
they would have made  a different decision if better information  about the cost had been 
provided.
Its possible the information the bank  gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
should have been. But, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think Birmingham Midshiress 
recommendation was unsuitable and I dont think Mr and Mrs S would have made  a different 
decision about taking  out the policy if better  information had been provided  to them   overall, 
I think they would still have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 November  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3298852