K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
In 1992 Leeds Permanent  Building  Society  sold Mr and Mrs T a PPI policy at the same time 
as they applied for a mortgage.  The building society later merged into Halifax and then Bank 
of Scotland plc. I will refer to Bank  of Scotland in this decision as it is responsible for the 
complaint.
The policy gave Mr and Mrs T accident, sickness and unemployment  cover. They  paid a 
monthly amount  for it.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint wasnt upheld. Mr and Mrs T disagreed so it 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
No documents  Mr and Mrs T are likely  to have signed at the time are available.  That is not 
surprising, or unreasonable, given the sale took place over 25 years  ago. In cases  like this, 
where the evidence  is incomplete, I have to make  my decision  on the balance of probabilities  
 that is, based  on I think what is most likely given the evidence we do have, and the wider 
circumstances.
I cant know what was discussed during  the sale. Mr and Mrs T say they were told the PPI 
was a condition  of their mortgage. The bank disputes this and says they would have been 
told the policy was optional in good time before the sale was concluded. 
Whilst I dont doubt  Mr and Mrs T are giving their honest recollections of the sale, I have to 
take into account how long ago it was and how that might impact what  they recall.  Overall, 
without stronger evidence  I dont think I can fairly  conclude Bank  of Scotland didnt make it 
clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and Mrs T didnt agree to take it out.
Bank of Scotland recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs T so it had to check  it was suitable 
for them. From what I know of their circumstances, I think  it was. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs T were  eligible for the policy  and it doesnt seem they would have been 
affected by any of the main limitations  of the policy, such  as those affecting some 
people with pre-existing medical  conditions or certain types of employment contract.
   
Mr and Mrs T say they were entitled  to at least three months  sick pay and had 
around £4,000  in savings. But the PPI would  have  paid out in addition to their work 
benefits and for up to 12 months.  It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover.  
And it would  have meant they could have  used their savings to cover  other living 
expenses whilst  not working, or kept them intact for their future  needs.  
Ref: DRN34984272Mr and Mrs T were  borrowing a large  sum of money  over a long term and the debt 
was secured against their home.  So given  the serious consequences of not being 
able to make  their mortgage repayments,  overall I think  they would have found the 
PPI useful if they were  sick or lost their job(s).
Ive seen no evidence  to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs T, and it 
was competitively priced. 
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland told Mr and Mrs T about the PPI at the time of the sale. 
So its possible it didnt give them enough  information about the policy.  But for the same 
reasons I think Mr and Mrs T would have found  the PPI useful, I think that its unlikely better  
information would have changed their decision.
 
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs T have  lost out because of any problems with this sale.   
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 March  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3498427