K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about Scottish Equitable Plc changing his personal  pension to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  - the Aegon Retirement Choices (ARC) plan in 2018. 
He says that when it did so his plan value fell by £500 and the performance has been poor 
since. He also says that he shouldnt have been  invested in the Ethical fund within  his 
pension.
background
Mr D started a pension plan with Scottish Equitable in 1990. In 2017 Aegon says it identified 
that Mr D would be better off transferring to its ARC,  which had lower charges and other 
benefits. 
Aegon takes responsibility for Mr Ds complaint  and has responded to it. It did not uphold  his 
complaint. It said it sent Mr D letters advising him of the planned transfer  to the ARC  and he 
could have asked  it not to make that change  if he wished.  It also sent a letter after the 
transfer, confirming  it had taken place. It confirmed  that the charges on the ARC were not 
higher than the SIPP. 
It also said that there hadnt  been any change to the fund within  his pension that Mr D 
invested in. That had remained the same  after transfer to the ARC. So the reduction in value 
was brought about by fluctuations in the value of the fund, not because of the transfer. 
Aegon confirmed  that Mr D could reverse the transfer if he wished. It also confirmed which 
business had arranged the pension  in the first place. This business was independent of 
Aegon and it did not take responsibility for it.
Mr D referred  his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator.  The 
investigator didnt  believe  the complaint should  be upheld. He noted that Aegon had 
informed Mr D that the transfer  was to take place and that the value of his pension was not 
affected by the transfer. He said that Mr D could  make  a complaint to the business that 
advised him to invest in the Ethical fund if he wished.
Mr D later made further submissions. He didnt accept that Aegon  had managed  his 
investment fud properly  and suggested  that it should  be benchmarked against other funds 
and further investigation was necessary. He also said that it appeared he was being charged 
more under the ARC and some of the investment  was being put into cash.  He said that the 
product had been mis-sold and he did not wish to be invested in the ethical fund. 
I note that there may have  been  some confusion about the complaint process - which  led Mr 
D to believe that his complaint was being  reviewed further. It seems this only came to light 
about a year after the investigator last corresponded with him. I therefore appreciate  that it 
has taken a long time for the complaint to reach  this stage but I would confirm that this has 
not prejudiced  Mr Ds complaint and I have now reviewed it.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN38018022I have seen Aegon letters to Mr D that explain it was intending to transfer his plan to the 
ARC. These letters set out that Mr D should contact it if he didnt  want the transfer  to go 
ahead. They also said he should contact his financial  advisers if he needed  any advice. 
Because Aegon did not receive a reply to its letters, and the transfer would be in his interest, 
it went ahead with the transfer. Given that it notified  Mr D of this and he would likely benefit 
from it. I do not believe Aegon acted incorrectly. 
As I understand it, Mr D was transferred to the ARC on 22 March  2017. About £14,200 was 
transferred. To show how Mr Ds plan value  can fluctuate in lien with his investment funds 
performance, Aegon has supplied yearly  valuations. 
On 1 April 2017  Mr Ds plan was worth slightly more than the value transferred in March  
2017. This shows that Mr Ds plan did not fall in value when it was transferred. 
On 1 January  2018 his plan was worth about  £15,900. So a significant increase since  the 
point of transfer. By April 2018 it had fallen to about £14,900. It then fluctuated  in value  
between about  £16,000 and £13,000 until July 2019,  when it was worth about £15,500.
Mr Ds plan fluctuate in value because it is invested  in a fund that itself invests in such things 
as shares which  fluctuate on a daily basis. It has not been affected  in a negative  wait by the 
transfer and in fact Mr D has likely benefitted  from that because  of lower charges. There is 
no guarantee that an investment fund of this type will consistently increase in value and the 
fact that it has not increased in value in some years is not evidence that Aegon has acted 
incorrectly. It is normal for such investments  to fluctuate in value. 
I can appreciate that Mr D is not happy  with the performance of his pension investment with 
Scottish Equitable.  But, as the adjudicator discussed, returns  from investments such as this 
are not guaranteed and the amount invested  can fall as well as rise. 
Investment funds are often benchmarked against other rates  of return  say the 
performance of a share index. This is a rate that the manager targets to achieve  or better. 
However if the manager does not hit that target benchmark it does not mean that the 
manager has been negligent or acted wrongly   because the nature of investment 
management sometimes means that the returns are not as hoped  for. 
The Ethical fund was benchmarked  against  the FTSE All Share and generally met or 
outperformed that benchmark since 2013  (the period in which I have seen data).  I have not 
seen evidence that would indicate it has been mismanaged.
 
In any event, a lack of hoped  for performance  is not in itself evidence  that a fund was 
negligently managed or inherently unsuitable  for the customer. The management of an 
investment calls for making decisions about,  for example, the future economic situation. 
Making a decision  that turns out to be wrong  or less beneficial is not necessarily proof of 
negligence and the situation should not be viewed with hindsight.
It may well be that because Mr D is not contributing to the pension, its value will be more 
significant affected by the regular charges applied. If the performance of the investment fund 
is not sufficient, then the charges may gradually  erode some of the value of the investment. 
But this is how the plan operates and Aegon is entitled to apply the charges applicable to his 
policy.
Ref: DRN38018023Mr D has suggested that the charges are higher on the ARC. But I do not believe that is 
correct. Aegon has confirmed that the charges  are lower on the new plan and the charges 
levied on the old plan would have been  higher had it continued.
Mr D will see some of the pension  value  being held as cash  as this is required  to pay the 
pension charges. This is how the plan operates. 
I note that Mr D refers to concerns he raised  with his financial adviser (broker) in 1990  as to 
the Ethical fund.  If Mr D does not believe this fund is suitable for him then he can switch  it to 
another fund or even transfers his pension elsewhere. If he believes that he should never 
have been advised to invest  in this type of fund initially then he should raise  his concerns 
with the business that gave him the advice to invest in it. I believe Aegon  has provided Mr D 
with contact details  for that business.  However it seems that this business  no longer exists.  
If that is the case then Mr D can refer his concerns  to the Financial Services  Compensation 
Scheme.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2021.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3801802