K822xComplaint
Mr S complains Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked  and closed  his bank accounts. He says this 
caused him significant trouble and upset as he couldnt pay his bills and had trouble opening  
another bank  account. He wants Barclays to compensate him for the impact this all had on 
him.
Background
Mr S had three bank  accounts with Barclays.
In May 2016, Barclays blocked all of Mr Ss accounts immediately and placed the funds in 
Mr Ss accounts into a sundry  account. 
Following its review Barclays  decided to close Mr Ss accounts. Barclays  wrote to Mr S on 
19 May 2016 giving  him 60 days notice that he needed to make  alternative banking 
arrangements. However, Barclays closed  Mr Ss accounts immediately. And it asked him to 
visit a branch with some  identification so that it could release the remaining balance of his 
accounts to him. 
On 25 June 2016 Mr S went  into a branch  to try and withdraw the balance of his account. 
But he didnt  provide enough identification,  so Barclays didnt release any money to him. He 
went back into the bank  on 12 December 2018  with the right identification and was able to 
withdraw the balance of his accounts.
Mr S complained to Barclays  about  the closure of your accounts. And said the bank hadnt 
given him 60 days  notice. Mr S said this caused him a great  deal of trouble  and upset. Hes 
explained that he ended up in debt because all of his direct debits were cancelled 
immediately, and he wasnt able to gain access to the money  remaining in his accounts. 
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong.  So, Mr S brought  his complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked into the complaint. She said Barclays hadnt done  anything wrong 
when it blocked  Mr Ss accounts and had done  so to comply with its legal and regulatory  
obligations. She also said Mr S wouldnt have been  able to access his funds any earlier as 
he had provided  the wrong identification to the bank. But she said Barclays had closed 
Mr Ss accounts on 17 and 19 May 2016, rather than giving him 60 days  notice. 
Barclays accepted  what the investigator  said. And acknowledged it had made a mistake 
when it closed Mr Ss accounts too soon. So, it offered him £300  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused by it closing Mr Ss accounts sooner  than it should  have. 
Mr S didnt accept Barclays offer. He said because his accounts  were closed, he ended  up 
with quite a bit of debt because his direct debits  were  cancelled. And he had no access  to 
his money for a number of months  because Barclays  blocked his funds. Hes also said that 
Barclays have placed markers against his name which is stopping him from opening another 
bank account.
The investigator asked  for some  more information about Mr Ss financial situation at the 
time, including  his credit file. Abut the information  Mr S provided related to financial 
difficulties Mr S was experiencing much more recently.  She also didnt find any evidence that 
Barclays had placed any markers against  Mr Ss name which would prevent him from 
opening other bank accounts.  
Ref: DRN37135122Mr S disagreed. Hes still upset that Barclays didnt give him 60 days notice when it decided  
to close his account. He says £300  doesnt reflect the amount of trouble  and upset hes been 
caused. As no agreement  has been reached  the case  has come to me to decide.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come  to the same  findings and conclusions as the investigator. I know  
this will be a disappointment to Mr S. So, Ill explain why.
All banks  in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order  to meet  their 
legal and regulatory obligations. Banks are also required  to carry out ongoing  monitoring of an 
existing business  relationship. That sometimes means banks  need  to restrict customers  
accounts and ask for information about the money  going in and out of those accounts. Barclays  
has said that Mr Ss access to his account was blocked to meet these legal  requirements.
Having looked  at whats happened  in this case, Im satisfied  that the bank was complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations when it blocked Mr Ss account. So, I cant say it has 
done anything  wrong. The terms and conditions  of Mr Ss accounts  also permit  Barclays  to 
block an account. Having  considered those  terms, Im satisfied Barclays  acted in line with 
them. So, I dont think Barclays has treated Mr S unfairly when it blocked his access  to his 
funds. Ive also kept in mind that the delay in Mr S accessing his funds wasnt  as a result of 
anything Barclays did wrong. It was due to Mr S not providing correct identification when he 
went into a branch to withdraw his money.
Barclays has already  accepted  it made  a mistake  when it closed Mr Ss accounts without 
giving him 60 days  notice. Theres no dispute  between the parties as to the events that have 
taken place. So, I need not repeat them here.
Barclays has apologised for closing Mr Ss accounts too soon. It has also offered Mr S £300 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this caused  him. So, in this decision, what I need to 
decide is whether  the current offer of compensation is fair and reasonable to settle this 
complaint. I also must keep in mind the level of awards wed generally make  for broadly 
similar situations. 
In response to the investigators view, Mr S has argued that he didnt have enough time to 
set up other  direct debits  and he ended up in debt. But despite being asked for information  
by the investigator, Mr S hasnt been  able to provide any evidence  to support whats  said.  
So, I cant say the financial difficulties Mr S says he experienced were caused by the 
mistake Barclays  made.
But I do think hes been caused unnecessary distress  and inconvenience.  Mr S had to go to 
the trouble of setting up all his direct debits again  and opening new bank accounts. Having 
all his accounts closed  suddenly would undoubtedly  have been very distressing for Mr S. I 
can also understand he was worried about  being able to pay for the cost of everyday living 
expenses for his family. So, Im satisfied that Mr S was caused  trouble and upset.  
Ive no doubt Mr S has had an upsetting and frustrating time. But I think  the offer of £300 
compensation, is fair and reasonable. I can also see that as soon as Barclays  were  aware  it 
Ref: DRN37135123had made  a mistake  it offered to put things right. So that it can be enforced,  should that be 
necessary. I shall however, make a formal  award  requiring Barclays to pay it. 
I know Mr S feels Barclays  have  placed  a marker against his name  which is stopping him 
opening accounts with other banks. But I havent seen any evidence  to support this. And I 
cant add anything further to the advice the investigator has already given Mr S on this point. 
So, Id encourage him to contact the agencies the investigator has already directed him to.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that, in order to resolve Mr Ss complaint, Barclays Bank UK PLC should 
pay Mr S £300 compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered when Barclays  closed his 
accounts sooner  than it should have. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3713512