K822xcomplaint
Mrs P complained because Santander  UK Plc applied a Do not renew  block  on her debit 
card in 2015. This meant  that her card didnt automatically renew in December 2018.  Mrs P 
had to chase Santander, and was unhappy that the bank gave her incorrect information, 
never explained why the card had been blocked,  and didnt apologise.
background 
Mrs P opened an account with Santander  in December 2014. Her debit card was due to 
expire at the end of December 2018. At that time,  Mrs P was abroad. On 11 December she 
sent a secure  message to Santander, saying she hadnt received the replacement. She 
explained that her husband would be joining her on 22 December so she asked Santander 
to ensure the replacement card was sent to her home address  before that, so he could take 
the card to her. She followed  up her message with two others on 13 and 14 December.
Santanders secure message system  wasnt  real-time, and it was 14 December when 
Santander rang Mrs P with a reply. Santander told Mrs P that it had sent her a letter in 
August 2018 notifying her that the card wouldnt  be renewed unless  she used it within  the 
next eight weeks.  It said that it no longer issued replacement cards  to customers  who hadnt 
used their cards in the months prior to expiry.  But Santander  said it had now unblocked Mrs 
Ps card, and ordered  a new card for her.
Mrs P was angry,  and said she hadnt had a letter. She wanted Santander to guarantee the 
card would arrive before 22 December. The adviser couldnt guarantee that as the normal  
timescale was 5 to 7 working days,  but he said that meanwhile Mrs P could transfer funds to 
a different account  using online banking. Then shed be able to access her money with a 
different debit card. 
Santander confirmed  this in a letter the same day, 14 December. Mrs P wasnt satisfied and 
there was further  correspondence. Santander offered £20 compensation which  Mrs P 
refused. In this correspondence, Mrs P confirmed on 20 December that the new card had 
arrived at her home address. And in a letter on 21 December, Santander responded to Mrs 
Ps statement that Santander staff had been rude and uncaring. It didnt agree, and said that 
Mrs P had also been angry and had sworn during the call. 
Correspondence continued. On 4 January 2019, Santander said it had made further 
investigations, and its previous replies  had been  incorrect, because  no letter had been  sent 
in August 2018. It said that the block which had been put on renewing Mrs Ps card is likely  
due to behavioural scoring and not because she hadnt used her card. It said that there  
were several factors which make up behavioural scoring, so Santander couldnt give the 
exact reason,  especially  as it had been  applied back in 2015. Santander apologised and 
said it had provided  feedback to its staff. It said it had forwarded  feedback  to the relevant 
department about procedures. And it offered Mrs P £150 compensation in acknowledgement  
of her time, the incorrect  resolution  having  been given, and for any distress.  Mrs P refused.
Mrs P complained to this service. She said that Santander had made a clandestine decision 
not to renew her card, without any regard to her right to access  her own money  or their duty 
of care.  She said Santander had secretly  planned to sabotage her life, and had made  things 
worse by:
-implying she lacked  integrity; 
-telling  outright lies about sending letters and Mrs P not using her card;
Ref: DRN38370732-rejecting her complaint several times  before realising their agents had been the ones 
lacking integrity;
-Mrs P said Santander should  have written  to her in 2015, rather  than secretly  
planning to ruin her life three  years  later;
-not being able to explain  why it made  the decision to block  the card in the first place;
-not acting  with any sense of urgency or responsibility when Mrs P could have been 
stranded without  access to her own money.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint. She said she could understand the situation 
had been distressing and difficult  because Mrs P had been abroad.  The adjudicator 
recognised that Mrs P wanted to know why the error had occurred, and wanted  Santander  to 
change its policies. But the adjudicator said she couldnt  establish  why the error had 
occurred, and said that this service  cant advise how a company should handle  its internal 
processes. Nor do we punish a bank  when those processes dont  work   but we review 
complaints to ensure they are dealt with fairly. She thought £150  was fair and reasonable 
compensation for Mrs Ps complaint.
Mrs P wasnt  satisfied  and sent detailed objections. In summary, she said the adjudicator 
had reiterated  Santanders responses to the easier issues,  but hadnt dealt with the 
clandestine blacklisting, which Mrs P said was the whole reason she came  to this service  in 
the first place. She asked if the adjudicator  was really condoning this sort of behaviour. Mrs 
P said that before Santanders  final response letter, it had categorically  refused to apologise 
for blocking her card in 2015. She said this was unresolved. And online banking would have 
been useless  as she was in a rural area abroad. Mrs P said she wanted  Santander  to 
apologise for its original  mistake.  She also said: As a watchdog,  you should be more 
interested in the larger picture of Santander and its policies and whether they are fair to 
consumers... I insist  on an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mrs P has raised several points  in her 
submissions to this service. Ive understood and looked into all of these, but Ive commented  
on what I think is vital to my conclusions.
Its clear that Mrs P is extremely  angry about  what happened.  But I must explain what  this 
service does and doesnt  do. We arent  the regulator  thats the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). Its not for this service  to look at any financial businesss policies and determine 
whether or not these are fair, or need to be changed. So its not open to me to do as Mrs P 
asks, and assess Santanders policies and procedures.
What we do is provide  an impartial  service  to settle individual  disputes  between consumers 
and financial  businesses.  So Ive considered the specific events of Mrs Ps individual  
complaint, but not Santanders  processes as a whole.
I recognise that Mrs P was particularly concerned about not getting a replacement  card sent 
out in good time, because she was abroad, and said she needed a debit card in the 
particular location  in which she was living. 
And Santander initially gave Mrs P incorrect information  about  why a block  had been put on 
her card being renewed. That was an error,  which the bank shouldnt have made. 
Ref: DRN38370733But in its 4 January  2019  final response  letter, Santander accepted  it had made an error.  
That letter does apologise for the inconvenience or distress  caused. And I also note that 
when Santander  first received Mrs Ps request about  her replacement card, on 14 
December, it removed  the block and issued a new card manually straightaway.  This meant  
that the card arrived on 20 December,  before  the old one expired  on 31 December.  I 
recognise that this wouldnt  have happened  if Mrs P hadnt been proactive and contacted  
Santander  because the bank wouldnt have known there was anything wrong. But I 
consider that Santander acted promptly about  the practicalities of replacing the card, even 
though it didnt provide a correct answer about  the reasons straightaway.
Santander hasnt  been able to identify why the block was put on Mrs Ps card, other  than 
that it was for behavioural scoring. Its said this process involved complex factors, and also 
the fact that this took place in 2015  meant the score  wasnt available. As I dont have 
evidence, I cant tell Mrs P why the block was put on. And as Ive explained, this service 
doesnt regulate banks policies and processes.
I recognise that Mrs P has said that she isnt concerned about compensation, but about what 
is reasonable and acceptable. Shes  said that what she is concerned  about is the 
clandestine  blacklisting and as Ive explained,  this isnt something I can make findings 
about. But I have  considered whether, in the individual circumstances of Mrs Ps complaint, 
Santanders offer of £150 compensation was fair. I find that it was. When we look at 
compensation, we consider the impact on a customer. I recognise that Mrs P was very angry 
and upset. But in fact, Mrs P  through her own initial chasing  did get a replacement  card 
before the old one expired. So she wasnt without access to her funds. I find that 
Santanders offer of £150 compensation was fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. I leave it to Mrs P to decide whether 
or not she wishes to go back  to Santander  and ask whether its offer of £150 compensation is 
still available.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3837073