K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI). 
Its been agreed Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  as the insurer should 
accept responsibility  for this complaint.  Although FICL didnt  actually sell the PPI, to 
keep things simple  Ill refer just to FICL  in my decision.
background
Mrs M was sold a PPI policy with a store card in 2002. 
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ms complaint didnt think FICL made it clear to her the 
PPI didnt cover accident and sickness  claims caused by a medical condition she had when 
she bought it. And our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs M wouldve bought  the PPI if FICL  had 
made this clear. 
FICL has questioned  whether Mrs M wouldve needed to claim on the policy  for her medical 
condition. So her complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had a duty to give Mrs M enough  clear  information about the PPI so she could make an 
informed decision about whether she wanted it. From what Ive seen, I dont  think FICL did 
this. And I think if FICL had given Mrs M the clear information it shouldve,  she wouldnt have 
bought the PPI.
Its likely  the policy Mrs M was sold wouldnt  have  covered her for accident  and sickness 
claims caused by any medical condition she had when  she bought it. Mrs M says she was 
diagnosed with a medical condition in 1994  and shes been on daily medication  for it since  
then. She also says if shed been  asked about her health at the time she was sold the PPI, 
she would  definitely  have disclosed her condition.
In response to our adjudicators view on Mrs Ms complaint, FICL says if Mrs Ms condition 
was manageable and didnt affect her day-to-day  life, she wouldnt  have  needed to claim on 
the policy for it. So it says the condition might not have impacted  on her decision to buy it.
But the condition  Mrs M has is a serious  one, which I understand can have  wide-ranging 
symptoms that arent always  easily controlled by medication. And, as Ive already 
mentioned, she says she wouldve disclosed it if shed been asked about it at the time.  
So I think the exclusion its likely the policy  had for known medical conditions wouldve 
mattered to Mrs M when she bought the PPI. But there was no information about it on the 
application form Mrs M signed. And I havent  seen anything else to show  FICL made it clear 
to Mrs M at the time.
Ref: DRN36071042I dont think Mrs M wouldve gone ahead with the PPI if shed known she wasnt  likely to 
have been covered if shed needed time off work because of her medical  condition.  It follows 
that I think Mrs M has lost out because  of what FICL has done  wrong  and so it should  put 
things right.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs M in the financial  position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
So:
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs M wouldve owed  when  she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs M owed when she closed her 
account and what  she wouldve  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs M wouldve owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs M would have owed each  month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs M paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point  when Mrs M 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year
D.FICL should tell Mrs M what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mrs M a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and direct Financial Insurance  
Company Limited  to put things right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3607104