K820x#14complaint
Mr M doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) to use his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) compensation to reduce a debt from which he was discharged  
when his protected trust deed came to an end.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 22 August 2019.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of my final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I thought it 
was fair for RBS to use Mr Ms PPI compensation to reduce the amount he owed  and didnt 
repay when  his trust deed came  to an end.
Mr M didnt  provide any further  comments or evidence to me following my provisional 
decision.
RBS responded  saying  that it had carried out a further review  of the amount against which it 
intended to apply set-off. As a result of this review, it now says that this amount  is 
£11,392.99. This figure takes account  of dividends  received prior to completion of the trust 
deed and a previous payment by Mr M which had reduced the outstanding balance. And 
RBS says that, once  acceptance of its offer is received, it will update it for the additional 
interest which has accrued since it was made  and then set it off against the £11,392.99.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although RBS has provided  me with an updated  amount against which  it says it intends to 
apply set-off, this doesnt make a difference  to the outcome  I said I was intending to reach in 
my provisional decision. I say this because it is clear that the amount RBS intends to apply 
set-off against is still significantly higher than the compensation  its offered. 
So it follows  that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation to reduce the amount 
Mr M owed  and didnt repay  when  his trust deed  came to an end.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think Its fair for 
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to use Mr Ms compensation for the mis-sold PPI to reduce 
the amount he owed  and didnt repay when his trust deed came  to an end.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN35885762copy of my provisional decision
complaint
Mr M doesnt think its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  to use his payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) compensation  to reduce  a debt from which he was discharged  when his protected 
trust deed came to an end.
background
RBS sold Mr M a PPI policy  to protect the repayments on an overdraft  account he had with it. Mr M 
complained to RBS that the policy had been mis-sold to him. RBS upheld his complaint.  It offered  to 
refund the PPI premiums and the extra interest on these that Mr M had paid to date, together with 
simple interest  to compensate him for the time hed been out of pocket. 
However, in 2005, Mr M had granted a trust deed - which became a protected trust deed - for his 
creditors. This is an alternative in Scotland to bankruptcy (called sequestration there). It is a legally-
binding agreement between a consumer  and their creditors, which  is administered by a trustee.
When the protected trust deed started,  Mr M had agreed debts to RBS totalling  £15,956.90,  of which  
£9980.33 related to his overdraft account. And RBS has confirmed that it wrote off £13,883.92 of debt 
following completion  of the trust deed. So a substantial amount of this debt was left unrecovered from 
Mr M.
RBS says it wants to use the PPI mis-sale  compensation its offered to Mr M as partial  payment of the 
monies it hadnt fully recovered when Mr Ms protected trust deed ended in 2009. But Mr M doesnt 
think that the PPI compensation hes been offered  should  be used in this way. He says that, as the 
protected trust deed has now ended, he doesnt still owe any money  to RBS. And so he thinks the PPI 
compensation should be paid directly to him.
Our adjudicator didnt think that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He thought  that it was fair in 
these circumstances  for RBS to use the compensation offer partially to offset  the debts to it which  
were still unpaid when the protected trust deed  was ended. Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
view, so the case has been  passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable, Im required  by DISP 3.6.4 R of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook to take into account:
(1) relevant:
(a) law and regulations;
(b) regulators rules, guidance and standards;
(c) codes of practice; and
(2) (where appropriate) what [the ombudsman]  considers to have been good industry practice  at 
the relevant time.
Where the evidence  is incomplete,  inconclusive  or contradictory, Ive made my decision  on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is most likely  to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN35885763As RBS has upheld Mr Ms PPI mis-sale  complaint, in this provisional  decision Ive just looked at 
whether what  its done to put things right is fair and reasonable. So what  I need to decide  is whether  
its fair and reasonable for RBS to use Mr Ms PPI compensation offer to reduce  the much higher 
amount of debt which he wasnt required  to repay back to it (and was written off by RBS) after his 
protected trust deed was closed.
And in this case the relevant  law I need to take account of is Scots law. In recent years thereve been 
a number of cases looking  at what happens  to PPI compensation after a trust deed has come to an 
end. 
In Dooneen Ltd v Mond [2018] UKSC 54, the Supreme Court considered  the effect  of a discharge  
following a final distribution by the trustee.  In that case, the discharge was held to terminate the trust 
which meant that any unrealised assets  were returned to the debtor  including the PPI compensation  
that no one had known about at the time.
In Donnelly v The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC [2017] SAC (Civ) 1, the Sheriff Appeal Court 
considered whether RBS could offset PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt been repaid 
when the trust deed came  to an end. The terms of the trust deed in this case  meant RBS had, in 
effect, agreed that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt later revive  the debt to offset the 
PPI compensation (I understand RBS has appealed this decision, so the outcome may change).
So I accept that, unless and until the Inner House reverses the decision of the Sheriff Appeal Court, 
and on the assumption that the relevant terms of the trust deed in Donnelly are essentially the same 
as those in this case, then RBS could  not, in court, successfully argue  for set-off in this case.
But I must apply an over-arching  test of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of 
Mr Ms complaint. And I simply dont think it would be fair to tell RBS to pay Mr Ms PPI compensation  
directly to him when he borrowed a great deal more money from RBS - including on his overdraft  
account  which wont ever now be repaid. The fact that Mr Ms protected trust deed had come to an 
end before this offer of PPI compensation was made doesnt, in my opinion, make a difference  to 
what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances here. I dont think anyone  would think  it fair to require 
RBS to repay the PPI compensation directly  to Mr M when he doesnt now need to pay back  to RBS a 
much bigger amount  which  he borrowed - the largest part of this being on the overdraft to which his 
mis-sold PPI policy was attached.
So it follows from what Ive said that I think its fair for RBS to use the PPI compensation  its offered to 
reduce the outstanding  debt which was written off by RBS following the closure of his protected trust 
deed.
Finally, I note that RBS has argued that the complaint by Mr M, which is the subject of this provisional 
decision, should be dismissed by this service  without  considering its merits. This is on the grounds 
that the offer it has made  to him was on the basis of a full and final settlement.  
Ive considered the point RBS has made. But Im not aware that Mr M has formally accepted this offer. 
And even  if he has done so, I think it would have been on the basis that he thought he was entitled to 
have the compensation paid directly to him, because his former  debts  had been  extinguished when 
the trust deed was completed.  Given the uncertainty about the legal  position  regarding pre-existing  
debts after a trust deed had ended, I dont think RBSs offer made  its position sufficiently clear. And 
so I dont think it would be appropriate to dismiss  the case  on that basis.
Ref: DRN35885764my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont currently think that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. Im minded 
to decide that its fair for The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to use Mr Ms compensation  for the mis-sold 
PPI to reduce the amount he owed  and didnt  repay when his trust deed came to an end.  So based 
on what Ive seen  so far I dont plan to make a further award.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3588576