K820x#14complaint
Mrs H, through her representative, complains that The Royal London Mutual  Insurance  
Society Limited (as it is known now) wrongly  advised her to take out a Free Standing  
Additional Voluntary Contributions  (FSAVC) Plan. 
background
Mrs H was advised to start contributions to an FSAVC plan in 1996. She subsequently 
became concerned about the advice shed been  given  and complained  to Royal London. 
Royal London said it was upholding her complaint. It completed a loss assessment  
calculation in line with the guidance laid down  by the regulator for the review of FSAVC 
cases on a charges-only basis.  It offered Mrs H £536.49 in full and final settlement of her 
complaint. 
Mrs H didnt accept the offer.  Her representative  said, in summary, that given Mrs Hs age 
she was potentially able to accrue  nearly 39 years of service  in her occupational pension  
scheme. It said she was in her early  twenties and had other  priorities  at that time; planning 
on saving for a property  purchase and plans for a family in the future. He thought the 
premiums for the FSAVC should be refunded as the FSAVC was mis-sold outright. 
However, he thought  that if making  additional pension  provision was deemed appropriate 
then buying added years wouldve been the more favourable option at the time. 
Royal London didnt  agree and Mrs H referred  her complaint to us. One of our investigators 
considered the complaint. She thought  the offer made by Royal London  was a reasonable 
one in the context of all the circumstances. 
Mrs Hs representative didnt agree. He said the cost of buying the added year was much 
less than the £20 per month Mrs H was paying. So the added  year was significantly less 
expensive and it was unlikely Mrs H would have needed to end that contract  for affordability 
reasons - even with increases  in cost each year in line with a rising salary.  The extra 
flexibility of a money purchase contract wouldnt have appeared important in these 
circumstances. 
He also thought Mrs H was very close to the funding  maximum and was at risk of over 
funding. She was likely  to remain with her employer throughout  her career and all these 
factors pointed towards the added years  scheme being the obvious and likely choice if it had 
been brought to her attention.
The case  was considered by another one of our investigators. His view that Mrs H would 
have benefitted  from the additional flexibility offered  by the FSAVC given her priorities might 
change. So he thought  the in-house  AVC would also have provided this flexibility compared 
to buying added years; allowing her to adjust  her contributions in a period where financial 
priorities might change. Although he accepted that cost wasnt  a key consideration in 
Mrs Hs circumstances, he thought it more likely than not that Mrs H wouldve opted for the 
in-house AVC. He also thought there  was some leeway to make further pension 
contributions. He noted that Mrs H wasnt anywhere  near the Inland Revenue limits (as it 
was at that time) such that she would require a headroom check.
Mrs Hs representative responded to say, in summary, that although Mrs H she may not 
have required an upfront headroom check,  the overall Inland Revenue  limit on maximum 
benefits would have still applied. The FSAVC fund would be brought  into the maximum 
Ref: DRN38030482benefit check at retirement. Mrs H only had a shortfall in service  of 1 year, 7 months before 
reaching maximum benefits. So she didnt have much leeway before she reached the limit. A 
money purchase arrangement (either FSAVC or in-house AVC) was not the most suitable 
arrangement for safely achieving maximum benefits  she could have done so without any 
risk of over-funding with "added years" and which was substantially less than she was asked 
to pay to her FSAVC.
Although the representative thought that added years was the most obvious  route  for 
additional pension  saving he re-iterated that in his view there was no need for additional 
pension funding. He thought the best solution to this case  would be for Royal  London to 
agree to cancel  the FSAVC and refund all the contributions paid.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Royal London has accepted that the FSAVC plan wasnt  sold compliantly. The dispute that 
remains is about its offer of compensation.
The firms adviser shouldnt have  recommended  an FSAVC until hed drawn Mrs Hs 
attention to the availability  of the in house options;  discussed the differences in generic 
terms and directed Mrs H to her in-house  scheme to get more  information about its options. 
So if the adviser had discussed the generic differences and Mrs H had obtained further  
information from the scheme,  is it more likely that she would have opted  to buy the added  
year or pay into the in-house AVC scheme?
I think given the choice between the FSAVC and the lower  charging  in-house AVC, its 
reasonable to conclude  thats its more likely than not that she would have opted for the lower 
charging contract;  they had similar  features and the FSAVC  offered little benefit to Mrs H 
over and above the in-house AVC but had a higher cost.
However there were  material  differences  between the in-house AVC and buying  added 
years. In Mrs Hs particular circumstances, I think they would  have required a more forensic 
analysis of each  in order to decide  which would have been more  appropriate.  But I think  
Mrs H would have looked at the options in more general terms in order  to decide  was the 
better option for her.
One of the main differences  is the risk that each presents. In this case Mrs H expected  to 
remain a member of her OPS for the longer  term. And in particular, if she expected  to be a 
member until retirement date she would have built up significant pension provision.  So I 
dont think risking the loss of a single year in the scheme versus potentially building  up 
additional provision  in an investment based environment presented material risks. 
These matters need to be considered  in the context of the time and not with the benefit of 
hindsight. Given reasonable expectations  for investment returns and annuity  rates  in 1996, I 
dont think paying  into the in-house AVC fund would have appeared to present material  risks 
compared to buying added years. 
And like the adjudicator, I think  the flexibility offered by the in-house AVC would have 
appeared appealing given  the long-term  nature of the commitment  to buy added years. I 
Ref: DRN38030483understand what the representative has said about  its initial lower cost and, even with salary 
increases, that it may have remained easily affordable. And also the concerns about pension  
funding if it appeared Mrs H was predicted  to accrue  over 38 years  in her scheme.  But 
circumstances can change over such a long period of time.  And paying  in the higher amount 
whilst it was affordable may have  provided  flexibility in later years if circumstances did 
change. If there was a possibility that Mrs H would  start pushing  up against  the Inland  
Revenue limits (that were  previously in place) she could address  that at the time.  
Overall, and on balance,  Im not persuaded that Mrs H would have chosen to buy added 
years instead of money purchase AVCs if shed been advised  to investigate that option. I 
therefore consider  Royal  London has already  offered  compensation on an appropriate basis. 
my final decision
I am aware  that the firm has made an offer to Mrs H to pay her compensation in line with the 
regulators FSAVC review  guidance  on a charges-only basis. 
I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My final decision 
therefore is that The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  should  pay Mrs H 
compensation calculated in accordance with the regulators FSAVC review guidance on a 
charges-only basis. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3803048