K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that STARTLINE MOTOR FINANCE LIMITED (SMF) overcharged him for 
damage to a car on its return at the end of a hire purchase agreement..
background
In December 2018 Mr A terminated his agreement with SMF. The car was some eight years 
old and had done 116,868 miles. It was collected by an agent acting for SMF. The car was 
inspected and they identified a number  of areas  of damage which amounted  to a charge of 
£1,416.30. SMF reviewed  the report and waived most of the charges. It issued an invoice  for  
£177.73. This was for:
Refit to front bumper  - £25.00.
Refinish of chip on front bumper  - £125.00.
Replacement of broken bonnet latch - £27.37.
Mr As complaint was rejected by SMF and so he brought it to this service.  It was considered 
by one of our investigators who recommended  it be upheld in part. He reviewed  the 
evidence of the damage using the British Vehicle  Leasing and Rental Association (BVRLA)  
guidelines. He agreed the front bumper needed  to be refitted, but said the photographic 
evidence for the other two items wasnt sufficiently clear to allow  him to agree with the 
charge. He also noted Mr A had confirmed the bonnet latch was working.
Mr A agreed but SMF didnt. It said that it relied  on the inspectors report and said he could 
tell the difference between everyday dust and paint chips and identify a broken component.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The car was relatively  elderly and had done  a high mileage and so a degree  of wear and 
tear is to be expected .The reason for these  charges  is to reflect the diminished  value of the 
car, but the fact it is an old car with a high mileage  means that the impact of such  marks is 
less than it would be on a newer  car.
SMF has already recognised that by slashing the charge for damage as suggested by the 
report. I note it has said it has relied on the report for the remaining damage, but I am not 
clear as to why it is happy to accept the inspectors  view on the disputed  items, but not the 
others. 
It is not clear  if the bonnet catch is broken and the photograph certainly doesnt show a 
broken latch. Therefore I consider on balance that this charge should be removed. As for the 
front bumper I can see there are some marks, but I cannot conclude that these fall outside 
fair wear and tear as defined by the BVRLA  guidelines. Again given the lack of clarity I think 
it fair that SMF forgo this charge too.
Ref: DRN30354562my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct STARTLINE MOTOR  FINANCE  
LIMITED to reduce the charge to £25.Under the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman  Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr A to accept or reject  my decision before 29 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3035456