K820x#14complaint
Its agreed that Financial  Insurance  Company  Limited (FICL),  as the insurer, should accept 
responsibility for this complaint. To keeps things simple, Ill just refer to FICL in my decision.
Miss S says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss S bought  the policy  in 1997  at the same time as taking  out a store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Miss Ss complaint because:
FICL has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which I can see 
Miss S signed.  Theres a separate section for PPI on the credit  agreement,  in which  I can 
see theres  a tick next to the statement saying Miss S wished to take out the PPI. Ive 
thought carefully about whether the PPI wasnt otherwise  presented as optional.  But 
overall, whilst I accept  this is possible, I think its most  likely that FICL made Miss S aware 
that she had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it  even if, 
understandably, she cant remember that now.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Miss S so it didnt have to check  it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Ive not seen  evidence that persuades  me Miss S was affected by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover  and it looks like the policy couldve been 
useful to her. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped  her buying it. 
Ive taken into account Miss Ss comments. But for the reasons explained above, these 
points dont change  my conclusion.
Ref: DRN34802112my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3480211