K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Ferratum UK Ltd was irresponsible to lend him money.
Mr W wants Ferratum  to refund the interest and charges that he paid and remove any 
negative information  about the loans from his credit file.
background
Mr W took out seven payday loans with Uncle Buck between  April and December 2018. A 
summary of his loans  is below:
Loan  
numberDate taken Amount Date repaidNumber  of 
repaymentsMax. monthly
repayment
1 23/04/2018 £200 30/04/2018 1 £210
2 30/04/2018 £200 31/05/2018 1 £250
3 31/05/2018 £200 29/06/2018 1 £246
4 29/06/2018 £300 01/08/2018 1 £377
5 16/08/2018 £600 05/09/2018 3 £304
6 05/09/2018 £600 30/11/2018 3 £304
7 03/12/2018 £600 29/03/2019 4 £251
Before this service became involved, Ferratum offered  to refund £220 to Mr W. It isnt clear 
what this refund related to.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ws complaint about loan seven be upheld.  She didnt 
recommend that any earlier loans were  upheld as Mr W didnt give us any evidence  of his 
financial circumstances at the time.
Mr W disagreed  with the adjudicators recommendation so the complaint came to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I was minded to uphold more of Mr Ws 
complaint than the adjudicator recommended. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ferratum needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr W 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Ferratum should  fairly  and reasonably  have  done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN32467892the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ferratum was required to establish whether Mr W could  sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines  sustainable  as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
loan seven
Although Ferratum had already agreed to put things  right for loan seven,  it had calculated  
the refund  based on the wrong loan. 
loans one to three
Ferratum gave us evidence that it asked  Mr W about his income  and carried  out credit  
checks before agreeing  to lend. I considered Ferratum carried out adequate checks before 
agreeing loan one. But I didnt think Ferratum  asked enough questions  before agreeing  
loans two and three.
By the time that Mr W asked for loans two and three Ferratum could see a history of taking 
on new borrowing immediately upon  settling  each previous loan.  And the amounts  that      
Mr W asked to borrow had remained the same. 
I thought that a proportionate check before agreeing loan two shouldve  included asking     
Mr W about his income, living cost and regular financial commitments. And before agreeing  
loan three,  I wouldve also expected  Ferratum  to ask about Mr Ws other short term lending 
commitments.
Ref: DRN32467893However without seeing  evidence of what Mr W was likely to have told Ferratum about his 
financial circumstances before agreeing loans two or three, I couldnt reasonably uphold    
Mr Ws complaint  about these loans. 
loan four to six
By loan four Ferratum could see a history  of Mr W taking  out a new loan on the same  day as 
repaying each  previous  loan. And the amount that Mr W asked  to borrow had increased from 
£200 to £300.
I considered that this pattern of repeated borrowing  without any break indicated that Mr W 
was struggling to manage his money  and was using short term loans for everyday living 
costs rather than as intended for one-off unexpected  expenses.
I didnt consider that it was sustainable for Mr W to keep  borrowing money  from Ferratum.  
And based on the pattern  of borrowing, I considered  Ferratum  should have realised this and 
not agreed to lend from loan four onwards.
further submissions
Ferratum responded  to say that it still considered its earlier offer to put things  right for loan 
seven was fair. It included  the correct loan and redress this time.
Ferratum explained  that it declined a number of loan applications and offered Mr W less than 
he asked for  indicating that it was carrying out responsible lending  checks.
Ferratum said that loan four was a micro loan that Mr W repaid in full and on time. Ferratum 
said that loans  five to seven  were  instalment loans and Mr W repaid one earlier than agreed.
Mr W hasnt asked me to consider any further information.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I appreciate what Ferratum says about the checks that it carried  out and Mr Ws good  
repayment history. But I still consider Mr Ws pattern  of repeated lending  often on the 
same day or shortly  after repaying an earlier loan - indicated that he was having problems 
managing his money. 
For all the reasons that I outlined in my provisional  decision, I still consider that its fair to 
uphold Mr Ws complaint  in part.
Ref: DRN32467894to put things right,  Ferratum should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr W paid on loans four to seven;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any negative information  about loans four to six from Mr Ws credit file: and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan seven means that any information about  
loan seven is negative. So all entries about loan seven should be removed from Mr Ws 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum  to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must  
give Mr W a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct 
Ferratum UK Ltd to put things right as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3246789