K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC exchanged some money for them, 
against their wishes. Mr P has brought this complaint on behalf of both of them.  
background
Mr P said that he and his wife wanted  to open a euros account in the UK, to move some  
money from elsewhere in Europe. They opened an account with Barclays. They  said that 
they didnt want  a sterling account too, but Barclays had told them  that they couldnt have a 
euros account unless  they also had the sterling  account. So they opened both. 
Mr P then arranged a transfer from an overseas  bank to his Barclays account, of a very large 
sum of money in euros. He said that he didnt know at the time that the bank manager there  
had copied down the number for the sterling  account, not the euros account. Mr P signed the 
transfer form in the overseas bank.
The money then arrived in Mr and Mrs Ps sterling account. It had been converted from 
euros into sterling. Mr P said that hed been clear with Barclays that he didnt want that to 
happen. 
Mr P has discussed this problem with the sending bank, and its told him that in the country  
he sent the money from, different  currency  accounts  dont  have different numbers. So that 
bank manager  didnt know that the account  number  for the euros account had to be used. 
That bank has told Mr and Mrs P that theres nothing  more it can do.
Mr P has also spoken to Barclays. He says that it has told him that the money was 
exchanged automatically, and theres nothing it can do either. 
Mr P says that he was always  clear  with Barclays that he was going to transfer a large 
amount of money  into the euros account  and he didnt  want that money changed  into 
sterling. He hadnt  wanted the sterling account  at all. And Mr P said that the money  was sent 
in euros.  Mr P said that either  Barclays shouldve contacted  him to ask whether he wanted 
this money to be changed into sterling, and to give him advice about exchange rates,  or the 
funds shouldve been refused, and sent back to the overseas bank. 
Mr P just wanted Barclays to put the amount in euros which  it had original received, into his 
euros account. 
Mr P also said that Barclays had telephoned  him about this complaint, and he found that call 
distressing. 
Barclays wrote to Mr P about  this complaint. It said that it was aware that he wanted  to put 
this money into his euros account, and didnt  want it to be exchanged, but that was 
dependent on him giving the right account  details to the transferring  bank.  Hed given the 
transferring bank the incorrect sort code and account number. Because of that, Barclays  had 
received a sum of money along with the details for Mr Ps sterling account. So Barclays  had 
followed that instruction.  Barclays  said that what had happened wasnt  its mistake.  It 
wouldnt pay back what Mr P had lost on the currency exchange, because  it wasnt 
responsible for the error. 
Ref: DRN31688642Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this compliant. He said that Barclays is entitled to require Mr 
and Mrs P to have a sterling account  if they also want a euros account. Thats a legitimate 
use of its commercial judgment.  
Our adjudicator said that hed seen the payment slip from the sending bank, that had the 
details of Mr and Mrs P's sterling account.  Mr P had signed that. Our adjudicator  said that he 
appreciated that this may have been  a mistake  on Mr Ps part, but it wasnt Barclays fault.  
Our adjudicator said that the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps sterling  account  set out 
that if a payment in euros was made  to that account,  then the money would be converted  
into sterling, using Barclays own rate. So Mr P had given authority for the conversion when 
he opened the account. Our adjudicator didnt agree that the exchange  had been done  
without Mr P's authority. 
Our adjudicator also said hed listened to the call where Mr P felt that Barclays 
representative was rude.  Our adjudicator didnt agree that she had been rude. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Barclays had to do any more than it had done. 
Mr P didnt agree with that. He said that the cost to Barclays to put the matter  right wouldve 
been minimal if it had acted quickly when the mistake first surfaced.  It wouldve cost much 
less to reinstate  the euros then. He said that he felt distressed, dissatisfied and totally 
frustrated. 
Mr P then wrote again. He said that when he went to the overseas bank, he took the 
Barclays statement with him showing the account number for the euros account. He said 
that this shows the account details for the sterling account on the same page. Mr P said that 
he had asked Barclays to separate  the statements, because he didnt want  to risk giving the 
sending bank the wrong information. But Barclays didnt do that. 
Mr P repeated that the sending  bank  had copied  down the wrong number. That bank 
manager wasnt aware that there  were two account numbers. Different  account  numbers for 
different currencies arent used in that country.  
Mr P felt that this mistake couldve been avoided if Barclays hadnt put both numbers on the 
same page.  
Mr P said that he wanted his complaint  to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr and Mrs P opened two accounts  with Barclays. Mr P has told us that he only opened  the 
sterling account because Barclays forced him to do that, and he was concerned that it might  
cause confusion. 
Ref: DRN31688643I think that Barclays is entitled to require customers who want to open a euros account to 
also have a sterling account.  Thats  a business decision for Barclays to make. So I dont 
think that Barclays did anything wrong  when it did that. 
Mr P also said that Barclays then sent him statements which  included  both accounts on the 
same page.  I think that Mr P is referring  to the summary page, which  sets out briefly  the 
amounts in each  of the two accounts that he holds  at Barclays.  I dont think  that Barclays  is 
obliged to set this information out on two separate pages for Mr P. Its up to Barclays how it 
presents a summary of Mr and Mrs P#s accounts. 
Mr P gave this page to an overseas  bank,  to make a transfer in euros. That bank  copied  
down the wrong  account number, and Mr P signed  the transfer form which  included  details 
of his sterling account. I know that Mr P has explained why this mistake was made. But I 
dont think that this mistake was Barclays fault.  
The money that Mr P transferred was sent to his sterling account.  That was in accordance 
with the transfer  instructions that Mr P signed.  Barclays received a large  amount of money in 
euros, and a request to put that money  into a sterling account. 
Barclays exchanged  that money into sterling,  so it could  be paid into Mr Ps sterling account. 
That is where Barclays had been told to put the money by the sending  bank. I dont think  that 
Barclays made a mistake when it did that. 
I know that Mr P says he had repeatedly told Barclays branch  staff that he would be sending 
a large transfer,  and that money wasnt to be converted into sterling. But a transfer like this is 
done automatically. So I dont think that there  was any opportunity  for Barclays  branch staff 
to note that the instructions that Mr P had given for this transfer  werent the same as what  
hed said to the branch before. There was no opportunity for the staff Mr P had spoken to, to 
spot that Mr P had made  a mistake.
Mr P also said that he hadnt  given  any authority for his money to be changed from euros  to 
sterling. Our adjudicator said that hed checked the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ps 
account, and that made clear that any money paid into the sterling account, that wasnt in 
sterling, would  be changed into sterling. So I think that Barclays  has done what it said it 
would do when Mr and Mrs P opened  the account.  It doesnt  have to ask Mr P about this 
again when it receives a transfer for him. And I wouldnt expect it to do that.
I realise how distressing  Mr P has found this, but I dont think that Barclays has done 
anything wrong. 
Mr P also said that a complaint handler  who phoned  him from Barclays was rude to him. Ive 
listened to that call, and I dont think that call was dealt with in an unprofessional  manner.  So 
I dont think that Barclays  need to take any further steps, or to pay Mr P any compensation, 
because of that call.
I do realise how disappointed Mr and Mrs P will be by my decision, but I dont think this 
complaint should  be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN31688644Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3168864