K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mr I has complained that Ardent IFA Limited didnt tell Mr I he could extend his 
income protection policy beyond the age of 65.
background
The late Mr I had a group income  protection (GIP) insurance policy as a member  of 
chambers. The policy would pay a benefit to chambers if after a deferred period  of 13 weeks,  
Mr I was unable to work due to illness or injury. Ardent was an intermediary acting on behalf  
of chambers in its dealings with the insurer. 
In 2017, chambers became aware  that Mr I was no longer covered under the policy  and 
hadnt been covered since he turned 65, in 2016. The scheme  was designed to end when a 
member reached state pension age, which in Mr Is case  was 65. At the same time, Mr I was 
diagnosed with a serious illness and stopped working. 
Chambers made a complaint to Ardent to say it should have highlighted that Mr Is cover  had 
ended - so that chambers  could have arranged to extend cover beyond  Mr Is 65th birthday. 
Ardent said the policy documents confirmed that the cover  would end at the state  pension  
age and so it didnt think it had done  anything wrong. In 2018, Mr I sadly died.  
The complaint was referred  to this service and our investigator said the policy documents 
confirmed the terminal age for cover and so she didnt think  Ardent had done  anything wrong.
The representatives of the estate disagreed and so the case  has been passed to me for a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should  be upheld  and largely for the same 
reasons as explained by the investigator.
Although the estate  of Mr I is entitled  to bring  a complaint about Ardent as Mr I was receiving 
a benefit under the policy, the policy was bought and administered  by chambers. Mr I had no 
individual say or input in the selection  of the policy as it was arranged for a number  of 
members who worked at chambers. And so the level of cover and terms and conditions were 
agreed by chambers. 
The estate  has said that Ardent should  have  informed chambers that Mr Is cover  had come to 
an end and chambers  could then have extended  Mr Is cover  past his 65th birthday. However,  
from the information available to me, I can see that the policy schedule confirms  that the 
terminal age of the policy for someone  with the same date of birth as Mr I was 65 years  old. 
Ive seen the correspondence  between  chambers and Ardent in relation to the GIP policy 
and the members that would be covered. Ardent said there  was clear information available 
to chambers that Mr Is cover would end at the age of 65. And that this information should 
have been passed on to Mr I from chambers. If thats  the case, Mr I would  have been  aware  
from the policy documents  that his cover  would end at the age of 65.
Ref: DRN31123512Chambers would have  had an arrangement with Ardent about the administration  of the 
policy and what information would be given to chambers about all its members  covered 
under the GIP policy. But this isnt something Mr I would  have  any input into. And I cant look 
into chambers concerns about Ardents actions. My decision  is limited  to the complaint 
brought by Mr Is estate.
Ive considered whether Mr I had information about the policy  end date. And as the policy  
documents confirm  the end date, I consider sufficient information  was provided about the 
terminal date for the cover. So I cant say Ardent  has done anything wrong here. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mr I 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 June 2020.
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3112351