K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that when he made  a claim on his legal expenses  insurance policy Royal  & 
Sun Alliance  Insurance Plc (RSA)  refused to cover  his legal costs.
Where I refer to RSA, this includes its agents and claims handlers.
background 
In 2014 Mr C instructed  solicitors to claim some money that he said was owed to him by his 
former employers. After corresponding with the employer, his former employer paid the sum 
in full, but didnt pay his legal costs.
In 2017 Mr C made a claim  on his policy to recover his legal costs of £4,260  but RSA 
refused to pay.
RSA said the policy  provided cover  for taking legal  proceedings  in court and Mr C had only 
incurred costs for negotiating a settlement. It also said there was no cover for costs incurred 
without its agreement, and Mr C incurred his legal  costs  long before  he made a claim on the 
policy.
When Mr C brought his complaint to this service  he said he accepted  he was late making  his 
claim, but it was for RSA to show it was prejudiced by the delay, and he didnt think  there  
was any prejudice  as his claim against the employer had been paid in full. He also said RSA 
referred to the wrong policy wording and he did not receive any apology for this or any 
explanation of how it happened.
Our investigator said the policy  only provided cover for the costs  of taking legal action and 
Mr Cs costs related to an informal settlement negotiation, not legal action. So he thought it 
was fair for RSA to refuse the claim. But he said RSA had initially  referred to the wrong 
policy wording until this was pointed out by Mr Cs broker. He said the difference in wording 
was slight. But RSA should have used the correct wording. And there  had been  some delays 
replying to Mr Cs claim. Our investigator  thought RSA should  pay compensation of £200 for 
the distress and inconvenience  this caused.
Mr C requested an ombudsmans decision.  He questioned why someone  who has a good 
legal claim should  have to start legal action before theyre entitled to cover for their legal  
costs. And he said the policy refers  to paying  for his solicitors to provide an initial 
assessment of the claim,  provided there  are reasonable  prospects of success in the legal 
proceedings. He said this shows cover  is provided  for work  done before legal proceedings. 
Finally, Mr C said there were lengthy delays  dealing with his claim and the compensation for 
this should be higher.
RSA didnt dispute the recommendation  for compensation, but said it couldnt find any record 
of being told it had used the wrong  policy wording and asked for clarification of when this 
happened.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2018. In the provisional 
decision I said I intended to uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN30747282Mr C and RSA have  provided different versions of the policy  wording. Its unfortunate there is 
some confusion over which is the correct  version.  But theres no dispute that Mr C did have 
cover in place. And although there  are differences in the wording, these differences are 
small and dont change  the effect  of the cover.
The policy provides cover for the cost of taking legal action, and this is defined as meaning 
legal proceedings. RSA says this means  theres  no cover at all for costs unless and until 
legal proceedings are issued.
But both versions  of the policy wording  also refer to RSA appointing representatives for the 
policyholder to carry out negotiations up to the point when legal proceedings are needed 
and, at that point,  the policyholder may choose  their own representative.  This is in line with 
the law and common practice  insurers may appoint a solicitor (usually from their panel  of 
firms) up to the point when proceedings are necessary, and at that point the policyholder  has 
the right to choose  their own representative.
So the policy  wording  is contradictory. And it makes no sense to refer to representatives 
being appointed if theres no cover at all before proceedings  are started; there  would be no 
circumstances where  RSA would appoint a representative before  then.
Its for the insurer to provide policy wording thats clear, fair and not misleading. This policy  
wording isnt clear and is misleading.  And in those  circumstances  where  policy wording isnt 
clear, Id interpret it in the way thats favourable to the policyholder. Since the policy  does 
refer to appointing a representative and covering costs of negotiating before proceedings are 
started, I dont think its fair for RSA to say there was simply no cover  available  for Mr C.
Mr Cs claim related to an employment dispute and there is cover under the policy  for 
employment disputes. The terms also say the policyholder should  agree any reasonable 
settlement. He did what was required of him  agreeing  a settlement. Mr C made his claim 
late. But  as he points out  an insurer shouldnt refuse a claim simply because it was 
notified late unless  the insurer can show the delay has caused it prejudice.  RSA hasnt 
shown this.
Taking account all the circumstances I dont think RSA dealt with Mr Cs claim fairly.  So I 
think it should cover his legal costs.  But  as with almost every legal expenses insurance   
the policy only provides cover where a claim has reasonable prospects of success. So Mr C 
would need to show that his claim was likely to succeed for it to be covered.
I would expect an insurer to get legal advice  before  deciding whether a claim has reasonable 
prospects. And the insurer is entitled  to rely on that advice, unless its obviously wrong. The 
usual practice is for an insurer to ask one of its panel solicitors to review the evidence and 
advise on the prospects  of success.  So RSA should  arrange for a solicitor  to review the 
evidence and advise  on whether his claim would have had prospects of success. If the 
solicitors need any further evidence from Mr C, RSA can request this from him. 
Finally, I agree with our investigator  that Mr C was caused unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience by the poor handling of his claim.  It wasnt  clear  if RSA was using the correct 
policy terms  Mr C and his broker had to raise this with RSA  and it took too long to deal 
with the claim. So its fair that he should  be compensated for this. I note that RSA has told us 
it doesnt have  a record of being  told it had used the wrong policy wording but that 
correspondence is in the documents it provided to us.
Ref: DRN30747283For these reasons, I said I intended to uphold the complaint and direct RSA to: 
obtain a legal opinion on the prospects  of success of Mr Cs case as set out above; 
if the legal advice confirms that his claim had reasonable prospects of success, pay 
his legal costs  of £4,260  together  with interest on this amount at the simple  rate of 
8% per year from the date he made  his claim to the date it makes the payment;
pay Mr C compensation of £200  for the distress and inconvenience caused to him.
developments
Both parties  replied to the provisional  decision. 
Mr C said:
His solicitors  had already advised  him that his claim had a reasonable chance of 
success, and that should  be taken into account.
The policy terms say that if the claim was rejected but he took legal action anyway, 
and was successful,  his costs would be paid as if the claim had been covered. If 
RSAs solicitors decided his case didnt have reasonable prospects of success, he 
would like the final decision  to rule on whether he was covered.
RSA said:
There is cover before  legal proceedings are started, but only if the policyholder uses  
its panel solicitors; theres no cover  if they choose to instruct  their own solicitors. So if 
Mr C had made a claim at the time,  he would  have had the chance to use panel 
solicitors.
If the case reached the point where court proceedings  were  necessary, the 
policyholder would then have been  able to choose their own solicitors. Thats in line 
with most policies.
The reason  theres  no cover  for Mr C is that he dealt with his case  through his own 
solicitors and settled it. As he didnt  make a claim until after this point, RSA was 
denied the chance  to clarify what cover was available.  And it was caused prejudice, 
because legal costs  were incurred which RSA had no control over.  
Costs are only covered prior to legal  proceedings  if the policyholder uses panel 
solicitors.
It was still happy  to pay the compensation of £200 for delays dealing with his claim, 
but didnt think  the legal costs  should  be covered.
As RSA had now argued that Mr Cs failure  to notify  his claim caused prejudice, I put this to 
him. I explained that my provisional view was based  on the fact RSA hadnt shown any 
prejudice. I thought  the argument it had now put forward had some  weight. I explained  to 
both Mr C and RSA that I was now minded to say RSA had shown prejudice   Mr C had run 
the whole  case, decided  how to settle  it and incurred  legal costs without RSA having any 
involvement at all. And I wouldnt  generally uphold a complaint in these circumstances. 
As that was a different  conclusion from my provisional decision, I invited Mr C to comment 
on this. In reply, he says:
When he made his claim last year, RSA said there was no cover  or his costs.  It 
seems to have completely  reversed its position.
He can see there  is an argument that RSA might be prejudiced  if it was to pay his 
legal claim in full, because the costs  it might have paid its panel solicitors  may have 
been less than his solicitors costs. 
Ref: DRN30747284He would accept  a settlement where  RSA pays to him what it would have paid panel 
solicitors. It wouldnt be difficult to compare the hourly rate charged by his solicitors 
with panel solicitors rates. This would be a fair outcome for both sides.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my view is that Mr Cs 
actions did prejudice  RSA, and so it wouldnt be fair to uphold  his complaint (other than 
some compensation for delay)..
Where someone is only a little late in making  a claim, and hasnt taken action, consulted a 
solicitor or incurred legal  costs, its unlikely the insurer can show the delay has prejudiced its 
position. But Mr C didnt  submit his claim until some time after the case  had finished. 
Because of this, RSA was deprived of any chance  to assess prospects of success,  get 
advice from a panel solicitor, agree terms with the solicitor; or have  any say over how the 
case was run or the amount  of costs incurred  things it would normally  be able to do.
Mr C says if he had made  his claim at the time, he would have been entitled  to use panel  
solicitors. So RSA should pay what it would have paid them. I can see the logic of this 
argument but I dont think  its quite so straightforward.
As Ive said,  RSA would  have been  able to assess  the case. I cant say now whether panel 
solicitors would have  agreed his case  had prospects and so would be covered. Even if it had 
been, the case may have been handled  differently. So its not just the hourly rate charged  by 
the solicitors that needs to be considered. The actual work done might  have been different 
too. And its not possible to say now, with the benefit of hindsight,  how things may have 
turned out. Where  a case has been run to completion and substantial costs incurred without 
the insurer having any say at all in any of that, I dont think its fair for it to have to cover  
those costs.
Mr C has referred  to a term that says if the claim was rejected but he took legal action 
anyway, and was successful, his costs would  be paid as if the claim had been covered. I 
dont think that applies here; this isnt a situation  where he made a claim at the time and was 
rejected  he didnt  claim until after the case was concluded. And I think that prejudiced 
RSAs position,  for the reasons given.
Although I dont think Mr Cs legal costs should be paid,  there  was some delay dealing with 
the claim and Im still of the view that compensation of £200 would be a fair way to address 
that.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Royal  & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Plc to pay Mr C compensation of £200  for the distress and inconvenience caused 
to him.
Ref: DRN30747285Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3074728