K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited declined the claim he made  for damage  to his 
garage roof under his buildings  insurance policy. 
background
In November 2018, Mr C made a claim for damage  caused to his garage roof that he 
considered occurred as a result of a storm. Mr C said high winds caused a tree to fall and 
cause damage to his garage roof. 
Aviva declined Mr Cs claim saying there  was no storm on the date Mr C told them the 
damage occurred. And, based on photographs provided by Mr C, it considered the garage  
roof showed  clear signs of deterioration over time and concluded that the damage  wasnt 
caused by impact or a one off event.  
Mr C disagreed and he told Aviva there were winds of up to 65 mph present in the area. Mr 
C said the damage to the roof was caused by a falling tree. But Aviva  disagreed  and 
maintained the claim was fairly declined on the basis that there are no records  of a storm in 
the area and theres evidence to show the roof had deteriorated over a period of time.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Cs complaint. She checked the weather reports  and didnt 
think this met the definition of a storm set out in Mr Cs policy.  Our investigator was also 
persuaded the garage roof showed clear  signs of wear and tear from the photographs  Mr C 
had provided. 
Mr C disagreed with our investigators findings.  He considers high winds  were  present during 
the time he said the damage took place. He therefore feels  the damage  caused to his 
garage roof was as a result  of a storm. Mr C has asked that an ombudsman  decide his case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld  and will explain why. 
Our investigator explained the steps  we take when  considering a storm claim. For clarity, this 
includes:  
Do the weather conditions at the time meet whats considered to be a storm
Is the damage present consistent  with the type of damage  a storm would cause
Was the storm the main cause  of the damage present
Having applied this test to the information  available, Im not persuaded that Aviva has acted 
unfairly by declining Mr Cs storm damage  claim. 
Like most buildings insurance policies, Mr Cs set out the definition of a storm which  states: 
DEFINITIONS 
Storm 
Ref: DRN36220902An unusual weather event with persistent high winds usually associated with rain, thunder,  
lightning or snow.  
The wind speed  or gust should normally exceed  55mph  (48 knots)  to be a storm but we 
take other factors into consideration such as where the property is sited.  A storm can 
highlights defects rather than cause them and damage due to lack of maintenance, wear  and 
tear or which happens gradually  is not covered. 
Mr C said his wife was present at the time he believes damage occurred to the garage  roof 
and she says there were  storm conditions.  And Mr C said high winds  of up to 65 mph 
occurred at the time damage took place. But having looked at the weather reports myself I 
find the weather  in the area at the time Mr C said damage took place  does not meet the 
definition of a storm. This doesnt mean  there was no wind,  simply that the reports dont 
evidence storm conditions  as defined in the policy.
Aviva carried  out an assessment of the photographs  Mr C provided. It says there was 
already a hole in the garage  that had previously  been patched up, and also evidence  of 
rotting wood and deterioration  over a period of time. From the photographs Ive seen Im not 
persuaded the damage to the roof is consistent with the type of damage a storm would 
cause.
From the evidence Ive seen Im of the opinion the garage roof showed signs of wear  and 
tear and previous work to repair damage. And therefore cant  agree with Mr C that a storm 
was the main factor here. And having  taken everything into consideration for this case I 
wont be requiring Aviva  to reconsider Mr Cs claim for storm damage under his buildings 
insurance policy. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Martyn Tomkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3622090