K820x#14complaint
Miss B says Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold her payment 
protection insurance (PPI) with a credit  card in 2005.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI was optional and Miss B had to agree to take it 
out. Barclays has said the PPI was taken  out in a phone call following the completion of a 
short application form. It no longer has a record of the call but it has sent us a copy of 
telephone guidance processes which it says it expected its staff to follow when selling PPI 
over the phone at that time. Barclays says this would  reflect  the conversation it would  have 
had with Miss B. And whilst I cant be certain what was discussed in the call, this document  
does direct the advisor to ask for a customers permission before adding  PPI to the account.
Ive also been  given a copy of the credit agreement which  was sent to Miss B after the call 
and I can see that this shows PPI has been  taken out. Miss B has signed and dated the form 
which suggests she agreed with everything that had been entered. If Miss B didnt want to 
take out the PPI, or didnt  know what this was, I think she would have questioned this when 
she received this document.
So on balance, based on everything Ive seen  and been told, I think Barclays  made it clear 
the policy was optional and Miss B agreed to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she 
didnt want it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Miss B so it had to check  that the PPI was right for her -
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she was eligible for the policy and doesnt seem to be affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Miss B has told us she didnt need the policy as she would have received three months  full 
pay, followed by three  months half pay from her employer if she was too ill to work. But this 
policy would have paid out for up to 12 months which would have been in addition  to, and 
potentially for longer  than, her sick pay. Ive noted Miss B has said additional sick pay could  
have been received but this was at the discretion of her employer.  As this wouldnt be a 
benefit as part of her employment contract, it couldnt be relied upon as an additional  source 
of income. 
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Miss B about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong.  It also looks like 
it was affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put her off 
taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN31940502Ive thought about everything Miss B has told us, including what  she has said about  still living  
with her parents  at the time of taking out the policy  so her outgoings were low and she 
could rely on them  to support her if she wasnt earning. While I appreciate that her family 
would have wanted to help her, support from others cant be guaranteed as their 
circumstances could  also change, meaning they are unable  to provide such  financial 
assistance. So this point doesnt  alter my decision.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think  Miss B has lost out as a result of 
anything which Barclays may have done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3194050