K821x#15complaint
Ms B says Oakam Ltd lent to her irresponsibly. She says she does not think the business  
carried out appropriate affordability  checks before lending and as a result it gave her loans 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
background
This complaint is about two instalment loans Oakam provided  to Ms B. Some  detail  about  
these loans is as follows. 
loan 1 was for £400. It started  on 2 February  2010 and Ms B was due to make 
6 repayments  of £114.40 and one of £159.04  
Ms B fell into arrears  on loan 1 after the first repayment. She transferred the balance 
remaining from this loan,  £290.11, into loan 2
loan 2 was for £700. It started  on 17 June  2010 and Miss B was due to make  
11 repayments of £112 and one of £128
Mrs B again struggled to repay  this loan and she was in arrears right from the start. 
She repaid  the loan early with a lump sum
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint  He thought that Oakam shouldnt have lent 
Ms B loan 2 but he didnt recommend that her complaint about loan 1 should be upheld. 
Oakam disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Oakam needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms B 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Oakam should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN30119462There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being  affordable  on a strict pounds and pence  calculation might be 
an indication  a consumer  could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. And it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought  fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments  without  borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint. Ive decided  to uphold Ms Bs 
complaint in part and have explained  why below.
Ms B didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because of this I dont  think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So I wont be making a decision about 
this lending. But it was part of the borrowing relationship Ms B had with Oakam.  So it is 
something I will take into account when considering the other  loans she took.
As Ive detailed above Ms B had problems making  the repayments  to loan 1 right from the 
start. And she needed  to transfer  the balance of this loan into loan 2. I think  this lending 
pattern shows that it was very likely she would continue to struggle to make the repayments 
to any further lending. By loan 2 shed had a lending relationship with Oakam  for over four 
months. And she was scheduled to be making  repayments for around another  year.  
So I think Oakam couldve  realised at that time that Ms B may have some longer term 
financial problems rather than just using the loans  to help with a temporary cash flow 
problem. Oakam shouldve also become concerned about whether it knew  enough about 
Ms Bs true financial situation.
So I think that it wouldve  been proportionate  to fully review Ms Bs financial situation.  And I 
think that Oakam needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to 
make sure Ms B was in position  to make the repayments sustainably.  I dont think  Oakam  
did this. So Ive thought about  what Oakam  wouldve  seen if it had carried out proportionate 
checks. 
Ms B has provided some information  about  her financial circumstances such  as a recent 
credit report  and some bank statements. I accept that this isnt exactly  what  Oakam  wouldve 
seen at the time. But I think it wouldve  found  out similar information if it had made 
proportionate checks, so I think  its reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that Ms B was having problems managing her money. Her income was relatively 
modest at the time and her outgoings were either at, or above, the money  she had coming  
in. It was clear she would struggle to repay these loans from this information and this is what  
happened. 
I think that Oakam is likely to have  found  out this information if it had made  proportionate  
checks. I appreciate  that doesnt  think this is the case. But even asking for verification of her 
income, such as by looking at a payslip, would have provided much of what it needed to 
know. Particularly given  Ms B was having problems  making the loan repayments anyway. 
Ref: DRN30119463I think Oakam wouldve seen Ms B wouldnt have been able repay the loan in a sustainable 
way. So I think that Oakam  shouldnt have given loan 2 to Ms B and I think  shes lost out as 
a result of this. So Im upholding  Ms Bs complaint  about loan 2. 
putting things right  what Oakam needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms B paid on loan 2;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loan 2 from Ms Bs credit  file;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Oakam to take off tax from this interest.  Oakam  must 
give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I partly uphold  Ms Bs complaint.
Oakam Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3011946