K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  
by AXA France  IARD to Mr K in 2004  in connection with  a loan.
background
Mr K applied for a loan with DFS to pay for furniture in 2004. The loan agreement 
ended with the numbers 5206. He said he did not know  PPI had been added; he  
cant remember much about the sale.  But he says he didnt need PPI.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld on  the basis that Mr K hadnt 
been given enough  clear information to make an informed choice. AXA  France did 
not respond  to the adjudicators view, so the matter was passed to me to consider.  
AXA France is dealing  with the complaint. So for ease, I will refer to AXA France  as 
the PPI seller.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the relevant  issues to take into account  are the same as those set out in the 
note on our website about our approach to PPI complaints.
I have decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint for the reasons set out below.
AXA France said the PPI was bought during a meeting with a representative from 
DHS. This was a non-advised sale so AXA France had  to give Mr K enough clear 
information so he could make  an informed choice.
  
I dont know how Mr K was given  information about the policy terms and conditions  
particularly the information about the things the policy did not cover (the 
exclusions). And I dont know  exactly  what he was told or when. So it is possible 
that Mr K may have continued with his purchase  without being aware  of the full terms 
and conditions. So I think AXA France  did something wrong in the way it sold this 
policy to Mr K. 
This is important because Mr K has confirmed  he had a pre-existing medical 
condition diagnosed around 1990. Under the exclusion clauses in the PPI policy 
relating to pre-existing medical  conditions, Mr K wouldnt  have been  able to make  a 
claim for any condition  he had at the start date of the policy. The possible effect is  
that Mr K wouldnt have  been  covered  by the PPI policy if he needed to make a claim  
due to the pre-existing  medical condition.  
As Mr K was diagnosed  with his medical condition in 1990,  its highly likely he would 
have been aware  of his medical condition  at the start date of the policy. So I think  it 
Ref: DRN31714512is unlikely that he would  have been able to claim for any complications arising  from 
the original condition.
So I think the exclusion clause could have limited the usefulness of the policy to Mr K 
and this clause  should have been highlighted to him more clearly. I am satisfied that  
AXA France probably didnt highlight this significant feature  in a clear  way to Mr K 
during the sale process. As a result,  this was a failing in the sale.  I think that if Mr K 
had been properly informed about  the exclusion, he wouldnt have gone  ahead with 
buying the PPI policy given his circumstances at the time.
In summary, I think the PPI policy was mis-sold so I uphold this complaint.  
my final decision
AXA France IARD should put Mr K in the financial position hed be  in now if he 
hadnt taken out PPI.
Refund all the PPI premiums to Mr K
Pay 8%simple interest on the premiums calculated  from when each  payment 
was made to the day when  he gets the refund*
If Mr K made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, AXA France  IARD can 
take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA France IARD to  take off tax  from this 
interest. AXA France IARD must give Mr K a certificate showing  how much tax its 
taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and AXA France  IARD should put 
things right as I have  set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3171451