K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that a car she acquired via a conditional sale agreement with 
Clydesdale Financial Service Limited  (trading as Barclays Partner Finance BPF) wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality. 
background 
In January 2019 Miss S acquired a used  car via a four year conditional sale agreement  with 
BPF. The car was around two years  old and had a mileage of 16,000. Miss S says that at 
first the car worked perfectly but, about a month after the point of sale, it started to run 
poorly, suffering  from a loss of power  and its fuel consumption increased. 
Miss S decided to take the car to be inspected  by a private engineer and they said they had 
found some  error codes.  Miss S says that as the engineer  wasnt approved by the 
manufacturer she took the car to a garage  that was. However, after the car had been 
inspected, Miss S was advised  that no faults  with the car could  be found. 
Miss S continued to be unhappy at the cars performance and complained  to BPF. It 
arranged for the car to be investigated by the dealership that had supplied the car. The 
dealership said it couldnt find any fault with the car and the fuel consumption  was likely to 
be due to Miss S using  the car for short  journeys and driving mainly in town.   
Miss S took the car to a second  manufacturer approved garage. This garage  said it wasnt 
able to find any fault in regards to the loss of power or poor running, but did find a fault with 
the air quality sensor for the heating system which it had replaced.  
BPF didnt  uphold Miss Ss complaint. It said no fault could be located with the car and that it 
was likely the cars fuel consumption was linked to how it was driven. Miss S disagreed  with 
the view taken by BPF and complained  to this service. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend her complaint  should be upheld. He said that there  wasnt 
enough evidence  to say the car had a fault. 
Miss S disagreed with our investigators  view. She said that in January 2020  the cars  
management light illuminated on the dashboard and a subsequent check  by an engineer  
had found faults with the car. She said this showed the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality.  
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The finance agreement, that is the conditional  sale agreement  this case, is a regulated  
consumer  credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating 
to it. BPF is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and is 
responsible for a complaint  about their quality.
Ref: DRN32414062Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  there is an implied term that when  goods  are 
supplied  "the quality  of the goods is satisfactory".  The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the standard  that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
It also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state  and condition and 
other  things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor  
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Here  the car was relatively  new so it would  be reasonable  to expect  it to have  been  
relatively  fault free. However,  Miss  S says  that a month  after acquiring  the car it 
developed  problems.  Ive seen  that the issues  raised  by Miss  S regarding  the poor 
performance  and engine  rattle  were  intermittent.  She also says  that the cars  fuel 
consumption  was excessive.  Miss  S says  that when  the car was inspected  by a private  
engineer  they had found  fault codes.
While  I appreciate  intermittent  faults  can be sometimes  difficult  to replicate  I have  seen  
that three  separate  garages,  who have  inspected  the car, havent  been  able to find faults  
in respect  of the rattle  or poor performance.  The fuel consumption  is considered  to be 
linked  to how Miss  S uses  the car. And although  one garage  found  a fault related  to the 
air conditioning  this wasnt  linked  to the cars  performance.
Ive seen  Miss  S strongly  rejects  that the fuel consumption  is due to the type of journeys  
she makes  and has altered  how she uses  the car to see if this made  an improvement.  
Miss  S says  that driving  the car on motorways  and longer  journeys  hasnt  helped  achieve  
a better  fuel efficiency.  
Miss  S also says  that the car has again  been  investigated  and this time three  faults  codes  
have  been  found  for the CDI  Motor  Electronics  for combustion  engine,  relating  to the 
exhaust  temperature  sensor  and charge  movement.  Miss  S says  this shows  that the 
car has been  faulty  and that her concerns  werent  taken  seriously.
But I disagree  with Miss  Ss view.  Although  fault codes  were  apparently  found  by the 
private  engineer  in February/March  2019  I havent  seen  what  those  codes  were  or what  
they related  to. The evidence  I have  seen  is that the other  garages,  despite  investigations  
into the issues  raised  by Miss  S, werent  able to find anything  wrong  with the car. And,  
when  looking  at the current  faults,  I have  to take into account  that they were  found  
around  12 months  after Miss  S acquired  the car. I also dont  have  any details  as to what  
repairs  are required,  how they may have  arisen,  or whether  they were  either  present  or 
developing  at the point  of sale.  So based  on this evidence  I cant  reasonably  say that 
when  the car was supplied  it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality.
I appreciate  my decision  will be of disappointment  to Miss  S and Im aware  she feels  she 
wasnt  taken  seriously  by the garages,  but looking  at the evidence  thats  been  supplied  I 
dont  have  sufficient  information  to say the car wasnt  of satisfactory  quality  at the time 
Miss  S acquired  it. Im not upholding  her complaint.
Ref: DRN32414063my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3241406