K820x#14complaint
Executors for the estate  of Mr A have  complained  about Mr As home insurance 
intermediary, Saga  Services  Limited.  They believe it provided poor service when a claim  was 
notified to it and then compounded the issue  by failing to answer their complaint  correctly.
background
Mr A passed  away in October  2017 and the emergency services had to break the door of his 
home in order to gain access. The executors for Mr As estate realised the damage to the 
door might be covered  under his home  insurance policy and so wrote to Saga.
Saga, who administers the policy  which is branded in its name, noted the claim enquiry and 
passed it to the insurer.  It expected the insurer  to contact the executors. The insurer  didnt 
do so and the executors chased Saga. This was in the run up to Christmas and it was 
January before Saga sought to make  a reply. Around that same time the executors wrote  a 
complaint letter to Saga regarding its failure to respond to the letters  sent and notifying it of 
the distress its failure had caused.
In April 2018 Saga issued  a final response on the complaint. It went into some  detail  about  
the letters sent to it, when  it might  have received them, if it had and why they hadnt been  
replied to. The executors  made a subject access request  to Saga and, using the data 
provided, challenged the findings Saga  had made.  
Saga reviewed the situation. It accepted some of the points made by the executors. 
Particularly it noted it should have told them that it had notified the insurer  of the claim and 
that the insurer would deal with the matter from there. It apologised and offered £75 
compensation.
The executors remained  dissatisfied, felt the claim had been delayed  by Saga and that the 
settlement of the estate had been delayed as a result. They  also felt that Saga had failed to 
properly investigate their complaint  and that its findings had been  flawed. 
Our adjudicator felt that Sagas apology and offer of compensation fairly and reasonably 
made up for its failures.  The executors felt their complaint  hadnt  been fully understood. They 
said the apology  and compensation would have been sufficient  if Saga  had made it of its 
own volition without them having had to challenge it. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Once a financial  business has issued a final response it doesnt have to reply  on the matter 
any further. It can choose to but doesnt  have  to. And if the answer it has given is flawed or 
not fair and reasonable in some way and the complainant asks us to look into the matter 
then well reach a finding  on what the business  must do instead. 
But our findings  arent  designed to punish  a business for having failed to investigate a 
complaint properly. Nor are they designed to make  up for the distress or inconvenience 
caused by a flawed complaint response. In fact we have no power to consider how a 
business handles  a complaint because the handling of a complaint is not a regulated activity. 
Ref: DRN37619812The regulated activity, regarding insurance, that we can consider complaints about is 
effecting and carrying out a contract  of insurance. So if when  carrying out this activity Saga  
has failed the estate of Mr A in some way that is what well consider.
Its also important to remember  that the executors  for an estate,  and anyone  who represents 
them, arent eligible  complainants in their own right. So any distress and inconvenience they 
as individuals  have  suffered cant be taken  into account. Further the estate  as a legal 
entity, rather than a natural person, cant suffer distress, although it can be inconvenienced.
I dont doubt there was some inconvenience to the estate when Saga failed to respond to the 
claim enquiry. Saga  wasnt responsible  for setting up the claim or progressing it, and it 
wasnt responsible  for the delays that occurred with it once it was accepted by the insurer.  
But Saga did have a responsibility  to let its policyholder (at that stage the estate) know 
what was happening and ideally it should  have  followed up with the insurer  to make sure 
matters were progressing. If Saga had done  that I think  the insurer would most likely have 
become involved  around  mid-December 2016.  As it was it was 18 January 2017 before the 
claim started  to be dealt with. So because Saga  didnt handle things fairly and reasonably 
the notification  of the claim to the insurer was delayed  by around a month.
But Im not persuaded that the insurer having  become  involved any earlier would  really  have 
changed things  much. I say that particularly  given the timing was so close  to Christmas and 
because its clear that once the insurer did become involved delays occurred anyway, which  
were always  beyond Sagas control.
Whilst I appreciate there remains some  frustration for the executors regarding the initial 
response Saga made to their complaint.  Im satisfied its later apology and offer of 
compensation provides a fair and reasonable remedy for the inconvenience caused  by its 
failures. If the executors had made the complaint to this service at the point of Sagas first 
response, rather than challenging it directly,  I likely  wouldnt  have made it pay or do more 
than it eventually chose  to do following the executors challenge. Im not going  to require it to 
do more now.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Saga  Services  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors for 
the estate of Mr A to accept or reject my decision before  9 August 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3761981