K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold Payment Protection 
Insurance (PPI) alongside a loan.
background
In 1998 Mr K applied  for a loan and at the same  time he took out PPI. Nationwide doesnt 
know how the loan and PPI were taken out. Mr K says it happened on the phone.  Mr K took 
out subsequent loans  with Nationwide, but this complaint is only about  this one loan taken 
out in 1998.
The PPI was a single  premium policy  so its cost was added to the loan upfront. It added  
just over £2,500  to Mr Ks overall borrowing  and added  about £55 per month to the loan 
repayment.
The policy provided  Mr K with protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Nationwide says the loan ran to term and the account closed in 2003.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said she thought Nationwide had done 
enough to show  Mr K that PPI was optional and that he likely  agreed to take it out. And there 
was nothing to indicate that Mr K had lost out by having the cover.
Mr K disagrees, so the complaint  comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mr Ks complaint.
Nationwide says it no longer has information about  how Mr K took out his loan and PPI. And 
this isnt surprising  given the loan ended in 2003. I can see Mr K says things happened  over 
the phone. And looking at what evidence has been provided, I think Mr Ks recollections are 
likely right  I think this was a sale by phone. I say this because Nationwides  records show a 
loan application  date of several  days prior to Mr K signing  his loan agreement,  which fits with 
a phone call having  taken place followed by loan paperwork  sent afterwards for signing.
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  and make a recommendation  for PPI. And Ive not 
seen anything to suggest otherwise. So Nationwide didnt have to check  PPI was suitable  for 
Mr K. But it did have  to given him enough clear and timely information  about it so he could 
decide if it was something  he wanted.  Ive kept this in mind  in my consideration of this 
complaint.
did Nationwide make  it clear Mr K had a choice?
Mr K says PPI must have been added without  him knowing  about  it. Nationwide says it gave 
Mr K a choice.
Ref: DRN35721472Ive already said Nationwide doesnt  have much information left about what  happened. So 
theres no call recording  or call script to help me understand how PPI was or should have 
been presented  to Mr K. 
But Nationwide has provided  a copy of Mr Ks loan agreement. I can see here the agreement 
set out the cost of PPI in a separate column to the principal loan amount Mr K was borrowing 
and this was headed up Optional Credit Insurance. Given this I think its unlikely PPI was 
described as being  something different on the phone call. And Mr K signed and returned the 
loan agreement.
So based  on the limited evidence available about  something which  happened  many years 
ago, I think Nationwide  did likely make it clear  Mr K had a choice about taking out PPI and 
that he agreed to take it out knowing he didnt have to have it - I think  Mr K has simply 
forgotten he did so.
did Mr K get all the information he needed to make  an informed decision?
If not  to what extent  has Mr K lost out?
Mr Ks loan agreement suggests  Nationwide gave  Mr K enough information  about the cost 
and in a clear way so he could understand it  the agreement  set out separately the PPI 
amount, the interest charged, the total amount and the monthly cost. So I think Mr K 
reasonably understood the impact  on his overall  borrowing and by how much how his 
monthly loan repayment would  increase by having  PPI.
I also think Mr K understood it would  protect  him against disability and unemployment  
because I find it unlikely  he agreed  to take out PPI without  some understanding of what the 
policy provided. This was also set out on the loan agreement.
However, I dont think Nationwide did do everything it should have. For example the 
evidence doesnt  tell me that Nationwide told Mr K what he would get back  from the policy  
upon a successful claim. And More significantly the evidence doesnt tell me that Nationwide  
clearly told Mr K about the significant limitations  and exclusions of cover  for example the 
limitations around claiming  for existing medical  conditions.
But Mr K was in good health at the time,  so I dont better information about existing medical 
condition exclusions would have mattered  to him or caused him to act differently and decline 
the cover. And in so far as what the policy provided  - given it was to protect  his loan 
repayments, I dont  think Mr Ks expectations about  what it offered were any different to what 
it actually provided.
The policy offered Mr K a pro-rata refund if he repaid the loan early  and so cancelled the 
policy before  the end of the term. This means a single premium  PPI policy wasnt  
inappropriate for him  he wouldnt have lost out if this was something he needed  or 
intended to do.
I can see Mr K says he didnt need the cover  he says received six months full sick pay 
followed by six months half pay as well as being  entitled to redundancy pay. He also says 
he could have sold some  assets to help him repay his loan if needed  including some 
savings he says he had.
Ref: DRN35721473But Ive concluded  that more likely than not Mr K chose to take out PPI, so this kind of 
protection was clearly  of interest to him. Ive already said I think  he had enough  information  
to understand  the cost of cover. And his expectations about what  the cover would pay out in 
terms of benefit werent different from what it did provide.  
So I think Mr K had enough information to weigh up whether the cost and benefit proposition 
worked for him. And I think  he did just that. I think, taking into account his existing means 
and the fact he was borrowing a not insignificant amount of money requiring a regular 
monthly fixed financial commitment, he saw the benefit in protecting  his loan repayments 
rather than having  to be forced to rely on the sale of assets if things went wrong. In any 
event the PPI covered Mr Ks loan for its full term for disability  so longer than his sick pay 
would have lasted.
Mr K might not have  expected from the information  he got that any one unemployment claim 
was limited to 12 months. But I dont  think this would have put him off for the reasons Ive 
already set out.
So overall, while Nationwide might not have  done  everything it should have, I think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what  Mr K thought he was getting based on the information he did 
get. And given his individual circumstances at the time, theres nothing to suggest he would  
have been put off taking  out PPI had Nationwide done anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided that Mr K has not suffered loss or damage as 
a result of taking out PPI alongside his loan, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3572147