K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that The Co-operative  Bank  Plc mis-sold them  payment protection  
insurance (PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.  
background
I have previously issued  a provisional  decision  regarding this complaint. The following 
represents excerpts from my provisional decision,  outlining the background to this complaint 
and my provisional findings, and forms part of this final decision:
In 1996 Mr and Mrs J took out a mortgage with Co-operative  Bank  in a meeting at one of its 
branches. They bought  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  alongside the mortgage.
The PPI cover was split between Mr and Mrs J. It provided a 58% benefit in the event Mr J 
couldnt work through accident, sickness or if he lost his job or 42% benefit if Mrs J couldnt  
work through  accident, sickness or if she lost her job. The policy  provided  100% benefit if 
both couldnt work.  
The policy cost £18.08 a month and the 100% benefit of £301per month covered their 
monthly mortgage repayments. Upon a successful claim the policy would have  paid out for 
accident sickness or unemployment for up to 12 months per claim.
In 2000, Mr and Mrs J amended the policy taking Mrs J off the policy and assigning all 100% 
of the benefit to Mr J. At the same time they increased the benefit  to £360 per month  at a 
cost of £21.64.
The mortgage and PPI closed in 2004.
Mr and Mrs Js complaint  is about  the original sale in 1996. Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr 
and Mrs Js complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence showed  that Mr and Mrs J chose  to 
take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate  theyd lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs J disagree  so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Co-operative Bank says this was a non-advised sale, but Mr and Mrs J say the PPI was 
recommended to them. As it makes no difference to the decision Ive reached, Ill assume 
that it was an advised  sale, in other words that Co-operative Bank did recommend the PPI to 
Mr and Mrs J and advised them to take it. This means Co-operative Bank had to provide Mr 
and Mrs J not only with good enough information  about the policy so they could make an 
informed decision about it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable for them  
based on their needs  and circumstances at the time.  Ive taken this into account in my 
consideration of the case.
Ref: DRN38129522did Co-operative Bank  make it clear to Mr and Mrs J  that they had a choice about 
PPI?
I dont know how the PPI was sold or what Co-operative Bank said to Mr and Mrs J but I do 
have the application form for the mortgage.   
I accept it is possible Co-operative Bank didnt give Mr and Mrs J a choice about taking PPI. 
I also accept it is possible Co-operative Bank gave him the impression they had to take it 
out. But it seems more likely Co-operative Bank  gave Mr and Mrs J the opportunity to take 
out the policy or decline it as part of their mortgage application, and that they chose to take it 
out, but have simply forgotten in the years  that have now elapsed.  
I say this because  Mr and Mrs Js application form for the mortgage shows a question  on the 
form asking them if they wish to take the PPI and gives the opportunity  to tick yes or no. 
There is a tick by the yes box option indicating they were choosing  to take it out, and they 
have both signed the application form. They have also selected a specific allocation of 
benefits, 58% to Mr J and 42% to Mrs J, which suggest to me that there  was a discussion 
and Mr and Mrs J were  aware they were  making choices.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint) it is more 
likely than not Co-operative Bank  presented the policy to Mr and Mrs J as compulsory or that 
it didnt tell them about the policy at all. So I think Mr and Mrs J understood they had a 
choice and chose  to take the PPI.
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs J properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs J lost out?
I dont know what Co-operative Bank said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs J in 1996. I also dont  know what information Mr and Mrs J were given about  PPI. I dont 
know whether the policys  benefits were explained  to them  or if they were told about the 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs J agreed  to take 
the cover  out knowing very little about  it, but I dont know if they received everything they 
needed to know  to allow them to make an informed  decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Co-
operative Bank recommended to Mr and Mrs J that they take out PPI in 1996. I accept Mr 
and Mrs J may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs J have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Js circumstances and needs in 1996, I think the policy 
cover was suitable for them.  And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs J would have  acted 
differently and not gone ahead with the cover if Co-operative Bank had provided better 
information. My reasons  are as follows:
Mr and Mrs J were eligible for their cover and all its benefits.
Mr and Mrs J were in good health  and employed  and it doesnt  appear they would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of their cover  such  as 
medical conditions  or unusual employment terms. 
The mortgage provided for their home.  Mr and Mrs J both had 6 months  full and six 
months part time sickness pay entitlement from their employers which could have  
helped them make the mortgage  payments if either couldnt work.  But they had no 
Ref: DRN38129523savings or other resources. The policy  would have paid out in addition to any 
sickness or redundancy pay and for up to 12 months  for each  claim.  So I think Mr 
and Mrs J had a need for their cover and that it would have been  useful  to them  if 
either had found  they couldnt work. It wouldve helped them financially at what  would 
be a difficult time  it could have  helped them protect their home.
I dont know how the cost of the PPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs J but I find it 
unlikely they would have agreed  to something  without having some  understanding of 
the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have  declined  the PPI solely on the basis 
of its cost. Ive already  said they had a need for it and at just over £18 per month it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold in 
1996 and Mr and Mrs J may not have been  treated fairly and reasonably by Co-operative  
Bank in its dealings with them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because,  on balance, for the 
reasons Ive detailed  above, I think Mr and Mrs J chose  to take out the PPI and they would 
have been in the same position if Co-operative Bank had done more  and properly advised  
and informed them - I think  they would have  still taken it out.
I then see that Mr and Mrs J chose to change their PPI policy  in March  2000. They removed 
Mrs J from the policy  and allocated 100%  of the benefit to Mr J. At the same  time they 
increased the benefit from £301  to £360, and paid a higher premium  of £21.64.
As Ive assumed  that the original sale was advised, Ive considered whether after this 
amendment to the policy it was still suitable  for Mr J. I understand that although he had 
changed his employer, his circumstances were  broadly the same. 
So I still conclude that Mr and Mrs J have  not lost out by taking out the PPI.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Mr and Mrs J nor Co-operative Bank  sent any further  substantive comments  to me 
by the date I set.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs J and Co-operative Bank  provided  no further evidence or arguments  my 
conclusions remain as outlined in my provisional findings above.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3812952