K822xcomplaint
Miss L complains British Gas Insurance  Limited wont  pay for repairs  to her boiler.
background 
Miss L has a policy for her boiler with British Gas. This policy covers a service  for her boiler 
each year; and claims for repairs to her boiler.  Towards the end of 2018, Miss Ls boiler still 
hadnt been serviced. She spoke to British Gas about this, and they said they wouldnt be 
able to service her boiler before  her policy was due for renewal. However, British Gas said 
Miss L could  arrange her own engineer  to service her boiler. They  also said theyd refund the 
proportion of her premiums that covered  the cost of an annual  service.
When Miss Ls boiler was serviced by her own engineer, she was told her boiler needed 
some repairs. She arranged for this engineer to do the necessary work, and this cost her just 
over £500.  Miss L then contacted British  Gas to make a claim for the repairs shed paid for.
British Gas said they wouldnt cover the repairs because they hadnt had the opportunity  to 
assess what repairs were necessary. But they did offer Miss L £75 for the inconvenience  
shed experienced. Miss L remained unhappy, so she brought  her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld  Mis Ls complaint. He said British Gas should reimburse Miss L the 
amount they wouldve  paid had their own engineer repaired her boiler. British  Gas disagreed 
with our investigator, so Miss Ls complaint  was passed to me to deal with.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having considered  everything,  Im 
upholding Miss Ls complaint.  Ill give my reasoning below.
British Gas says they shouldnt  have  to cover the costs of repairs carried out by Miss Ls 
engineer. Thats because theyre  satisfied  their advisor told Miss L, she could contact them if 
she had any problems with her boiler. Ive listened to call between  Miss L and British Gas 
when her annual  service was discussed.  And I agree  their adviser  did tell Miss L that she 
could contact them if she had problems with her boiler. However, I cant  ignore the fact that 
during that same call, Miss L was told British Gas engineers didnt have the capacity to 
service her boiler before her policy ended.
I appreciate British Gas says they would have  been  able to send someone out to Miss L if 
she needed repairs. And I believe that most likely would  have  been  the case. But I also 
understand Miss L isnt as familiar with how policies like this work  - or the steps insurers  like, 
British Gas, take to ensure their policyholders have functioning  boilers.  So, with that in mind,  
I dont consider Miss L acted unreasonably when she asked  her own engineer to complete 
the repairs.
Part of the reason Miss L arranged her own repairs was due to the problems British Gas had 
in carrying out annual services for their policyholders. So, I do think  they are partially 
responsible for what happened after that. And for that reason,  British Gas needs  to do 
something to put things  right.
Ref: DRN35205192Ive reviewed Miss Ls policy wording. And Ive not seen anything that suggests the repairs  to 
her boiler wouldnt have been  covered  had British Gas own engineers done the work. Ive 
also asked British Gas whether  Miss Ls claim is caught by any exclusions under the policy.  
Despite my requests,  Ive not heard back from British Gas on this point. So, in the absence 
of any comments on policy exclusions following our investigators opinion,  and my requests, 
I consider its most likely Miss Ls claim would have been covered. That means British Gas 
would have always had to pay for repairs to Miss Ls boiler.
British Gas has sent us a breakdown of what it would have cost had their own engineers 
repaired Miss Ls boiler. This amounted to £393.93. As mentioned above, had Miss L called 
British Gas about the necessary repairs, I consider they would have covered the costs. So, 
I believe a fair resolution would be for British Gas to cover the amount they would have paid 
had they arranged the repairs  themselves.
I appreciate Miss L paid more than £393.93  for the repairs. But its not unusual  for insurers 
to be able to arrange repairs at a lower cost. I also cant  ignore the fact British Gas adviser 
did tell Miss L she could contact them if she had any problems. As Miss L didnt do this, 
I dont consider it would  be fair to hold British  Gas responsible for the total amount she paid.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint.
To put things right, British  Gas Insurance Limited  should  reimburse  Miss L the amount it 
would have paid had one of their own engineers  carried out the repairs  to her boiler.
British Gas Insurance Limited said it would have  cost them  a total of £393.93.  So, they 
should pay this amount,  plus 8% interest simple  from the date Miss L tried to make her claim 
to the date of settlement.
If British Gas Insurance Limited considers its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Miss L how much theyve taken off. They 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Sarrah Turay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3520519