K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about loans granted to him by Everyday Lending Limited (EDL).  He 
says that EDL was irresponsible when it agreed  to lend to him.  
background 
EDL agreed two loans  for Mr C: a loan of £1,800  in May 2011  and a second of £3,000  in 
December 2011.  Most  of the second  loan was used to repay the first. Some of the 
information EDL provided is shown  in the table  below  (all figures  rounded to the nearest 
pound). 
Loan Start date End date PrincipalMonthly 
repaymentsTerm 
(months)
1 31/05/2011 02/12/2011 £1,800 £158 24
2 02/12/2011 13/08/2013 £3,000 £230 36
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and found that EDL should have seen from the 
information it had gathered each time Mr C applied for a loan that he wasnt  likely to be able 
to repay  his loans  sustainably.  She explained that Mr C was relying on his overdraft  and was 
spending considerable sums on gambling.  She recommended that EDL refund the interest 
and charges Mr C paid on both loans, along with 8% simple interest per annum. 
EDL didnt agree with this recommendation and said that it wasnt  fair to consider Mr Cs 
gambling transactions because the information it had didnt show  these and it wasnt  
required to review several months bank statements before lending.  EDL asked for the 
complaint to come to an ombudsman to review and resolve.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have also taken into account the law, 
any relevant regulatory  rules and good  industry practice at the time.
Having done so, I plan to uphold Mr Cs complaint in full. I appreciate  this will be very 
disappointing for EDL and I hope my explanation below makes it clear  why I have come to 
this conclusion.
The Office  of Fair Trading  (OFT)  was the regulator when Mr C borrowed from EDL.  The 
relevant rules and guidance set out by the OFT in its Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) 
said that for all loans  EDL needed  to check that Mr C could afford to meet  his repayments in 
a sustainable  manner. This meant  Mr C being able to meet  his repayments out of his normal  
income without having to go without or borrow further.
The regulations werent prescriptive  about what checks EDL needed  to carry out in order to 
reasonably assess  whether or not Mr C would be able to meet  his repayments sustainably. 
But the regulations said that such checks needed to be proportionate. This suggests that 
the same  checks might  not be the appropriate  thing to do for all consumers,  or for the same 
consumer in all circumstances. Ive highlighted some of the relevant guidance below for 
ease.
Ref: DRN34909292ILG Paragraph 4.2 stated:
Whatever means and sources of information  creditors employ as part of an assessment of 
affordability should be sufficient to make an assessment of the risk of the credit  sought  being
unsustainable for the borrower in question. In our view this is likely  to involve more than 
solely assessing the likelihood of the borrower  being able to repay the credit  in 
question. 
Paragraph 4.3 stated:
The OFT regards in a sustainable manner in this context as meaning  credit that can be 
repaid by the borrower:
without  undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing problem 
indebtedness 
over the life of the credit agreement or, in the case  of open-end agreements,  within a 
reasonable period  of time 
out of income and/or available savings, without having to realise security or assets.
And Paragraph 4.4 described  undue  difficulty:
The OFT would regard  without undue difficulty in this context as meaning the borrower 
being able to make repayments (in the absence of changes in personal circumstances that 
were not reasonably foreseeable  at the time the credit was granted):
while also meeting  other debt repayments and other normal/reasonable  outgoings 
and
without having  to borrow further to meet these  repayments.  
In general, Id expect  a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit  in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender  to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed  checks
-the lower a persons  income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
-the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting  that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher  repayment from a particular level of income);  
-the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the borrower  is required to make  payments for an 
extended period).
-the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time 
during which a person  has been given  loans (reflecting  the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Cs case, I have  considered the 
following questions:
-Did EDL complete reasonable and proportionate checks  when assessing Mr Cs 
loan applications  to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay  the loan in a 
sustainable way? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate  checks  have 
shown?
-Did EDL make fair lending decisions?
Ref: DRN34909293-Was there a point  at which the pattern or history of lending itself showed  further 
borrowing would be unsustainable for Mr C?
EDL says it gathered  information from Mr C about  his income and rent. It calculated an 
amount for his general living expenses and checked his credit  file. Ive summarised some of 
the information EDL says it used in its affordability assessment in the table below (with 
numbers rounded). 
Loan  1 Loan  2
Income £2,200 £2,200
Rent £200 £200
Creditor repayments £81 £208
Calculated living expenses £770 £770
Monthly cost of EDL loan £158 £230
Calculated remaining income £992 £792
EDL says that its assessments showed that for each loan the monthly repayments would be 
affordable for Mr C, leaving him with several  hundred pounds  a month to spare. The 
customer notes show EDL verified some of this information, for example  it verified  Mr Cs 
income via a payslip  and his employment status  with his current  employer. It also checked  
some of his bank statements and found he had an overdraft of over £2,000  and was 
managing several  credit  cards.
It seems  on the face of it that EDLs  checks were thorough. However, as I explain below, I 
think the information it gathered should  have raised concerns and prompted further checks 
each time Mr C applied  for a loan. 
Loan 1
EDLs customer  notes  state that it saw Mr Cs current  bank account statements (covering 
April and the first week in May 2011) before  agreeing  to his first loan. These statements 
show that Mr Cs income  in April doesnt  take his account into credit, and that he paid both 
arranged and unarranged overdraft fees for the previous month. 
The bank statements also show that Mr C took out a short  term loan in early May. EDLs 
customer notes from the time state that this short term loan was for car repairs.  I note that 
Mr C had exceeded his overdraft limit (of £2,200) a few days prior to taking out the short 
term loan and that his salary  wasnt due for about another  two weeks.  Ive also noted  that 
EDL had calculated  Mr Cs living expenses  as £770, but his bank statements show almost  
£2,000 of spending, £1,500 though cash withdrawals. So it doesnt seem  to me that the 
information EDL had supported its estimation of Mr Cs monthly disposable income.
I think EDL ought to have  been concerned about  Mr Cs ability to repay this loan out of his 
usual means, without borrowing, as he wasnt managing to do so with his existing  debt. Its 
clear that his finances were already pressured  and he was now asking for a loan to cover  the 
cost of a holiday.  Arguably, EDL didnt treat Mr C fairly when it agreed to lend to him based 
on this information  because it was likely that agreeing  more  credit for him would simply add 
Ref: DRN34909294to his debt levels.  At the least, I think it would  have been reasonable and proportionate for 
EDL to have looked  into Mr Cs spending in more detail before  doing so. 
As mentioned, EDL know that Mr C was reliant on his overdraft. Had EDL looked into Mr Cs 
finances in more depth, I think it was likely  to have found out that this wasnt  a recent  
situation - his monthly income hadnt been  enough to take him out of his overdraft at all that 
year and he paid both arranged and unarranged overdraft fees each  month. I also think 
verifying some of Mr Cs expenses was likely to have revealed that he had outstanding loans 
from at least three different short term lenders.  This seems to me to confirm that Mr C wasnt 
managing to repay his existing debts sustainably  and furthermore, that he needed to borrow  
each month  to support his spending. And, armed with this knowledge, I think  EDL would 
have declined to lend to him on this occasion.  
Loan 2
EDL agreed another loan for Mr C in December 2011. This was for £3,000, some of which 
was used to repay his first loan and I understand  the remainder was to cover Christmas 
expenses. Again, EDL checked  some  of Mr Cs bank  statements, which  show  planned  and 
unplanned overdraft  fees from the previous  month.  His salary  does take him into credit but 
his account was depleted the following day and he was still using his overdraft to the same 
extent. Mr Cs credit card debts remained,  and he took out a short  term loan the week  before 
he was paid. 
EDLs customer  notes  show  that Mr C struggled to meet his repayments for his first loan, for 
example, he cancelled his direct  debit in October  as he didnt  have sufficient funds in his 
account and a cheque was returned  in November for the same reason. 
I think EDL could see that Mr Cs financial situation hadnt improved since his first loan. He 
hadnt managed  to make inroads into his existing debts and had difficulty meeting his 
repayments for his first loan. Agreeing another loan for Mr C under these circumstances 
simply prolonged his indebtedness, potentially for another three years.  So I dont think  EDL 
treated him fairly when  it did so.
And, as with Mr Cs first loan,  I dont think the information EDL had supported its estimate of 
his disposable  income. Had EDL looked into Mr Cs spending in more  detail, I think its likely 
it would  have seen  that he was still relying on his overdraft and on short term credit each 
month  he had outstanding loans from at least three short term providers when  he 
borrowed a second  time.  
As our adjudicator explained, it seems  Mr C spent  significant amounts on gambling. 
Potentially, EDL would have uncovered this spending pattern had it carried out further  
checks  there were some  gambling  transactions on the statements it had. However, leaving 
this aside, as Ive explained, I think EDL treated Mr C unfairly when it agreed a second  loan 
for him, and its not likely further checks would have  provided any reassurance to the 
contrary. 
Mr C didnt manage to repay  his second  loan as agreed  he cancelled his direct debit 
before the first payment  and thereafter made irregular payments by card before entering into 
an arrangement to pay weekly in early  March 2013.
Ref: DRN34909295what EDL should  do to put things right
Ive concluded  that EDL was irresponsible to have agreed to lend to Mr C. So he shouldnt 
have to pay any interest, fees or charges associated with either  loan. 
To put things right for Mr C, EDL should:
a)refund all interest,  fees and charges  that he paid on both loans; and
b)add 8% simple interest to these  payments  from the date they were made to the date 
the complaint is settled; and
c)remove any adverse  information from Mr Cs credit  file in relation to the loans. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to take off tax from this interest. EDL must  give 
Mr C a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint  and direct Everyday  Lending Limited to put things right for him as 
Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
Michelle Boundy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3490929