K821x#15complaint
Ms A (with  the help of a representative) complains about the rejection of her claim by Unum 
Ltd. 
background
Ms A holds an income  protection policy with Unum. She also unfortunately suffers  from a 
long term medical condition. She made  a claim when she wasnt  able to work, but Unum 
rejected this. Ms A complained to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. They suggested that Unum pay the policy 
benefit between  certain dates, but not on an ongoing  basis. Unum didnt agree with the 
reasoning but agreed to pay the suggested amount. Ms A didnt agree with the suggested 
solution at all, she (via her representative) felt that payments should continue to date, and 
beyond. The case has therefore been  passed to me for a final decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be amending  the investigators view. Ill explain why. 
Ms A has a long standing  medical condition, this causes  her problems but she does seem 
able to have worked  with this condition for a number of years.  It appears  that in 2015 she 
had an incident  at work, which led to an increase in stress and she went off work then. 
Whilst she says the incident affected her underlying condition there is very little 
contemporaneous medical evidence of this. So whilst I can understand if she had been off 
work for a short while due to stress  it isnt so clear why she remains off work. 
Looking at the medical evidence on file there are some statements from medical 
practitioners that support her claim, but these  lack detail. There  is certainly no mention of 
why she went from being able to work to not being  able to work long term, in a way that fits 
in with other reports that suggest her underlying condition is relatively unchanged.  
It also doesnt appear that the trigger for this absence is a long term issue, as it was centred  
on an office confrontation, so I dont think I can look to that as a valid claim alone. So to 
support the claim I would need to see conclusive and detailed proof of deterioration in Ms 
As condition  that meant she couldnt return to work,  and some of the medical reports dont 
support this. 
The investigator felt that benefit should  be payable from March  2016 (after the policy 
deferment period)  to February 2017  and I see no reason  to alter that. The initial incident 
could have caused problems and I accept  that some benefit may have been payable,  
although I do think February 2017 is at the upper time limit of what I would ask the insurer  to 
pay. 
There is also another complicating  factor  here. Ms A engaged with her employer at some 
point in her absence and left employment  by mutual  agreement. Whilst I note the insistence 
that this was driven by Unum not paying the benefit due I cant  accept this as the direct 
cause. Whilst her relations with her employer are confidential to her I can see no reason why 
Ref: DRN37249792she would  chose to leave just because of Unums actions. Added to that it isnt possible to 
have an income replacement policy when there is no income to protect. Insurers will insure 
people in work as there is an employer to engage  in a rehabilitation programme and an 
occupation to measure ability to work against.  That isnt present here as Ms A in effect has 
no job, and its unlikely  she would  be covered for any income  protection  in that scenario. . 
my final decision
I agree  that Unum  Ltd should pay benefit from March 2016  to end February  2017,  but no 
more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 August 2019.
Christopher Tilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3724979