K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Everyday Loans Limited (Everyday) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  in connection with two loans.  
background
Briefly:
In 2010 Mrs M took out two PPI policies when she applied for two loans   the loans  were  
taken out about five months apart. It appears that both were  done over the phone  with 
paperwork then sent out to Mrs M to sign and return through the post.
While referred  to as PPI, the policy only provided life cover   it didnt provide the more 
traditional elements  of accident, sickness or unemployment cover. The policy  was designed 
to pay off Mrs Ms loan balances in the event of her death. Both policies cost under £10 a 
month.
At the time of the sales Mrs M was married, employed and she said she was in good  health 
at the time.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
on both occasions  Mrs M chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate they 
were wrong or inappropriate for her.
Because Mrs M disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken into account whats relevant  
here in deciding Mrs Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.  My reasons are set out 
below.
did Mrs M have a choice about PPI? 
I think Everyday made  it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI on both occasions 
and that she chose to take them out  although  I can understand why she cant  now 
remember this.
It appears both sales were carried out over the phone. Everyday hasnt got call recordings of 
the phone  sales.  But it has provided copies of the paperwork sent out to Mrs M after the calls 
including the loan agreements. Looking at these, I can see both have separate  sections  
about PPI and both required Mrs M to tick one of two equally prominent boxes to either take 
out PPI or to decline it. On both occasions Mrs M ticked the required Yes box to take out 
PPI. Im mindful  too that in this section it described the PPI as being optional.
Ref: DRN31179262So while I accept that I dont know what was said to Mrs M about  PPI during the two phone 
calls she had with Everyday, given  that in my view the paperwork that immediately followed 
the calls made it clear PPI was optional, I think it more likely than not this is how it was 
described to Mrs M during the calls.
Overall, I think Mrs M chose to take out PPI and she likely did so without undue pressure.
the advice
Everyday says it recommended the PPI to Mrs M. And based  on the paperwork provided I 
think this was an advised sale. This means  Everyday had to check that the PPI was right for 
Mrs M.
Everyday has provided a Needs Analysis  Form used by the adviser during the phone calls 
with Mrs M, which shows that Everyday took some,  if not all reasonable steps  to ensure the 
cover recommended  was suitable. I can see here it records that Mrs M wasnt  interested in 
protecting the loans in the event of accident  and sickness or unemployment. But it says Mrs 
M did want  cover in the event of her death. And this is the cover that was recommended  on 
both occasions.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ms circumstances at the time, I think the cover was suitable  
for  it wasnt wrong for Everyday to have recommended it. For example, Mrs M was eligible 
for the cover and she seems to have  had a need  for cover  she was married  and she said 
she had a young family at the time. So she had family members who wouldve  benefitted  
from her having the cover  had the insured risk become a reality.
I can see Mrs M says she didnt need  PPI because  she was paid if she was off work. But as 
Ive set out above, Mrs Ms policy only provided  cover in the event of her death   it wouldnt 
pay out if she was off work ill. The Needs Analysis Form records that:
Discussed options of protecting the loan was only concerned that the loan would be 
cleared in the event of her death, was happy  that her job was secure  and that the 6 weeks  
cover from work was sufficient in accident/sickness.
the information   
I accept some of the information Everyday gave Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  For example and as the adjudicator explained in detail,  the cost of the policy  
and the way it was paid as a percentage of the loan repayment - and the impact this had on 
the outstanding loan balance and ultimately the amount of interest paid over the term - 
wasnt made clear; albeit the amounts  in question were in my view relatively  small.
But as I found  above, I think Mrs M chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type 
of cover.  
And as I set out above, based  on her circumstances at the time it doesnt appear that it was 
inappropriate for her - so it seems like it would have been useful for her family if anything 
happened to her. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think  better information about 
the PPI and in particular  the cost information  would have put Mrs M off taking out the cover.
conclusion
Ref: DRN31179263Overall, while  Everyday  might not have  done everything it should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done when it sold Mrs M PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time I dont think it was 
wrong for Everyday to have recommended the cover  to her. And I dont think Mrs M would 
have acted any differently  and declined PPI had Everyday done anything more.  This means I 
dont think Mrs M has lost out as a result of having PPI, so Everyday doesnt have to do 
anything to put things right.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including what she said in response to the 
adjudicator about  PPI not being discussed  or explained and that Everyday was wrong in 
saying that the paperwork  was completed at one of its branches  it has fabricated the 
paperwork. But these  points dont change my decision.
 
In light of the evidence Ive described above,  I think  PPI was most  likely discussed with Mrs 
M. The advisers notes from the time record information about Mrs Ms circumstances that 
could only reasonably have been obtained from a conversation about it. And the paperwork 
describes that a conversation took place - I think its likely therefore Mrs M has simply 
forgotten about  what happened.
I can understand Mrs M is concerned that Everyday has said she completed the paperwork 
in one its branches when both I and the adjudicator think differently. But I dont  think there is 
anything untoward  about this or that this means the paperwork about PPI was fabricated as 
she says. I think its likely that Everydays  sales process typically  followed the pattern of 
customers completing paperwork in-branch.
But in this case I think the paperwork was posted  out to Mrs M to complete and sign after the 
phone calls - I think this is supported  by some of the handwritten  notes on the paperwork 
showing the parts Mrs M needed to complete and sign, which I wouldnt necessarily expect 
to see if things were done in a face to face meeting. And I think  the papers were most  likely 
posted out in Mrs Ms case  because  she lived a distance from the nearest branch as she 
says. Notwithstanding the above,  Im satisfied  Mrs M completed and signed the paperwork 
including consenting  to take out PPI. And so for this reason and those Ive detailed  above, I 
dont uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3117926