K821x#15complaint
Mr R, represented by Mrs R, complains that Lex Autolease Ltd didnt give him an adequate 
settlement after the vehicle  he hired  under hire agreement was returned.
background
Mr R entered into a hire agreement with Lex Autolease in November  2017  to hire a new 
vehicle. Mr R collected the vehicle on 4 November  2018 but he experienced issues and so it 
was returned to the dealer  on 8 November to have a repair carried out. At this time Mr R 
raised his concern about the gearbox. The vehicle was booked  in on 14 November and Mr R 
collected it on 23 November but the issue wasnt resolved. The vehicle was booked in for 
further work  but again the issue wasnt resolved.
Mr R says that the vehicle  was rejected  within the short term right to reject  period and so he 
should receive a full refund of all amounts paid. 
Lex Autolease says that the dealer confirmed the issues with Mr Rs vehicle when it saw the 
vehicle on 10 January 2018.  It says the vehicle was booked in on 17 January  where  a 
software update  was applied but Mr R reported the issues as not being resolved. Following 
an independent inspection it says the fault was confirmed and it agreed the hire agreement 
could be terminated  at zero cost (although  any damage or excess mileage would be applied 
if relevant).
It calculated the refund required  but there was then a delay in this. It sent a further final 
response letter confirming  that it would provide a refund of £5,356.92 which consisted of:
£4,780.42  being the unused portion of Mr Rs initial payment
£34.57 statutory interest (less  tax) to cover the amount Mr R could have earned had 
the payment been sent in a timely  manner; and 
£541.93 due to the inconvenience caused.
Lex Autolease says that the vehicle wasnt rejected within the initial  30 day period and so a 
full refund wasnt required. 
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that the vehicle was new when it was hired 
and so should have been fault free but this wasnt the case. She said that the 30 day right to 
reject period  is put on hold while repairs are being undertaken and based on the information 
provided Mr R had rejected the vehicle within the short term right to reject period. She 
recommended that as well as the actions already taken, Lex Autolease should:
1.refund  the remainder  of the deposit in full adding  8% interest  (simple) from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement;
2.increase the refund  on four months  rentals  to 10% along  with 8% interest (simple) 
calculated on each  month's rental  payment from the date of payment  until the date of 
settlement; and
3.remove any adverse information  regarding this agreement  from Mr R's credit  file.
Lex Autolease didnt accept our investigators  view. It said the offer it had made was fair.
Ref: DRN34835742my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
My role is to consider each case based  on its individual merits. I take relevant regulations 
into account but my decision  is based  on what I consider fair and reasonable given the 
unique circumstances  of the complaint. 
Mr R entered into a hire agreement with Lex Autolease for a vehicle. Under  the regulations, 
Lex Autolease can be held liable if the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of 
supply. Given the vehicle was new at the point of the hire agreement  it is reasonable that 
Mr R would have expected it to be free from faults, including  any minor defects.
Given the issues that arose and the timing  of these I find it reasonable to accept that the 
vehicle wasnt of satisfactory quality. 
Lex Autolease says that it was first contacted on day 31 of the agreement and so outside  of 
the 30 day right to reject period. It said that when it became aware the dealer  wasnt able to 
resolve the issue with the vehicle it processed a termination at zero cost. It says Mr R had 
use of the vehicle or an alternative vehicle for a period of time and so it was reasonable that 
only the unused  portion  of the initial payment was refunded.
Mr Rs vehicle was collected on 4 November, and had to be returned for repairs on a number 
of occasions.  The Consumer Rights Act 2015, sets out that the clock stops running during 
the period of any repair or replacement and that on return  of the vehicle,  the consumer has 
the remainder of the 30 day period  or seven days (whichever is the longer) to use the short-
term right to reject if the vehicle is still faulty.  In this case  Lex Autolease says that Mr R 
contacted it on 5 December 2017.  Given the times Mr Rs vehicle had been in for repair the 
30 day period extended  beyond this date. I have also seen an email  from Mr R raising the 
issue of rejection dated 3 December 2017.
Therefore, I find it reasonable to accept that Mr R did ask to reject  the vehicle within the 
short term right to reject period. 
Given the issues Mr R experienced with the vehicle and the timing of these, I find that it was 
reasonable that the vehicle was taken back and I also think that the whole of his initial 
payment should  have  been refunded. I note the comments Lex Autolease  has made in 
regard to this but I think the fact the vehicle was new at acquisition and the problems arose 
within the first few days it is fair that the full initial payment is returned along with interest.
In regard to the use of the vehicle, this was very limited although I note alternative transport 
was provided. Mrs R says they stopped using the vehicle  at the start of February because 
they were told it was unsafe and at the time of collection in early  March  it had been driven 
less than 1,000 miles.
Lex Autolease gave Mr R a 5% discount  on rentals over the four months of payments.  
However, I agree with our investigator  that this isnt enough to reflect the loss of enjoyment  
Mr R experienced. He had entered into a hire agreement for a certain vehicle and the 
alternative provided wasnt of the same standard and so while he was kept mobile I think  a 
10% refund for loss of enjoyment is reasonable.
Ref: DRN34835743In regards to the other payments for distress  and inconvenience and time taken off work for 
the vehicle to be collected, I accept  that Lex Autolease  has done enough to compensate 
Mr R.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Lex Autolease Ltd should (additional to the 
actions taken and payments  made):
1.refund  the remainder  of the deposit in full adding  8% interest  (simple) from the date 
of payment until the date of settlement;
2.provide an additional  5% refund  on four months  rentals (taking the total refund  to 
10%) along with 8% interest (simple) calculated on each month's rental payments 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement; and
3.remove any adverse information  regarding this agreement  from Mr R's credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 November  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3483574