K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF) have refused to reinstate his account and have repossessed a vehicle hes 
been financing  through them.
background
Mr A has been represented  by his wife in this complaint. For ease I will refer to Mr A 
throughout as the finance agreement is in his name.
In August  2017  Mr A took receipt of a new car. He financed the deal through a conditional  
sale agreement with BPF.
In November 2018 BPF issued a default notice when the account was more  than three  
months in arrears. A repayment plan was agreed  with Mr A but when arrears were  still not 
brought up to date the agreement was terminated in March 2019 and BPF sold the car and 
applied the proceeds to the balance on his account.
Mr A was disappointed that BPF had not given him an opportunity  to pay off the arrears  and 
continue with his contract. He complained to BPF but they didnt think theyd done  anything 
wrong. They explained that after theyd  issued the default notice a payment plan was agreed 
to bring the account back up to date in six months.  They noted that no further payments 
were received after December 2018 and they didnt  think, in those circumstances, theyd  
been wrong to terminate  the agreement in March 2019.
Mr A was disappointed with their response  so he referred his complaint to this service  and 
our investigator provided his opinion. He didnt think there was sufficient evidence  to suggest 
BPF had been unreasonable. He noted  that the account had been more  than three  months 
in arrears when BPF issued the default  and he noted that was in line with what the 
Information Commissioners Office  (ICO) said about  when defaults  should be issued. He 
explained that under the default notice BPF could have terminated  the contract in early 
December 2018  but he thought theyd been sympathetic and positive when theyd been told 
Mr A was not well as they had been  prepared to consider a repayment plan and had not 
terminated the contract until much later, in March 2019.
He understood  that Mr A disputed  receiving  the default notice. He reviewed BPFs system  
notes and could  see that the default had been posted in November so he thought it most 
likely that this had happened.
He also understood  that Mr A disputed the account balance. But he reviewed how the sale 
price BPF had received for the vehicle had been  applied to the balance of the account;  
noted interest would  be incurred  on the account, and could not see evidence BPF had done  
anything wrong.
But Mr A disagreed and he asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN38388142I know it will disappoint Mr A but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. Please 
let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered  the whole 
file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont  comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about  it but because I 
dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.
Most credit providers wont record an account as being in default just because one payment 
has been missed. Therell  usually be a trigger point. The ICO says when a consumer is at 
least three months behind  with their payments then a default  may be registered.  I think thats 
reasonable.
Here, I can see that Mr A was more than three months behind when BPF raised the default. 
So I think it was reasonable of them to do so at that point  and, as the account remained in 
arrears, the terms of the finance arrangement allowed them to repossess the car and 
terminate the contract when they did, in March  2019, with arrears of over £2,000.
I understand that Mr A doesnt think  he received the default notice but Ive reviewed BPFs 
system log and I can see the system sent the notice and that they appear to have the correct  
address for Mr A. So I think its most  likely the default notice was sent.
I was sorry to hear about Mr As illness. I would expect BPF to have been positive and 
sympathetic to Mr A when  theyd been  told about this and I think they were. They  were  
prepared to agree a repayment plan and they delayed the termination of the contract  for 
several months. 
The proceeds from the sale of the car were  applied to the balance  of the account and Ive 
not seen evidence that persuades me the balance  has been calculated  incorrectly.
Overall, Im not persuaded that BPF have done anything wrong and I wont be asking them  
to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 March  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3838814