K820x#14complaint
Mrs T on behalf  of herself and the late Mr T complain that Nationwide Building Society 
mis-sold payment protection  insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1991 Mrs T and the late Mr T took out a mortgage  with Nationwide.  At the same  time PPI 
was taken out providing protection  for their mortgage payments  in the event of accident, 
sickness or unemployment. The initial cost was around £40 a month  and it would pay a 
benefit equal to the mortgage payment at the time of claim for up to 24 months.
Because things  happened  quite some time ago, Nationwide  cant say how the sale took place  
whether in-branch  or on the phone for example  or whether the policy  was in sole or joint names.
The PPI ended when  the mortgage account  closed in 1995.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  They said theyd assessed  the case  on the 
basis that the policy was in joint names.  And went on to say that given the limited  evidence 
and how long ago things happened, they thought it was unlikely Nationwide  didnt give them 
a choice about PPI and said there was nothing to indicate it was inappropriate for them.
Mrs T disagrees, so the complaint comes  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
handling PPI complaints  on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in 
deciding this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs T  I know  this isnt the answer she was hoping  for. But for the 
reasons below Ive decided  not to uphold this complaint.
Nationwide says this was a non-advised sale where it gave no advice  or recommendation. 
Mrs T says she doesnt know or cant remember  and this isnt surprising. So given this and 
based on what we know of how Nationwide typically conducted sales  of this nature, I think 
its likely  this was a non-advised  sale. This means  Nationwide didnt have to ensure PPI was 
suitable for Mrs T and the late Mr T  but it did have to give them  enough clear and timely  
information about the policy so they could make  that decision for themselves. Ive kept this in 
mind in deciding  this complaint.
did Nationwide make  it clear PPI was optional?
Because the sale happened some time ago and its more than 20 years since the mortgage 
account closed,  Nationwide  no longer has any paperwork from the time. And this isnt 
surprising  businesses  arent obliged to hold records  indefinitely. 
So in light of this I dont think I can fairly  say Nationwide didnt give Mrs T and the late Mr T a 
choice about PPI  Ive not been persuaded something different  happened and they were  
either told or led to believe  they had to have  PPI.
Ref: DRN33728032the information  
Because of the limited evidence available  in this case  including  not knowing how the sale 
came about  - I dont  know how PPI was presented to Mrs T and the late Mr T or what  
information they were  given about  it and its cost.  I think its unlikely they went ahead  without 
knowing something about it  including what it was going to cost them. But I accept its 
possible there were gaps here  for example  the available evidence  doesnt tell me how and 
if the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover were explained. So its possible 
Nationwide didnt do all that it fairly  and reasonably should have.
But in light of Mrs T and the late Mr Ts circumstances at the time  Ive assumed the cover 
was in joint names given they were both working   I dont think theyd have been put off 
taking out PPI had Nationwide  done  anything more. For example:
they were eligible for the cover.
they were employed and in good health  at the time, so they wouldnt have been affected 
by the significant  exclusions on and limits  to the cover  for example for existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment circumstances.
Mrs T has said they were both entitled to sick pay. But they both understood this at the 
time yet they were still interested in and chose  the cover. In any event the policy 
wouldve paid out alongside any sick pay entitlement and for longer if necessary 
allowing their existing  means to bridge the gap until the policy paid out and to help with 
other ongoing expenditure. So I think the policy  wouldve  been useful to them at what  
would likely be a difficult time  particularly given it was protecting  their mortgage 
payments and ultimately their home.
the policy  appears to have been  affordable.
So overall, for the reasons Ive given above, I dont  think Mrs T and the late Mr T have lost 
out a result of having PPI with their mortgage.  So Nationwide doesnt  have to do anything  to 
put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T  on behalf  
of herself and the late Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 2 November 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3372803