K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that they were mis-sold a packaged bank account (PBA)  by 
Clydesdale Bank  Plc (Clydesdale) in November 2002. They  say that when they applied to 
increase their overdraft  limit above  £100,  they were  told the only way they could  do that was 
to pay for a Silver PBA. They also complain that when they later tried to downgrade to a free 
account, they were  repeatedly told that wasnt possible.
background
Mr and Mrs P held a fee free account with Clydesdale which  they upgraded to a Silver PBA 
in November 2002. At that point it typically cost £4.50 per month  (although it would appear 
that Mr and Mrs P were only charged £4) and the only benefit was an automatic fee free 
£1,000 overdraft facility. However,  the bank  then migrated Mr and Mrs Ps account  to a 
Choice PBA the following month,  as it stopped offering the Silver option. The cost of the 
PBA went  up and insurance  benefits were added. The account  was further migrated to be a 
Signature PBA in September 2008, and then closed in 2015.
Therefore the only sale that happened was in November  2002 when the upgrade to Silver  
took place. Later changes  were migrations, and didnt require Mr and Mrs Ps agreement  
only that they were  notified of it. They agree that they did know  about those changes.
When they complained  to Clydesdale, it disagreed  that it had done anything  wrong,  so they 
then brought their case to this service.  Having looked at the evidence,  the adjudicator  
concluded that the PBA hadnt been  mis-sold. Mr and Mrs P dont accept that and have 
asked an ombudsman to review their case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to the mis-
sale of packaged  bank accounts on our website, and Ive kept this in mind  when looking into 
this complaint. Having  done so, Im not upholding the complaint, and Ill explain why.
Were Mr and Mrs P misled into believing that they had to pay for the Silver account in order  
to increase their overdraft?
Mr and Mrs P have  given consistent  testimony about  the fact that they had a short-term need  
for a fairly large overdraft  in November 2002. They say that their financial situation improved 
within a few months, and they no longer needed the facility, and had no interest in the 
insurance benefits that by that time came as part of the Choice account.
Clearly, I was not present when this sale took place, nearly 17 years ago. I accept its 
entirely possible that the Clydesdale  representative  who dealt with this upgrade  in branch 
actively lied to Mr and Mrs P and told them that they would have to take the PBA in order to 
increase their overdraft.  But what I have  to decide is what I think  is most likely to have  
happened, based on the evidence Im given.  So there is more  for me to consider  than simply 
what Mr and Mrs P now say happened at the time,  especially  bearing  in mind that memories 
very naturally become  less clear as the years pass.
There are two key things that I have borne in mind when weighing up Mr and Mrs Ps 
testimony on this point. Firstly, there  is the issue of the fee free £1,000 overdraft that 
Ref: DRN38549492automatically came with the Silver  PBA. The automatic nature of the overdraft limit is, I think, 
likely to have been appealing  to Mr and Mrs P at that time.  But they have also said that they 
werent continually  paying charges on their free account, so they were  no better off with the 
Silver account. And I can see from copies of some  statements theyve sent in that they 
indeed dont appear to have been continually paying  charges on their free account. But I 
think its logical to conclude that was dependent on overdraft use.
With fee free accounts at this time, Clydesdale charged both an arrangement  fee and a 
monthly maintenance fee on all overdrafts.  Which I think is shown in the statement which  
sets out the charges Mr and Mrs P had to pay in October 2002 (that is, the month  before the 
upgrade). On that statement, I can see a £15.00 SC, along with £0.65 in interest.  I think its 
reasonable to conclude  that SC is likely related to their overdraft use  possibly standing for 
Service Charge. In the statement detailing  charges  for November 2002,  I can see £4.00 for 
the Silver  account  fee, and £0.00 for SC in that month. But Mr and Mrs P have been very 
clear that they were  heavily reliant on a sizeable overdraft  at that particular time, and 
wouldnt have been maintaining their account  in credit.  So it seems that, in fact, taking the 
Silver account was likely to have  saved them a decent amount of money,  given their need 
for a large overdraft.  I think that raises  the distinct possibility that the Clydesdale  
representative in branch  highlighted to them the details of this benefit  when they asked 
about increasing their overdraft, and suggested  it might be the best and cheapest  option, 
rather than lied and said it was their only option.
Secondly, I have thought about Mr and Mrs Ps subsequent behaviour  after they say they no 
longer needed the overdraft. They have said that they were repeatedly  told in branch that it 
was not possible  to downgrade their account, and theyd have to close it instead. I asked for 
some more information about these allegations, and Mr and Mrs P have said that they began 
asking to downgrade in early 2003, and were always told, by at least  two members  of staff, 
that the free account was no longer an option.
However, given they are clear that they no longer needed an overdraft, and so werent 
trapped in the account through an inability to repay one, I can see no compelling reason as 
to why they wouldnt have moved their account  elsewhere, rather than continuing paying for 
something they say they had no need  of. They had held fee free accounts before, and I think 
its likely  they knew that remained an option for them, given how recently theyd had one. So 
if the only reason  they ever agreed  to upgrade was because they were told they had to in 
order to increase their overdraft, I think its likely  they would  have taken some  action  when 
they no longer  needed  that overdraft.  Again,  I asked  Mr and Mrs P for any more information 
on this point, and they said that there  was:
lots of negative press about bank transferring set ups going  horribly wrong which  
put us off.
But on balance, I havent seen enough  evidence to make me think its likely that Clydesdale  
staff would have  repeatedly lied to Mr and Mrs P over the course  of about 12 years  and 
said a downgrade wasnt  possible,  without Mr and Mrs P thinking to query or challenge that. 
Or, indeed, to take their business elsewhere. I accept that the inherent  hassle in changing 
accounts might not have  encouraged them to do so, but I dont think its likely that would 
have led them to keep  a paid for account which they had absolutely no need of, or interest  
in. I also note that Mr and Mrs P tried to claim on the mobile  phone  insurance some years  
later, but were  unsuccessful.  This strongly suggests  to me that they did have some interest 
in other  account  features, beyond the overdraft.
Ref: DRN38549493My clear  impression from Mr and Mrs Ps testimony is that, in hindsight,  they regret keeping 
this account and didnt get the benefit from it that they might have hoped for. But that doesnt 
mean that Clydesdale  necessarily did anything wrong in either  the selling or the 
maintenance of the PBA.
Weighing everything in the round, I think its likely Mr and Mrs P agreed  to the Silver PBA 
knowing that they didnt have to, and that the evidence available doesnt support the 
conclusion that they were  then misled into keeping a PBA for the following 13 years.  So I 
dont think Clydesdale  has done  anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Clydesdale  doesnt need  to 
do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Siobhan McBride
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3854949