K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains Lloyds  Bank PLC rejected  a payment he made to his daughters  account.
background
Mr Ms daughter switched her account  to another bank under the Current Account Switching 
Guarantee. But when  Mr M made  a payment using  his account with Lloyds to her old 
account, the payment was rejected and not forwarded to her new account. Hes annoyed 
because he says both banks have been blaming the other. And he says Lloyds customer 
service has been insensitive, arrogant  and utterly dismissive.
Lloyds said it hadnt done anything wrong. And it gave  a number of reasons why the 
payment failed.
The adjudicator didnt think Lloyds had done  anything wrong. She could see that when  Mr M 
tried to make the payment  he received an error message telling him something  was wrong 
with his daughters  account. And as it was his daughter who had used the switching service 
the adjudicator  said she couldnt  look at the terms and conditions  of the Switching 
Guarantee.
Mr M couldnt understand why she couldnt look at the Switching  Guarantee  as he said this 
sits at the heart of the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M wanted us to deal with his complaint as a joint one with his daughter. Under  our rules I 
cant do that as they dont  have joint accounts.  But I have taken into consideration the 
representations that have  been made  on both complaints.
There are three bank accounts  involved in this complaint: Mr Ms account with Lloyds, his 
daughters account  with her old bank and her account with her new bank. All three  accounts  
are held within the same banking group.
I can see how strongly Mr M feels about  this. But I can only look at whether Lloyds, at the 
point Mr M attempted  to make a payment to his daughters old account, did anything wrong 
with how it dealt with his transaction. The payment Mr M was attempting  was rejected by his 
daughters old account.  And it seems that this was because there was an issue  with the 
switch agreement. The switching service is an agreement his daughter made  with her new 
bank and I can understand why Mr M says this lies at the heart of his complaint.  But under 
our rules  we cant consider a complaint from Mr M about whether either bank  was at fault 
under that agreement  because it is his daughter who has the necessary relationship with the 
bank over the switching  agreement.
So in connection with Mr Ms attempted payment from his bank account  Im satisfied Lloyds 
didnt do anything wrong. There was an error message indicating  there  was an issue with the 
account. It seems to me that this is what would normally happen if a payment is attempted  to 
an account which is closed. And as Ive already said, Mr M cant  complain about the reasons 
why this payment  wasnt forwarded to his daughters new account.
Ref: DRN36272622Mr M is annoyed  at the way Lloyds has handled his complaint.  But I cant  tell Lloyds how it 
should deal with and handle complaints. Its complaint handling is not, under our rules, what 
is called  a regulated activity. 
I appreciate that Mr M will be disappointed with my decision particularly on what we can and 
cant deal with. But our role is limited by the rules under which  we operate.  And for all the 
reasons Ive given  I dont  think  Lloyds did anything wrong at the point Mr M tried to transfer 
money to his daughters old account.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3627262