K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that she was given  unsuitable advice by Finura  Partners  Limited (Finura) to 
transfer her personal  pensions into a flexi-drawdown plan.
At the time of the advice Finura was an appointed representative of Evolution Wealth 
Network Ltd (EWN). This means EWN  is responsible for the advice given and for this 
complaint. 
background
In 2018, Ms H had left her current employment and wanted to review  her retirement planning  
as she wasnt intending to return to work. She had a self-invested personal pension and a 
capped drawdown  plan (both with Aegon) which had a combined value of around £125k  and 
a money purchase  pension with Lloyds valued  at £56k.  
She was advised  by EWN to transfer  the three pension plans into a flexi-drawdown  plan with 
Prudential. She has since  bought an annuity  with the funds.
Ms H complained in 2019 to say this had been  unsuitable advice. She wanted to protect her 
capital whilst taking an income from the pension and she said she had been assured growth 
in the new plan would outperform any charges on the plan. However, statements had shown 
her that the advice  fees together with ongoing fees were outstripping returns.  She also says 
EWN didnt tell her she could take any more tax-free cash. And she claimed EWN had 
pressured her daughter  to borrow £100k  against  her mortgage which could then be invested 
on behalf of Ms H to boost her retirement fund.
Our investigator didnt  uphold her complaint points about the tax-free cash  and that her 
daughter had been pressured by EWN  into borrowing a large sum of money. She said there 
wasnt any conclusive evidence to say what exactly  had been discussed  with regards to 
these two issues. Ms H had eventually been able to take tax-free cash, so she hadnt  lost out 
in this respect. Ms Hs daughter eventually decided  to pay her £25k from her savings. And 
the fact find suggested that Ms Hs daughter was happy to gift her mother  a lump sum as 
she had been  gifted a property from her mother previously. The investigator  didnt think  there 
was enough evidence to say Ms Hs daughter had been unduly pressured by EWN. 
However, she did think EWN had given Ms H unsuitable advice. She thought the funds in Ms 
Hs existing pensions were similar to the ones in her new plan but ongoing charges were  
more expensive. She didnt think there was a real benefit of switching pension  provisions  in 
the circumstances. 
Ms H accepted the investigators findings.  EWN disagreed and said Ms H had been clearly  
informed about  the new investment, its terms and conditions and the applicable fees and 
charges. They said there  was no evidence that the advice  had been  unsuitable.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint  was referred to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN36253512Having considered the information on file, I agree with the investigator that Ms Hs complaint 
points about being provided  with misinformation on tax free cash  and her daughter being 
forced to borrow money should not be upheld.  As Ms H has already agreed with this view, 
Im not going  to address  this any further.
I also agree  with the investigator that the advice to transfer Ms Hs was unsuitable.
In short  my reasons  for this are:
There have to be good reasons to recommend a pension  switch.
Her existing plans were generally  suitable for Ms Hs circumstances.
The new Prudential plan was invested in line with Ms Hs attitude to risk, but was 
more expensive. 
I cant see that Ms H had the immediate need  for flexible  drawdown  with all her funds  
and the Aegon plan (which made up the majority of her retirement provision) did 
provide this flexibility.
I appreciate Prudential funds were  invested  in with-profits and benefitted from 
smoothed returns. However, Im not satisfied that this feature would outweigh  the 
benefits of lower charges in her existing plans. 
Ms H wanted to protect her capital and only wanted to take any income  from returns. 
So she needed  as much growth  in her investments as possible.  Given  her relatively  
cautious attitude to risk, the possibility for growth would always be relatively limited. 
However, the effect of charges could be controlled by keeping them as low as 
possible.
Overall, I dont  think the recommendation to transfer was suitable in Ms Hs 
circumstances.
Fair compensation
I generally agree with the redress the investigator recommended, however  it only referred to 
the Aegon plans and not Ms Hs workplace pension which  she also transferred. So I 
amended the redress accordingly below. I also set out the redress in more  detail.  
Ive previously shared  this updated  redress with both parties. EWN had no further 
comments. Ms H confirmed again  that she would prefer  any redress  to be paid to her 
directly. She also asked a couple of clarifying questions  about the redress which I have  
asked the investigator  to respond to directly,  so I wont repeat them here.  As no new 
information was provided I remain satisfied that the redress as set out below is fair in the 
circumstances.
I noted that EWNs  charging structure means  Ms H would have paid the initial  fee of £4,000 
irrespectively of whether  the advice had been to remain in her existing plans or to transfer. 
However, given that I consider Ms H received  unsuitable advice from EWN, I dont think its 
fair that she should  pay for this advice.  The calculations  below take this into account.
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms H as close  as
possible to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
My view is that that there  was no significant  need  for Ms H to change her pensions with 
Aegon. They were  invested in line with her attitude  to risk and had lower  ongoing charges 
than Prudential.
Ref: DRN36253513I also cant see that there was a need to move  away from Ms Hs workplace pension. It was 
invested in a lifestyle strategy plan and the charges  were low. I appreciate  the plan didnt 
allow for flexible drawdown. However,  Ms Hs retirement plans werent fully formed yet and if 
she needed to draw some income she could have used her Aegon plans. If she wanted  to 
use her funds from this plan more flexibly in future,  she could have  transferred  at that point.
What should EWN do?
To compensate Ms H fairly  EWN  should:
Compare the performance of Ms H's Prudential plan with notional values of her 
previous pensions with Aegon and Lloyds if she had remained invested as she was. 
If the fair value is greater than the actual  value, there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable. 
investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
("start  date")to 
("end  date")bringing 
losses 
up to 
date 
Prudential 
Flexi-  
Access  
DrawdowntransferredAegon  
pension  
plans  
and 
Lloyds  
workplace  
pensiondate of
transfer
(this means  
the transfer  
value  before  
the deduction  
of the initial  
advice  fee 
and any 
transfer  
charges  )The date Ms 
H purchased  
an annuity  
with
Canada  Life.See below
If there  is a loss, the following  should  be paid:
Past losses
Calculate the difference between any tax-free cash and net annuity payments Ms H 
actually received and what  she should have received (calculated from when she took 
her annuity  until the day of my decision.) Apply  8% simple interest per year from the 
day each payment should have been received until the day of my decision. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If EWN consider that they are 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  EWN 
should tell Ms H how much they have taken off. EWN should also give Ms H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.*
Future losses
Ref: DRN36253514EWN should  calculate what additional  annuity income Ms H could have bought with 
the loss amount when she bought her annuity.  
To compensate for future losses, an annuity should be set up for this amount. If EWN 
are unable to purchase an annuity or deem it impracticable, they should provide a 
quote from an annuity provider how much it would  cost to set up this additional  
annuity. Ms H current age should  be used for this quote and health or lifestyle  factors  
should be taken  into account. This purchase cost should then be paid to Mrs H as a 
lump sum less tax at her current marginal tax rate*.  I understand Ms Hs preferred 
option would  be a lump sum rather than the set up of an additional annuity.
 In addition, EWN should pay Ms H £300 for the trouble and upset caused to her at
this time.
 Provide  the details of the calculation to Ms H in a clear and simple format.
**Ms H has told us in 2020 her total annual  income  was £9,800  so below the threshold  for 
income tax. EWN should  not assume  shes a basic rate taxpayer but should  instead engage 
with Ms H to establish what  income tax band  she falls into.
Actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  Ms Hs existing plans would  have been  worth at the end date had they remained 
invested as they were.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
 Ms H wanted to achieve  a reasonable return without taking too much risk
 This could have been achieved without a transfer and increased charges 
 The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money  since
the end date.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and ask Evolution  Wealth Network Ltd to calculate  and pay the 
redress as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2021.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3625351