K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Mrs B have  a mortgage account with Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax.  
They complain that, for several years, Halifax told Mr R that he and Mrs B couldnt change  
their mortgage product  from its standard variable rate to a lower,  fixed rate.  
background
In 2009, Mr R and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Halifax. There were  three  parts to the 
mortgage, all of which had fixed rate products  that expired in 2010 or 2011 and then reverted 
to Halifaxs standard  variable rate.
In 2010, Mr R and Mrs B took out further borrowing that was on a tracker  rate until the end of 
2012 and then reverted to Halifaxs standard variable rate.  
In 2015, Mr R and Mrs B switched to a fixed rate mortgage product at a rate of 1.99%. When 
that product  ended, they took out a new mortgage product at the same rate.
Mr R says that from 2011 to 2015,  he phoned Halifax  each year after he received the 
mortgage statement  to see if he could change the rate they were paying.  Mr R says that 
Halifax told him that they were not eligible for a fixed rate product.  Mr R and Mrs B want 
Halifax to backdate to 2011 the fixed interest rate product they currently  have. 
Our adjudicator explained to Mr R that we cant deal with every  complaint thats referred  to 
us. Our rules provide certain  time limits  and unless there are exceptional circumstances, we 
can only consider  complaints outside  those time limits if Halifax agrees and it doesnt here. 
That means this service cant look at what happened from 2009 to mid 2012. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Halifax had treated Mr R and Mrs B unfairly  in relation to the 
interest rate. He said hed listened  to the recording of the phone call in January  2013 
between Mr R and Halifax. The adjudicator said Halifax  gave Mr R accurate information  at 
that time and Mr R didnt  proceed to change the mortgage product. 
The adjudicator said that in 2015, Halifax proceeded based on an index-based valuation, 
which meant that Mr R didnt have to pay for a valuation. The new valuation  of 
Mr R and Mrs Bs home meant that they were eligible for a product with a rate of 1.99%.
The adjudicator said that Halifax had paid compensation  of £50, as it provided  Mr R with 
some incorrect information when he first made the complaint. He thought that was fair. 
Mr R didnt agree with the adjudicator.  He said that Halifax  valued  his property at £164,206  
in 2010. He said that valuation would have increased by early 2013.  Mr R said Halifax 
ignored the 2010 valuation when he spoke to it in January 2013, so he missed out on a 
better mortgage rate. 
Our adjudicator said that if Mr R thought  that Halifaxs  estimated valuation of £148,923  in 
2013 was incorrect,  he could have proceeded to pay for a valuation, as Halifax  offered. Mr R 
didnt agree. He said that in 2013, Halifax  had looked at trends and assumed that their 
property was worth £148,923, which  was incorrect.  
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
Ref: DRN34011352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr R has very strong feelings  about  this matter. Hes provided  detailed 
submissions to support  his complaint,  which I have  read and considered.  However, I trust 
that neither he nor Mrs B will take as a discourtesy  the fact that I focus  on what  I consider to 
be the central issue. That is, whether for several years, Halifax  told Mr R that he and Mrs B 
couldnt change  their mortgage  product from its standard variable rate to a lower, fixed rate.       
Mr R says that he phoned Halifax every year after receiving  his mortgage statement. Halifax  
says that it has no evidence that he did so except for a recording of a phone call in January 
2013. Based  on what Ive seen, I dont think I can safely conclude that Mr R phoned Halifax 
every year about his mortgage rate. The evidence I have is that he phoned it in January 
2013 and enquired about the rate, amongst other things. 
In the January 2013 phone call, Mr R asked  about further borrowing and about the rate they 
were currently paying.  Halifax said that its valuation of Mr R and Mrs Bs property was 
£148,923 and that a fixed rate of 4.49% was available to them.  That was a higher rate than 
they were paying  at that time. Mr R thought  that their property was worth  £180,000. Halifax  
said that if they wanted to proceed based on a higher valuation, Mr R would need to pay for 
a valuation. 
Mr R maintains that Halifaxs valuation of their property at £148,923 in 2013 was wrong. He 
says that Halifax  valued  his property  at £164,206 in 2010. He says that if Halifax had valued 
the property correctly in 2013,  the loan to value ratio would have been better, so lower  rates  
would have been available to them. 
I think Halifax was entitled to come to the view that it did about the value of Mr Rs property 
in 2013. It was an estimate based  on the previous  valuation and movements in the property 
market. 
I think theres been some confusion about  the data from the Office of National Statistics.  
Halifax didnt use that data to arrive at its estimated valuation. It provided that information to 
this service to show the movement of the property  market  at the relevant time. 
I appreciate that Mr R disputes Halifaxs estimated  valuation. It was open to Mr R and Mrs B 
to proceed with a valuation  of their property if they thought that Halifaxs  estimated valuation 
was wrong. They didnt do so. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr R and Mrs B but theres  no basis  on which to direct Halifax  to 
apply retrospectively  the fixed rate product they currently have. 
Ref: DRN34011353my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr R and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 June  2019. 
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3401135