K820x#14complaint
Mrs W complains Bank of Scotland  pic trading as Halifax wont  refund  a payment made on
her credit card to a secondary ticket selling  website (the Website)  for event tickets.
background
In June 2017, Mrs W bought two event tickets on her Halifax  credit  card.  In total,  she paid
£151.75.
Mrs W says once the tickets arrived, she found they had a face value of £30 each which  was
a lot less than what she paid. Mrs W says she also wasnt aware that tax was added  on
separately at the end of the purchase  process and that the tickets would be in someone
elses name. Mrs W has told us the transaction appeared in a foreign currency and the
Website didnt give her a chance to stop this transaction. Instead, the transaction authorised
itself.
Halifax looked into Mrs Ws concerns, but they didnt think they could help. They said they
didnt feel they had grounds  to raise a chargeback claim because they didnt have a
reasonable prospect of success. Halifax also thought a claim under Section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA) should be unsuccessful. They  said there wasnt the
necessary relationship between Mrs W, Halifax and the Website  for a valid claim.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mrs W brought her complaint to our service. Our
investigator looked into the matter. Ultimately, he didnt think  Halifax had acted unfairly  by
declining Mrs Ws request  for a refund. He said Mrs W had entered her card details on the
Website when purchasing the tickets,  therefore,  shed authorised the transaction. Our
investigator also thought the final amount of the tickets was made  clear  to Mrs W. So, he
didnt think there had been  a misrepresentation or breach of contract by the Website.
Overall, our investigator didnt think Halifax needed  to do anything  else.
Mrs W disagreed.  She reiterated her concerns about  the price  she paid for the tickets and
also that the Website had changed the way the purchase process is now, due to the number
of complaints theyd  received in the past.  Mrs W also reiterated that the tickets were in 
someone elses name and that she feels shes been a victim of fraud. So, the complaint has
been passed to me.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out the below:
This complaint is about Halifax, as Mrs Ws credit card account  provider.  Its not about the
Website, which isnt a financial service provider and so doesnt fall within my remit. Im only
considering whether Mrs W authorised Halifax to debit the account with the value of the
payment, and whether they should have helped with the dispute  with the Website in any
other way.
Mrs W knew the amount she was paying  for the tickets at the time and was willing  to
purchase the tickets  at that price.  It was only upon receiving the tickets  that Mrs W found out
the face value of them (which she says was around £30 each). Mrs W doesnt argue she
didnt buy the tickets on her credit  card, she argues  that she didnt pay the face value
amount for the tickets.  I note Mrs W says the transaction went  through  in a foreign currency
and she had no opportunity to stop the transaction. However, Mrs W would have  had to
enter her card details  on to the Website and she would have needed  to place the order, to
Ref: DRN30585562be able to obtain the tickets. So, whilst  the tickets may have had a foreign currency  value on
them, I can see the total amount charged  to Mrs Ws credit card was £151.75. Having
carefully thought  about this, I think Mrs W consented  to and authorised  the transaction.
Mrs W also says she wasnt aware of the tax that was charged  and only became aware of
this at the end of the purchase  process.  Weve got screenshot evidence of the ticket  buying
process dating back to 2017 - where  the total price  is displayed  on the final page  before the
buyer is asked to enter their card details.  I can see this section  also includes an amount for
tax. So, I think Mrs W would have been  aware  of any additional charges added  before she
entered her card details and proceeded to buy the tickets.
Having considered everything  Mrs W has said (including that she made this purchase and
paid for the tickets) and the evidence provided  by Halifax, Im satisfied the transaction was
properly authorised and correctly applied  to Mrs Ws credit card account  with Halifax.
I appreciate Mrs W has told us shes aware  of some  issues surrounding  the Website in
online forums. Whilst I understand Mrs Ws frustrations and concerns about  the Website, Im
unable to comment on this further. Im only able to consider Mrs Ws complaint about Halifax
and the individual circumstances surrounding it.
could Halifax challenge the transaction through a chargeback?
In certain circumstances, when a cardholder has a dispute with a merchant  (as Mrs W does
here), the card issuer (Halifax) can attempt a chargeback.  Generally,  we say its fair for a
card issuer  to attempt a chargeback - or to challenge a payment  - if theres a reasonable
prospect of success,  for example where goods  or services arent received, or it appears that
the payment wasnt properly authorised  by the cardholder.
Indeed, were aware of cases, with some similar features  to this one, where a chargeback
has been successful.  But I dont think Halifax could have challenged the payment on the 
basis Mrs W didnt  properly authorise the transaction, given the conclusions Ive already set
out.
Halifax said the Website displayed all their terms and conditions  as well as full breakdowns
of the costs, which are shown on the final page of the purchase  process.  Additionally, Halifax
said Mrs W received  the tickets she paid for and although the original purchaser is named on
the tickets, this shouldnt have  affected Mrs Ws ability to attend the event. Whilst I
understand Mrs W chose not to go to the event  as she didnt  think  shed be granted  entry,  I
havent seen anything to suggest this would have been the case. So, I dont  think  Halifax
could challenge  the Website on the basis that Mrs W didnt get what  she ordered.  Or that
she wasnt able to use the tickets to gain entry to the event.
I note Mrs W says she was overcharged for the tickets because  she later found out they had
a face value of around £30 each. But I dont think theres a reason code Halifax could have
used under the chargeback scheme rules to get Mrs Ws money  back  on the basis that she
was being charged more  than a tickets face value. As Ive explained, Mrs W authorised the
transaction and agreed to pay the amount. Halifax  are required to consider  whether there  is
a reasonable prospect of success  when  they are considering whether to go through  the
chargeback process  or not. Bearing  in mind  Mrs W authorised the transaction  and received
the tickets, Halifaxs  decision that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success in a
chargeback is fair and reasonable  in my opinion. So, Im not currently persuaded they acted
unfairly.
Ref: DRN30585563how about Section  75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974?
As the payment was made using a credit  card, I have also taken  into account how Section
75 applies  to the transaction. In certain circumstances, Mrs W has an equal  right to claim
against Halifax as she does against the supplier (the Website) if theres been a breach of
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier if certain conditions are met.
My role isnt to decide Halifaxs  liability under  Section  75. Instead, as statute requires me to,
I need to decide whats fair and reasonable, taking into account any relevant law, such  as
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. For a valid claim under  Section 75 there must be a debtor-
creditor- supplier arrangement in place. The Websites terms and conditions in this case say:
1.2 Ticketing Exchange.  [Websites  name] provides a service that allows  members who
want to buy tickets ("Buyers") to find members who want to sell tickets ("Sellers"). [Website's
name] does not take title to the underlying ticket and the actual transactions are between the
Buyers and Sellers."
This satisfies me that the tickets arent  supplied by the Website. But that the Website  does
provide a service.  And for this they charge buyers  a fee. In regard to the fee, the Website
says they:
.. .charge a service fee on top of the ticket price. This fee is displayed  in the check-out
process and covers the cost of maintaining the [Website's  name]  platform, guaranteeing
tickets and providing customer service.
In effect then, there is a debtor-creditor-supplier  arrangement between Mrs W, Halifax and
the Website, albeit not for the direct provision  of the tickets themselves. Instead, the Website
provides a service.  The service consists of two main things - the platform  and the guarantee.
So, I think the Website is responsible for how ticket information (such  as venue, date, time,
and the asking price) is displayed to buyers. And I think, under the guarantee, theyre
responsible for providing replacement tickets or a refund  if the seller  doesnt fulfil their
obligations around supplying the tickets.
Another condition  necessary for a valid claim under Section 75 is that the service provided
by the Website must have  a cash price of more  than £100 but less than £30,000. In this
case, I havent seen a breakdown of the amount Mrs W paid, but I can see from her credit
card statement she was charged a total of £151.75.  From  our research, weve  found  that the
Websites fee makes up about  a third of the total cost. One third of £151.75  is around  £50.
So, I dont think this case meets the required financial limits to have a claim under Section
75. As such I do not have to consider whether there  is a breach of contract  or a 
misrepresentation here as Section 75 does not cover Mrs W for this particular transaction.
was there  anything else within the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 that Halifax  should have
considered?
Even though  Ive made the finding  that I dont think there is a valid claim under Section 75, I
think Section 56 of the CCA could be of particular relevance to this complaint.
In summary,  Section 56 has the effect of making the Website  the agent of Halifax during the
antecedent negotiations leading up to Mrs W entering into a transaction with them. So
essentiality, this means  Halifax are responsible  for the acts or omissions of the Website and
Ref: DRN30585564what was said or done before the transaction was entered in to and conducted  by the
Website, in other words,  Halifax  have to stand behind the things the Website  said, did, didnt
say, or didnt  do during the sales process.
For a valid claim  under  Section 56, there  has to be a valid debtor-creditor-supplier
arrangement in place - which  is satisfied for reasons Ive already explained. However,  unlike
Section 75, there are no monetary limits attached to Section 56. So, I can consider the
impact of Section  56 and whether  Halifax  ought to have considered this in Mrs Ws case.
With this in mind, Ive thought about  whether the Website misrepresented the information, or
the tickets Mrs W purchased. Mrs W has told us she didnt realise the tickets  had someone
elses name on them. And also, that she didnt realise the face value of the tickets were
much less. Mrs W says she wouldnt have bought the tickets had she known this information.
The Website  offer a service whereby they provide a guarantee for the tickets.  Under this
guarantee, the Website say they will take action  (either by sourcing replacement tickets or in
some cases,  offering  a refund) if it is proven the tickets  are invalid. The terms on the Website
itself also confirm that in some instances the original purchaser's name may be printed  on
the tickets, it also explains  the tickets are valid and that a customers name doesnt need
match the name printed on the ticket  to gain entry to an event. Having CareFusion 
considered this, Im not persuaded the Website misrepresented the tickets to Mrs W. As Ive 
already explained, it was Mrs Ws decision not to go to the event, rather  than the tickets  
preventing her from going to the event,  I havent  seen anything  which  persuades me that the 
tickets werent valid.
In relation to the face value of the tickets,  as Ive explained, Im satisfied the price of the
tickets were made clear  to Mrs W at the time of purchase. And she agreed to this price. So, I
dont think the Website misrepresented  this information.
Mrs W has told us she wasnt  aware  of the tax amount being charged and that this was
added at the end of the purchase  process.  As previously explained, Ive seen screenshot
evidence of the buying process from 2017 - which I think is more likely than not, the same
steps Mrs W followed when she purchased her tickets. And I can see the total price is
displayed on the final page before Mrs W would  have  been asked to enter her card details. 
So, I think its more likely  than not Mrs W would have been aware of the price,  inclusive of
tax. Having thought about this carefully. Im not persuaded the Website misrepresented  the
price information to Mrs W.
In summary,  while I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mrs W, I think  she
authorised Halifax  to debit her credit card account  with the value of the transaction to the
Website, so I think it was fair for them to do that. I also dont think Halifax  acted unfairly in
the handling of Mrs Ws chargeback claim.  And whilst I dont think the claim meets  the
financial limits  under  Section 75, had Halifax considered Mrs Ws claim under Section 56, I
dont think they wouldve  acted unfairly by declining it. So, its for these reasons, I currently
dont think I can fairly  require Halifax to refund Mrs W for the tickets.
Halifax responded to my provisional decision and said they accepted it. Mrs W responded 
saying shed been in contact with other  users  of the Website and their chargeback  and 
section 75 claims had been successful. Mrs W also reiterated the currency  of the transaction  
at the time was a foreign currency and that the tickets were  in someone elses names. 
Mrs W also questioned what necessary relationship Halifax referred  to.
Ref: DRN30585565my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to assure Mrs W that Ive thought about everything  she has told us in relation 
to her complaint. I understand  Mrs Ws concerns that other  people  have had successful 
claims against the Website.  But each complaint is looked  at on its own merits. Therefore, Im 
unable to comment any further on this. 
Whilst I appreciate the tickets may have shown  in a foreign  currency,  as explained in my 
provisional decision, Mrs W authorised and consented to the transaction. Ive also carefully 
considered what  Mrs W has said about  the price  of the tickets changing at the end of the 
purchase process. However,  Ive seen the steps  Mrs W likely would have taken  at the time 
of buying the tickets.  And I havent  seen anything to suggest the full ticket price (including  
any additional charges)  wasnt  displayed before Mrs W had to enter  her card details at the 
end of the purchase process.
In relation to Mrs Ws question about  the necessary relationship that Halifax referred to - this 
is one of the conditions that needs  to be satisfied  for a valid claim under Section 75. 
As explained in my provisional decision,  I thought  there was the necessary relationship in 
place between Mrs W, Halifax and the Website,  albeit not for the direct provision of the 
tickets themselves - my opinion on this remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2021.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3058556