K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Premium Credit Limited  (PCL)  has undertaken searches of his credit 
file, for which he had not given his consent.
background
Mr P initially  complained to us in November 2018 about one search. He then complained in 
March 2019, saying that PCL had undertaken two unauthorised searches. He subsequently  
supplied to us an extract (dated April 2019) of his credit  file, which  showed  that three 
searches had been undertaken by PCL since April 2018: in October 2018, February 2019 
and April 2019. 
PCL supplied information to us which indicated  that:
The October 2018 and April 2019 searches related to credit  agreements made 
between it and Mr P, in connection with products he was acquiring from a financial 
services provider (Provider 1)
The February 2019 search related  to a credit agreement made  between  it and Mr P, 
in connection  with a product he was acquiring from another financial services 
provider (Provider 2)
In a phone  call with our adjudicator, Mr P agreed  that the searches relating to Provider  1 
were justified. But Mr P restated that he had not given his consent to the February 2019 
search, relating  to Provider 2.
Provider 2 told us:
Mr P had acquired an annual product from it in late February 2017
This product was renewed in late February  2018
In early February 2019,  Mr P contacted it to say that he did not want  the product 
renewed, and so it was cancelled on its renewal  date
Four days after the renewal date, Mr P contacted it to say that he wanted  to continue 
with it, and to ask why it had not been renewed
Mr P insisted  that he had not contacted it in early February 2019
It re-instated the product, and notified PCL accordingly, and it understood that Mr P 
signed a new credit agreement with PCL 
PCL confirmed to us that it made  a credit agreement with Mr P, dated five days after the 
Provider 2 product renewal date in February 2019. This was also the date on which PCL 
undertook its February 2019 search  of Mr Ps credit file. 
PCL told us as well:
The terms and conditions of its credit agreements with Mr P include a section  saying 
he agreed that it may search his records at credit reference agencies
Provider 2 gave a notice containing this information to Mr P, when he was in the 
process of acquiring his product (PCL  supplied to us a copy  of this notice, signed by 
Mr P in February 2017) 
Our adjudicator did not think the complaint should  be upheld.  She was satisfied that PCL 
had a legitimate  business reason to undertake its February 2019  search  of Mr Ps credit  file.
Ref: DRN37212442Mr P disagreed with our adjudicator, saying that PCL did not inform him in writing that it was 
going to undertake this search.  He also questioned  why PCL searched in 2019, but did not 
do so when the product was renewed in February  2018? And so this complaint was referred  
for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I find that I have come to the same  
conclusion as our adjudicator, for similar  reasons.
Mr P and Provider 2 disagree over whether he asked it in February 2019 not to renew his 
annual product. Provider 2 told us that it re-instated  the product, but PCL made a new credit 
agreement with Mr P in connection with the re-instated product. 
Because a new credit  agreement was made, I agree with our adjudicator that PCL had a 
legitimate business  reason for undertaking this search. And Mr P consented to this search,  
as part of the process of signing up to this new agreement.
The credit file extract supplied to us by Mr P only shows searches of his credit file between 
April 2018 and April 2019. So, we have no evidence showing whether  or not PCL searched 
in February 2018.  But, even  if it did not search  then, it still had a legitimate business reason 
to search in February 2019  which is what Mr Ps complaint is about.
PCLs credit  agreement with Mr P did not commit it to telling him in writing  when it was going 
to undertake searches (unless it decided not to proceed with the agreement,  on the basis  of 
the information it obtained). And so, if PCL did not write to Mr P about its search in 
February 2019, this was not an error on its part.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019. 
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3721244