K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Capital  One (Europe) plc mis-sold  payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) to Mr S. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  Capital One sold Mr S the 
policy when he applied  for the card by post.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mr S and his representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy 
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why.
I think Capital One made  Mr S aware  that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
The postal application form sets the PPI out as a choice, and I can see that the yes box 
has been ticked.            
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI as being  particularly suitable  for Mr Ss individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. 
Its difficult now to know how well Capital One explained the PPI. Its possible the information 
Capital One gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.  But I dont 
think, in his circumstances, full information about  costs and benefits would have affected 
whether he took the PPI. The PPI would  have paid out for longer than his full pay lasted, and 
Mr S hasnt been able to provide clear  evidence of the amount of his savings at the time. Its 
hard to know how reliably Mr S has remembered the level of his savings, so many  years 
later  and I can see that originally he thought  he had been entitled to 12 months full 
sickness pay, but later it was confirmed it was actually 6 months full pay and 6 months half 
pay.
And even  if he had savings, the PPI would have put off the time when hed have  to fall back  
on those for living  expenses, if he lost his income  because of long term sickness  or 
unemployment. And it doesnt  look like hed have  been affected  by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. 
This all means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S. But 
Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because Capital  One didnt tell 
Mr S, that was unfair.  
Ref: DRN33692852To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, and so Im not awarding any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3369285