K820x#14complaint
Mr J says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him two payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policies. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr J bought the policies in 1999  and 2001,  at the same time as taking out loans. He applied 
for the loans  and PPI policies over the phone. 
The policies one-off upfront premiums of £655.29 and £1,085.73 were paid in advance by 
being added to the loans  (a single premium) where  they attracted interest over the term of 
the loan. The loans were repayable over 48 month terms and the policies terms matched 
those of the loans.  The monthly PPI repayments  were £16.97 and £27.22  respectively. 
The policies provided cover for Mr J for accident,  sickness,  unemployment and life   subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr Js monthly  loan repayment  for up to 
the remaining  term of the loan in the event of a successful disability claim and for up to 12 
months in the event  of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr J was employed  as a carpenter.  He was entitled to sick pay of six months  full 
pay followed  by six months  half pay and was entitled to redundancy pay. He has also said 
that he had some savings  at the time.  Mr J has said he had a medical condition some  time 
before the sales. 
Nationwide has sent us information  to show that the first loan account  was paid off when Mr 
J took out the second loan in 2001. The second loan ended in July 2005.
Mr Js representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Js representative says:
Nationwide failed  to meet  the sales standards which  applied  at the time. In those  
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr J wouldnt 
have taken out the policies and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Js 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  Nationwide 
should have told Mr J about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nationwide  should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr J and the 
impact they would have had on his chances of making a claim;  and
Ref: DRN36958462Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr J disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Js. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Js complaint
The first sale took place before the General Insurance Standards  Council (GISC) published 
its code of practice in June 2000.  Both sales took place before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code (in relation to the 
first sale), the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance 
conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs 
Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The final credit agreement  itself concluded in 2005.  That means the unfair  relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nationwide at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code and 
Ref: DRN36958463these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Js case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. These sales took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
Nationwide was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr Js complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Nationwide gave  advice, whether  it advised  Mr J with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policies  were appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Nationwide gave Mr J sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable him to make an informed  choice about whether to take out the policies,  
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policies  and significant limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr J, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr J suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr J and 
Nationwide, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mr Js complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr J know he had a choice?
Nationwide had to make it clear that the PPI policies were optional.  
Ive seen the credit agreements for both loans.  On both forms the PPI is described as 
optional credit insurance. Also, from what we know of Nationwides phone sales  process  at 
Ref: DRN36958464the time,  the PPI was usually presented as optional and I havent seen anything that would 
lead me to conclude  that something different happened during these sales. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr J knew  the policies were  
optional and he agreed to take them out without undue pressure. 
did Nationwide provide  advice?
Nationwide says it didnt  provide advice  during  this sale. Mr J disagrees. Looking  at what 
happened when  Nationwide  sold Mr J the PPI, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. 
Again, from what we know of Nationwides phone  sales process at the time, it didnt provide 
advice and I again havent seen  anything that would  lead me to conclude that something 
different happened in this case.
This means  Nationwide  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr J. Instead,  it had 
to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  Mr J to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policies,  including drawing to his attention  and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policies and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr J was given a broad description of what  the 
policies were intended to cover  (that is that the policies  would protect  his payments if Mr J 
was unable to work  through accident, sickness and unemployment.) I have reached this 
conclusion because the credit agreements refer to the policies as providing cover  for 
disability, unemployment  and life and I think its unlikely Mr J would have taken out the 
policies without any sense  of what they were.  And I think Mr J knew  that the cost of the 
single premiums being added to the loans, the interest being  added to those premiums  and 
the monthly cost (as this information was, in my view,  sufficiently  clear  on the loan 
agreement Mr J signed.)  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Nationwide gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, or about the exclusions or limitations,  before Mr 
J agreed to take out the policies. 
So I dont  think Nationwide gave Mr J sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policies, including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policies and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Js representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Js. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Js representative considers to be poor 
Ref: DRN36958465value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr J about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Js representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr J has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nationwide  ought to have done  either. 
What effect did Nationwides shortcomings  have on Mr J? To what extent did Mr J 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nationwide didnt  do all it should  have  done  when it sold these policies to Mr 
J. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr J 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr J 
would have still taken  out the policies, had Nationwide done  things properly.  
Mr J says he would not have taken them out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As these  were non-advised sales, Mr J had to weigh  up in his own mind  the cost of the 
policies against  the benefits offered and the potential consequences  if he didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mr J chose to take these policies out. So I consider that its reasonable 
to conclude he had some interest in the benefits  offered by this type of insurance.  But he 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mr J thought he was getting is 
not exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr J has suffered any loss or detriment.  
As Ive already  said, the information Mr J was given about the cost was clear. But the 
information about other aspects of the policies, such as the limitations  and exclusions 
werent as clear as they should have  been. 
Im not persuaded Nationwide made clear exactly what Mr J would get back in return in the 
event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Js expectations about what the 
policies would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient to meet  his loan payments) 
were significantly  different to what the policies actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr J thought he had bought and what  
he actually bought were the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr J knew about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policies; 
Ref: DRN36958466The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr J 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr J be unable  to 
do his own job or any paid work.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr J pause  for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policies 
werent as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr J from taking out the policies. 
But the evidence  about Mr Js circumstances at the time of sales  show that the policies 
werent fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. He was eligible  for their benefits and they 
provided cover that, despite their limitations  and exclusions, could have proved valuable to 
him should the insured  risks have become a reality. Although  Mr J says he had a medical 
condition some time before the policies were taken out and the policies wouldnt have 
provided cover had he needed time off work because of this condition, I dont think  better 
information about this exclusion would have  put him off agreeing to them. I say this because  
Mr J has told us that he had joint pain in 1975. However, he only ever took a few days  off 
work due to this condition  and so I doubt  that Mr J would have thought  this might be a 
reason hed need to make  a claim on the policies.
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  he would have been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policies  out. And 
in fact Nationwide says Mr J did make a successful claim and received more  than £2,400 in 
payments.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr J 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policies without  first providing some  
evidence to support  that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr J needed  to be totally  unable to do his normal  job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have  
expected to make a claim. So it seems unlikely  he would have thought hed been  able to 
make a successful claim if he was still working, whether that be in his normal job or any 
other job.
The policies did provide a pro-rata refund if they were cancelled  early, so the policies 
provided flexibility if Mr J decided to repay  the loans early and cancel the policies.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr J would still have taken out the policies. The policies were sufficiently close to 
what its likely he thought  he was getting and provided benefits that would help him manage 
the consequences were Mr J made redundant, or unable to work through  accident  or 
disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr J would have taken 
out the policies in any event notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN36958467Mr Js representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr J would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Js 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr J 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr J believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policies. I am not persuaded  by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr J in the position  he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policies 
he was buying.
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nationwide should  pay Mr J compensation, as that would put him in a better position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Js representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Nationwide  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr J in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Ref: DRN36958468Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2021.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3695846