K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained that the Transport Friendly Society Limited (the Society)  unfairly 
cancelled his policies.
background
Mr P held a number of policies provided  by the Society  upon becoming a policyholder Mr P 
also became a member  of the Society. In 2012  Mr P became an employee of the Society.
In 2018 Mr P resigned from his position  at the Society following an employment dispute. The 
Society cancelled  his membership and remaining  open policies.  This included two tax-free 
savings plans which provided death benefits and a sickness benefit policy.
Mr P complained. He objected to his expulsion from the Society and wanted to know  why 
hed been expelled. He also asked for a breakdown of the policies he held.
The Society provided Mr P with the breakdown requested and paid him a total sum of 
£930.58, which was the surrender value of the three policies including some bonus 
payments.
Mr P referred his complaint to our service. He was unhappy  with the Societys  decision to 
cancel his membership  and policies. He was also unhappy with the surrender values paid to 
him as hed expected a higher sum. Mr P said he was told hed receive a refund of all of the 
contributions made towards the sickness  policy but he hadnt received this.
Our investigator told Mr P that membership of a friendly society  isnt a regulated activity. So, 
our service  couldnt consider his complaint about the Societys decision to cancel  his 
membership. But he explained we could  consider  whether  the Societys decision to cancel 
his policies was fair and whether the sums paid to him were  reasonable. Overall,  he thought 
the sums  paid on cancellation were fair. He said the Society mistakenly told Mr P it would 
refund the contributions towards the sickness policy, but he didnt think it needed  to do so as 
hed had the benefit of cover while the policy  was in place.
The investigator also thought it was reasonable for the Society to cancel the sickness policy. 
This was because Mr P was no longer  in eligible employment (within  the transport  sector)  
and under the policy terms, the board had discretion whether or not to allow him to continue  
with the cover. However, he didnt think it was fair for the Society  to cancel Mr Ps tax-free  
savings plans as cancellation by the Society wasnt provided for in the policy  terms. So, he 
recommended the Society should  arrange  to reinstate these plans as long as Mr P was 
willing to return the surrender payments  hed received and bring the premium payments up 
to date.
The Society didnt  accept the investigators opinion. It said in order to have the policies, Mr P 
would have to be reinstated as a member  of the Society and it wasnt prepared  to do this. It 
maintained its decision  to cancel the policies was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr P said the wording of the sickness policy with regards to eligible employment appears to 
have changed  and he wasnt aware  of this when the policies were sold in 1986. He said it 
was common for members to be able to continue their membership and policies after 
changing employment to outside  of the transport  sector. So, he wanted  confirmation as to 
when this rule was changed and how this was communicated to members. He also said the 
Ref: DRN34124662sickness policy was with profits which attracted bonuses, so he couldnt see why he 
wouldnt be entitled to a full refund of contributions. Mr P maintained  he wasnt aware of any 
breach in the Societys membership rules  and doesnt know why his membership  was 
cancelled. He said hes been seriously disadvantaged by the policies being cancelled as he 
hasnt been able to source alternative  cover. He wants the policies  to be reinstated.
The investigator told Mr P we couldnt  consider  his concerns about  the way the sickness  
policy was sold to him, as this wasnt part of the complaint he brought  to our service. He 
maintained that the Society had the discretion whether or not to allow  the sickness  policy  to 
continue if there was a change  in employment. The investigator thought  the board had fairly 
exercised its discretion  on this occasion.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  referred  to me to make a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  given  by the investigator.
For the avoidance of doubt, I cant consider any complaint regarding  the Societys decision 
to cancel Mr Ps membership. This doesnt  relate  to a regulated activity and so it doesnt  fall 
within our jurisdiction. The key thing for me to consider is whether the Societys decision to 
cancel Mr Ps policies was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. That is, whether the 
Society was permitted to take this action in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the 
policies.
sickness benefit policy
The terms of Mr Ps sickness policy  say that employees in Eligible Employment are 
permitted to take out the policy. Eligible Employment is defined as:
employment by the Society or any company or firm which has been  approved  for these  
purposes by the Board.  The Board  shall only approve employers which  provide or are 
associated with the provision of passenger  transport  facilities.
Under a section entitled Cessation  of Eligible Employment the terms also set out what 
happens when  the policyholder is no longer working  for an Eligible Employer. This says:
A Member who ceases to be in Eligible Employment may, subject to the approval  of the 
Board, continue with this plan provided that he pays the appropriate  contributions monthly in 
advance.
Mr P has told us he no longer works in the transport sector, so he isnt in Eligible 
Employment as defined  by the policy. This means  he can only keep the sickness  policy 
open if the Board of the Society  approves. As the Board made the decision to cancel all of 
Mr Ps policies,  I think its fair to say Mr P didnt have the Boards approval  to continue with 
the sickness policy. So, I think the decision to cancel this policy was fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances.
Ref: DRN34124663Mr P has complained that the Society told him he would receive a refund of the contributions 
hed paid towards the policy, so it should  honour  this offer. I can see the Society told Mr P 
this. But the Society  has told us it did so mistakenly  so it isnt willing to refund Mr Ps 
contributions. I also think this is fair because there  isnt anything within the policy terms that 
entitles Mr P to a refund of premiums  if the policy is cancelled. In the absence of any such 
term, I think its reasonable for the Society not to return  his contributions.  This is because 
Mr P has been covered  for any periods of sickness should he have needed to claim. So, 
I think hes had the benefit of the insurance during  the time he made  the contributions.
I also think the sum paid to Mr P by the Society on cancellation of the policy was reasonable 
in the circumstances. This is because it paid him a no claims bonus even though  he 
technically hadnt yet met the requirements for this to be paid. However, the Society  
recognised that he wouldve most likely been  entitled to the payment in the future. So I think 
it was fair to pay him this now as a gesture  of goodwill.
tax-free savings  plans
Ive reviewed the terms of these  plans carefully. They  contain  a similar requirement for the 
policyholder to be in Eligible  Employment in order to take out the policy.  But there arent 
any terms that deal with the policyholder  leaving Eligible Employment and how that affects 
their ability to continue  with the cover.
The Society says that despite the lack of any policy terms dealing  with Mr Ps situation, it is 
entitled to cancel his policies because  he was in breach of the Societys  membership rules.  It 
says when Mr P completed  his applications  for the cover he agreed to, conform to the rules  
of the Society . It maintains he was in breach of the Societys rules, so it is fair for it to have 
cancelled the plans. As the requirement for the policyholder to conform  to the rules of the 
Society is built into the application,  I would expect this to be mirrored within the policy  terms 
and for it to clearly set out the consequences of not doing so.
Under a section entitled, The Plan,  the terms say:
The application  form and any declaration made  by, or on behalf of, the Member  shall form 
the basis of the Plan.
Should the details  or statements contained in the application form or declaration be untrue, 
the Plan shall, at the option  of the Society, be determined null and void or varied in 
accordance with the true facts.
Under a section entitled, Transport Friendly Society Limited, the terms say:
This Plan is part of the long term business  of the Transport Friendly Society Limited  and is 
issued in accordance with the Memorandum and Rules  of the Society  and associated  
Tables.
In the event of there being any conflict between  these  Plan Conditions  and the Memorandum 
and Rules  of the Society and associated Tables, the Plan Terms  and Conditions  shall 
prevail.
But I dont think these  terms are specific enough  to give the Society the right to cancel a 
policy in the event of non-conformity with the Societys rules. Nor do I do think any 
policyholder would expect these terms to give rise to cancellation of their policy. So, in the 
Ref: DRN34124664absence of any policy term that explicitly allows the Society to cancel Mr Ps tax-free savings 
plans, I think it was unfair for it to do so.
The Society also says that its rules  govern  the relationship and all dealings between  the 
Society and its members. It says that when you take out a policy with the Society you 
become a member  of it and are subject  to its rules. It says Mr P was in breach and so it can 
see no reason why its rules should be ignored. I dont dispute that the Society intended for 
its rules to govern  the relationship between it and its policyholders.  But I think if it wanted to 
be able to cancel  its members policies, the Society  needed to make  this explicitly  clear in 
the plan terms  and conditions. This is the basis of the contract between  it and the 
policyholder  membership of the Society  is a separate  issue. As per the reasons above,  
I dont think the plan terms allowed for the cancellation of Mr Ps tax-free savings plans.
Mr P says he wouldve  continued paying the plan contributions if the Society  hadnt  
cancelled them. So, in order to put things right, I think the Society should arrange to reinstate 
Mr Ps tax-free savings plans. This is provided Mr P returns the surrender payments hes 
received and brings the premiums up to date.
The Society says Mr P will automatically  become a member of the Society if his plans are 
reinstated, which it isnt prepared  to allow. But I make  no ruling on whether or not Mr P 
should be allowed  to become a member of the Society as this is not within my jurisdiction  to 
decide.
I havent addressed  the concerns Mr P raised about  the surrender values he received for the 
tax-free savings  plans as he accepted the investigators view that these plans should be 
reinstated. So, hes required to pay the surrender  value back to the Society  and as a result 
this issue falls away.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding this complaint.
The Transport Friendly Society Limited should  arrange to reinstate Mr Ps tax-free savings 
plans subject to Mr P returning the surrender payments and bringing the premiums up to 
date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3412466