K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that Lloyds Bank Plc wont refund  payments from his account that he says 
he didnt authorise.
background 
In September  2017, Mr E was sent a recorded  message from Lloyds. On contacting Lloyds  
Mr E was asked about a number of recent transactions. He initially  thought this related to 
another recent call hed had with Lloyds. And was surprised to be told there  were  further  
transactions that had been  made on his latest  card ending *4671.  He said he didnt 
recognise the transactions and hadnt  authorised them.
Mr E said the card ending  *4671 was in his possession  but hed only just got it after his 
previous card was cancelled because of fraudulent activity. He said it was so recent  he 
hadnt had time to sign the reverse of the card or use it himself. Mr E also said he hadnt  
seen any tampering  of the envelope  the card was delivered in. He said he couldnt 
understand why his recent cards had all been used to make  transactions he wasnt aware of 
or authorised and that he suspected the banks  staff as no-one else would have  access  to 
his cards.
Mr E said he lived with his family,  and he didnt have a shared letterbox. He said he kept his 
cards in his wallet. He also said he didnt recognise  the transactions  or the merchants being 
used. And the name used for the transactions wasnt his name. He asked Lloyds for the 
contact details for the merchants so that he could make further enquiries. 
Initially Lloyds refunded the transaction  amounts  back into Mr Es account. But on further 
investigation it decided:  
the transactions were either made  by Mr E; or
Mr E had been grossly negligent in allowing someone he knew  to view his card 
details and return the card to him; and
Mr E hadnt adhered  to the education  provided to him by Lloyds after previous 
disputed transactions  claim. 
Lloyds also gave Mr E details, provided by the merchants, which showed the delivery  
address for some of the items was Mr Es. So, Lloyds decided  not to refund the transactions 
and re-debited Mr Es account.  Lloyds did accept  Mr E had received poor customer  service 
from its Disputes Team  and arranged in way of an apology  a payment of £50 to compensate  
Mr E for this. Mr E wasnt happy with Lloyds  response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Es complaint he agreed with Lloyds that the person 
making the transactions would be known  to Mr E. And the number of instances across  his 
account, he said, showed Mr E hadnt  taken Lloyds advice to safeguard  his card.  Mr E said 
he didnt know how the transactions  were being made and asked for an ombudsman  to 
review and make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision in February  2019 which  said:
Ref: DRN34321002my provisional findings
Lloyds made  Mr E aware  there  were  transactions that had been made on his card ending  
*4671. Lloyds  had been able to stop some of the transactions and some  of the others  were  
pending. Pending payments are transactions  that have been made but havent been fully 
processed. In my decision  I have looked at all of the transactions made using  card ending 
*4671 which I have  listed  below. But the actual  financial loss suffered by Mr E was for the 
transactions highlighted in bold (£21.56, £30.42 and £49.99) totalling £101.97. The other  
transactions were  either declined or not processed so werent taken from his account.   
Card ending Date  of transaction Amount Merchant Status
*4671 05/09/17 £209.95 ProDirectSoccer Not processed
*4671 06/09/17 £21.56 Uber EatsApproved   
debited  
statement 
07.09.17
*4671 07/09/17 £30.42 Uber EatsApproved   
debited  
statement 
11/09/17
*4671 07/09/17 £49.99 PlaystationApproved   
debited  
statement
11/09/2017
*4671 07/09/17 £210.95 ProDirectSoccer  Not processed
*4671 10/09/17 £23.95 Uber Eats3 attempts 
made  but card 
cancelled  - 
Declined
*4671 15/09/17 £12.99 PlaystationCard cancelled - 
Declined
£559.81
Its not unusual  for me to need to decide a case where its simply not possible to know 
exactly what happened. In situations where I cant ever know for sure what took place, I will 
decide what I consider  is most likely to have happened, based on the balance  of the 
evidence that I do have. In reaching my provisional findings I have considered the following 
possible scenarios:  
1.Mr E authorised the disputed transactions;
2.someone known  to Mr E, with his authorisation, made the transactions;
3.someone known  to Mr E made the transactions without his authorisation;
4.someone unknown  to Mr E made the transactions.
Ref: DRN34321003relevant considerations 
The disputed transactions were made  in September 2017, so of particular relevance to my 
decision about what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2009  (the PSRs 2009)  which applied at that time. 
Among other  things the PSRs 2009 say: 
 Consent and withdrawal of consent
55.(1) A payment transaction is to be regarded  as having been  authorised  by the payer for 
the purposes of this Part only if the payer has given its consent  to
(a) the execution  of the payment transaction; 
Obligations of the payment service user in relation to payment  instruments
57.(1)  A payment  service user to whom  a payment instrument has been issued must
(a)use the payment  instrument in accordance with the terms and conditions  
governing its issue  and use; and
(b)notify the payment service provider in the agreed manner and without undue 
delay on becoming  aware  of the loss, theft,  misappropriation or unauthorised  use 
of the payment instrument.
(2) The payment  service user must on receiving a payment instrument take all reasonable 
steps to keep its personalised security features safe.
Evidence  on authentication and execution of payment  transactions
60.(1)  Where a payment service  user
(a)denies having authorised an executed  payment transaction; or
(b)claims that a payment  transaction has not been correctly executed,
it is for the payment service provider  to prove  that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment  service  providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some  other  deficiency.
(2) In paragraph  (1) authenticated means the use of any procedure  by which  a payment 
service provider is able to verify the use of a specific payment instrument, including its 
personalised security  features.
(3) Where a payment  service user denies  having authorised an executed payment 
transaction, the use of a payment instrument recorded by the payment service provider is 
not in itself necessarily  sufficient to prove  either that
(a)the payment  transaction  was authorised by the payer; or
(b) the payer acted  fraudulently or failed with intent or gross  negligence to comply 
with regulation 57.
Payment service  providers liability for unauthorised payment  transactions
Ref: DRN3432100461. Subject  to regulations 59 [Notification  of unauthorised or incorrectly executed  payment 
transactions] and 60, where an executed payment transaction was not authorised  in 
accordance with regulation 55, the payment service provider must  immediately 
(a) refund  the amount of the unauthorised payment transaction  to the payer;  and
(b) where applicable, restore the debited  payment account  to the state  it would have 
been in had the unauthorised payment transaction not taken place.
Payers liability  for unauthorised payment transaction
62.(1)  Subject  to paragraphs (2) , the payer is liable up to a maximum of £50 for any 
losses incurred in respect of unauthorised payment transactions arising
(a) from the use of a lost or stolen payment instrument; or
(b) where the payer has failed to keep the personalised  security features of the 
payment instrument safe, from the misappropriation of the payment instrument.
(2) The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence  failed to comply with regulation 57.
Regulation 55 does  not elaborate on what constitutes consent beyond saying that it must be 
given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed  between the payer  and its 
payment service provider. The payment  services directive itself (which  the PSRs  2009 
implement) does not explain  what consent means here, but says in the absence of such  
consent, a payment transaction shall be considered  to be unauthorised. The Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  2013 guidance on the PSRs 2009 also said nothing  further  about  what 
consent means. 
As the transactions  made were all made  by distance contract The Payment Service 
Regulations and the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 make provisions which say except where the 
payer has acted fraudulently, the payer is not liable for any losses  incurred in respect of an 
unauthorised payment  transaction... where  the payment instrument has been used in 
connection with a distance contract  (other than an excepted contract). 
Lloyds Terms and Conditions (August 2017) say:
2.1We will do all we reasonably can to prevent unauthorised access to your accounts and to 
make sure they are secure. 
2.2 You must: 
follow instructions we give you, which  we reasonably consider are needed to protect 
your accounts from unauthorised access;  
not let anyone else (even someone sharing a joint account with you) use any device 
or security details;
not let anyone else give instructions or access information on your accounts  unless 
they have a separate arrangement with us or you have authorised them to operate 
your accounts for you; 
if there is a signature strip on a card we give you, sign the card as soon as you 
receive it;
Ref: DRN34321005keep your device secure and protect  it from damage; and 
do all you reasonably  can to prevent anyone else finding out your security details.
You should not:
 tell anyone your security  details;
 choose  obvious passwords or codes (such as your date of birth)  as part of your security  
details;
 write your security  details on, or keep them with, your device or banking  documents;
 write down your security  details in a recognisable way; or
 let anyone listen to your calls with us, or watch you entering or using your security 
details.
2.3 You must tell us as soon as possible (see How to contact us) if you: 
a. think any device  or security details  have been lost, stolen, damaged or are being   
misused; or 
b. think someone can access your accounts  without  your authority or has discovered 
your security details.
2.4 If you use an aggregation service  we do not provide,  we will not treat you as breaking 
your security  obligations as long as you do not give your security details to the service 
provider. (An aggregation service  enables you to view, in one place, information about 
accounts with different  banks.)
2.5 If we, the police or other authorities are investigating any misuse  (or alleged 
unauthorised use) of your accounts, you must provide information and help that we or they 
ask for if the request  is reasonable.  We may pass related information to other  banks or 
companies involved in payment  processing, or to the police or other authorities,  in the UK or 
(if appropriate) outside the UK.
2.6 You are responsible for checking statements, text messages or other account 
information we give you. We will correct any errors  as soon as reasonably possible after 
becoming aware of them.
so were the disputed  transactions  authorised by Mr E?
All the payments were  made online using the long card number and the other security 
features of the card. Having seen this evidence Im satisfied Lloyds has shown how the 
transactions were  authenticated.  Whoever made the transactions  needed to have or take 
this information  from Mr Es card ending  *4671. So Ive gone on to consider whether 
Mr E consented to the payments.
Lloyds did provide Mr E with further  details about  the transactions which  show the same take 
away service was used  to deliver food to Mr Es home address. The deliveries  where made 
6 September 2017 at 15.49  and 7 September 2017  at 18.53 respectively. The later time 
might possibly, have been  at a time when  Mr E was back at home from work.
The details also show the name used to make the order, an email  address, mobile  phone  
number and the delivery signature.  The surname is the same as Mr Es but the first name  
does differ as does  the other details from his. But on reviewing his bank statements I can 
Ref: DRN34321006see on Mr Es statement,  22 May 2017, an undisputed payment of £5.00 to someone with 
the same  name. Mr E told Lloyds this wasnt his name, but he didnt tell Lloyds that it was a 
name known  to him. 
So I think on the balance  of probabilities this supports Lloyds view that it was either Mr E or 
someone known  to him who was making  the transactions.  
I have reviewed Mr Es debit card transaction  history,  his bank statements and listened to 
the calls he had with Lloyds bank.
Mr E said the card was delivered to his address  while  he was at work, and he had taken it 
from its envelope, which he said didnt  appear  to have been tampered with. And put the card 
into his wallet. I have  listened to the calls between  Mr E and Lloyds and I think  Mr E is 
genuinely confused about the transactions as he had only just got card ending *4671. He 
thought the call was about a previous card, and its clear hes struggling to understand why 
this keeps happening. At first he thinks it had to be someone connected  to the bank who had 
the opportunity  to do this. But he does at one point,  about a particular insurance transaction  
made on a previous card, consider whether it could be his son. And he does confront him 
during the call, his son denied any involvement. 
In looking at the transaction history I saw a number of further attempts to make  transactions  
using the card ending *4671. These attempts were made  after Mr E had agreed for Lloyds to 
cancel the card. So I think this shows that whoever made the transactions  may not have 
been aware that the card had been cancelled.
Also having  looked at Mr Es statements, the type of transactions  in dispute dont follow  his 
usual spending  pattern,  the transactions include sporting goods and games which  Mr E 
doesnt appear to  normally  purchase  himself.
On balance I dont  think Mr E made the transactions. But his card was delivered  to his home 
address, each time, probably while he was at work  so I think  it is most likely  the transactions 
have been made by someone known to him. So, I next need to determine whether this was 
with Mr Es authority or not.
Mr E didnt adhere to the education provided to him by Lloyds. 
Lloyds has said by not safeguarding his card Mr E had been grossly negligent and so had 
allowed the transactions to take place.  But as outlined  above I only need  to decide whether 
Mr E had given his consent to the transactions. So, I have considered if Mr E knew the 
transactions were  being made,  and so had consented to them. 
I have looked  at Mr Es card history and can see that there  has been fraud reported on each  
one. 
Ref: DRN34321007Card ending Card status date  of fraud Date Card Replaced
*4751 STOLEN 21.11.15 23.11.15
*4777 FRAUD 02.05.16 03.05.16
*4785 FRAUD 21.05.16 21.05.16
*4614 FRAUD 04.02.17 06.02.17
*4655 FRAUD 30.08.17 31.08.17
*4663 FRAUD 02.09.17 04.09.17
*4671 FRAUD 07.09.17 08.09.17
*4689 Active   
The transactions again were made  online and dont fit Mr Es usual spending patterns, being 
for insurance  (not his provider), clothing,  sunglasses  and more take away food deliveries. 
The same name, address  and signature were  used for the delivery of the sunglasses, which 
shows the same person  is connected  to the card usage. Lloyds accepted these as being 
fraudulent transactions and refunded Mr E for the loss pending  further investigation. 
Following which it seems  some of the refunds were taken back, for the same reasons given 
for the transactions  on card ending *4671.
Lloyds after these  instances did provide Mr E with advice on how to safeguard  his card.  It 
advised him to:
 not share his card details with anyone.
 check account regularly  and call Lloyds  immediately if there is anything unusual.  
 run regular anti-virus  scans and software  updates,
 update passwords  regularly,
 use only secure  sites,
 not save  card details to websites online or apps, and 
   not to reply to suspicious emails/calls  asking for card details.
In the calls with Lloyds Mr E was asked about anti-virus  scans and responding to suspicious 
emails. He confirmed hed followed this advice. He also said no one else had access to his 
cards and he hadnt authorised anyone to use his cards. 
The frequency of fraud on Mr Es cards  should I think have made Mr E suspicious as to how 
his details were being  obtained.  But for the most  recent cards ending  *4655, *4663 and 
*4671, the fraud  happened over such a short time period I dont think  it gave  Mr E much  time 
to consider how this was happening or change how he received and stored  his card.
So, I think someone other than Mr E does have access to his post,  and wallet whilst in his 
home and was able to use Mr Es cards to make the transactions. After which, was able to 
return it either back into the envelope or Mr Es wallet,  all without his knowledge.  
On balance considering all the evidence,  Im not persuaded that Mr E knew  or consented to 
the transactions being made, so he didnt authorise the transactions. I think  the most likely 
scenario is that it is someone known to Mr E who made the transactions without his 
authorisation. 
As mentioned previously  if the transactions were  made in connection with a distance 
contract, I only need to decide  whether Mr E authorised the transactions in dispute.  
Authorisation requires  the authentication of the transactions along  with Mr Es consent. 
Ref: DRN34321008Consent requires  the payer to have knowledge  that a payment transaction  will be executed.  
So a consumer who is unaware a payment is being  made cant rightly  be said to have given 
their consent  to make a payment.  
If the transactions werent authorised the CCA  and PSRs say Mr E shouldnt be held liable 
for these  transactions. I consider these transactions to be card not present transactions   
they were made online not using the physical card but the details of it. For that reason Im 
satisfied they are made in connection with a distance contract. I havent seen anything about  
these transactions  that make them an excepted contact so for that reason Lloyds shouldnt  
be holding  Mr E liable for them. I would also ask Lloyds to apply this same reasoning to the 
previous disputed card transactions  where it has taken back the refunds.
But as outlined above I do think the person who has been making  these transactions is 
known to Mr E and most probably  lives with him or has regular access to his home. So I 
would expect Mr E, now he is aware,  to take additional care of his cards, particularly in his 
home, to prevent  this happening again. By collecting  any replacement or new cards in 
branch himself, and by making sure his cards and wallet arent accessible to anyone else.  I 
dont think it would be fair on Lloyds to be expected to refund similar disputed  transactions  in 
the future.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr E accepted my provisional decision.
Lloyds asked me to consider that it had raised  a chargeback with the merchant. The 
merchant had confirmed  that multiple items  were  delivered which  looked  to be a family meal, 
and were delivered to Mr Es home  address.
Also that Mr E had previously made  similar  claims and should have known to safeguard his 
details. And were still of the opinion that Mr E had authorised  the transactions, but agreed  he 
might not have completed the transactions himself.
my final findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But I havent  been persuaded to change  
my decision  - for the reasons given below.
In my provisional decision I acknowledged that there was a strong connection  to Mr Es 
home address and that the transactions were being made by someone known or close to 
him. 
The frequency of fraud on Mr Es cards  should I think have made him suspicious as to how 
his details were being  obtained.  But the fraud happened over such  a short time period I dont 
think Mr E had ample opportunity to put in place safeguards  that could have prevented 
further transactions happening. 
As I dont think he was aware of the transactions  being made at the time it couldnt be said 
that he had given his consent  to the payments. But with the awareness  he now has I would 
expect Mr E to safeguard  his card(s) to prevent any future such transactions  taking place. 
Ref: DRN34321009my final decision
For the reasons  above I require Lloyds Bank Plc to refund Mr E:
the disputed  transactions  for card ending *4671  totalling £101.97 
for any other similar disputed transactions, prior to card ending *4671,  where  Lloyds 
have held Mr E liable for the transactions; and
pay simple  interest at an annual rate of 8% from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement
HM Revenue & Customs  requires tax at the basic rate to be deducted from the simple 
interest. Lloyds Bank Plc should  give Mr E a certificate showing how much its taken off if he 
asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3432100