K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains about the quality of the replacement phones hes received from Assurant 
General Insurance Limited (AGI) after he made  a claim under his insurance policy.
background
In December 2018, Mr P made a claim on his mobile phone insurance  policy  for his 
damaged mobile  phone. His claim was accepted, and Mr P paid the excess  fee of £100. 
AGI sent out four replacement phones to Mr P during January 2019.  Mr P reported  all these 
phones were faulty. Due to the poor quality  of the phones,  AGI refunded  Mr Ps excess 
amount and offered him £230 in cash settlement instead. It also offered him £60 in 
recognition of the inconvenience Mr P had been caused.
Mr P didnt agree with the cash settlement figure. He wasnt happy with the quality of the 
replacement phones that had been  sent and said he wanted  to purchase a phone directly 
from the manufacturer.  But  the manufacturer no longer  made the model, so he wanted the 
next model up. AGI didnt  agree to settle  the claim with the newer model phone.  So, Mr P 
brought his complaint to this Service.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and they agreed that a cash  settlement 
was a fair resolution  to settle  the complaint. However, it was their opinion  that the amount 
AGI had offered wasnt  enough  so they recommended that AGI increase the cash 
settlement price to £300. They also believed the £160  (the £100 excess  refund plus the £60 
compensation) was a reasonable amount. 
Mr P reluctantly agreed  with the investigators  view but AGI didnt. It said that it had offered  a 
fair market price for Mr Ps model  of phone. As the investigator couldnt resolve the 
complaint, the matter  has been passed to me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this, I agree with the 
investigators opinion  and for broadly  the same reasons.  Ill explain why. 
I think everyone involved agrees that the offer of the cash  settlement  from AGI is the most  
sensible option to resolve this issue, but it comes down to what is a fair amount for Mr Ps 
model of mobile  phone. 
I have reviewed what AGI has sent us about  the site they use to obtain value, but I can see 
these are for refurbished  handsets. Given the issues that Mr P has had with refurbished  
phones, I can understand  why hes not happy about  having  another  one.
Ive thought about what the terms of the policy say around replacement phones  and I can 
see it says it may come  from new or refurbished stock. As the quality of the refurbished 
phones Mr P has received  has been  poor,  I think its reasonable that any cash settlement 
reflects the price  of a new handset so that he can get a replacement phone  he is confident 
will be in good working order. 
Ref: DRN35183072Looking again  at the terms of the policy, I can see that is says if AGI cant  replace the mobile 
phone with the same make, model and memory size it will give a choice with an equivalent  
specification. 
I have looked  at the prices of new phones our investigator found,  and I can see that the price 
of a new handset but with half the amount  of internal  storage is around £300. Having done 
my own research, I havent been  able to find the same  handset  with the same  internal 
storage as a new handset. But there is the same model - with double  the amount of storage - 
which costs £400  brand new.  
On this basis I think an additional £50 on top of the £300 the investigator  suggested  is a fair 
reflection of the cost price of what  an equivalent model of Mr Ps phone would be worth.  
Therefore, AGI should increase its cash settlement by a further £120 so the total amount 
Mr P is given  is £350. 
I agree  that refunding Mr Ps excess fee of £100 and awarding him £60 is a fair amount 
considering the trouble and upset  caused.  Ive noted Mr Ps comments  that the refund of the 
excess fee isnt really compensation because it was his money. Mr P wouldve always  had to 
pay the excess fee in order  to get a replacement phone. So, the fact that AGI has refunded 
this to him is a form of compensation  as he now gets the cash  value of his mobile  phone  
without having  to pay the excess. So, I dont award  any more.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  AGI should  pay Mr P an additional £120 so the total for the cash  
settlement of his damaged phone is £350. 
If it hasnt  done  so already, AGI should also pay Mr P £60 and refund his £100 excess fee in 
recognition of the trouble  and upset caused by this matter. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3518307