K820x#14complaint
Miss P has complained  that U K Insurance Limited didnt pay a fair settlement sum for her 
car when  she made a claim  under her car insurance  policy.
background
Miss P was involved in an incident  in January 2019.  She made a claim to her insurer, UKI. 
An engineer  reported that it wasnt economical to repair Miss Ps car. And he categorised the 
damage as B which meant it wasnt suitable for repair to put it back  on the road.
UKI said it would  pay a market value  for Miss Ps car of £5,600. Miss P said this was too low. 
And she didnt agree  with the categorisation of her car. Miss P wanted to repair  her car and 
said it was still driveable. She didnt  think the engineer who had assessed her car had 
properly inspected it. Miss P wanted  UKI to remove the category B marker.
UKI arranged for a second engineer to assess her car. But the outcome was the same.  
However, UKI reviewed  the valuation and said it hadnt used  the correct  mileage  for Miss Ps 
car. And it had deducted £500 which was the estimate to repair pre existing damage. It 
agreed to reduce the £500  by half to £250. With the mileage adjustment,  this brought the 
market value to £6,000.  UKI based  its valuation on one of the main motor trade guides. It 
said it had correctly categorised Miss Ps car.
Miss P remained unhappy, so she asked us to look at her complaint. Our investigator 
thought UKI had reached its valuation and decided the categorisation of her car reasonably. 
Miss P didnt agree. In summary she says the pre existing damage  could  either be fixed for 
much less or classed  as wear and tear for a ten year old car. The chassis  and engine  hasnt 
moved so she says theres  no way her car is a category B write off. She says her car still 
drives.
Miss P is unhappy that UKI wants her to transfer  ownership of the car to UKI. She didnt 
accept the market value it paid her. She says she isnt prepared  to give her car away  for less 
than its worth. Miss P feels the second engineer took photos  of her car to make it look worse 
than before. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
We dont decide  a valuation for a car. We look at whether an insurer  has reached its 
decision in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. 
UKIs policy says the most it will pay Miss P in the event of a claim is the market value of her 
car at the time of loss. 
We find the fairest way to decide a market value is to look at the main  motor trade guides. 
They provide  valuations based  on the same make, model, age, mileage and condition. 
Ref: DRN31898612We find they are more reliable than adverts  as adverts  range  widely  and tend to be a sellers 
starting price  with room  to negotiate with a buyer.  
The motor  trade guides  provide valuations based  on likely selling prices  based on a car 
being in good condition  sold on a garage forecourt  otherwise known as the retail  
transacted value.
UKI used  only one of the motor trade guides. So we checked the others to see if the 
settlement it paid was fair as our approach  is to consider all of the main guides. The guides 
ranged from £5,419  to £7,356. We used  the correct mileage, age, and specific  model of 
Miss Ps car. The guides assumed Miss Ps car was in good condition  with no pre existing 
damage. The average of the guides  therefore came  to £6,341.  
Two engineers assessed Miss Ps car and both said it was a category B write off. Both also 
reported that her car had pre existing damage as follows:
The drivers  door edge  was heavily chipped.
The off side front and rear wheels were kerb damaged.
There was a crack to the rear bumper and;
A dent to the roof.
I understand Miss P doesnt agree  that the pre existing damage would have cost anywhere  
near the amount estimated to repair. However, as UKI reduced the estimate  by half, I think it 
acted reasonably. 
As we found  the average valuation for Miss Ps car came to £6,341 before UKI deducted the 
reduced amount  of £250 for pre existing damage, I think the final market value UKI paid 
Miss P of £6,000 was within the range of reasonable. 
Miss P didnt agree with the first engineers assessment. So UKI instructed a second 
engineer to assess Miss Ps car. I think UKIs  approach here was reasonable. Miss P didnt 
agree with the second engineers assessment as he was of the same  overall view as the first 
engineer.
Two engineers reported that it wasnt safe for Miss Ps car to be returned  to the road.  So I 
think UKI has acted reasonably by relying on the professional opinion of the engineers. 
Although Miss P says shes been  advised by others that her car isnt a category B, she 
hasnt provided  any evidence to contradict the findings of the two engineers.
As UKI has categorised Miss Ps car as B, this means Miss P cannot  legally  return the car 
to the road. 
Miss P is unhappy with the number of calls she said she had to make to UKI and she feels it 
handled her claim poorly. But I think the number of calls Miss P made was largely due to her 
dispute about the valuation and the categorisation of her car. So I cant say that UKI should  
compensate her for her losses here  as I think UKI settled Miss Ps claim in a fair and 
reasonable way  and in line with the policy. So Im not asking it to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN31898613Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 June  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3189861