K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Mrs Rs complaint is about a boiler and central heating insurance policy held with 
British Gas Insurance Limited. 
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in September 2019, part of which  is copied  
below: 
Mr W and Mrs R have held the policy for a number of years. The policy  includes an annual
service of the boiler. A service was carried out in 2016 but there  were  no other attendances
between then and February 2018.
The engineer that attended  to service the boiler in February 2018, told them  that the policy
had not covered the boiler since 2016 because the engineer that attended then had advised
them that the water in the heating system was contaminated  with sludge and scale and they
needed a power  flush  done.
Mr W and Mrs R immediately had the power flush carried out and then asked  British  Gas to
come back  and check the quality of the water. They say that the engineer that checked  the
system on 19 March 2018, after the power flush told them  their cover was now fully
reinstated. They are very unhappy  about  this, as they say the policy has renewed twice  and
they've paid the premiums in full when  their cover was void since  2016. They have  also not
had the annual services since 2016 and so have received  no benefit under the policy. Mr W
and Mrs R have therefore asked for the premiums they've paid to be refunded.
British Gas doesn't accept that it has done  anything wrong. It says:
no part of the policy was void between 2016  and 2018. Its terms say that it may
  refuse to replace  parts  damaged  by sludge or scale when it has previously given
advice that a power flush is needed but the engineer simply gave advice that there
might be issues  with this in the future. A power flush was not needed  at that stage.
There were no issues  with the boiler  until the call out in 2018  at which  time,  it was
noted that a power flush was required.
Even if there had been a claim which it did refuse for that reason in that time period,
there were several other aspects of the cover that would have been  unaffected
therefore it is not reasonable to require  it to refund the premium.
This advice would have been recorded  on the job sheet completed by the engineer,
which would be left with Mr W and Mrs R.
It contacted Mr W and Mrs R several times  by email in 2016  and 2017  to try to
arrange the annual service visit but they didn't  contact it to book  in.
The policy terms say it will try and make  contact three time to arrange  a service but if,
after that the policyholder  doesn't make the appointment there is nothing more  it can
do and it will not refund any part of the premium in such  a situation.
It contacted Mr W and Mrs R by email and in writing (by way of postcards)  several
times asking  them  to arrange  the annual service since  2016.
British Gas offered  £30 compensation  as a good  will gesture  but does not agree to do
anything more.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. He changed his mind  about the complaint but
Ref: DRN38405752he ultimately concluded that the policy had effectively been suspended in 2016, and
recommended that British  Gas refund of premiums from October 2016 to March  2018 (when
the policy was confirmed to be reinstated)  with interest, and £250 in compensation for the
distress, trouble  and upset caused.
Mr W and Mrs R have  made a number of submissions in their initial  complaint and in
response to the adjudicator's assessments. I have summarised these below:
they were not told they needed a power flush in 2016 and there was no written
advice of this.
It was unfair of British  Gas to renew the policy for two further years after this advice
was supposedly  given, when they were not receiving full cover. British Gas didn't
give any information about their cover  being  reduced at each renewal.
The engineer  that did the service in February  2018 clearly told them  the policy was
void in relation to boiler controls cover  and that if they didn't  want to have the power
flush done they could instead  downgrade the policy to "service  cover only to save
money, as they would not be getting the benefit of the rest of the policy  cover.
No service has been carried out between  2016  and 2018  and so they received no
benefit from the policy at all in the two years.
The policy voids cover  for boiler and controls  where a power flush has been  advised
as being necessary.
There's no proof the emails and postcards about the annual service  were received by
them. Without proof that they received them there  is not sufficient  proof British Gas
did contact them. If its system doesn't ensure read receipts or proof of postage and
delivery then this is a failure in its procedures for which they should  not be penalised.
The statement "the power flush was not required until 2016" has no relevance to their
complaint. As their policy had been  void since January  2016,  when British Gas
supposedly first gave advice about  the quality of the water in the system, the power
flush was required since that date in order to make  their policy valid again.
British Gas doesn't accept the adjudicator's  assessment and says there was cover in place,
so there  is no reasonable basis for asking  it to refund the premiums.  
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve  the complaint it has been passed to me.
my findings
I've considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am not persuaded that the policy, or any part of it, was void with effect  from the January
2016 attendance by British Gas.
The policy says that it will not cover:
"Damage caused by limescale, sludge  or other  debris - if weve  told you before that
you need to carry  out repairs,  improvements or a British Gas Power  flush, or a
similar process, but you haven't done  so."
I note Mr W and Mrs R are adamant that no advice or recommendation was given to them in
January 2016  at all. British Gas says a note was made about water quality but there  was no
recommendation of any "repairs,  improvements or power flush needed to be carried  out at
Ref: DRN38405753that stage."
Mr W and Mrs R say that the engineer that attended  in February 2018 told them  the policy
had been void since 2016 but there  is no convincing evidence that this was the case. Even if
he did advise this it does  not appear to be correct and British  Gas would not be bound  by
any such information given in error.
Mr W and Mrs R say that the work  sheet  that the engineer left with them in February 2018
and one from March  2018 (after the power flush) confirms that they had not been fully
covered since January  2016. I don't agree.
The February 2018 work sheet says:
"quoted for power flush. Effects future cover of water  carrying  components  ... recommend
service cover only or boiler & controls water carrying components  in boiler would  still be
void."(My emphasis.)
The work sheet  from 19 March 2018 states  "All ok after power flush  parts  now covered."
These documents don't however prove that the cover was void since  2016. Only that advice
was given that the water quality was such that a power flush was needed  in February  2018
and that if they didn't get it done  then water  carrying components of the central heating
system would not be covered from then. And the second work sheet from March 2018
confirms they were covered again, so they were  not covered from February to March 2018.
So, even if the engineer  did say that cover  had been limited since  2016, this was not right. I
am satisfied  that the policy is clear and it would  only be voided if there had been a
recommendation that the policyholder carry out some remedial work (which  would  have
been a power  flush in this situation) and there  is no evidence that they were so advised.
I am not therefore  persuaded that there was any restriction on Mr W and Mrs R's cover
between January 2016 and March 2018,  although I can understand their concern if this is
what they were told by the engineer.  As I do not accept that there was any change  to the
cover they were being provided with, there was no need for British  Gas to provide any
different information  to them at each renewal.
Mr W and Mrs R also say that as they had no annual service  carried out in the two policy
years from 2016, they've  not received any benefit  under the policy.
The policy states  that British Gas will send up to three reminders  about  the annual  service. It
has provided evidence  that it emailed Mr W and Mrs R and also sent postcards on at least
three occasions to arrange the next annual service.
It is not required to prove receipt of any such communication, only that it was sent Mr W and
Mrs R were aware they had an annual  service included with their cover and did not arrange
an appointment for it to be carried out. British  Gas sent reminders to them to do so. These
communications were  clear, but even  if they weren't received,  I do not consider that British
Gas was required to do anything further in relation  to this. Mr W and Mrs R were covered by
the policy and could have had their boiler serviced  within the policy  terms. The fact it wasn't
carried out is not due to any error or failure on the part of British Gas.  I do not therefore
agree that any refund  of premium or any compensation is warranted.
I know that Mr  W and Mrs R will be disappointed  with this decision,  having already received
Ref: DRN38405754a recommendation  from the adjudicator that the complaint should  be upheld. However,
both parties are entitled to appeal to an ombudsman  - the final stage in our process -
and it is my role to review  the matter afresh and make my own decision as to the
appropriate outcome.
my provisional decision
I do not intend to uphold  this complaint.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
British Gas has confirmed  that it has nothing further  to add. 
Mr W and Mrs R do not accept my provisional decision. They have made  the following 
points: 
I concluded that there was not enough evidence that they were advised  that any 
remedial work was required and therefore  that any part of the policy  cover was void 
but British Gass letter of 1 June  2018 is evidence to the contrary. The letter  says:  
"our records  noted that we had mentioned the water quality  in 2016 and quoted for a 
power flush."  This is evidence  that there was an alleged  recommendation that they 
should have carried  out remedial work (i.e. a power flush) in January  2016 (although  
they still say they did not receive that recommendation in writing or verbally).
As British Gas deemed that a power flush was required in 2016,  their cover for boiler 
and controls became  void from that date. 
British Gas can't allege  that it provided  a quote  for a power flush  on 19 January 2016 
and then on the other hand maintain one wasn't  necessary at that time.
This also supports  the advice of the engineer and another  British  Gas employee that 
their policy  cover had been  limited  since 2016.
Their complaint is solely to do with the unfair renewal  procedure; they were
able to renew their agreements twice and pay for a product which was in fact partly 
void. This is wholly unsatisfactory  and they should  be compensated appropriately for 
the inconvenience already  caused  and which is ongoing. This includes stress and 
anxiety caused  to them.
No annual service  was carried out in 2016.  The engineer attended  to a water leak on 
19 January 2016. It was at that appointment that he allegedly told them there was an 
issue with the water quality and recommended  that a power flush should be 
undertaken.
If a power flush was not required in January 2016, then why did the British Gas 
engineer (allegedly) provide a quote  for a power  flush?  
The boiler was leaking in January 2016,  so its not true that there  were  no issues  with 
the boiler until 2018. False statements such as this are greatly concerning. 
They do not accept  that British Gas would not be bound  by information given by one 
of its representatives  to its customers and in any case, its final response letter 
provides evidence that a quote for a power flush was (allegedly) given to them in 
January 2016.  Part of their cover  was therefore  void since  then.
my findings
Ref: DRN38405755I've considered all the available evidence and arguments again to decide whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sentence from British Gass final response  letter that Mr W and Mrs R seek  to rely on is 
ambiguous. However,  when read in context  I do not agree  that it is confirming that a quote 
for a power flush was given in 2016.  A fuller  quote  from that letter is as follows:   
our engineer visited on 19 January 2016 and I can see from his note that he advised  you on 
the water  quality. When our engineer visited on 5 February 2018 he saw that our records 
noted that we had mentioned the water quality in 2016 and quoted for a power  flush.  
Reading the above sentences together and in the context of the rest of the letter,  I consider it 
sufficiently clear that the first time a power flush was recommended and / or quoted for was 
2018. This is also consistent with all other  evidence available  about  what happened in 2016, 
including Mr W and Mrs Rs testimony that they were not told anything about  the water  
quality and did not receive a quote  for a power  flush.  British  Gass file contains  no reference  
to any such advice in 2016. If an engineer or other  employee told them  otherwise this is not 
binding. 
I therefore remain of the opinion  that the policy cover was unchanged and there was no 
restriction on Mr W and Mrs Rs cover  between January 2016 and March 2018 and therefore  
that there  was no need for British  Gas to provide any different  information to them at each 
renewal and it would not be reasonable to require it to refund  any premiums. 
Mr W and Mrs R have  pointed out that the January  2016 attendance was to repair the boiler,  
not to carry out an annual  service as set out in the background  section of my provisional 
decision. This was an error on my part. I was aware  that the attendance was for a repair (as 
British Gass final response letter and file notes  record this). The reason  for the January  
2016 attendance doesnt make any difference to the outcome of the complaint.  
When summarising British Gass position  I also said that it had said there were no issues 
with the boiler  until 2018. When read in the context of the rest of the submissions and 
background to the complaint, I consider it sufficiently clear that British  Gas was stating there 
were no issues between  the attendance in January 2016 and 2018.  Its final response letter 
states the January 2016 attendance was to fix the boiler. I am satisfied that this is not a case 
of it not providing  accurate information,  as suggested by Mr W and Mrs R. 
Having considered all the circumstances, I remain of the opinion that the complaint should 
not be upheld,  as Mr W and Mrs R received the cover for which they paid. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs R to
accept or reject my decision  before  11 November  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3840575