K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Everyday Lending Limited (ELL) lent to him in an irresponsible  
manner.
background
Mr A was given two loans  by ELL. He borrowed £1,500  in June 2016, and agreed to repay 
his loan in 24 monthly  instalments. The following year, in February 2017, he refinanced the 
loan and took some additional borrowing. In total he borrowed  £2,600 and again agreed to 
repay the loan in 24 monthly instalments. Mr A has faced problems repaying the second loan 
and a balance  remained outstanding when he made his complaint. I understand that 
subsequently Mr A was granted a debt relief order (DRO).
Mr As complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  Our adjudicator  didnt think 
ELL had been  wrong to give the first loan to Mr A. But he didnt think the second loan had 
been responsibly lent. So he asked  ELL to pay Mr A some compensation.
Disappointingly ELL didnt respond to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been 
resolved informally, it has been  passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last 
stage of our process.  If Mr A accepts my decision  it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Mr As complaint.
The rules  and regulations at the time ELL gave these loans to Mr A required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed 
in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The checks  had to be borrower focused   so ELL had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr A. In practice this 
meant that ELL had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr A undue 
difficulty or adverse  consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think  
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mr A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.  
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
Ref: DRN37679212the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting  the fact 
that the total cost of the credit  is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended  period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
should have been for a given application   including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether ELL did what it needed to before  agreeing  to lend 
to Mr A.
ELL gathered some information from Mr A before  it agreed the loan. It asked  him for details 
of his income, and his housing costs. It added to this expenditure an allowance  for other  
living costs  and the amounts he was repaying  to other creditors  that ELL could see from a 
check of his credit file.
Mr A was entering into a significant commitment with ELL. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. So I do think it was right that ELL sought some 
independent information about Mr As finances  rather than just relying on the information 
hed provided.  I think that the checks ELL did before agreeing  the first loan were 
proportionate.
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to react  
appropriately to the information shown by those checks. Here, the assessment of Mr As 
disposable income showed that he couldnt  afford the repayments on the loan. But Mr A told 
ELL that he intended  to use this loan to consolidate some other borrowing that he had taken 
in haste to secure  a holiday. I think it was reasonable for ELL to accept what  Mr A had said 
here, and so reach the conclusion that after the repayment of his other debt,  this loan would 
be sustainably affordable for him.
Mr A appears to have  made his repayments  as planned on the first loan. But around eight 
months into the two year agreement he asked ELL for some  additional  borrowing.  ELL 
provided this to him by consolidating the first loan into some  new, and increased, borrowing. 
I think that need for additional borrowing should have caused concerns to ELL. And I think it 
would have been reasonable for ELL to understand  in greater detail  what had happened 
since Mr A had taken his previous loan.
Had it done so ELL would have seen that Mr A wasnt  managing  his finances well. It is true 
that he had used the original loan as planned  to consolidate some borrowing. But in the 
intervening eight months Mr A had continued  to borrow  heavily  on both credit cards  and from 
short term lenders.  I think  it would have been reasonable to conclude that it was likely Mr A 
was using new borrowing  to meet  the repayments that were  due on his various  credit  
accounts. I dont  think  that it was reasonable to conclude that Mr A would be able to take on, 
and sustainably repay, any additional  borrowing. So I dont think that the second loan should 
have been given to him.
Ref: DRN37679213putting things right
I dont think that ELL should have agreed to give the second loan to Mr A. It appears that the 
outstanding balance on that loan will have formed part of Mr As DRO. So I have written my 
directions on that basis. If that isnt the case,  ELL should calculate  the compensation due to 
Mr A as at the date he accepts this decision rather than the date of the DRO as I have 
directed below. To put things right ELL should;
remove any interest and charges still outstanding on loan 2 at the date of the DRO 
and treat any payments Mr A made towards this loan as payments towards the 
capital
if reworking Mr As loan account as Ive directed results in Mr A effectively having 
made payments  above the original  capital borrowed at the date of the DRO, then ELL 
should refund these  overpayments  with 8% simple  interest  calculated  on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of 
settlement. 
If reworking Mr As loan account leaves an amount  of capital still outstanding at the 
date of the DRO, then ELL doesnt need to pay any compensation  to Mr A. Should 
any outstanding  balance have not been included in the DRO then I remind ELL that it 
should take a sympathetic view when seeking to agree an affordable  repayment  plan 
with Mr A.
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr As credit file in relation to second 
loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to take off tax from this interest. ELL must give Mr A 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Mr As complaint and direct  Everyday  Lending 
Limited to put things  right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2020
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3767921