K821x#15complaint
Miss W complains that SRC Transatlantic  Limited (trading as Speedy  Cash) gave her 
unaffordable payday and instalment loans. 
background
Miss W had two pay day, with one top up, and one instalment loan with a refinanced top up 
from Speedy Cash between August 2013  and June 2014. She said the loans were 
unaffordable for her. Speedy Cash said its checks had shown that the loans looked 
affordable for Miss W.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought 
Speedy Cashs affordability checks were proportionate and sufficient for loan one and the 
initial loan two. The repayments looked affordable compared to Miss Ws stated  income. So 
he thought Speedy Cash had been  responsible in approving them.  
But he thought  Speedy Cashs  checks hadnt  gone  far enough for the top up of loan two and 
the instalment  loans.  He thought the repayment  amount for the pay day loan top up and the 
frequency of Miss Ws borrowing should  have prompted further  checks. And he thought 
further checks should also have been made  for the instalment loans because of the length  of 
the loans and Miss Ws low income. 
The adjudicator thought  better checks would have shown that Miss W didnt have any 
disposable income to repay these loans. So he thought Speedy  Cash  had been wrong to 
approve them. 
The adjudicator thought  Speedy Cash  should refund Miss Ws interest  and charges, with 
interest, for these loans.  He thought it should offset  this against the balance of capital still 
owed and pay her the rest. He also thought it should  remove any adverse information  
relating to these  loans  from Miss Ws credit file.
Speedy Cash didnt  think  that it had done  anything wrong when agreeing to give Miss W the 
loans as it thought the monthly  repayments  were affordable. But Speedy Cash  agreed to 
refund some  of the interest Miss W paid. It agreed  to put Miss W in the position  she would 
have been in if shed only paid back twice  what she borrowed. This applied  to the instalment 
loans. So I also considered whether what Speedy Cash has agreed to do is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of Miss Ws case.
Speedy Cash thought the adjudicator had relied  on unverified information  about Miss Ws 
expenditure to decide that the loans were unaffordable for her. It asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed. So it came to me to decide.  
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Miss W 
and to Speedy Cash on 16 January  2019.  I summarise my findings:
Ref: DRN33445312Miss W first borrowed and repaid  £100.  Loan two was for £50 and she topped this up with a 
further £30 so her repayment increased to £94.77.  Then Miss W had a loan for £190  to be 
repaid in 18 monthly instalments. The highest  expected monthly repayment was £49.69.  
Seven months  later, she refinanced this loan with a top up of £50 to be repaid in a further  18 
monthly instalments.  The highest expected monthly repayment was now £48.42. 
Miss W struggled  to repay her instalment loans. Miss W told Speedy Cash about her 
financial difficulties and it froze interest on her account and later agreed  to set up a 
repayment plan.  A balance  remains  outstanding. 
Speedy Cash was required  to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure 
Miss W could afford to repay the loans  before  it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss W was borrowing, and her lending  history.  
But there was no set list of checks Speedy Cash had to do.
Speedy Cash said it asked Miss W for her monthly income. She said this £795  for her 
payday loans  and £764.84 for the instalment  loans.  
I agreed with the adjudicator that this check was proportionate and sufficient for loan one 
and the initial loan two. These were Miss Ws first loans  from Speedy Cash.  She repaid loan 
one successfully. The amounts looked  affordable  compared to her low income. So I couldnt 
say Speedy Cash  was wrong to approve these.
But I thought this check wasnt proportionate  or sufficient for the top up of loan two or for the 
instalment loans. With the top up, I thought  the pattern and frequency of Miss Ws borrowing 
should have prompted further checks. For the instalment loans, Miss W was expected to 
sustain her repayments over a long period. Her income was very low. 
So I thought  for these  loans Speedy Cash should  also have asked Miss W about her 
expenditure on her normal  living costs  and regular bills to check  that she had enough to 
repay her loans. But I couldnt  see that Speedy Cash did this.
Miss W told the adjudicator what she recalled  of her outgoings at the time of her loans. And, 
based on this, he thought  that if Speedy Cash had made better  checks, it would have seen 
that Miss W couldnt afford these loans and so it had been wrong to provide them.
But I thought Miss W should have verified  what she told the adjudicator.  I could see that she 
agreed to provide her bank statements eight months  earlier  but I couldnt see that these 
were received. So I asked  Miss W to provide her bank statements from the time to see what  
her normal  living costs  and bills were.  But, despite several requests, Miss W didnt provide 
these. 
And so I couldnt verify what Miss W told the adjudicator about  her outgoings at the time. 
Therefore, I couldnt safely say what better  checks would have found if Speedy  Cash  had 
asked Miss W about her expenditure. 
This meant I couldnt  say it was unfair for Speedy  Cash to have provided Miss W with her 
loans. So Speedy Cash didnt need  to refund all of the interest Miss W paid for them. 
Ref: DRN33445313But Speedy Cash had already offered to reduce some of the interest where Miss Ws total 
repayments would be more than twice the loan amount. This meant that it would reduce the 
amount Miss W still owed for her instalment loans. I thought  this was fair and reasonable. I 
didnt think it needed to do anything more. 
Speedy Cash said it would make  arrangements  to pay Miss W when I issued my final 
decision.
Subject to any further representations by Miss W or Speedy  Cash, my provisional decision 
was that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to require SRC Transatlantic  
Limited (trading as Speedy Cash) to reduce the repayments for Miss Ws instalment loans to 
twice the amounts borrowed and offset this against  the balance  she still owed, as itd already 
agreed to do.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Speedy Cash didnt  provide us with any further representations. But Miss W has now 
provided us with her bank  statements  from the time of her loans. And Ive looked at these to 
see what better checks would have found  about  the affordability  of her loans. 
Miss W has also explained  a drop in her income at the time. I was sorry to hear about  the 
tough time Miss W experienced. But I think Speedy Cash could reasonably  rely on what she 
told it and it wasnt then required to verify  her income, so I havent looked at this further. 
As Ive explained above, I think Speedy Cash should have asked further questions when 
Miss W asked for the top up of loan two and for the two instalment loans. I thought Speedy 
Cash should have  asked Miss W about  her expenditure on her normal living  costs  and 
regular bills to check that she had enough to repay  her loans. So Ive looked at the 
information Miss W has now provided to see what she would likely have told Speedy  Cash if 
shed been asked about these outgoings. 
From these statements, I can see that Miss W was living hand to mouth at this time. Her 
expenditure on her normal  outgoings such as rent, food, phone, car insurance and petrol 
accounted for all her income leaving her with a tiny amount of disposable income each  
month. A change in circumstances  after Miss W took out the first instalment loan meant  that 
she was no longer paying rent, but her transport and food costs increased  still leaving her 
with very little disposable income. 
So I think that if Speedy Cash  had made  better checks, it would have seen,  as I have, that 
Miss W couldnt  afford the top-up of loan two and she couldnt  afford to sustainably repay her 
instalment loans. So I think Speedy Cash was wrong to approve  these. 
This change  in my decision based on the further evidence provided  has been  put to Speedy 
Cash for its comments, but it hasnt made  any. Miss W has said that shes  content with this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require SRC Transatlantic Limited 
(trading as Speedy Cash) to do the following:
Ref: DRN334453141.Refund Miss W the interest and charges she paid on the top-up of loan two and her 
instalment loans, adding interest at 8% simple  per annum from the date of payment  to 
the date of settlement. This refund  should  be offset against any balance of capital still 
owed and the rest paid to Miss W, or an affordable  repayment plan set up to clear any 
balance remaining.
2.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Speedy Cash to withhold income tax from that 
interest. It must give Miss W a certificate showing how much  its taken off if she asks for 
one.
3.Remove any adverse  information relating these loans from Miss Ws credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3344531