K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Canada  Square Operations Limited  (trading  as Egg) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
The policy was added  to the card when  Mr M took out a credit  card via the Egg website in 
2002. The policy cost £0.74 for every £100.00 of the credit  cards balance and in the event of 
a successful claim, could  have paid 10% of the monthly balance for up to 12 months  or until 
the outstanding balance  was repaid  if sooner.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Egg disagreed  with the assessment, 
so the complaint passed to an ombudsman.  Since  issuing her provisional decision, that 
ombudsman has become unable to continue  with her cases. So the case  has passed to me 
to review. 
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 10 September 2019,  a copy  
of which  is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision.  In my provisional 
decision I set out the reasons why I was minded  not to uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 10 October 2019.  At the time of writing I have received no further  
submission from Egg or any request  for an extension. The decision was sent to the correct  
addresses for Egg, so I consider that Egg has had sufficient time to make a submission had 
they wanted to. Mr M has responded  with some a further submission. So I am proceeding to 
my final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ws case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.  Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I have based my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider  is most likely 
given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.  
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill confine my comments  to what  I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it, but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  what  I think  is the right 
outcome in the wider context. 
After reviewing all of the information provided in this complaint, I do not intend upholding 
Mr Ms complaint. I explain why below.
Ref: DRN37432332Ive considered the internet screens  Egg has provided. It seems that Mr M had to select  
either Yes to add PPI to his card,  or No not to. Egg has said Mr M wouldnt have been 
able to proceed with his application unless  he chose one of these options. Egg says that 
neither answer  was preselected for Mr M so he should have  understood this was something 
he could say No to. And Ive noticed  the statements show that Mr M was paying  for Credit 
Card Repayment Protector  from as early as December 2002. So, if the PPI had been added  
to his account without his consent, as Mr M says now, then I think that he would been made 
aware from the statements that he was paying  for something he hadnt  agreed to and would 
have, most  likely, raised that as an issue many years before he eventually  chose to do. So, 
overall, I think its likely Mr M selected Yes  to the PPI when he took out the credit  card on 
the internet and did so knowing this was something  he could have said No to, even if he 
doesnt remember that now, many years  later. 
The PPI was sold during an internet application  for the credit  card and Egg didnt 
recommend that Mr M take the PPI, so it didnt have  to check  if it was right for him. Instead  
Egg had to provide information  that was clear and not misleading  so that Mr M could decide 
about the policy for himself. 
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should have 
been - including the information about the cost of the policy.  But based on what I know about 
Mr Ms circumstances  and the cost of the policy, I dont think  better information would have 
stopped him from buying it.
I say this because  Mr M was eligible for the policy, and I think Mr M could have found the 
policy useful. I say this because Mr M told us he was not entitled  to any sick pay if he was 
too ill to work, and he had no savings he could have relied on in that circumstance, or if he 
lost his job. But the policy could have paid 10% of the balance for up to 12 months  if he was 
too ill to work, or if he lost his job. So, I think the policy could  have been  useful  to Mr M. 
In saying that, Ive considered whether Mr M was affected by any of the exclusions from or 
limits to the PPI cover because of his employment status. Its not clear  that he was. I explain 
why I say this below.
Under the terms and conditions  of the policy, unemployment benefit would not be paid if the 
policyholder was employed by a company of which he/she was a director and/or  had a 
shareholding of thirty percent or more. Initially Mr M told us he was director of one company 
at the time of the sale. Later, he told us he had resigned that directorship before the sale in 
question. He told us he became a director of another company shortly  after this and was a 
director at the time of the sale of the PPI. But the evidence  Mr M provided suggests he was 
the company secretary. So it seems that Mr Ms role at work wouldnt  have  seen him 
restricted in his ability to make a full claim for unemployment had he needed  to. And Mr M 
has not been able to provide any evidence to support his claim that he was a shareholder  in 
the second company. 
I understand that these events happened many years ago (over  16 years  ago) and so its 
maybe not surprising  that evidence has been  hard to locate. I dont doubt that Mr Ms 
testimony represents his honest and best recollections of the events  of 2002. And that same  
passage of time may be responsible for Mr Ms imperfect recollection  of information from the 
time of the sale. But the varying accounts of his employment at that time provided  to me by 
Mr M has reduced the weight I now feel I am able to place on his testimony alone. 
Ref: DRN37432333So, for all the reasons  set out above and all the submissions made  to me in this case,  and 
considering the evolution  of Mr Ms testimony  in respect of his employment situation,  and in 
the absence of any evidence to support Mr Ms testimony, I dont think that Mr M lost out as 
a result of anything Egg might have done  wrong.  
I know Mr M feels strongly and has put time and effort into his complaint. I realise hell be 
disappointed by the outcome. But for the reasons set out above, I am not minded to uphold 
this complaint. Which  means Egg doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
 
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mr M about  that. Because Egg didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I am not minded  to uphold  Mr Ms complaint and  so Canada 
Square Operations Limited does not have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
 
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  intend to award any further  compensation. 
Mr M has asked  what evidence  Ive seen about  the sales process.  Egg sent us a lot of 
information on this case, and more  generally  to us as a Service shedding light on their sales  
process. I referred to a copy of the electronic  application process  as well as some  of Mr Ms 
credit card statements in my provisional decision.  I have considered all of Mr Ms other 
comments but they dont change  my decision.  
I have considered again all of the evidence and arguments from the outset in order  to decide  
what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. In the absence  of any 
further points  for me to consider, I find no reason to depart from my original findings as set 
out in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN37432334my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, I do not think  the PPI 
policy was mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mr M, if it hasnt already, 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  If this 
money has already  been paid, I make no further award in this case. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  16 November 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3743233