K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Financial  Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr M bought  the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint  because:
 Mr M signed  on the application form to show he wanted PPI  separately to where  he 
signed to apply for the card. So I think FICL made Mr M aware that he had a choice  
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. Mr M says he was told he wouldnt 
get the card if he didnt take the PPI, but the sale was so long ago that I dont think  it 
would be reasonable to uphold  the complaint purely  on the basis  of his recollection. 
For example, he made a claim  in 2002,  but indicated on his claim form (PPI 
questionnaire) that hed never  made a claim. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr M doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. Although  he had some sick pay 
through his work,  I dont think this wouldve been enough to make  him think  the PPI 
wasnt worthwhile. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ms comments, including what hes said about his claim being 
declined meaning  he didnt need  the policy. But these points dont change my conclusion. A 
claim being declined  doesnt automatically mean  the policy  was mis-sold. And Ive not seen 
anything that persuades  me the PPI was mis-sold in this case. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ref: DRN34004312ombudsman
Ref: DRN3400431