K821x#15complaint
Mr R says Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about four high cost loans  Sunny  provided to Mr R between April and May 
2018. Mr Rs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Highest Repayment Made
1 23/04/2018 28/08/2018 6 £150.00 £42.63
2 05/05/2018 01/09/2018 6 £150.00 £91.44
3 06/05/2018 30/08/2018 6 £100.00 £123.43
4 09/05/2018 01/09/2018 6 £50.00 £139.27
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Rs complaint and thought  loan 4 shouldnt  have been 
given. Sunny disagreed and as the matter couldnt be resolved informally,  the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr R could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several different 
things, such as how much was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers 
income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  
checks might be reasonable  and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN37501732There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr R could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Rs complaint. Having done  so, Im partially upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Our adjudicator thought Sunny had carried out proportionate checks  for loans 1, 2 and 3. 
Mr R didnt disagree with the view.  As there is no dispute with the adjudicators opinion about 
these loans, I wont be making any findings  on these  loans. 
Sunny says it carried out checks before  it lent loan 4 to Mr R and the results of these checks 
didnt raise any concerns.  But this was Mr Rs fourth  loan in just over two weeks so I think  
Sunny should  have  been looking to build a clearer picture than this about Mr Rs finances 
before lending him this loan. 
Mr Rs borrowing was increasing   loan 4 was the third loan hed taken out in a matter of 
days. And, the other  three loans hed had from Sunny were  still outstanding. I think this 
ought to have indicated he was in a cycle of debt and the further borrowing wasnt just to 
cover a temporary shortfall in his incomings. 
So, Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 4 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Mr Rs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give Mr R a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Rs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Ref: DRN37501733Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3750173