K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T say Lloyds  Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs T bought a policy in 2003 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. In 2006 
they took out a further advance on their mortgage and amended  the PPI to also cover  the 
additional amount of the new mortgage repayment. They applied for their mortgage  and PPI 
policy in branch. 
The policy provided  cover  for only for Mr T for accident, sickness, and unemployment 
subject to its exclusions and limitations. When first taken out in 2003, it offered  to repay 
£406.56 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage balance in the event of a successful 
claim. At the time, it cost £32.54  a month.  When the policy was amended in 2006  it would 
have repaid £470.65 a month  towards  the total new mortgage amount and the policy then 
cost £35.54 a month.
At the time of taking  out the policy in 2003, Mr T was employed as a milkman. He has told us 
he was not entitled to any sick pay or redundancy pay from his employer and didnt have any 
other means  of repaying the mortgage, other than relying on his Mrs Ts income,  should  he 
be unable to work.  Mr T has said he was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
When the re-mortgage for the further advance took place in 2006 Mr T was employed as a 
roadworker but other than the change in employment his circumstances had not changed, 
and the new employment also did not provide  any benefits such as sick pay or redundancy. 
So his personal  circumstances remained much the same  and he was still eligible for the 
policy.
Mrs T was a joint party to the mortgage,  but she was not covered by the PPI policy. So when  
considering if the policy  was mis-sold,  her circumstances do not affect the situation.  But I 
have taken into account she had some income on a self-employed basis,  when considering  
Mr and Mrs Ts overall income. However, in this decision I have focused mainly on Mr Ts 
circumstances as he was the one who was covered  by the policy.
Lloyds has sent us screenshots to show that Mr and Mrs T took out the original mortgage in 
2003 and a further advance in 2006.   
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ts representative says:
Lloyds failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr T wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs Ts 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
Ref: DRN39665222The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Lloyds should have 
told Mr T about the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Lloyds should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr T and the impact they 
would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr T received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs T disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ts. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
The original  sale of the policy took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB and ICOBS)  
are not applicable to this complaint at the point  the PPI was originally sold; nor is the FCAs 
Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
Mr and Mrs T arranged  a further advance on their mortgage after mortgage lending became 
regulated in October 2004  this led to the whole  mortgage becoming  an FCA regulated 
Ref: DRN39665223mortgage. That means the unfair  relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer 
Credit Act, the Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act and the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  in 2003, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This original  sale was made during  a period of industry self-regulation by the General 
Insurance Standards Council (GISC). It published  the GISC Code, which set out minimum 
standards of good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Lloyds, selling insurance both in 2003  and 2006:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI in 2003  were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Lloyds  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take these codes into account 
when deciding, what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and 
Mrs Ts case  relating to the sale in 2003.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
The amendment to the policy took place  in 2006 after the sale of general insurance products  
like this became regulated  by the Financial  Services Authority (FSA)  in January 2005. So the 
FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules 
(ICOB) are also applicable to this complaint  relating to the amendment  sale in 2006.
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer applied in 2006 as specific  requirements  on 
those selling insurance, I consider they still represent a helpful  guide to good  industry  
practice. As a result it is appropriate  for me to take them  into account along with the relevant 
ICOB rules and the other  relevant considerations when considering  the 2006 sale of the 
amendment policy, in addition to taking them into account in relation to the original sale in 
2003.
Ref: DRN39665224As I have already  indicated, in the period  immediately  before statutory regulation  in 2005, 
there was a period of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council 
(GISC). It published The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code 
for private  customers  the GISC Code. This set out minimum standards  of good practice 
for its members to follow  when selling  insurance,  including PPI. 
The amendment to the policy took place  after the sale of mortgage  products became 
regulated by the FSA.  So the mortgage  conduct  of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable  to 
this complaint in relation to the 2006  amendment. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The original  sale in 2003,  took place before insurance mediation became  a regulated 
activity, so Lloyds  was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr and Mrs Ts complaint relating to the 2003 sale as well 
as the 2006 sale. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If Lloyds gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr T with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Whether Lloyds gave Mr T sufficient, appropriate  and timely  information to enable  
him to make  an informed  choice about  whether to take out the policy, including 
drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs T, I must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr and Mrs T 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs T 
and Lloyds, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr T know he had a choice?
Lloyds had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Both in 2003 and 2006 the sales took place in meetings and separate  applications were 
completed for the PPI policy and the amendment to the policy in 2006. Mr and Mrs T have 
Ref: DRN39665225both signed these application forms indicating they want to take out he PPI policy,  and the 
additional amendment  cover, to cover only Mr T.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs T knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Lloyds provide  advice?
Lloyds says that advice was provided  during this sale and Mr and Mrs T say they cannot  
remember if any advice was given.  As they do not disagree with what Lloyds has said I think 
it is most  likely advice  was provided. 
This means  Lloyds had to advise Mr and Mrs T with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know what was discussed  in the meeting, the documentary evidence suggests  
that Lloyds took some  steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable recommendation 
for Mr and Mrs T. The adviser had information  about some of Mr and Mrs Ts financial 
circumstances as part of the mortgage application in 2003  and the further advance 
information in 2006. And it seems some information  was captured on an fact find form 
probably on both occasions to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs T had a need  for the 
policy. This asked some  questions about  their existing cover and recorded a 
recommendation for the PPI was made.  But I cannot be satisfied this did enough to ensure 
the PPI was suitable.
There is no copy of the fact find document available from 2003  and the one completed in 
2006 only covers some  basic tick box information  about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances, but 
with limited consideration of how any restrictions in the policy  may have affected  Mr T, for 
example related to type of employments or pre-existing medical conditions. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr T given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded Lloyds advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Lloyds did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr T, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
Mr T met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mr and Mrs T had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ts ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if 
Mr T not working for an extended  period of time  even  allowing for Mrs Ts income, 
as Mr T was the main  wage earner. Mr T would not have received any sick pay if he 
was unable to work  due to illness, his redundancy benefits are likely to be limited and 
Mr and Mrs T didnt  have  any savings they could fall back  on. The policy  would have 
helped Mr and Mrs T manage the consequences  if Mr T was unable  to work.
The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs T.
Ref: DRN39665226The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr T. There was 
nothing about  Mr Ts employment  or occupation  which would have made  it difficult for 
him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing  medical  conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for accident, sickness or unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr and 
Mrs Ts circumstances.
While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr T be disabled  or unemployed for 60 
days before he could make a claim and would only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 
months for each  claim, it still provided valuable cover given: Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances, the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating to their 
home and the potential  consequences should  Mr and Mrs T be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Lloyds  gave Mr T sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what Lloyds was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs T were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their mortgage 
payments if Mr T was unable  to work  through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of 
the approximate  costs. I have reached  this conclusion because  I think its unlikely Mr and 
Mrs T would have taken out the policy without any sense of what  the policy was for and of 
how much  the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Lloyds  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs T agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr T Im not persuaded Lloyds did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded Lloyds gave Mr T all of the information  he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ts representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs Ts. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN39665227The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ts representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs T about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ts representatives views on this. The duty of utmost  good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs T have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Lloyds ought to have  done  either.  
what effect did Lloydss shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs T? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs T suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Lloyds  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs T in 2003. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr and Mrs T suffered loss and damage as a result.  To answer this, I must  decide 
whether or not Mr and Mrs T would have  still taken out the policy, had Lloyds done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Lloyds took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr T, I have  found  that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs T have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Lloyds had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs T would have acted differently, or whether they would  have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs T say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs T had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Lloyds advised them that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN39665228As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ts circumstances at the time 
of the sales, both in 2003  and 2006,  that the policy  was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him.
Looking at the forms signed both in 2003  and 2006,  I think  the information Mr and Mrs T 
were given about the cost was clear. But the information about other aspects of the policy,  
such as the benefit and limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Im not persuaded Lloyds made clear exactly what Mr and Mrs T would get back  in return in 
the event they made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs Ts expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  their 
mortgage payment)  were significantly different to what the policy actually did. For the 
amendment sold in 2006 if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid 
more in the event of a claim than they would have expected as there was an additional cash  
payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs T thought had bought  
and what they actually bought were the following,  and this was the same in both 2003 and 
2006:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and symptoms that Mr T 
knew about or ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;
 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr T 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr T be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs T pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought, and they might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs T from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr T was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
Mr and Mrs T should the insured risks have  become  a reality.  I also havent seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr T wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mr T 
didnt have any pre-existing  medical conditions and was in permanent  employment, in both 
2003 and 2006. So, I still think they had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs T would 
Ref: DRN39665229have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr T had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any similar  gainful occupation  which in the insurers view he might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into Mr and Mrs Ts thinking about what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr T was unable  (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Lloyds may not have  told Mr and Mrs T that any claim Mr T made  would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on, being only Mrs Ts income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs T would still have thought a policy that 
paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would 
help them manage the consequences  should Mr T be unable to work in the circumstances 
covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made,  it could help reduce 
their outgoings at a difficult  and uncertain  time and ensure their home was not placed at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for Mr T, 
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  Mr and Mrs T thought  they were getting  and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr T was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs T would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ts representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs T would not have  bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ts 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs T found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Ref: DRN396652210Mr and Mrs T believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs T in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Lloyds should pay Mr and Mrs T compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs T think Lloyds misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how 
it described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Lloydss statements misrepresented the contract,  in my opinion  the reason why Lloyds failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs T, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in both 2003  and 2006 when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ts representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find Lloyds negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs T and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Lloyds had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs T in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2021.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3966522