K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about Mr R and Ms Hs new mortgage with HSBC UK Bank  Plc. Theyre  
unhappy that HSBC initially led them to believe they could  carry over a follow-on rate from 
their previous mortgage when they moved house.  By the time it told them  the rate wouldnt 
be carried over, their sale and purchase  were well advanced, and they felt forced into 
accepting the banks position.  HSBC  has offered  Mr R and Ms H £1,000  compensation, but 
they say it should honour the follow-on  rate.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide,  and if I dont mention something, it wont  be because  Ive ignored it. Itll 
be because I didnt  think it was material to the outcome  of the complaint.  
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
In 2017, Mr R and Ms H took a new fixed rate product on their HSBC mortgage. A part of the 
deal was the rate that would apply after the fixed rate came  to an end; thats  the follow-on 
rate. Theyd initially been told the follow-on  rate would  be 0.25%, but HSBC then told them  
this was wrong, and the follow-on rate would be higher. Mr R and Ms H complained and 
HSBC agreed to let them  have the follow-on rate of 0.25%.
In early 2019, Mr R and Ms H had been  in the process of negotiating a secured loan with 
HSBC for home improvements  when  an opportunity came their way to buy a new home 
instead. This meant porting  their existing deal over to the new mortgage  and borrowing more  
on a different product. Again the subject  of the follow-on rate on their existing deal came up. 
Mr R and Ms H wanted to know if it would be ported over to the new mortgage alongside the 
fixed rate itself.
At first, a local staff member told them it would, and Mr R and Ms H pressed on with the sale 
and purchase.  However, HSBC then told them that under their existing  mortgage  contract  
terms, the fixed rate was portable to a new mortgage but the follow-on rate was not. HSBC 
initially offered Mr R and Ms H £1,000 compensation for their time, trouble and out-of-pocket 
expenses. After Mr R and Ms H referred their complaint  to us, HSBC  told us it would 
consider amending its position if Mr R and Ms H could show that its misleading  information 
was what prompted  them to put their existing home up for sale.
Our investigator thought HSBC had made a fair offer to put things right. He pointed out that 
the error  had been put right in the mortgage  offer and Mr R and Ms R knew  the correct 
position before they were committed to go ahead  with the sale and purchase.  Mr R and 
Ms H have asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ill make  some general observations before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Ref: DRN31720442We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial,  
and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct  
our investigations  and reach our conclusions without interference  from anyone else. Ive 
considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint is simpler than its been  made  to look. Its not one where  I have to decide 
fault; HSBC has admitted  mistakenly allowing Mr R and Ms H to think they follow-on rate 
could be ported. All I need to decide  is what redress Mr R and Ms H are fairly due for that 
mistake.
Where incorrect  information has been given, we dont put the consumer  in the position theyd 
be in if the incorrect  information had been  correct. We put them  in the position  theyd  be in if 
the correct information had been  given to begin with. In Mr R and Ms Hs case, that means,  
very simply,  porting their fixed  rate but not their follow-on  rate. Mr R and Ms H have suffered 
a loss of expectation, but they havent  been denied something to which  they were ever 
entitled.
I dont need to decide whether Mr R and Ms H might have made a different  decision if HSBC 
hadnt initially misled  them  about the follow-on rate. Thats because they were in possession 
of the correct information before they were contractually obliged  to proceed with the sale and 
purchase. The decision they made thereafter  (to go ahead and move house) was ultimately  
their right to make, but it was also their choice; and Mr R and Ms H have to accept the 
consequences of the choice they made.
HSBC has told us the offer of £1,000 to settle the complaint is still available. As 
compensation for wrongly-raised expectations thats generous, and certainly more than 
I would have awarded if no offer had been made.  Ill leave it to Mr R and Ms H to decide if, 
on further reflection,  they wish to contact HSBC directly to accept  it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2020. 
Jeff Parrington 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3172044