K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs complaint is that Capital Professional Limited  (CPL) is responsible  for 
recommending an unsuitable investment of around  £67,000 in the Foresight European Solar 
Fund (the Solar fund) in 2009. He says the investment  was too risky and, in particular, 
political risks related  to it were not addressed  in the recommendation.
background
CPL disputes the complaint. Mr Bs original complaint featured  two other investments  
made in 2003  and 2006  which he said were also unsuitable investments recommended by 
CPL. However, an earlier decision  from this service determined that we do not have 
jurisdiction to address  the complaint with regards to these two other investments.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he said:
Due to the passage of time the fact find documentation  for the Solar fund investment 
cannot be located by CPL. However  it has shared  a copy of the recommendation 
letter that led to the investment. It has also shared a risk warning document for the 
investment that was signed and dated  by Mr B.
The recommendation letter confirms that Mr B had a speculative  risk profile for the 
Solar fund investment and the risk warning he signed supports that.
Evidence of his financial circumstances in or between 2006 and 2011 shows  that the 
investment in the Solar fund represented  around  3% of his wealth at the time, so it 
was an affordable investment for him.
Overall, available  evidence does not support the claim that the Solar fund was 
unsuitable for Mr B.
Mr B disagreed with this outcome.  In the main,  he said:
There are concerns about the credibility  of CPLs account  of events  for example its 
reference to completion of a risk questionnaire  on 1 October  2008 is untrue, no such  
questionnaire exists and he was out of the country on this date.
In addition to the absence  of a risk questionnaire is the absence of fact find 
documentation related to the investment. Without  such evidence, it cannot 
reasonably be concluded that the Solar fund was not unsuitable for him. 
Furthermore, if  as he asserts  neither document was ever completed or used the 
implication is that the recommendation  was devoid of relevant knowledge of him and 
his circumstances,  so the recommendation  was inherently unsuitable.
There is evidence to show that his previous risk profile, assessed by CPL in 2006, 
was balanced  so it must  have  increased his profile to speculative  for the Solar fund 
investment without reason and for the purpose of matching him to the unsuitable 
investment  instead of matching a suitable investment to his accurate profile.  He 
has never been a speculative  investor.
The investigator misinterpreted the matter of affordability in his financial 
circumstances at the time of the investment. The majority of his wealth was in his 
home and in his pension.  His overall  wealth was the wrong  reference point. His total 
investments was more  relevant and at the time the Solar fund accounted for around 
11% of that, with the rest in low risk assets (cash, ISAs,  a bank portfolio and bond).
The risk warning document  does not address the political risk issue  raised in his 
complaint.
Ref: DRN35235702Overall, the investigators  findings  and conclusion do not reflect the balance  of 
available evidence   and does not reflect  the implications of unavailable evidence.
The investigator addressed some  of Mr Bs points and did not alter his findings or 
conclusion. The matter  was then referred  to an ombudsman.  
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr B specified documents  he wanted the 
ombudsman to consider.  I have  done that and his main points are as summarised above.
Evidence
It does not appear  to be in dispute  that relevant fact find and risk questionnaire 
documentation has not been presented. I also note Mr Bs assertion that neither  ever 
existed. As the investigator noted,  it is sometimes the case that documentation will be 
missing for complaints we address. However, that does not automatically mean that a 
complaint cannot  be addressed on the basis of available evidence or that determination of a 
complaint without missing  documents will automatically be flawed.
In Mr Bs case, available  documentation includes information about some  of his previous 
investments, a recommendation letter for one of them in 2006,  the recommendation letter for 
the Solar fund investment,  the placement terms document  for that investment, the risk 
warning document  for that investment  and wider evidence (including submissions from both 
parties) about Mr Bs financial circumstances between 2006 and 2011. In light of this, I am 
persuaded that there is sufficient evidence  to use in addressing the complaint about  
unsuitability.
Credibility of the recommendation letter (for the Solar  fund)
I have not seen evidence that Mr B disputed this letter or any of its contents at the time it 
was issued to him  in late 2008,  ahead of the Solar fund investment in 2009. This creates a 
reasonable implication,  on balance, that he agreed with the letter and its contents at the time 
 which  also suggests  that its contents  are reliable. For this reason, I consider that its 
contents are reliable. 
Fact finding and risk profiling information  is usually  found repeated in a firms  investment 
recommendation letter to its client. The 2008 recommendation letter to Mr B is no different 
and I consider that this provides a workable substitute for the missing fact find and risk 
questionnaire documents  in his case. 
The absence of evidence  of him, at the time, disputing the speculative risk profile included in 
the letter suggests, on balance, that it was the profile he agreed. This appears to be 
supported by the argument he made in dispute. He says the 2006  recommendation letter  
said he had a balanced risk profile  and that in around seven years of his business 
relationship with CPL prior to recommendation of the Solar  fund he had never  been  
assessed as having a speculative risk profile. The implication that arises  from this argument 
is that the speculative profile  mentioned in the 2008  letter would have stood out to him, 
would have been noteworthy for him and would  have  been queried by him if he disagreed 
with it. He did not query or disagree, instead  he appears to have agreed  this particular profile 
for the purpose  of the Solar fund investment  even if his wider  risk profile was different. 
Ref: DRN35235703Further support  for the above finding could arguably be found in the two previous  
investments Mr B says were unsuitable  for reasons comparable to those asserted for the 
Solar fund. As I said above,  we do not have jurisdiction to consider suitability of those 
investments and I do not do so. However, it would  appear that Mr B had previously made 
investments that were  comparable to the Solar fund investment and, it could be argued,  that 
the Solar fund was recommended in the context of such previous investment experience.
The Risk Warning and Placement Terms  for the Solar  fund
The risk warning document  was signed  by Mr B. It features a list of additional risk warnings 
however its introduction paragraph refers to the main risk warnings (and pages) in the 
placement document for the fund. Mr Bs signature  confirmed that he had read and 
understood the placement document and the additional risk warnings.
10 pages in the placement document addressed risk warnings. These were the pages that 
Mr Bs attention was directed to  from the signed  risk warning document. There are a 
number of main headings  and sub-heading over the 10 pages. Numerous risk factors were  
addressed in what I consider to be an informative and accessible presentation. This included 
information about risks related to loss of investment, general economic conditions, adverse 
changes in national  or international economic conditions, environmental laws and planning, 
planning laws and other governmental  rules  and fiscal policies, energy prices, regulatory  
risks, operating and technical risks, construction and development, change in public attitude,  
lack of liquidity  risks, tax risks and changes in tax and regulatory regimes . 
Overall, I consider that risks relevant to the Solar fund investment, including  the politically  
related risks Mr B has mentioned, were  addressed in the fund information that he received, 
read and understood. For the sake of clarity,  I agree with the argument that he has made  
about CPL having  had the regulated obligation to recommend a suitable investment(s) to 
him, so I do not suggest that all CPL had to do was give him risk warnings. This decision, as 
a whole, presents  grounds on which I do not consider that the Solar  fund recommendation 
was unsuitable  for him. However, evidence that he would have been fully aware of the risks 
associated with the fund negates the assertion that he was unaware  in this respect.
Objective and Capacity  for Loss
In addition to an investors  risk profile (including investment experience)  two other important 
elements of suitable investment advice  are the investors objective  and capacity for loss (or 
affordability or wider  financial circumstances).  
I have already addressed, above, my findings on Mr Bs risk profile and I have noted  
evidence that suggests his previous experience in investments arguably comparable  to the 
Solar fund. Beyond  the risk warnings, the funds placement document  gave him detailed 
information about the funds purpose, objective and workings.  The 2008 recommendation 
letter gave a summarised version of the same  and presented the fund as matching or being  
suitable for Mr Bs objectives at the time.  The implication I draw  from this and from the lack 
of evidence of Mr B disputing these  contents  in the recommendation letter  is that the fund 
did not mismatch  his objective.  I also note from his complaint submission that he appears to 
concede that he  liked the idea of the tax breaks  associated with the investment.
With regards to Mr Bs capacity for loss/affordability/wider financial circumstances, his 
evidence is that the Solar fund consumed  around  11% of his total investments at the time. 
Ref: DRN35235704This, mindful  of the amount invested  (around  £67,000), was not insignificant.  However,  it is 
also his evidence that the remainder of his investments  were  in a low risk category.  He does 
not appear to dispute having an overall balanced risk profile  and I consider that the effect of 
investing 11% of his total portfolio on a speculative investor profile  and then having the 
remainder (of almost 90%) invested on a low risk profile would not have disrupted or 
deviated above  an overall balanced  outcome.  This also provides  a basis to conclude that the 
Solar fund was also arguably affordable for him in the context  of his overall portfolio.
Conclusion
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I do not consider that the Solar fund 
was an unsuitable  recommendation  for Mr B.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3523570