K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains that Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118118Money)  irresponsibly lent 
her money. 
background
In December 2014 Mrs R took out a £1,500 loan with Madison repayable over 24 months. 
She got into financial difficulty and couldnt  pay it back  as planned. She says granting the 
loan was irresponsible and she wants a refund of the interest and charges shes paid. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Madison carried out checks on Mrs Rs financial situation. She was asked, when 
applying for the loan,  about her income  and outgoings. She was left with a 
reasonable disposable income  and the loan repayments appeared affordable. 
It also carried out a credit check which showed shed one months  arrears  on a small 
number of loans  but theyd been got back on track. There  werent any judgements  or 
defaults.
Madisons  lending  wasnt irresponsible and the loan repayments looked affordable.
Mrs R doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before agreeing to the loan Madison carried out some checks. There arent set checks  it had 
to carry out. It particularly considered Mrs Rs financial position  and asked about  her 
incomings and outgoings. This indicated the loan repayments were affordable at that time 
from her disposable  income. It also checked  her credit file and this didnt show  any adverse 
information prompting further  checks.
The loan was agreed. Taking everything into account I dont think  that was an unreasonable 
decision or that it represented  irresponsible lending as Mrs R now suggests.
Its unfortunate if Mrs Rs financial situation subsequently worsened resulting in her having 
difficulties in making the agreed loan payments and I sympathise with the situation shes  
found herself in. 
Even so I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require Madison to refund any interest or 
charges Mrs Rs paid as shed like.
Overall I dont see a compelling  reason to change  the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN35736332Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3573633