K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the exchange rate HSBC UK Bank Plc trading as first direct  (first 
direct) used to convert a payment he made  into his account from Euros to GBP. 
background
Mr M brought his complaint to us as he was unhappy with the response hed received from 
first direct to his concerns.
In their Final  Response Letter (FRL) dated 28 October 2018 first direct told Mr M theyd 
converted the funds at the rate applicable - 1.16576580 - at the time and credited the money 
to his account. They understood he thought theyd applied a tourist exchange rate to the 
payment and Mr M believed they should have  applied a commercial rate to the incoming  
payment and should have  provided  him with a rate of 1.3. 
First direct said the live rates they quote are their exchange rates quoted specifically  for 
personal banking  and not interbank rates which are used for transactions  involving extremely 
high volumes of currency exchange.  They said those interbank rates are not a true reflection 
of the rate Mr M would achieve  for a lower  retail banking transaction.  First direct told Mr M it 
was advisable to view the interbank  rates for indication purposes  only.  They confirmed they 
do apply a margin to their rates which differs depending on the amount received and their 
currency booking system consisted  of various  tiers. So due to this each customer  may 
receive a different exchange rate depending on the value of the payment.
First direct told Mr M their margins were periodically  reviewed and subject to change  at any 
time. They told him they do not disclose the margin or tier levels  but can provide indication
exchange rates for different transaction amounts, should a customer  wish to compare our 
rates before remitting  any funds to or from them but they cannot always match  the best
exchange rate available on the market.
Our investigator thought, overall,  first direct had acted  fairly. He found they were  entitled to 
set their own rates and had done so in line with the account terms. He thought  the rate 
wasn't negotiable and that first direct  had no indication from Mr M that he wanted to do this 
anyway. The investigator thought that, for commercial  reasons, first direct  were entitled to 
include a margin within the rate they use, and to make a profit from this. So he couldnt 
reasonably ask first direct to refund any conversion  loss, or provide any compensation. The 
investigator also thought first direct may have made  an error over the phone when they led 
Mr M to believe they weren't responsible for their rates. But as this was corrected in their 
FRL, he thought  this would have limited any impact  on Mr M. So he felt he couldnt 
reasonably ask first direct to offer any compensation on this point either.
.
Mr M told the investigator in a call on 10 May 2019  that he didnt  agree with the outcome but 
didnt give the reasons  for this. He asked for an ombudsman to review  the case and he 
hasnt sent any further information for consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN30303842The adjudicator has given a full summary  of the background to this complaint in his letter 
giving his opinion.  So I shant repeat it here.  Im afraid, theres not a great deal I can add to 
what the adjudicators  already told Mr M. I think hes covered most points quite clearly and I 
agree with his conclusion  and overall analysis. Ill explain why.
The information first direct  have sent me satisfies me theyve acted in line with the terms and 
conditions on the account in respect of the exchange rate applied.  So I dont think  theyve 
done anything  wrong here.
I know Mr M had an expectation that this rate would  be negotiated and says he wasnt  given 
the opportunity  to do this. Im afraid, due to the terms on the account   to which he agreed  - I 
think his expectation  was ill founded. And notwithstanding this expectation - knowing the 
terms on the account and the amount of money  involved  - Mr M told us he didnt try and 
contact first direct before he made  the payment from the his overseas account  into this 
account. But even  if he had contacted the bank I dont think this would alter my view on the 
case overall as, under  the terms, the first direct exchange rate was correctly applied  and this 
wasnt negotiable.
Mr M says he was misinformed about  the relationship between first direct  and another  bank 
and as to which of them was responsible for setting the exchange rates  in a phone call. If 
that was the case  it was certainly unhelpful for Mr M and I can appreciate his frustration at 
the time.  But Im afraid, whether this was the case or not, it doesnt alter my overall findings 
on the complaint.  And thats because, like the investigator, I think  the impact of any such 
error wouldve been limited by the correct information in the FRL shortly afterwards. So I 
dont think it would be reasonable to award any compensation  for this alone.
Given how strongly Mr M feels  about what happened he may want to pursue the matter  
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with first direct  informally  can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints  Mr M.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this compliant.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3030384