K820x#14complaint
Mr P is complaining that Barclays  Bank  Plc hasnt refunded the amount he paid for three 
mobile phones.  Mr P brings this complaint  against  Barclays relying, in part, on the provisions 
of section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974.  
background
In November 2013 Mr P agreed to buy three mobile phones through  a phone shop (U). 
He paid around £2,600  for all three phones.  And he paid around £600 on his credit  card and 
around £2,000  in cash.
However, the phones  soon  became  out of stock so U said it could no longer supply them  
and it said it would issue a refund.  But Mr P says that he didnt receive that. Mr P contacted 
Barclays in 2014  and 2015  asking  it to recover the money for him. But it appears  it didnt do 
so.
In 2018 Mr P contacted Barclays again to ask it to recover the money from U. But Barclays 
initially said that it couldnt do so because too long had passed. Mr P complained about this 
and Barclays responded to say that it couldnt do a chargeback request  i.e. recover  the 
money from U. But it said that Mr P could  make a claim under S75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (S75). But it said that it thought Mr P had only bought  one phone  on his credit  card.  
And hed bought the other two phones with cash.  So it said that it was only required to 
refund the amount he paid for the phone with the credit card. So it agreed to refund that.
Mr P didnt agree with Barclays.  He said that he had a letter from U which  said that he paid a 
deposit on the credit card.  So he thinks S75 requires Barclays to refund  everything he paid 
U.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint. I thought it appeared that Mr P 
initially contacted  Barclays  to ask it to recover the money he paid for the phone on his credit  
card from Barclays  in 2014. But Barclays didnt do so. I said that under the chargeback 
scheme, in certain  circumstances,  Barclays can look to reclaim the money that a cardholder  
paid on their credit card. But I explained that the request  needs  to be made  within certain 
timeframes. I thought  it appeared that Mr P made  this request out of time. So I understood 
why Barclays didnt  recover  this money  for him at the time. However, I did think it should 
have considered its responsibilities under S75.
Mr P bought three  phones through U and he paid around £600 on his Barclays  credit  card.  
And I said S75 says that in certain circumstances Barclays is equally  responsible  for any 
breach of contract by U. 
I didnt think it was in dispute that U didnt supply the mobile  phones  that Mr P paid for. And I 
said Barclays had accepted that he didnt  receive  the money back. I thought  the issue  for me 
to decide was whether Barclays had to refund the cost of all the phones  Mr P paid for, or just 
the one it has offered  to refund.
I thought the key issue here is whether Mr P entered into one contract  with U to buy three  
phones, or three separate contracts. I thought he only entered into one contract.
U only provided one invoice for all three phones. Ive looked at the invoice for the three  
phones and while theyre each individually priced,  the invoice says that the total transaction 
Ref: DRN34948772amount was £2,596.93. And it says the total transaction deposit was £599.95 with the 
outstanding cash  payment  to be made  of around £2,000. 
I dont dispute  that the amount Mr P paid on his credit card was the same amount as the 
cost of one of the phones.  But I understood that Mr P went  to U with the intention  of buying 
two phones and brought  enough money  for that with him. But during the sales  process he 
agreed to buy a third phone. It appears  that he didnt have enough  cash with him to pay for 
all the phones, which is why he used his credit card to pay the additional £600.  But I didnt 
think this means that there was a separate  contract to buy the third phone.  So it seemed to 
me that there was only one contract. 
I said under  the terms of the contract U had agreed to provide Mr P with three separate 
phones. But U didnt provide any of the goods under the contract. So I thought it was in 
breach of the contract. 
I explained that S75 says Barclays is equally responsible to compensate Mr P for Us breach 
of contract  and I said this is irrespective  of how much he paid towards the contract  on his 
credit card. As U didnt provide any of the phones or refund the amount Mr P paid, I thought  
Barclays should refund the total amount he paid for the phones  £2,596.93. 
I said Mr P had been out of pocket as a result of the breach, so I thought Barclays  should 
pay 8% simple interest pa from the date Mr P paid in cash  towards  the contract from 
10 November 2013 until he gets it back. I said it should also reconstruct his credit card 
account as if he didnt make the payment he made  on his credit  card.  If, after doing so, Mr P 
is out of pocket at any time, I said it should pay 8% simple interest on this amount from when 
he was first out of pocket  until he gets it back.
Mr P partially accepted  my provisional decision.  But he said that Barclays  had caused him a 
significant amount  of distress and inconvenience from the way that it handled his S75 claim. 
It had said for years  that he wasnt entitled to claim  for all the phones. He said that Barclays  
was aware that he suffers  from ill health and mental  health issues. And he thinks it relied on 
this to its advantage.  He says that hes had to spend  a significant amount of time on the 
telephone dealing with this matter.  And he thinks Barclays should compensate him for this.
Barclays also didnt accept my provisional decision. It maintained that there was no cover 
under S75 for the cash transactions.  It said that the way the items are listed  on the till receipt 
are as individual 'single' unlinked items. It said the goods bought  on the credit  card was one 
phone. It said that one phone was paid for in full on the card,  so it thinks the contract  made 
with the merchant was to provide that phone for the total cost paid on the card.
It said that there were  separate  contracts  to pay for the phones  in cash, so it doesnt think 
S75 applies to those phones. It also says that theyre not consequential losses  either. It 
accepts that its one invoice, but it says this doesnt mean its one contract  agreement  for all 
three items.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive come to the same  conclusion as I did in my provisional decision and Ill now explain why. 
Ref: DRN34948773Ive taken Barclayss comments  into account that it maintains that its not one contract. But I 
dont think its given  anything that changes my original  contract.  Mr P went  into U with the 
intention to buy two phones and had enough  cash with him to do so. He subsequently 
decided to buy a third phone  i.e. he agreed with U that it would provide him three phones 
and paid money towards this.
In assessing whether  its one contract  for three phones  or three  separate contracts per 
phone, I have to take into account  the specific wording of the invoice  which forms the basis 
of the contract(s)  between Mr P and U. I also havent  seen  anything  to show  that there was 
an intention to create three separate contracts. It seems to me that, given theres one 
invoice, the intention of both parties was to create  one contract to supply three phones. 
The invoice gives a total price payable under the invoice  of £2,596.93. And it says the total 
transaction deposit was £599.95 with the outstanding cash payment to be made  of around 
£2,000. I still think  the invoice  suggests that it was one contract to supply three phones and I 
havent seen anything to say otherwise.
I note Mr Ps comments that he thinks Barclays should pay him compensation. But I still 
think the full refund of the total cost of all the goods  plus 8% simple  interest  is fair redress in 
this case given whats happened.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. And I 
require Barclays Bank Plc to:
1.pay Mr P £2,596.93 as the total cost he paid towards the three  phones;
2.pay 8% simple interest pa from the date Mr P paid in cash  towards  the contract from 
10 November 2013 until he gets it back*;
3.reconstruct his credit card account as if he didnt make the payment he made  on his 
credit card.  If, after doing so, Mr P is out of pocket at any time, it should pay 8% simple 
interest on this amount  from when he was first out of pocket until he gets it back.*
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to deduct basic  rate tax from this simple 
interest. But it should give Mr P a certificate showing how much  its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2019.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3494877