K822xcomplaint
Mr L complained that AvantCredit of UK, LLC, acted irresponsibly when  it lent him money in 
September 2018.
background 
In September  2018, AvantCredit  lent Mr L £4,750. Mr L agreed  to repay this amount, with 
interest, over 24 months. The monthly  repayments  were £293.82, and if the loan ran for its 
full term Mr L would repay £7,051.83.
Mr L thinks it was irresponsible  for AvantCredit to lend him the money.
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 23 March  2020. Based on what Id seen 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. In summary I said that:
As AvantCredit was entering a regulated credit agreement, it needed to assess  Mr 
Ls creditworthiness,  including the potential for the commitments under the 
agreement to adversely impact  his financial situation, and the ability for Mr L to make 
repayments as they fell due over the term of the loan.
Based  on what Id seen, I didnt  think the creditworthiness checks were  sufficient. In 
particular, the information AvantCredit got from a credit reference agency suggested 
Mr Ls income was a lot less than the amount shown on the application. So I thought 
further checks were needed.
I looked at Mr Ls statements, as I thought this was the best evidence I had of what  
further checks would have disclosed.
These showed that Mr Ls salary in the month  before he took out this loan was 
around £2,300   less than the amount  suggested by the credit  reference  agency. I 
also saw that although  the application included monthly expenses of around £1,250, 
the statements  showed outgoings of around  £2,800. Alongside this, it appears that 
Mr L was spending large sums on a credit card. The credit  file also showed that Mr 
Ls existing debts  had increased  by around £8,500 in the 12 months prior to this loan.
Given what Mr L was spending, I thought  it was questionable whether  hed be able to 
meet his new credit commitment of £293.82 over 24 months without borrowing again 
to fund his new commitments.
For these reasons I thought Mr Ls complaint should be upheld.
I said Id consider any further comments I received.  Mr L has agreed  with my provisional 
decision, but has asked if AvantCredit  plans to remove any negative information  from his 
credit file. AvantCredit has also agreed with my provisional decision. It has offered to refund 
all interest and charges  on Mr Ls loan plus statutory interest.  It says it will also remove any 
negative information  relating to the loan from his credit file.
As Ive received  a response from both parties, Ive therefore looked  at the complaint again.
Ref: DRN36872262my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Mr L and AvantCredit have agreed  with my provisional decision, I reach the same  
conclusions for the same  reasons.
putting things right
AvantCredit shouldnt  have lent Mr L this money. AvantCredit has agreed and offered to:
Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr L towards interest,  fees and 
charges on this loan;
Add simple interest (the rate is 8% simple per year) to each  payment  from the date 
Mr L originally paid it until he gets it back.*
AvantCredit has confirmed it will remove any negative information relating to the loan from 
Mr Ls credit  file. 
I think this is a fair resolution  to Mr Ls complaint.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  AvantCredit  to deduct tax from this interest. It should  give Mr L a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has deducted if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I uphold Mr Ls complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC,  should put things 
right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr L to accept or reject 
my decision  before 4 July 2020.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3687226