K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  (HPA) with 
Black Horse  Limited was mis-sold. He says this meant he lost money  when he came to sell 
the car.
background
Mr K entered into a HPA with Black  Horse in February 2016 to acquire a used car. He says 
the car was advertised as having one previous owner. In 2018, Mr K decided  to sell the car 
and advertised it as having two previous owners. However he says that the purchaser 
pointed out that the first owner was a car rental  / lease  company and so the car could have 
had a number  of different owners.  He says he had to accept a reduced sales  price because  
of this. Mr K says that had he known the previous owner was a rental company he wouldnt  
have acquired  the car.
Mr K also complains that when he called  Black Horse about the issue  it didnt provide the 
service it should have, suggesting  that he should have questioned the advertisement.
Black Horse  says that Mr Ks account was settled in November 2017.  It says Mr K contacted  
it in September  2018, raising his complaint.  It says the dealer confirmed that no misleading 
information was provided at the point of supply and that Mr K was provided with a document  
showing who the previous owner was. It says he didnt raise  any concerns at that time about  
the car being  previously owned  by a business.  It says there  is no evidence that when he 
went to acquire a car he asked for one that hadnt been previous used for business  
purposes. 
Our adjudicator explained that Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA)  says a 
finance company  is responsible for a credit brokers actions prior to the agreement  
commencing  the antecedent negotiations and that the dealer in this case had acted as the 
credit broker. He investigated the complaint  but wasnt satisfied that a misrepresentation had 
occurred. Because  of this he didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr K didnt accept out investigators view. He reiterated that the car had been mis-sold  as 
the advertisement didnt disclose the facts about  the history of the car. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K acquired a used  car from a dealer and financed the acquisition through  a HPA with 
Black Horse.  As our adjudicator has explained, the CCA sets out that the finance company 
can in certain circumstances be held liable for information provided by the dealer at the point 
of supply if this induced Mr K into entering  into the HPA.
In this case Mr K says the car was advertised as having one previous  owner.  Based on what 
I have seen I have  nothing to suggest  the car had more than one previous owner.  The issue 
is that the previous owner was a car rental  business. Mr K says this wasnt disclosed and 
had he known this he wouldnt have acquired  the car. Mr K has provided information from 
the advertising standard agency  about its views on disclosing when cars were previously 
used for business  purposes.
Ref: DRN31627612I havent seen  a copy of the advertisement Mr K based his decision to acquire the car on and 
given the time that has passed  I understand this isnt available. However, based on Mr Ks 
testimony I accept this didnt disclose  the previous owner was a business. That said, as it 
disclosed a previous owner and this was accurate, I cannot say the previous ownership  was 
misrepresented to Mr K.
Mr K says that he wasnt aware  of who the previous owner was until he came  to sell the car. 
However the registration document stated who the car was previously owned by. This was 
provided at the point  of supply and so Mr K should have been reasonably aware  of this 
information at that time and had it concerned him I think  it would have been  reasonable for 
him to raise it at the time. I have nothing to suggest that Mr K had told the dealer he didnt 
want a car that had been previously used  for business purposes.  
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr K, but based on what I have seen, I do 
not find that I have  enough evidence to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3162761