K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the repairs Advantage Insurance  Company Limited made to her car 
under her motor insurance policy. Mrs M is represented in this matter  by her husband,  a 
named driver on her policy. He wants reimbursement for their financial losses  and 
compensation for their trouble and upset.
background
Mrs M was involved in an incident and Advantage took her car to one of its approved  
repairers. But Mr M said the repairs were incomplete and poorly done. He was also unhappy 
with the customer  service he received. An independent assessor  also noted poor repairs. 
Advantage then agreed for Mr M to take the car to a dealership garage for further repairs. It 
accepted some of his concerns and offered him £100 compensation. But Mr M remained 
unhappy.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He didnt have 
evidence to show that the approved repairers staff hadnt been polite. He thought 
Advantage had provided Mr M with a larger hire car, paid for repairs where it could have 
asked him for a contribution, transported  his car to Mr Ms garage, paid for further  repairs 
and paid him £100 compensation. Advantage had also offered to consider a further estimate 
for any accident or repair related work  if Mr M provided this. He thought this was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr M replied that there had been further  issues with the repairs since  Advantage had 
responded to his complaint. He provided  emails hed sent about  these. Advantage  declined  
to pay for a further  inspection or recovery as it said this was between Mr M and his chosen 
repairers. It reiterated its offer to consider a report on any accident or repair related work it 
was responsible for and suggested that Mr M could have this done locally.  Mr M was also 
unhappy as he said Advantage had told him it would only provide a courtesy  car if he used 
its approved repairers.
Our adjudicator made a further response also not recommending that the complaint should  
be upheld. He thought Advantage had given  correct information about  the courtesy car. And 
he thought Advantage had reasonably requested an estimate  for repairs  to see if they were 
accident or repair related. But Mr M hadnt  provided  this. 
Mr M replied that he didnt agree and requested an ombudsmans review, so the complaint 
has come  to me for a final decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M wanted their car repaired  to its pre-accident condition.  I can see 
that hes now disposed  of the car. The adjudicator suggested that if hes unhappy  with the 
price he received because of the cars condition, then he could raise  this as a separate 
complaint with Advantage.
Ref: DRN37720442Mr M said hed been put off using his own repairers  in favour of using Advantages approved 
repairer. In the call Mr M had with Advantage about the repairs,  I think it was explained that if 
he used his own garage then a courtesy  car couldnt be guaranteed.  I dont think this is 
unusual and I can see that its explained on page  5 of the policy booklet. I think Mr M was 
sufficiently informed to then decide  to use the approved repairer.  So I cant say Advantage 
unfairly influenced his decision. 
Advantage agreed that there had been problems  with its approved repairers.  It paid for an 
independent assessment to confirm what further  work was needed. And it agreed to pay for 
further repairs at Mr Ms chosen  garage. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what Id 
require in such circumstances.
Mr M said his car felt unsafe to drive following the further repairs.  We dont assess whether 
or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is a matter  for the experts  in these 
situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to 
determine whether  an insurance company has considered all the available  evidence and 
whether it can justify its decision to not pay for additional repairs.
I think Advantage has correctly pointed out that Mr Ms chosen garage is responsible for the 
repairs it has made. I can see that Advantage paid for geometry checks at the garage. So I 
think Advantage correctly  told Mr M to raise these concerns  with it. I dont think  Advantage 
should be responsible for a further  independent  assessment  or for transporting the car to the 
garage as it was Mr Ms choice to take the car there and Advantage doesnt have a contract 
with it. 
I think Advantage also reasonably offered to consider an estimate  for any further repairs  that 
were accident related  or related to the repairs made  by the approved repairer. But I cant  see 
that Mr M provided this. So I think Advantage didnt  have  evidence to consider that would 
show that further repairs were needed  due to the accident or its repairs. So I think its 
justified its decision not to take responsibility for further repairs.
I can see that this claim has caused Mr M inconvenience and some  costs. But I think  any 
claim would involve some inconvenience.  Advantage offered of £100 compensation for this, 
for its delays  and its level of service  and it bore significant other costs as a gesture of 
goodwill to resolve  Mr Ms complaint and deal with his claim. Advantage also suggested that 
Mr M should discuss his other  costs  with the claims  team to see what was covered by his 
policy. I think this redress was fair and reasonable. This is because thats what Id require  in 
similar circumstances. I dont require Advantage to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.  
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3772044