K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Amigo Loans Ltd ought not to have lent to him as he could not afford  to 
borrow from it.
background
Mr B applied for a loan from Amigo Loans  in early  2012. At the time he made the application 
he suggests now that he was struggling with his existing financial commitments and was in 
no position to take on yet more debt. Further he indicates that the only way he was able to 
repay it, which he did fully, was by taking out further  borrowing, although at the time it seems 
Mr B did not bring this to Amigo Loans  attention.
Amigo Loans stance  is that its records show that the information that Mr B gives now about 
his financial situation  is not the information  he provided to it when  he made his application to 
borrow. It told us about the checks it carried out: these included a phone call with Mr B 
where it went through his income and expenditure in detail and a credit check. Amigo  Loans 
said Mr B told it that he wanted  the loan to consolidate his debts. It said its records  show  that 
Mr B made all of his payments in line with his contractual  obligations.  It told us Mr B didnt 
tell it he was struggling to repay it at the time.  
Our adjudicator did not recommend that Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. She looked at 
what checks Amigo had done  before  it lent to him. As far as she could see the information 
Mr B had provided was incomplete. She suggested that if Mr B had provided  the full 
information it might not have lent to him. That said, in the circumstances, she could not see 
how Amigo Loans might  have been reasonably expected to know  about this information at 
the time.  She thought  that, in the circumstances, Amigo Loans  was entitled to rely on the 
information Mr B provided.  She concluded that the checks  that Amigo Loans had done went  
far enough. 
Further, she concluded it appeared that Mr Bs circumstances may have changed after he 
took out the loan. She thought he ought to reasonably to have  told Amigo  Loans  at the time 
if that was the case. She couldnt see that he had done so or that it had reason to know that 
his circumstances  had changed and he might  be struggling to repay  it.
It appears that Amigo Loans  did not respond to this recommendation. Mr B did. In summary 
he indicated he had not given Amigo Loans the full picture about his finances as he wanted  
the loan. His financial problems got worse  later in 2012 and he suggested the loan it gave 
him contributed to this. He pointed out that just because  he paid off the loan in full does not 
mean it was affordable. Rather, he only managed to do this because  he was constantly 
using his overdraft.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive finished my review  of Mr Bs 
complaint and I think I have no proper basis to uphold it. I realise this is not the outcome he 
was hoping for. Please let me explain below why I have reached this conclusion.
When lending money to a consumer,  a lender is required  to ensure the consumer can repay 
the borrowing  in a sustainable  manner  without it adversely impacting on their financial 
Ref: DRN37157382situation. A lender should obtain sufficient information to make an informed decision about  
the lending. Exactly  what a lender should consider is for each lender to decide and the 
guidance and rules list a number of things each lender may wish to consider. Any checks 
should be proportionate, based on the size of the borrowing. On this basis Ive looked at 
whether the checks  that Amigo Loans did went far enough. If I found that Amigo  Loans  did 
not act appropriately I would then look at what was fair compensation.
Mr B and Amigo Loans seem to agree that it did check what  borrowings Mr B had already. 
And it seems it also checked with a third party to establish that what  he told it about  his 
borrowing was in line with what his other  lenders were reporting which it seems it was.
Further they both seem to accept  that it also asked him about his income  and his 
expenditure. It seems  that both parties  agree that at the time,  he did not give him an 
accurate picture  of his financial situation. He explains that he was worried that if he did give 
it the whole  picture,  it wouldnt  lend to him. But, whilst I acknowledge what  Mr B says about 
why he acted as he did, it was entitled to rely on what  he said. It does not seem what he was 
saying should  have reasonably made  it dig deeper. For all of these reasons I find that Amigo  
Loans did carry out proportionate  checks.   
Mr B suggests he was not helped by Amigo Loans  after he took out the loan and began  to 
experience money  troubles. In its final response  letter Amigo  Loans says you subsequently 
maintained your repayments without issue, and there was nothing in the way the loan was 
managed to suggest you were in financial difficulty In response to our adjudicators 
recommendation Mr B suggested that later on, after he got the loan, he started to struggle 
financially. This is not the same as saying the decision to lend to him was wrong in the first 
instance. But I have  looked at this point also because it was part of his original complaint.
Lenders are obliged to take action if they ought reasonably to be aware that a customer  is 
struggling to repay them due to financial difficulties. But I cant see that he ever told Amigo 
Loans anything  about experiencing financial difficulties at the time. Neither can I see that 
there was anything that it ought to have  known about such  as his payment history  that 
should reasonably have  made it aware that he might be experiencing financial difficulties.
For all of these reasons, I dont find that Amigo Loans acted inappropriately in lending to Mr 
B. Neither do I find that it failed to take appropriate  action when Mr B suggests he was 
experiencing financial difficulties.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3715738