K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLPs decision to treat their 
conditional sale agreement with it as terminated  and demand a final payment.
background
I set out the background  to Mr and Mrs Bs complaint in my first decision which  was a 
provisional decision. But to help the reader I will set out the background again in this decision.
In March 2013 Mr and Mrs B entered into an agreement with ASG under which it supplied 
both a boiler and a magnetic filter together with maintenance services  for the boiler  and filter 
including breakdown recovery services.
In November 2018 ASG wrote  to Mr and Mrs B reminding them  of their obligation to keep the 
heating system in their house up to par. ASG suggested that to fulfil this obligation Mr and 
Mrs B needed to carry out a power flush.  ASG made it clear that it would not carry out the 
power flush, rather, Mr and Mrs B needed  to find a suitable engineer  of their own to do it.
In response to this letter Mr and Mrs B called in a properly qualified third-party engineer  to carry 
out the power flush. In addition, this engineer, according to them, told them that the magnetic 
filter was not working correctly and suggested they upgrade  and change  it. Mr and Mrs B did 
this. A few months later the boiler  started to display an error code and not work properly. Neither  
party is suggesting this is due to the power  flush or the new filter.  ASGs engineer visited  to 
check out the boiler and noted the new filter.  However, the problems persisted with the boiler 
Mr and Mrs B called out ASG again,  but the problems remain with the boiler.
ASGs stance is that the filter is part of the equipment that it owns.  It said by replacing the filter 
Mr and Mrs B had breached their agreement with it. On this basis  it terminated the agreement  
and asked them to make a final substantial payment to it to pay for the boiler  and filter in full. It 
also refused to continue  to provide  the maintenance and servicing services, although Mr and 
Mrs B say they have  continued to pay for this service. It also charged Mr and Mrs B for the 
visit by the engineer which  it said was a non-warranty visit which  meant Mr and Mrs B were  
obliged to pay it £120. Mr and Mrs B did pay it the £120 but under protest.
Dissatisfied, Mr and Mrs B came to our service.
I took a look at Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and I issued my provisional decision. In summary, 
I concluded that ASG  had no proper  basis for demanding that Mr and Mrs B exercise their 
option to purchase  the boiler  and terminating  Mr and Mrs Bs agreement and needed to take 
steps to put things right. I came to this conclusion  for the following reasons.
The agreement Id been sent had no provision in it to allow ASG to terminate  the agreement  
and require Mr and Mrs B to exercise their voluntary option to purchase the boiler. I invited 
ASG to show me the part of the agreement  on which  it was relying,  if it chose to respond to 
my provisional decision.
It appeared to me that Mr and Mrs B had upgraded the filter, and this was not prevented  by the 
agreement and neither did the agreement give ASG the right to end the contract for this reason. 
Ref: DRN34451332Mr and Mrs B had suggested that their legal rights as consumers had been  breached  
because the law says the boiler and filter supplied by ASG had to be on satisfactory  quality. 
I explained what this meant in this context. However, according to Mr and Mrs B the boiler 
and filter did not reach this standard. I made no finding about  this, because I did not have  
sufficient information  about the quality of these items.  I said however, either party  could send 
me information about this point, should they wish to in response to my provisional  decision.  
I said I would then think about this further new information before I issued my next decision.
I noted it was clear that neither party wanted  to continue with the contract, and it seemed 
that the relationship between the parties had entirely  broken down with each side holding  
robustly to its stance. 
For all of these reasons I found  that it was fair and reasonable that ASG should end the 
agreement with nothing  further owed by Mr and Mrs B and it should  remove  its equipment, 
(the boiler and the filter), at no cost to Mr and Mrs B.
Further, I found that ASG  had acted  unfairly  and unreasonably in seemingly continuing  to 
accept payments from Mr and Mrs B for the boiler, the filter and the maintenance services  
even though it had declined to continue to provide the maintenance services. I thought this 
was another reason why it was fair and reasonable to allow Mr and Mrs B to walk away from 
the agreement  with nothing further  owed by them. I also thought the repayments  theyd  
made since February 2019 which is when ASG stopped supplying maintenance services, 
ought to be returned to them.
In addition, ASG  had charged Mr and Mrs B £120 for what it called a non-warranty call out. 
However, again, there was seemingly no provision in the agreement  between the parties for 
ASG to make this charge. On that basis, I thought it was fair and reasonable that ASG ought 
to refund the £120 with interest.
There had been  a series of communications between  the parties to try to sort out these 
issues. It seemed that it had been  a nuisance  for Mr and Mrs B to go back  and forth with 
ASG like this. It appeared to me that this to and fro was mostly unnecessary and stemmed 
from ASG acting unfairly. For this reason, I asked  ASG  to pay Mr and Mrs B £150 for 
distress and inconvenience.
I invited Mr and Mrs B and ASG to respond to my provisional decision should  they wish to do so.
Mr and Mrs B responded to say they accepted my provisional decision.  ASG also responded 
to say that the money that Mr and Mrs B had paid it since it stopped providing maintenance 
services was solely to pay for the boiler and the filter and nothing  else. 
my findings
I thank Mr and Mrs B and ASG for their responses to my provisional  decision. Ive re-
considered all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reviewed  the complete file again and revisited my 
provisional decision.
 
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider  is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ref: DRN34451333Mr and Mrs B have  supplied no new information which  is not surprising as they accepted 
my provisional decision. Whereas ASG has raised  one point only in response  to my 
provisional decision. 
ASG has told us that the payments that Mr and Mrs B have been making since February  
2019, are to pay for the boiler only. It suggests this means that Mr and Mrs B have not been 
paying for maintenance services since February 2019. That may be so, although I note the 
payments they made before February  2019  and after are the exact same amount. The point 
is that ASG has not been able to demonstrate that the terms of the contract permitted it to 
end the agreement and demand that Mr and Mrs B exercise their option to purchase, as it 
has done. For example,  in part, ASG  seeks to rely on the provision that deals with what 
happens if the consumer ends the agreement, but that is not what happened  here.  Mr and 
Mrs B did not ask to end the agreement. Also, I am satisfied it was not entitled to unilaterally  
decide that it would allocate all payments solely towards paying for the boiler and filter.  I 
think it is appropriate to look to the terms of the agreement when thinking about whether 
ASG has acted appropriately because the parties  freely agreed to be bound by these  terms.
So, whether  the payments were allocated  to the boiler or whether the payments were for the 
services it has refused to supply is not really the issue. Rather, the difficulty for ASG is that it 
has not kept to its part of the agreement, it relied  on rights it does not appear to have, but 
has still taken payments from Mr and Mrs B. For the reasons I have  gone  through, find that 
these payments must be refunded  to Mr and Mrs B.
I have not been persuaded by the information ASG sent us after it received my provisional 
decision. It follows that I have reached  the same  conclusions for the same reasons as I did in 
my provisional decision and for the additional  reasons that I have set out in this final decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that A Shade Greener (Boilers)  LLP must:
End the conditional  sale agreement with nothing further owed by Mr and Mrs B. It must also 
remove its boiler and filter as soon as reasonably practicable at no cost to Mr and Mrs B.
It must ask the credit reference  agencies to mark the conditional sale agreement as 
settled with nothing  owed on Mr and Mrs Bs credit files.
Refund all repayments made  by Mr and Mrs B since February 2019. It must pay interest  
on that refund at the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to run from the date of the 
repayments to the date of the settlement.
Refund the £120. It must pay interest on the £120  at the rate of 8% simple per year.  The 
interest to run from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr and Mrs B £150 for distress and inconvenience.
ASG must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mr and Mrs B 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the £150 from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of settlement at the rate of 8% simple per year.
Ref: DRN34451334If ASG considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give them a 
certificate showing this if they ask for one, so that they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Mr and Mrs B should refer back to ASG  if they are unsure of the approach it has taken  and 
both parties should  contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know  more about the tax 
treatment of this portion  of the compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2021.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3445133