K820x#14Complaint 
Mrs S complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC unfairly applied  a default on her credit  
file.
Background 
In 2014, Mrs S went into arrears on a credit card account she held with Tesco. Around the 
same time that the account went  into arrears  Mrs S said she contacted Tesco to make them 
aware she was changing  address. Tesco advise they have no record  of this and continued to 
send written correspondence to the original address she provided when she took out the 
card. This correspondence included a default notice letter sent to Mrs S in June 2014. After 
receiving no further contact or payment, Tesco  recorded a default  on Mrs Ss credit file. 
Tesco advise they only have a record of Mrs S contacting them to update her address in 
August 2014,  which was after the default had been registered. Following the default Mrs S 
set up a payment  plan and has since settled the account. 
More recently Mrs S raised  a complaint with Tesco and asked for the default to be removed. 
She said if she had been  aware of the default notice, she would have had the opportunity  to 
pay off the arrears and prevent the default being registered. She also said it has affected her 
ability to get lending. 
Mrs S also complained that Tesco sent correspondence to an incorrect address as part of 
the complaint.  Tesco  acknowledged that the final response on the complaint had been sent 
to the wrong address due an error and offered £100  compensation for this. 
Our investigator looked into Mrs Ss complaint. She thought  Tesco had acted fairly when 
dealing with the arears  including registering a default. She found Tesco were not aware of 
Mrs Ss change  of address until after the default  had been issued. She also found that Mrs S 
had missed several payments before the default was issued, so she didnt think Tesco  were  
wrong to apply it.   
Mrs S agreed that she hadnt kept up with payments. She explained that this was due to a 
family member managing  her account  whilst  she was travelling. But she believed that Tesco 
had a legal  obligation to ensure a customer received a default notice which  she didnt think 
had happened. 
 
As Mrs S disagreed, the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Applying the default 
The crux of this complaint is whether Tesco has acted  in fairly in recording Mrs Ss credit  
card account  in default. 
As part of the terms and conditions on the account  Mrs S is under  an obligation to make  
payments on time. The terms  also explain that your credit record  can be affected if payments 
Ref: DRN36728022arent made. From reviewing the account history, it is apparent  that Mrs S didnt make her 
payments in line with what was required  - so Ive looked at how Tesco dealt  with this. 
Before an account  is defaulted, we would  expect a lender to write  to their customer and 
explain the amount  owed  and when payment is due. We would also expect them  to clearly 
explain the options and what will happen if the debt is not paid. Tesco did this using the 
address they held for Mrs S. They sent a default  notice letter to Mrs S in June  2014.  They  
also contacted  her several times  chasing  payment but didnt receive a response.  
Even if Mrs S hadnt received the default notice  letter, she should have been aware of the 
position on her account. Details on the account  shows that Mrs S had missed  several  
payments before the default was issued. Payments were missed in February, March, May,  
June and July 2014. Mrs S made  one payment of £50 in April 2014, but this wasnt enough  
to cover the arrears on the account.  
Ive also considered Mrs Ss comments about how she managed her account at the time in 
question. I appreciate that she has told us she was travelling  abroad at the time and had a 
family member looking after the account. But it was ultimately Mrs Ss obligation  to run and 
manage her account so she should have been aware that there  were  arrears on the account. 
Ive thought about whether Tesco should have waited longer before issuing a default  notice. 
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  has guidance as to when a default should be 
applied to an account. The ICO states a default  should be registered after three to six 
months of missed payments. Mrs S had missed several payments and had stopped 
communicating with Tesco,  so I think it acted in line with that guidance and correctly 
concluded the relationship. 
Considering everything, I think Tesco acted fairly and reasonable with the actions it took 
when dealing with the arrears on Mrs Ss account   including registering a default. 
Change of address  
Mrs S says she contacted  Tesco on several occasions and asked for her address to be 
changed. She couldnt remember  exactly when  she contacted them  but was sure she had 
done it. Tesco have  said they have no record of Mrs S calling or writing to them  to update  
the address until 27 August 2014. This was several  weeks after the default  had been  issued, 
and the only address they had for her at the time was the one she had opened the account 
with in August  2013. 
Tesco have  provided us with us with contact notes. These are the notes they made each 
time they had a call with Mrs S. These show that there have been several occasions where 
they have spoken to Mrs S and have left notes confirming the conversations. There  have 
also been several occasions where  theyve called and left voicemails  when they havent 
been able to get through to Mrs S. There arent any notes about  Mrs S changing  her address 
until a call on 27 August  2014. As Tesco have documented the discussions in other 
telephone calls in 2013 and 2014, its reasonable to assume that they would have  also taken 
a record of Mrs Ss change in circumstances.  It would  have also been in Tescos best 
interests to ensure  they had the correct contact  information as at the time the account  was in 
arrears. 
So, on the balance  of probability, I dont  believe Tesco were  made  aware that the address
Ref: DRN36728023they held for Mrs S was incorrect. It follows that I dont  think  Tesco did anything  wrong  by 
sending the default notice  to Mrs S at the address they had on file. I note Mrs S doesnt think 
Tesco has fulfilled its legal obligation  to issue a default to her because she says it wasnt 
sent to her correct address. But as Ive explained, Im satisfied Tescos sent the default  
notice to the address it understood to be correct, so I dont find that it would be fair to hold it 
liable for Mrs S not receiving the default  notice. The fact of the situation  is the account  was 
already several  months in arrears,  so a default was a likely eventuality. I appreciate  Mrs S 
see things differently, but I dont think the balance  of evidence  supports her view. 
Tesco did send a copy of the final response  letter in relation to this complaint  to Mrs Ss old 
address. They have advised that this was due to a complaint handler manually typing in the 
incorrect address and that this was different to the default notice letter which  had been  
system generated.  I appreciate that this would  have been distressing for Mrs S, but I can see 
that Tesco have  compensated her with £100 for this error. 
Considering this and all of the circumstances of the complaint, I conclude  that Tesco didnt 
make an error in applying  the default when  it did. It follows  that, I dont require Tesco to 
remove it from Mrs Ss credit file. Nor, make an award to reflect any financial loss or
distress caused to her.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Daniel Little
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3672802