K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy with Revolut Ltds decision to hold him responsible  for transactions he says 
he didnt make or authorise.
background
Mr D raised two fraud claims with Revolut: one on 3 June 2018  (concerning transaction from 
13 April to 18 May 2018) and another on 17 June 2018 (concerning  transactions from 
7 to 16 June 2018). All of the transactions were made without the presence of a physical  
card; they all appear to be online payments.
Mr D let Revolut know hed lost his phone on both occasions, though it had later turned up in 
his apartment  a week later. The dates of when the phone was actually lost are unclear.
Mr D was particularly adamant that he wanted chargebacks  to be raised for each disputed  
transaction when  he contacted Revolut.
Revolut initially looked to raise chargebacks for both claims. Some transactions were  
refunded by the merchants involved at the time.  But after some further discussion with Mr D, 
Revolut stopped the process and held Mr D responsible for the spending. That was after 
Mr D had informed it that hed taken a photo  of his virtual card and stored it outside the app. 
Revolut later closed  Mr Ds account.
Mr D brought his complaint to our service as he was unhappy with Revoluts actions. One of 
our investigators looked into the case and didnt uphold it. He found the following:
Mr D appeared to have  been  discussing the account with Revolut before the disputed 
transactions started.  The conversations included detail around the chargeback  process 
and unblocking  the account (which was following unsuccessful attempts at one of the 
first disputed  transactions). Questions were also asked  about  refunds and how long 
theyd take to process.
The virtual  cards used were created within the app and hadnt been used for genuine  
spending before the disputed transactions started. So it wasnt  clear  how someone  
could have  obtained the details for fraudulent use.
There wasnt an explanation for how someone else might have accessed Mr Ds app or 
obtained the card details. His phone had apparently been lost but turned up in his 
apartment. And Mr D didnt have a record of any of his login details anywhere.
It was more  likely  than not Mr D had either made  the transactions himself or allowed 
someone else to do so.
Revolut had acted fairly  and in line with the terms and conditions when it closed 
Mr Ds account.
Mr D didnt accept the outcome  and asked that the case be reviewed.  He didnt supply any 
additional comments following the opinion.
Ref: DRN36899152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not upholding and Ill explain why.
I can see from his contact  with Revolut that Mr D was particularly unhappy it hadnt followed 
through with chargebacks for each disputed transactions.  Whilst that might be a means of 
recovering funds in dispute, a chargeback isnt a consumer right; its something provided for 
by the relevant card scheme rules and business  arent obliged  to raise  them.
The relevant  regulations  here are the Payment Service regulations 2017. Broadly, they say a 
bank should normally  refund unauthorised transactions, subject to some applicable 
conditions Ill not go into here. But the consumer will be liable for authorised transactions. I 
believe these transactions were  authorised  by Mr D and thats why Im not directing Revolut 
to refund them.
My reasoning follows the same line as the investigators and so I wont  set everything out in 
detail again here. 
Theres no explanation for how an unknown  third party could have gained access to 
Mr Ds phone,  app, login information and two sets of virtual  card details. 
The virtual  cards arent genuinely used before the disputed transactions start. So there 
appears to be no other way someone  could have  gotten the details.
Mr D was directly questioning Revolut about chargebacks and refunds in the same 
period as the disputed transactions. I find that to be very unusual  and it suggests to me 
Mr D was aware  hed be asking the bank  to recover money  for him in the near future.
The conversations Mr D has with Revolut are more than a week  apart. So even if one 
conversation wasnt  him, the other must  have been,  as the phone  wasnt out of his 
possession for longer  than that.
It seems unlikely Mr D lost his phone on two separate occasions only for similar  
instances of fraud to occur twice in quick succession.
I also agree  that Revolut  fairly closed Mr Ds account. It wasnt satisfied with his conduct  as 
a customer and enacted terms and conditions  it was entitled to rely on.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3689915