K822xcomplaint
Mrs G has complained about the way Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation) has dealt 
with a claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (s.75).
background 
In 2014 Mrs G entered into an agreement with a company called i-Power Systems  for the 
supply and installation  of a solar panel  system.  The  system  cost £8,995  and was paid for 
with a loan taken from Creation over a 10-year  period.
Mrs G says she was sold the system  on the basis that the financial benefits it generated 
would cover the cost of repaying the loan  essentially making it self-funding.   But the 
system hasnt performed  to the level Mrs G was expecting and so she says it was 
misrepresented to her and the loan is unaffordable.
i-Power Systems is no longer trading, but under s.75 a finance  provider  can be held 
responsible for misrepresentations and breaches of contract to the same extent as the 
supplier of goods.  So, Mrs G made  a claim to Creation.
Creation made Mrs G an offer to put things right, but she didnt accept it and referred her 
concerns to this Service.  In addition to the cost of the system, Mrs G explained that the 
solar panels  created a need  for maintenance due to birds nesting, and said i-Power had 
agreed to arrange  for the removal  and reinstatement of the solar panels  if repairs or 
replacement of roof tiles were needed.
One of our investigators  reviewed everything  and recommended Mrs Gs complaint be 
upheld.  She  explained  why she felt Creations offer to make the system self-funding was 
fair, but she was also persuaded  Mrs G had been told by i-Power that the panels could be 
removed and replaced if work was needed  on her roof.  So,  the investigator said Creation 
should honour that representation.
Creation disagreed with the investigator.  It said there was no documented evidence  to 
suggest that i-Power  had agreed to remove and replace the system for work  to be under  
taken to Mrs Gs roof  and so it should  be liable  for that.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed for and ombudsman to 
review and make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator,  and for broadly the same  reasons.
In order for Mrs G to make a s.75 claim against  Creation there  must  be an appropriate  
debtor-creditor-supplier relationship.  Having reviewed everything Im satisfied that 
relationship exists and Creation hasnt disputed this point,  so I wont expand  further here.
There are several aspects to Mrs Gs complaint and so Ill refer to each point in turn.
Making the system  self-funding
Ref: DRN35439442Mrs G says she was told by i-Power that the financial  benefits of the system would cover the 
cost of servicing the loan with Creation.  I note that Creation initially  highlighted the 
documentation from the time of sale referred to the benefits to be provided by the system  as 
an estimate, and not guaranteed.  
From what  Mrs G has explained, and what I know was typically described as the benefits  of 
solar panel  systems at the time, Im satisfied it was likely Mrs G was told the system would 
be self-funding.  This is supported by the estimates  she was given,  and Im sure that benefit 
was a major  inducement in her making the purchase.
Creation made an offer based upon  what it considers will put Mrs G into the position  she 
would be in had the systems  benefits covered its costs.  I consider that a fair and 
reasonable approach to take  and so the key issue for me to decide is whether the offer 
calculation itself is appropriate.
The purchase price of the solar panel system was £8,995, and with interest Mrs G would  
have paid £14,162.40 over the 10-year loan term.  Creation calculated  over that same 10 
years the system would provide  financial  benefits  of £5,567.36  based  upon the 
recommendations of an industry expert.   As a result, its offer provided several options to 
ensure Mrs G would  not pay more  than £5,567.36 for the system.
The four options provided Mrs G with the opportunity to choose  whether to receive a refund 
for overpayments  shed made (with  interest) or reduce the loan payment amounts and term 
moving forwards.  Im satisfied this approach is fair and reasonable, but I note the 
calculations may now need to be refreshed  to make  them up to date.
Im aware part of Mrs Gs complaint is also that the loan itself is unaffordable.   But by 
offering to refund her the overpayments or restructuring the loan, Im satisfied Creation will 
have addressed this issue.
Credit file
Mrs G is concerned that her credit  file has been affected by the loan and the impact of 
finding payments  unaffordable.  But Creation  has confirmed it will adjust her credit file to 
remove any adverse entries caused in relation to the loan.  I think  that is appropriate.
Roof maintenance 
Mrs G has explained she has experienced birds nesting under the solar  panels which  has 
caused mess and noise  on her roof, and she believes may have caused some  roof tiles to 
move.
I understand why this would be of frustration and concern to Mrs G, but I dont think  its 
something I can reasonably hold Creation  responsible for.  The agreement with i-Power  
doesnt include any service agreement for maintenance,  and its not something  Ive seen 
provided in similar cases.
But I note Mrs G is also concerned that i-Power  is no longer trading.  She says that when 
she bought the system, she was advised i-Power would arrange  for the removal and 
reinstallation of panels in the event  remedial or replacement work was required to her roof.
Ref: DRN35439443Creation says it isnt responsible for this and I understand there is nothing to address that 
situation in the agreement  from the time of sale. But Mrs G is adamant that is what she was 
told and so Ive considered the point carefully.
I believe it is something Mrs G would have  been likely to ask before agreeing  to have the 
panels installed on her roof  and Ive seen  nothing to make me question her recollection.  
Given that i-Power was trying to make a sale, overall, I think  its likely it would have agreed 
to arrange for the removal and reinstallation of the panels for roof work if needed.  
Particularly given that the likelihood of Mrs G actually needing work done  to the roof would 
be minimal.
Im persuaded its fair and reasonable for Creation to be responsible for the removal  and 
reinstatement of the panels in the event Mrs G needs to arrange  remedial work  to her roof.  
But I dont think its reasonable for that to be an indefinite  obligation.  I consider an 
appropriate time period would be until 2024  when  the panels would have been installed for 
10 years  (and in line with the loan term).
Trouble and upset
In its offer to Mrs G, Creation included a sum of £100 for the trouble  and upset shes 
experienced as a result of it not resolving her s.75 claim at an earlier  opportunity.  Im 
satisfied this sum is fair and in line with what I would  recommend in such circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint against Creation  Consumer  Finance  Ltd.
To put things right Im satisfied the offer (with  options)  it has provided to Mrs G is reasonable 
 along with £100 payment for trouble and upset.  But I also consider  Creation  should 
indemnify Mrs G for the removal and reinstallation of the solar panels in the event its 
required for remedial  work  to her roof (as described above).
If Mrs G accepts my decision, I leave it for her to let Creation know  which of the options it 
has provided she would like it to arrange in order to resolve matters.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 October  2020.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3543944