K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in
2001. Mr and Mrs R say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold  them  the MPPI.
Our adjudicator thought Mr and Mrs Rs complaint should  be upheld. Santander disagreed. It 
said they had given inconsistent information  about Mr Rs sick pay entitlement. And in any 
event, PPI wouldve  been paid on top of any work  related sick pay Mr R received, so it still 
considered that PPI was suitable  for him at the time of sale.  
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr and Mrs Rs complaint has been  passed to me to 
issue a final decision on.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Rs complaint.
I agree  with our adjudicator. I think the policy was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs R. I say this 
because I think if Mr and Mrs R had been given clearer information about the costs and 
benefits of the policy  they wouldnt have agreed to take out optional PPI. 
Santander recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs R. So, it had to consider whether the 
policy was suitable  for them, as well as giving  them  enough clear and fair information  about it 
for them to consider for themselves if it was right for them and they wanted  to buy it.
Mr R only was covered under the policy. He said he had been  working for the same 
employer since 1998. He has provided a contract of employment which shows  that. The 
employment contract shows that if he was sick he wouldve been eligible to receive full pay 
for 12 months from his employer. 
Santander said Mr R had given inconsistent information about  his employment history.  
However, when Mr R first provided  information  about his employer, he thought  the PPI had 
been sold to him in 1996, when he took out an earlier mortgage. Having been told the 
correct date of sale by Santander,  he checked his records and agreed the PPI policy was in 
fact sold in 2001. He then provided updated information about his work position in 2001. So, 
I think what Mr R has said about his work situation is credible and supported  by his contract 
of employment  from the time.
Mr and Mrs R had to pay £30.45 per month for the PPI. I think  had they known that the 
policy wouldve covered  them  for accident  and sickness for 12 months,  the same  length of 
time as 
Mr Rs work  benefits covered them for; they wouldnt have thought  it worth  it to them.  In 
reaching this conclusion Ive taken into account the fact that the PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of Mr Rs work related  sickness benefits. Ive also taken into account  the other resources Mr 
and Mrs R had at the time of sale. Looked at overall, I dont think  they wouldve considered 
the monthly cost worth  it to them, given they already  had adequate cover.
So I still think I should uphold the complaint.
putting things right
Ref: DRN39929722Santander should put Mr and Mrs R in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  
out PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already, and Santander 
should:
 Pay Mr and Mrs R the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
 Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.

 If Mr and Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander can 
take off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes  them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. 
Santander must give Mr and Mrs R a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Santander UK Plc should put things right by doing what  Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3992972