K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) sent his bank statement to 
his ex-wife in error. He says this has caused him significant financial loss and a lot of stress. 
He is unhappy  with the £500 offer of compensation. 
background
In August  2016  NatWest sent Mr Es bank statement to his ex-wifes  address - which  she 
opened. At the time they were going through a divorce and were in the process of finalising 
an out of court settlement.
Mr Es ex-wife  saw some things on Mr Es statement that were not discussed during the 
settlement negotiations. Mr E says she became very upset and no longer  wanted to agree a 
settlement; she opted to go to court. 
Mr E complained to NatWest. In its reply it accepted it had made a mistake. It confirmed that 
Mr Es address had been changed to his ex-wifes address without his consent;  it was 
unable to establish why this happened. It advised  that his address had been corrected, 
apologised and offered to pay £500 compensation. 
Mr E complained again. He didnt think the £500  compensation was fair, as he would be 
incurring costs associated  with the divorce  proceedings.  In a second response  NatWest said 
it didnt think it was responsible for any additional costs or any further distress caused as 
these were a result  of his ex-wife opening the envelope and reading his statement. 
Mr E brought his complaint to us; NatWest didnt  think it was one we could consider, as Mr E 
did not refer his complaint to us within six months of its final response in October  2016. We 
said NatWests letters didnt meet the definition of a final response,  so decided we could 
look into Mr Es complaint.
Mr E told us that NatWests error has cost him in the region of £30k-£40K  in additional costs 
and has caused  him a significant amount of stress. He wants  the compensation to reflect his 
financial loss and the seriousness  of whats happened.
Our investigator looked into Mr Es complaint. She didnt think  it was fair to hold NatWest 
responsible for everything that had happened. She thought  NatWest  was responsible for 
breaching Mr Es confidentiality and said that £500  was a fair award  to reflect  this.
Mr E disagreed; he asked  for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied that the 
offer of £500 compensation is a fair award  to resolve  this complaint. Ill explain why below.
change of address
Mr E is unhappy that his address was amended  without  his consent. He wants  to know why 
this happened.
Ref: DRN38063672NatWest has confirmed  that Mr E previously  held a joint account with his ex-wife and in May 
2016 she was removed from the account. It advised  that on 30 August 2016 Mr Es ex-wife  
changed her address  and Mr Es address was also changed on the same day. 
I appreciate Mr Es frustration at not knowing why his address was changed,  but I can see 
that NatWest did try to establish what happened; unfortunately, the member of staff involved 
was unable to recall the amendment. NatWest  does not dispute that Mr Es address was 
changed in error and that this resulted in his statement being  sent to his ex-wife. 
breach of confidentiality
Banks do have a duty to keep their customers information confidential.  By sending Mr Es 
statement to his ex-wife,  Im satisfied NatWest  breached his confidentiality.
Mr E says that NatWest  has breached data protection  laws. As the investigator explained, it 
is the role of the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) to decide  if a business has 
breached data protection laws. Mr E is concerned that NatWest  may make the same mistake  
again, if it doesnt establish what happened. The ICO can also look into what  steps a 
business may need to take to prevent  a breach of data protection  in future, so if he hasnt  
already Mr E may wish to raise this with them. 
consequences of the breach of confidentiality
If a bank breaches a customers  confidentiality the general principle is it should be liable for 
any consequences resulting from its breach, that it could  have  reasonably foreseen, when  it 
disclosed the information. 
Mr E says that as a result of NatWest  sending his ex-wife his statement, trust was broken 
and she no longer wished to agree a settlement,  so the divorce became drawn  out and he 
incurred extra costs  in the region of £30-£40K. In addition, he says the relationship  with his 
ex-wife totally  broke down; he received online threats, has been the victim  of an assault by a 
third party and has been unable to have  regular contact with his children. Mr E says he has 
had to take time off work, due to the stress  and has lost out on money, as he is self-
employed.
I cannot say with certainty that Mr Es ex-wife would have agreed  the settlement, had she 
not received Mr Es bank statement. But it is clear from his solicitors email  that they were 
working towards a settlement at the time. Mr E hasnt provided evidence of his divorce costs, 
as he has told us he didnt  want to incur further  charges associated with getting  his solicitor 
to quantify this. Nor has he given us any medical  evidence to show  the impact on his health 
or provided  evidence to support his loss of earnings.  This doesnt mean that I doubt  what he 
says has happened. However, in order to award compensation, I would need to be satisfied 
that NatWest could reasonably have foreseen the consequences and if it could, I would need 
to be satisfied as to what the impact has been. 
Taking everything into account,  I dont think that NatWest could have foreseen that the 
consequences of sending Mr Es statement to his then wife would have been so far reaching 
and significant.  Ive not seen anything to suggest that NatWest was aware  that they were 
working towards an out of court settlement. So I dont think it could  have reasonably 
foreseen that its error  would  have  resulted in his then wife, withdrawing from settlement  
negotiations, her refusal to let him see his children, the increased financial costs or the 
Ref: DRN38063673difficulties Mr E experienced  as a result of a very difficult divorce. So, I dont think it would be 
fair to hold NatWest  responsible for this.
I do think NatWest could  have foreseen that Mr E would have found it very distressing for his 
financial information to be released  to his ex-wife. NatWest admitted its error and corrected 
Mr Es address on the account within a reasonable time of Mr E raising  his complaint. In the 
circumstances I think NatWests offer to pay £500  compensation  to reflect  this is fair. 
Mr E has asked  for a calculation breakdown  to show how compensation awards are made. 
But this isnt how we assess  compensation. We look at each  case  to see what  the impact 
has been and then assess what would be fair compensation overall. I realise Mr E will be 
disappointed, but I think NatWests offer is fair, so I wont be requiring NatWest to increase 
its compensation offer.
I now leave it to Mr E to decide whether  he now wants to accept NatWests compensation 
offer. This decision is the final stage of our process,  which means we cannot consider this 
complaint further.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Karen Dennis-Barry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3806367