K820x#14complaint
Mrs O complains about the way National House-Building Council has dealt with a claim she 
made on her building warranty.
Mrs O is being represented  in bringing  this complaint. But for ease Ive referred  to all 
comments and actions  as being those of Mrs O. 
background
In 2013 Mrs O bought  a property that came  with an NHBC warranty. In 2014 she raised  
some issues  with the property, and NHBC completed a resolution  report.  That report 
recommended the builders carry out repairs to plasterboards which  hadnt been  fitted  
correctly and wood  doorframes  which  were  damaged. The deadline given to repair the work 
was August 2014.
The developer didnt complete the work within the timeframe, so NHBC, under  its warranty, 
stepped in and completed the repairs. Mrs O complained to NHBC as she wasnt happy  with 
the quality of the repairs. NHBC came out in 2017 to assess  the property  and agreed  the 
repairs hadnt been carried out to a good  standard. It paid Mrs O around £3,300 for her to 
have the work carried out herself to resolve the issues.
Mrs O had also complained the NHBC contractors  had caused other damage to her home 
when it carried out the previous repairs. NHBC didnt accept that it had, but it paid a further 
£500 as a gesture of goodwill. NHBC has also paid £1,000 compensation to Mrs O as part of 
a previous complaint.
Unhappy with NHBCs response, Mrs O brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator outlined  what  our service can and cant consider. She said the resolution 
report which took place  in the first two years of the policy isnt something  that is covered by 
our service.  
But she said we could  look at repairs  carried out by NHBC following the report.  And we could 
also look at issues raised after the first two years since the property was built under  a 
different section of the policy. Our investigator said section 3 of the policy  covers  defects to 
the property which have caused  damage  and a breach of NHBCs technical requirements.  
She didnt  think there was enough evidence to show  that the issues  raised by Mrs O 
amounted to a breach of the relevant technical requirements. So she didnt think NHBC 
needed to do anything else under the policy to repair the issues raised by Mrs O.
Mrs O didnt agree. She said we hadnt  considered the evidence shed provided of multiple  
issues with the property. She also said the builders and NHBC have done a poor job and 
she should be protected from this.
As Mrs O didnt  agree, the matter has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by our investigator. Ill explain why below.
Ref: DRN37867472Mrs O has sent in a lot of photographs and information in relation to the state of her property. 
I want to reassure her at the outset that whilst Ive looked at everything shes sent,  Ill only 
comment on those things  that I find central  to the outcome Ive reached.
Under Mrs Os warranty, different parts of the policy apply depending on when the claim is 
made. Some of the issues raised  were done so by Mrs O in the first two years of the 
warranty. Some of them were raised after this, so are dealt  with under a different part of the 
policy. I think it would be helpful  if I separate the two and explain my findings for each 
section.
issues raised in the first two years
In 2014 Mrs O raised numerous issues with the property. With an NHBC warranty,  any issue  
raised in the first two years is considered under section two. As part of that, NHBC carried 
out a resolution  report and made  two recommendations. This resolution report  is to direct the 
builders to carry out any necessary repairs, but it is not a contract of insurance.
I appreciate Mrs O thinks some issues were missed  by NHBC in this report. Shes 
mentioned there were  more issues with the property and the garden which were ignored by 
NHBC. I dont know whether that is the case. But even if I accept it was, this service has no 
power to investigate NHBCs actions at that stage because the resolution  report doesnt fall 
under the scope of a regulated activity for the purpose of our service.  I appreciate  this is 
disappointing for Mrs O, but I can only make  decisions on matters I have powers to do so. 
So I havent looked at NHBCs handling of any issues  relating to the garden or the other 
issues she says were  reported.
For the same reason,  Im also unable to consider  the items that NHBC declined to cover as 
part of the resolution report.  Mrs O says her floorboards and stairs are creaking. The 
resolution report found that the creaking isnt excessive and isnt considered a breach of 
NHBCs technical requirements. I appreciate Mrs O strongly disagrees  with this, but I have 
no power to investigate this further. 
This service can look at issues after the resolution service if the report  recommends the 
builder should  do something and sets a deadline  for this to be done. In Mrs Os case, the 
builder failed to carry  out the works  by the deadline,  so NHBC stepped in to complete the 
repairs in January 2015. So this is something  our service can consider as its part of the 
insurance cover NHBC provides.
In 2017, after Mrs O complained about  the repairs, NHBC agreed to attend  Mrs Os property 
to go through  a number of issues shed raised. It found that the work to the plasterboard was 
done poorly. So it offered Mrs O £3,300  to have this resolved. Mrs O has said this isnt 
enough for her to have the repairs carried out. I havent seen anything  from Mrs O which 
persuades me NHBCs offer for this is too low. So Ive no reason to doubt the schedule of 
works provided by NHBC. It lists the work  to be done and I havent seen anything which 
shows me this doesnt match what NHBC agreed  to cover. So I dont think it needs  to pay 
anymore in relation  to these repairs.
Ref: DRN37867473Im aware Mrs O also raised several issues with the initial repairs NHBC carried out, 
including paint splashes on furniture and minor scratches to other household items. It seems 
by the time NHBC went to the property, many of these items  had been  resolved (by Mrs O 
cleaning or replacing  items) so NHBC couldnt  assess them. But it did agree to offer £500 as 
a gesture of goodwill  and in the circumstances I think thats fair. It had been a significant 
period of time since the repairs had taken  place and given most of this damage couldnt be 
evidenced I dont  think it needs to pay anymore  in relation to that.
issues raised after  the first two years
Any issues  raised  by Mrs O after the first two years (and up to 10 years) are covered by 
section 3 of NHBCs warranty. This provides cover  for physical damage to the home that 
was caused by a defect.  
Mrs O has said NHBC  has carried out works to the joists, and there are still outstanding 
issues with them and how theyve been fitted.  In June 2016, NHBC says it did carry out 
some works to the joists in Mrs Os property. Following that, it had a report carried  out. The 
report says that the joists  met the necessary requirements at the time of design, and that no 
additional strutting was required on the joists. I appreciate Mrs O has said the work  carried  
out by NHBC was poor, and there are still issues. But I havent seen a report or anything  
else from Ms O that persuades me this is the case.  So in the absence  of this I find the report 
I have persuasive in that the joists havent  breached any technical requirements or were  
subject to  poor repair by NHBC. So I dont think NHBC needs to do anything more  in 
relation to this element. 
In June 2017 NHBC agreed  to consider two items under section three  of the policy.  They 
were gaps in the roof tiles which were  allowing water  to enter the loft space. And it noted  an 
issue with some blockwork being loose in the loft.
NHBC agreed to cover  the repairs to the roof, and I understand this was completed  in 
summer 2017. But it didnt agree to carry out repairs to the loose blockwork.  It said this was 
because the cost of repairing it wouldnt meet the minimum claim value of around  £1,400  set 
under the policy.  Ive checked Mrs Os policy, and it seems to me that the correct  limit was 
applied. So I think NHBC acted fairly in not providing a settlement for this amount. 
Its worth  noting that Mrs O is still within the 10 years of the NHBC policy, so she can raise 
any further concerns  she has about  any physical damage that may occur in her property. But 
based on the issues raised so far and the reports Ive seen, Im satisfied NHBC has 
assessed the concerns raised by Mrs O in line with the warranty  terms. So at this stage  I 
dont think NHBC needs  to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3786747