K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Ocaso SA, Compania  de Seguros y Reaseguros won't pay his claim for 
water damage under  his household building insurance.
background
Mr S reported a claim to Ocaso on 1 June 2018  after he discovered water leaking from 
below his bathroom onto a balcony. He had initially approached the building owner but he 
was told to make a claim on his insurance. Ocaso sent out a leak detection specialist 
company who said the leak was coming  from cracks in the shower  tray, the seals, the 
shower bar and the toilet overflow. It said the shower tray was poorly installed and, that the 
leak had been  going on for some time and that it wasnt  covered by the policy. This is 
because there is an exclusion to the escape of water cover for damage caused  by gradual 
deterioration, or by faulty workmanship.
Mr S obtained two reports,  one from a bathroom fitting company and the other  a plumbing 
and heating company. Both said that the shower tray was properly installed and that the leak 
came from cracks in the shower  tray, possibly due to impact damage. Both also said the 
shower tray was intact and that the water  damage was recent.
Ocaso still maintained  its rejection of the claim.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said she found the evidence  from the leak 
detection company to be more persuasive and thought that Ocaso had acted reasonably. 
Mr S didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three expert  reports  in this matter. Mr Ss two reports  are respectively  from a 
bathroom company  and a plumbing and heating contractor. On the other hand Ocaso sent 
out a leak detection specialist who carried out a detailed survey of the area using a moisture 
meter and dye. I find the evidence from the leak detection company to be more  persuasive.
Firstly it was said the shower tray was poorly installed.  The reports Mr M has both say this 
isnt the case.  I dont  know whether  that affected  the leak  Ocasos report  doesnt say 
whether it did. I dont think that Ocaso  can rely on that as a reason for rejecting the claim.
The other reason  for rejecting the claim is because  of gradual deterioration. Ocaso says the 
leak had been  going on for some time, while Mr Ss contractors say it is fairly recent. All 
agree that there are cracks in the shower tray and that there  was a leak from there.  Ocasos 
expert says the overflow pipe from the toilet is missing and this would cause overflow water 
to leak back into the bathroom. They found  the shower bar to be leaking and also found high 
moisture readings under the bathroom floor.
I think, despite what Mr Ss contractors  say, that the leak had been  going on for some time. 
The underside of the bathroom projects out over the balcony and it can clearly be seen  that 
there was substantial damage  consisting of cracking and paint peeling over a large area.  It 
was noted that the area appeared to be dry at the time of inspection.  This was presumably 
Ref: DRN32069682because the shower  hadnt been  used. I note that Mr S says it was a few weeks  before 
Ocaso inspected  the damage as he had reported it first to the building owner. But I think 
because of the extent of the damage  and the moisture levels  in the bathroom  that the leak 
had been going on for some time.
But we say its not fair for an insurer to rely on a gradual deterioration exclusion where  the 
damage couldnt have been  noticed sooner. So if at the first sign of damage  it was reported 
it would  be reasonable to expect the insurer to pay the claim. This is even if the damage  had 
been happening for a while but was hidden.
In this case again having looked at the extent of damage of peeling paint and cracking over 
a large area observed from beneath the bathroom I think  this should have been reported 
sooner. Mr Cs bathroom contractor suggested  that the cracks in the shower tray were  
diminutive and not visible to the untrained eye. But the photos from the leak detection 
company show at least one very obvious hole which in my view should have been noticed 
sooner. And the fact that there  were  several  cracks would seem  to rule out impact  damage.  
Also the leak detection  company observed  a slow leak coming  from the shower bar. Again I 
think this should  have been  noticed.
So I think that overall Ocaso acted fairly  in rejecting  the claim  for water damage due to 
gradual deterioration. And I think the damage should  have been  noticed sooner. So I cant 
uphold the complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
 
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3206968