K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs V complain  that they were  invited to an event by Yorkshire  Building  Society,  
but when they were  later declined the invitation  didnt make  clear what  would  happen should  
the event be over-subscribed.
To settle  matters theyd  like an apology  from Yorkshire Building Society for the misleading 
information given  to them about  the event.
background
Mr W and Mrs V were  invited to an event by Yorkshire Building Society. They  later found out 
theyd been unsuccessful.  Yorkshire  Building  Society wrote  to explain this was due to the 
over-whelming response theyd received for places which meant they had to allocated 
places on a first to respond basis. The letter  provided a link to allow  Mr W and Mrs V to view 
a video about the topic that was to be discussed at the event.
Mr W and Mrs V say this gesture  was insulting and derisory and they say the invitation  didnt  
make clear  that places  would be allocated on a first-come first-served  basis  if it was over-
subscribed.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied the 
invitation made clear  that places were limited  and that the event was expected to be popular. 
He was satisfied  the invitation  made  clear  that places werent guaranteed and that 
confirmation of a place would be provided  at a later date.
The investigator could  see that Yorkshire  Building Society had apologised when it wasnt 
able to offer a place at the event. And he didnt think Yorkshire  Building  Society had acted 
in a derisory way by including  a weblink to the seminar because  with so many customers  
unable to attend he could see why it would  want to ensure its customers were made aware  
of topics discussed  at the event.
Mr W and Mrs V are unhappy with the investigators  view. They  say the first line of the 
invitation was a firm confirmation of an invitation and that Yorkshire  Building  Society  should  
only have invited the number of members  the venue  could accommodate.  In addition to a 
formal apology they thought those members who were unable  to attend should  be given 
priority for subsequent events.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have concerns that this complaint isnt related to a banking service or a specific  account so 
strictly speaking  it may not fall within our jurisdiction.  It seems  to me that the invitation to the 
event was made in Mr Ws and Mrs Vs capacity  as members of the Society. But as the 
complaint has already  been investigated  I will provide my decision.
I can see that Mr W and Mrs V were very disappointed  in not being able to attend the event 
as theyd hoped. But based  on the information Ive seen Im afraid I agree with the 
investigators view and for broadly the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN32559692The invitation made clear  that places were limited  and that Yorkshire Building  Society  
expected the event  to be popular.  So Im of the opinion it did enough to make clear  that 
places werent guaranteed.
Im also satisfied that Yorkshire  Building Society  has already apologised. And whilst I can 
understand why Mr W and Mrs V would  like those  members  who were unable  to attend the 
event to be given  preference for future  events Im afraid that this service  doesnt have any 
regulatory or disciplinary  role over businesses. So Im unable to require  Yorkshire Building 
Society to do this.
With many  of its customers unable to attend I think it was reasonable for Yorkshire Building 
Society to provide  a link to the topic to be discussed  at the event.  So I dont agree this was 
derisory.
It follows that Im satisfied Yorkshire  Building Society has dealt with this complaint in a fair 
and reasonable manner.  So I wont be asking  it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3255969