K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of his car insurance policy.
background
Mr M had car insurance with UKI for a number  of years. When his policy  came to an end in 
2012 he didnt  renew it as he said he no longer needed a car. UKI issued him with proof that 
he had nine no claims bonus (NCB) years.
In 2017, Mr M took out a new car insurance policy with UKI through  their website. 
He declared that he had nine NCB  years. UKI calculated his premium  and issued  him with a 
policy on that basis. But once they saw his proof  of NCB  years  they reduced his NCB to 
zero. They also recalculated his premium and said he had to pay an additional premium of 
around £300, which was the amount they would have charged him had they not applied  the 
NCB discount from the start. 
UKI explained why they removed the nine NCB  years from Mr Ms policy. They said that NCB 
expires after two years  of not being  used.  So while Mr M did have nine NCB years  in 2012, as 
he didnt use it for a policy by 2014  they expired and he couldnt use them  for his 2017 policy. 
UKI said they gave  Mr M a discount  of almost £170,  which meant the total additional premium 
he had to pay went down  to around  £130,  which they added to his monthly payments. 
Mr M said UKI hadnt acted fairly as they should have told him in 2012 that his NCB years  
would expire unless he used them within two years. UKI didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint so 
he brought it to our service. One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint and felt that 
UKI hadnt done anything wrong as they were under no obligation to tell him that his NCB 
would expire in two years.  Mr M didnt  agree  so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 10 October  2019.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr M, but Im not intending to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
NCB
NCB discount is something  that most car insurers offer a policyholder as an incentive 
for them not having any claims on their policy. So once an insurer calculates the 
premium a policyholder  is to pay for the policy year ahead, a discount will be given  to 
effectively reward the policyholder for having no recent claims.  Often  the more NCB  
years a policyholder  has the bigger the discount  will be. And most insurers  I know of 
do have a time limit on NCB years and many insurers  dont  allow NCB if, as in Mr Ms 
case, it hasnt been  used  in the previous two years. Although  some  insurers  allow the 
NCB to be used within three years.
Mr M said that when UKI issued him with proof  of his NCB years in 2012 they failed  to 
tell him it would expire if not used within two years. He said they should have told him 
that. Mr M said that he told UKI in 2012 that he intended to insure  with them  again  in 
the future.
Ref: DRN31179242Mr M told our service that had he known his NCB would expire he would have bought 
a car and insured it within two years so as to maintain his NCB  years. But he also told 
us that he had no need for a car during 2012  to 2017. So even  if he had told UKI in 
2012 that he wasnt renewing  his policy because he no longer needed  a car, I wouldnt 
have expected UKI to tell him that his NCB  would expire. Thats  because, in my 
experience  given the costs of keeping and maintaining a car, including  insuring it, 
taxing it and maintaining it so it can pass  its MOT  a policyholder is unlikely to buy 
and keep a car simply to maintain their NCB.  As the cost of keeping a car is likely to 
far exceed the NCB discount.
Mr M later told our service that during  his discussion with UKI in 2012, he specifically 
told them  that he wouldnt be driving  for five years. And that UKI told him they would 
honour his NCB years  when he returned to them. Mr M told us about this almost a year 
after he brought his complaint to our service. And it is, in my view, a significant change 
from what he initially told us happened during  the 2012 discussion. He initially only 
said that UKI hadnt told him his NCB would expire,  but he made no mention of UKI 
agreeing to honour his NCB  if he returned  to them after five years. Our service did ask 
UKI for a copy of the call recording from 2012. But, given the passage of time, that call 
recording is no longer  available. UKI did however say that they wouldnt have assured 
Mr M that they would  honour his NCB years if he told them  he would be without a car 
for five years. And Im more persuaded by UKIs account of whats likely to have 
happened. Thats because its well known to insurers  that NCB is only valid for a 
specific period, usually two years. And UKIs  staff would  have  known that when they 
spoke with Mr M. And I note that Mr M is referring to a conversation  that took place 
around seven years  ago. And it's not a point  that he relied upon when he first 
complained. So I think its likely that, on balance, UKI didnt give that assurance.  Im 
therefore not intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
charging the additional premium
UKI have  suggested  that what Mr M did by not correctly  declaring that he had zero 
NCB years amounted to, what is known in the insurance industry as, a careless  
misrepresentation. And theres specific legislation - the Consumer Insurance  
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA)  that sets out what insurers may 
do in such a situation. It says that insurers may:
 cancel the policy; or
 tell the consumer that they will settle any future claims on a proportionate basis  (or 
apply other exclusions  or limitations  it would otherwise have  applied).  But if the 
consumer isn't happy with that approach, they can cancel  the policy themselves.
CIDRA doesnt allow the insurer  to simply charge an additional premium, although we 
think its fair for the insurer to give the policyholder the option of them  paying  the 
additional premium  for the insurer to then settle  any claim in full instead of settling the 
claim proportionately. But that can only happen if the policyholder is happy with that.
But while CIDRA  gives the insurer the option of cancelling the policy  where there has 
been a careless  misrepresentation,  we think its fair for an insurer to explain to the 
policyholder theres  a problem and give them the option of paying the additional 
premium in order to keep the policy  going or otherwise to cancel the policy 
themselves. Thats because the insurer cancelling  the policy will have serious  
consequences on the policyholder because they will have to declare it when they want  
to take out insurance later on. 
Ref: DRN31179243Under CIDRA, Mr M had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation. To assess  whether  or not Mr M took reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation I have  to look to see if UKIs  question was clear. During the online 
application UKI asked  How many  years No Claim Discount do you have? There  was 
next to the question an information box that, once  the curser was hovered over it, gave 
an explanation  about NCB. It said Just  note,  your NCD must have been used on a 
policy in the past two years I understand that Mr M, like most  policyholders, 
wouldnt have known  every rule or practice  about  car insurance. And I accept that he 
wasnt aware that his NCB would expire after two years if it wasnt  used. But UKI had 
information boxes  beside most of the questions it asked that gave information to assist  
Mr M. And I think that had Mr M read the information  box he would have realised at 
that point that he couldnt  use his expired NCB.  Having the information box beside the 
question on NCB was an indication that it should  be read. And I think UKI did enough  
to bring that to Mr Ms attention. But I understand he didnt read it and answered the 
question. And as his answer was wrong he misrepresented his NCB  position. Like UKI 
I accept there was no bad intent  on his part, but I do think it was careless.  And it was 
on the basis of the wrong answer  that UKI set his premium.
So I feel Mr M did make, whats referred to in CIDRA as, a qualifying  misrepresentation. 
That would mean that UKI only had available to them the remedies  under  CIDRA. And 
as imposing an additional premium isnt one of those remedies, UKI shouldnt  have 
amended Mr Ms direct  debit  to increase his monthly payments to cover  the additional 
premium without otherwise giving  him the option  of cancelling  his policy.
But I have to consider  what  might  have happened if UKI did follow  CIDRA. Had they 
given Mr M the option to cancel I cant say with certainty that he would have cancelled 
the policy and gone elsewhere.  Because if he had he would have still faced the same  
problem, namely that he would  have  had zero NCB. And if UKI offered to settle any 
future claim  proportionately rather than in full, I dont think Mr M would have agreed to 
that because it would  have exposed him to potentially serious financial loss in the 
event of a claim. A proportionate settlement means UKI would have worked out what 
percentage of the correct premium Mr M had actually paid and limit their settlement of 
any future claim to that percentage.
After UKI amended  the direct debit and took the increased monthly  payments, in January 
2018 Mr M was, unfortunately, involved in an accident that resulted in the total loss of his 
car. The accident was the other  drivers fault,  but until liability was established UKI 
settled Mr Ms claim. I understand the policy lapsed soon after as there was no longer a 
car in existence to be insured. But Mr M continued  to pay his monthly  instalments  and 
did pay the full annual premium which included the additional premium.  But that is not 
unusual because his policy,  like all policies I have come across, says that where there 
has been a claim he must pay the full annual premium even if there is no longer a car 
being insured  under  the policy.  I also understand that once UKI recovered their outlay  
(the amount  they paid to settle  Mr Ms total loss claim) from the other  drivers  insurer, 
they made a pro-rata refund of his premium  to Mr M, which means he only paid for the 
time he had use of the policy.  I think that was reasonable.  So its clear that while  Mr M 
disputed the NCB position, he still had a need  for the policy  and he benefitted from it. So 
I dont think UKIs failure to comply with CIDRA  led to Mr M suffering a detriment. So Im 
not intending to uphold  this part of the complaint.
Ref: DRN31179244The parties were invited to comment on my findings. UKI accepted my provisional findings. But 
Mr M reiterated the main  points of his complaint and re-emphasised  that when he spoke with 
UKI in 2012  and told them he wouldnt be driving  or insuring  his car for five years,  they assured 
him they would honour his NCB if he took out insurance with them. And they didnt tell him his 
NCB would expire  if not used for two years. Mr M said that had he been told his NCB would 
expire, he would have bought another car and insured it so that he could maintain his NCB. 
He said having  a NCB history meant  more  to him than earning a discount on his premium,  as 
his NCB  was a reflection of his faultless driving  history in which he took great pride.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  
the same.
I have a lot of sympathy for the position Mr M finds himself in. But, as I said in my provisional 
findings, the call recording of the discussion from 2012 is no longer in existence. And I think 
its unlikely that UKI staff would have assured Mr M that he could use his NCB  after a period 
of five years, because  UKIs staff would have known that NCB expire after two years.
Mr Ms said that maintaining his NCB  was important to him as a record of his faultless 
driving. But Mr M still had the record of his faultless driving from the period up to 2012, 
regardless that he no longer benefits from NCB  in terms  of a discount.  And he didn't drive 
between 2012  and 2017, so his driving  history  wouldn't have changed during that period. But 
for the reasons given in my provisional  decision,  I dont think UKI did anything wrong by not 
telling Mr M in 2012 that his NCB  would  expire if not used  within  two years.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.  
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3117924