K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that ReAssure Limited has incorrectly calculated the compensation due to 
him after it caused delays in the payment of his annuity.
background
Mr C contacted ReAssure  on 19 January  2018.  He said he was planning to retire  in August 
2018, and asked for a projection of the fund value  of his with profits  fund at that date, and for 
a joint life annuity quotation.
ReAssure wrote to Mr C on 14 February 2018 with transfer values for each of his policies. 
And it issued  an annuity quotation on 5 March 2018.  This stated that he could receive a lump 
sum of £88,460.99 and retirement  income  of £11,284.93.
ReAssure issued application forms to purchase the annuity on 17 April 2018.  However,  there 
was an error  on the forms as they indicated that Mr Cs wife was the policy  holder.
After a number of telephone calls and messages  it was eventually agreed that Mr C would 
amend the forms  he had already received and return them.
Mr C completed  the forms on 17 May 2018.
Mr C complained to ReAssure in June 2018 as he still hadnt received any annuity 
payments. He was told that payments would commence from that month,  and that ReAssure 
would assess any financial detriment once everything had been set up. ReAssure also made  
Mr C a payment of £300 for the distress and inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr C received a lump sum payment of £91,313.49, and his annuity payments of £10,202.01 
started from 23 May 2018.
Mr C was unhappy that his annuity payments were lower than hed been expecting.
ReAssure issued a final response to Mr C on 7 September 2018. It accepted that it had 
caused a delay, but said that this hadnt caused  him a financial loss. It said, in summary:
Mr C had received tax free cash of £91,313.49. Had there been no delay he would 
have received £89,611.84. So he had received an additional £1,701.65 tax free cash;
Mr C was receiving  an annuity  of £10,202.01 with an effective date of 23 May 2018. 
Had there been no delay he would have  been  receiving £9.944.96 with an effective 
date of 20 February 2018. So he was also receiving a higher annuity;
The date on which Mr C was receiving annuity  payments had been affected by the 
delay. If there hadnt been a delay he would have received  his first payment from 20 
February 2018, and would  have  received an additional £2,506.67 in annuity income.
After carefully taking into consideration the longer term gain on Mr Cs annuity  and 
the additional tax free cash Mr C had received it calculated that a payment of 
£805.02 was due. This was based on the additional annuity income Mr C would  have 
received less the additional tax free cash he had already received.
Mr C was dissatisfied with the outcome. He said he did not understand why ReAssure had 
used an effective date of 20 February  2018 for its calculations.  And he felt that the delays 
should have been considered from 17 April 2018 which  is when he had received a quotation 
Ref: DRN33288992but could not proceed due to the error  with the application forms. But ReAssure didnt agree, 
so he brought  his complaint to this service.
our adjudicators view
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should be upheld. Whilst he 
noted that there had been delays  in issuing an annuity quotation following Mr Cs initial 
request in January 2018, he didnt  feel it was reasonable for ReAssure to assume that Mr C 
would have accepted the quotation which ReAssure said should have been issued in 
February 2018. Instead, he felt that ReAssure  should have completed its loss calculation  
based on Mr C receiving  correct application  forms on 17 April 2018. But he felt that the 
distress and inconvenience payment it had already awarded sufficiently accounted  for the 
initial delay in issuing  a quote.
ReAssure didnt agree. It said that it didnt feel that it would be appropriate  to ignore the 
initial delays and that it considered that its loss assessment was fair and reasonable.
During the course of my investigation ReAssure also said that the figures  set out in the 
Retirement Options letter dated 5 March 2018  were incorrect. It said that the letter should 
have quoted a total annuity figure of £9,944.96 if tax free cash was taken. And it explained 
that the error  was in the residual fund annuity amount, where a figure of £3,216.12  was 
quoted when it should have been £1,397.13.
my provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 8 June 2020. I said,  in summary:
Reassure had said to this service that the reason for the difference  was because the 
figures set out in the letter dated  5 March 2018  were incorrect. So it said the amount 
quoted would never have been  put into payment as the figures werent  guaranteed.  
Having considered what ReAssure has to say, I was minded to accept its explanation 
that the figures in the Retirement Options letter were incorrect.
Id also looked  at the Retirement Options letter dated 5 March  2018. This stated:
Please note that these figures  are not guaranteed  and will be revalued the day after 
we receive all our requirements or the Selected Retirement Date if later.
So I was minded to also agree that the figures were not guaranteed  and that the 
incorrect amount quoted  would not have been put into payment.
But, although I was minded to agree with ReAssure that it did not need  to pay Mr C 
the higher amount quoted to him in error, I did feel that ReAssure has dealt poorly  
with Mr Cs complaint. In response  to a question from this service  it said that it 
explained to Mr C that the figures were incorrect during a phone  call dated 13 June  
2018. And it has supplied me with a copy of its call note. But, having  read the call 
note, I didnt agree that Mr C was told that there was an error  in the figures.  Instead,  
he was told that the value  on the quotations was not guaranteed, and that it just 
worked out that on the date the payment was valued the TFC was higher  so 
subsequently the annual  annuity  was lower.
It was clear from Mr Cs letter to Reassure  dated  12 September 2018 that he didnt 
understand the differences in the figures he was quoted.  I thought that ReAssure 
should have explained  to Mr C that there  was an error in the figures  quoted to him in 
the 5 March 2018 letter.  If it had done  so, I was persuaded that Mr C would have 
been spared additional trouble and upset.
Ref: DRN33288993I noted that ReAssure  has taken steps to compensate Mr C for the delays he 
suffered. It paid him £300  in June  2018 in respect of the delays hed suffered, and for 
its error in addressing  policy  correspondence to his wife. And after his benefits came 
into payment it paid him £805.02  to take account of additional annuity income he 
should have received,  less the additional tax free cash he was paid. I was persuaded 
that these amounts  were sufficient to compensate him for the initial  delays and 
errors. In essence, whilst the annuity payments were delayed,  the fund value 
increased during  that period of time, which resulted in a higher tax free cash  payment 
and annuity. Re-Assure deducted  the increased  difference in the tax free cash  figure  
received from the missed annuity  payments due to the delay to arrive at the sum of 
£805.02. However, this didnt account for the higher annuity that Mr C will also 
receive for the rest of his life due to the delays in beginning payments. So I was 
satisfied that the payment was at least equivalent  to the financial loss incurred due to 
those delays.
But, in the circumstances,  I didnt find the amount already paid in respect of the 
service received to be sufficient to compensate Mr C for the lack of explanation  
provided to him regarding the amount of his annuity. My provisional view was that it 
would be fair and reasonable for ReAssure to pay Mr C a further £100 compensation 
in respect of the continued trouble and upset he had suffered as a result of its failure  
to properly explain to him why the annuity paid to him was less than he was 
expecting to receive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has responded to my provision  decision.  He says, in summary, that he still feels that 
ReAssures treatment of him has been terrible and that he was surprised to hear that the 
figures in the retirement options quotation  of 5 March 2018 were incorrect as this hadnt 
been brought to his attention before. And he says he doesnt feel that these incorrect  figures 
should have been covered by the guarantee disclaimer.
ReAssure has also responded to my provisional  decision. It says that the compensation it 
originally paid was fair and valid.  And it also highlighted the fact that Mr C has financially 
benefited from receiving  a higher annuity  each  year.
Ive considered what both Mr C and ReAssure have  to say but, having done  so, I havent 
been persuaded to change my view.  I appreciate  that Mr C is surprised to hear that the 
figures quoted  to him initially were incorrect. But, given that ReAssure made it clear that the 
quotation wasnt guaranteed it is not obliged to pay him the incorrect  amounts quoted. And, 
although I agree that ReAssure should have told Mr C of the error sooner, I remain of the 
view that a further £100 compensation in respect  of his continued trouble and upset is fair 
and reasonable,  especially given that Mr C will benefit from a higher annuity going forward.  
As Ive not been persuaded to change my provisional decision I confirm  it here.
Ref: DRN33288994my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order ReAssure Limited to pay Mr C an 
additional £100 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 August 2020.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3328899