K820x#14Complaint
Mr C complains that money went missing from his National Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) 
account. 
In addition to this, he complains that NatWest were chasing him for an outstanding  overdraft  
balance when he didnt  have access to an overdraft facility.
Background
Mr C complained to NatWest that approximately £20,000 had gone missing from his bank 
account. He didnt specify to NatWest which transactions he was disputing when making his 
complaint, or when  he was asked to provide a list of these. 
NatWest looked  into this and found  that a large  number of cash withdrawals were taken out 
of Mr Cs account over the counter, in his local bank branch. So it contacted Mr Cs local 
branch to investigate  the transactions further. 
NatWest said that a dip sample of checks were carried out on a number  of Mr Cs branch  
cash withdrawals. Two members of branch staff reviewed  CCTV and Mr C was identified  on 
the footage making these withdrawals. NatWest  also pointed out that Mr C is well known to 
all the members of staff within his local branch. And when Mr C made  a withdrawal, the 
withdrawal slips were  countersigned by two witnessing members  of staff. This was an 
arrangement put in place due to Mr C having trouble recollecting withdrawals he had 
previously made.
NatWest decided not to continue  reviewing  the matter on the back of this information and 
didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Mr C also complained that he was being  chased for a debt of approximately £300. This debt 
was from an outstanding overdraft balance on his NatWest  account. But Mr C said he didnt 
have an overdraft facility,  so he was unsure how he could have accrued this.
NatWest said it wasnt  in a position  to accept  liability for the outstanding balance.  So it said 
Mr C had to repay this.
Mr C was unhappy with NatWests response to his complaint, as he denied  using or 
removing the missing funds. And he remained confused as to how he obtained  an overdraft 
debt when he had no overdraft facility. So he brought  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into this and acknowledged that Mr C hadnt provided  a list of the 
exact withdrawals or purchases he disputed. But he looked at his account in a broader  
sense and thought it was likely Mr C authorised the transactions  from the evidence he had 
seen.
He thought NatWest  should consider writing off the debt accrued from Mr Cs overdraft 
usage, as he felt Mr Cs circumstances justified this. NatWest initially said it would consider 
this once the complaint had been dealt with. But it later agreed  to write off the debt entirely.
Mr C was unhappy about this outcome as he thought NatWest were  covering up the missing 
funds from his account. So the matter  has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN33327362My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
NatWest is required to refund the amount of unauthorised transactions.  The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2009  (the PSRs  2009)  and 
the Payment Services  Regulations 2017 (the PSRs  2017).
Mr C says that approximately £20,000 went missing from his account. But he has been 
unable to identify  the specific transactions he disputes carrying out. So, Ive also looked at 
Mr Cs account in a broader sense to determine  what is more likely to have happened in 
these circumstances.  My primary concern is to come to a view about whether  or not I think 
Mr C authorised the withdrawals on his account.
NatWest carried out a number of dip sample  checks on Mr Cs over the counter withdrawals 
at his local branch.  The branch manager, along  with a second  member of staff,  reviewed  
CCTV covering these branch withdrawals. As Mr C hadnt specified the transactions  he was 
disputing I find this a reasonable  course  of action. Because cash  had been  withdrawn over 
an eight month period  over the counter,  and CCTV would identify the person making these  
withdrawals. I find it unlikely  that the two members of staff had incorrectly  identified Mr C, as 
he was so well known  to the branch staff. But due to the passage  of time, this CCTV wasnt 
retained and Im therefore unable to review this myself. So, I have gone  on to consider 
further evidence  in this case.
Mr C said that no person, other than himself, is aware of the PIN for his bank card,  or had 
access to the card.  So it would be difficult to explain how a third party would have used  this 
to make withdrawals or card payments requiring the card and PIN. But NatWest has 
supplied evidence that a large  number of its dip sample transactions were authorised by 
Mr Cs signature. So it is possible that someone  other than Mr C could have made  cash  
withdrawals by forging  his signature. But I think this is an unlikely scenario in these 
circumstances and I will go on to explain why. 
NatWest has supplied  a number of the dip sampled  withdrawal slips,  and these show two 
other signatures, separate  to that of Mr Cs. This would support NatWests evidence  that two 
members of staff witnessed  Mr Cs withdrawal slips.  And it would suggest that Mr C was 
recognised by staff when  attending the branch  and making the withdrawals. Because I dont 
think it regular practice  to have two members of staff witness  withdrawal slips.  The majority 
of the transactions on the account over a number of months were cash withdrawals  in Mr Cs 
local branch. So I think it unlikely that a third party was attending his local branch and forging 
his signature.  I have  also compared Mr Cs signature on these slips to the signed 
correspondence he has sent to our service.  Although I am not trained in the comparison of 
signature patterns,  these  dont appear  to have any obvious difference.
There are also withdrawals that have been verified by bank card and PIN. As Mr C says he 
hadnt given his card or PIN to any other  person, I find it an unlikely scenario that a third 
party would have  taken  his card, guessed his PIN, removed the funds from the account  and 
returned the card on each  of these occasions.
Ive also considered the pattern of withdrawals made over the counter for cash in branch.  
These withdrawals were carried out over an eight month period and average at around £100  
per day. 
Ref: DRN33327363I think this is inconsistent with a fraud or theft,  whereby a person would normally  attempt to 
extract the maximum amount of funds from the victims account in the shortest time possible.  
So it is unusual that a person intent on taking these funds from Mr Cs account would 
withdraw them in this way.
I appreciate Mr Cs point that he believes NatWest has covered up the disappearance  of his 
money, but the evidence strongly  suggests  that this isnt the case.  I find it unlikely that the 
two members of staff signing each of his withdrawal slips, along  with the two members of 
staff who witnessed  him making the withdrawals  on CCTV, have incorrectly  identified him. 
And it isnt unreasonable to explore the possibility  that Mr C may not remember  the 
withdrawals he made.
So, I dont think it reasonable to expect  NatWest to refund the transactions in these 
circumstances as I think it more  likely  Mr C authorised the transactions.
NatWest has now written  Mr Cs overdraft  debt off, and I think  this was a fair outcome when 
considering his circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2019.
Stephen Westlake
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3332736