K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that The Royal London Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  (Royal  
London) returned  a £12,000 pension contribution to him around  a year after it was 
paid. He said hes lost out financially both in terms of investment growth and 
because there may be tax implications. He believed the money  had been invested  
in his pension  fund from the outset.  In addition,  he complains  that Royal London 
has failed to adequately compensate him for this error.
background
Mr P sent Royal London a payment  of £12,000  on 5 April 2016  to invest in his pension  fund. 
To enable  the payment to be allocated  to his account, he also provided his policy number. 
He said he intended  the money  to be invested in the Adventurous Lifestyle Strategy  Annuity, 
which he currently invests in. 
Mr P said his financial advisor contacted Royal London in advance to find out what he 
needed to send in to make payment to his account. And a representative from Royal London  
said that all that was required was the payment and the policy number.
Mr P said he will need  to employ a tax adviser  to deal with this because the 
payment cant now be credited to his account  in respect of the 2016/17 tax 
year, as intended.  
Royal London said the money  was refunded back  to Mr P on 19 April 2017, 
because he didnt send  in the required accompanying documentation to allow  
the payment to be credited to his pension account. It said when a single 
payment was made, a form had to be completed  and also money laundering 
documentation had to be supplied before it could apply the payment to the 
pension account.
Royal London accepted that it had not contacted Mr P between April 2016  
and April 2017 to point out that he needed  to send in this extra paperwork. 
Royal London seemed to accept that its representative shouldve  told Mr Ps 
adviser about the paperwork that needed  to be sent in with the payment. 
Royal London said the representative  concerned had left its employ, so it 
wasnt able to clarify what was said at the time.
Royal London agreed it shouldve dealt with the unallocated payment sooner. 
It accepted it shouldve contacted Mr Ps adviser to rectify the situation  and 
the delay in returning the money  was unacceptable.
It accepted there may be tax implications  for Mr P and said if he provided further details 
about these, it would be prepared to reconsider its position. 
It accepted that Mr P intended to invest the £12,000  in his pension  and that he has 
lost out on investment growth. So, it calculated  interest at 8% on the delayed  
repayment of the money to Mr P. It paid Mr P £996.14 gross  made  up of a £796.91 
net interest on the £12,000 from 05 April 2016  to the date of return  on 19 April 
2017, plus a compensatory payment of £200  for the trouble and upset  caused  by 
this. 
Ref: DRN37337922Royal London said however, that given the amount involved, and the fact that this 
was the first time hed transferred money across  in this way, Mr P ought to have 
contacted it personally,  or through his adviser,  to check  that the £12,000 had been 
transferred into his account.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint. But, as agreement couldnt  be reached 
Mr Ps complaint comes  to me to decide.  
Royal London had nothing further  to add.
Mr P requested compensation for the time taken by his financial advisers resolving this 
issue. He said during the period Royal London  held on to his monies  the stock  market rose 
by circa  20% to 25% and Royal London  had only compensated him for the delay in repaying 
his money to him. Fairly,  he said, Royal London should compensate him as if the £12,000 
payment had been invested in the plan as intended  from the outset. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont know what was discussed between Mr Ps adviser  and Royal London prior to him 
making the payment of £12,000  to Royal London.  Ive not heard  or seen a contemporaneous 
telephone recording  or note of the conversation from the time. 
However, irrespective of what was said beforehand,  its not in dispute that on 5 April 2016, 
Royal London received a £12,000 payment, along with Mr Ps account reference.  I think 
Mr Ps actions  provided Royal London with enough  information to alert it to the fact that he 
wanted to make a payment into his pension  fund. So, I think it wouldve been reasonable for 
Royal London to contact Mr P, or his adviser,  by return, to chase up any missing paperwork 
that it required to be able to make  the payment into the account  number  provided.  
I think if Royal London had contacted  Mr P or his adviser by return,  probably  they wouldve  
provided the information or documentation required in a timely way to enable  the payment 
to be credited to Mr Ps pension fund account,  a few days later,  within the 2016/17 tax 
year. 
Ive taken into account what Royal London has said about Mr P not following up on the 
payment. But, as his adviser contacted Royal London in advance  to check  what  was 
required, I dont  think I can fairly  hold Mr P responsible for what went  wrong here,  or for 
Royal Londons delay  in telling him about it. 
I think that Royal Londons offer of settlement doesnt adequately compensate Mr P for its 
failings. I consider that it should put Mr P back in the position that he wouldve been in but for 
the error.  Had Royal London responded  in a timely way, I find Mr P wouldve ended  up 
investing the £12,000 in the Adventurous  Lifestyle Strategy (Annuity) from early April 2016.
I also agree  that it would be appropriate  for Royal London to pay Mr P £200 for the trouble 
and upset hes been caused by this. 
fair compensation
Ref: DRN37337923I direct  that Royal London pay Mr P fair compensation as set out below. 
1.Within 14 days of my final decision,  Royal London should send Mr P any paperwork 
it requires to enable  the £12,000 to be invested  in his pension account  now.   
2.Mr P should complete  and return the relevant paperwork  within 14 days  of receiving 
it and also pay back to Royal London the £12,000 together  with the compensation 
he has previously received from Royal London  in respect of this complaint, less 
£200, the amount paid for his trouble and upset. 
3.Upon receipt of the paperwork and the money referred to at 2 above, Royal  London 
should put Mr Ps policy  in the position  that it would be in now,  had it invested  the 
monies it received  on 5 April 2016, within three  working days  of that date, in the 
Adventurous Lifestyle  Strategy (Annuity).
4.Royal London should also pay to Mr P (upon receipt of satisfactory evidence) any 
additional tax he has to pay HMRC  arising from the £12,000 not being  treated as 
having been paid in the 2016-2017 tax year.  
5.Royal London should also refund to Mr P the reasonable professional fees he has 
incurred as a direct result  of trying to clarify his tax position once he became aware 
that the premium  had not been credited to his pension fund in 2016/17. I have not 
made an order  for Royal  London  to pay Mr P interest on these fees. Instead, I 
have taken into account that before he returns it, Mr P has had around £800  in his 
possession of Royal Londons money, paid to him as net interest. 
Mr P should provide Royal London with copies of the invoices Mr P has received 
from his tax adviser. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and order  The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
pay Mr P fair compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3733792