K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC rejected his claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of repairs to a mobile phone.
background
In April 2018 Mr B took his six month  old phone to a repair shop  I will call W. He says his 
screen was broken and he asked that it be replaced with a genuine  part. He says W called 
him to say it had damaged the battery while carrying out the repair and it agreed to replace 
it. On collection he noticed the phone wasnt as it should have been  and asked  that it be put 
back to the state  it was in when he brought it in. W replaced the broken screen, but refused 
to refund the £150 he had paid by credit card.
Mr B then took it to the manufacturers  outlet which identified  that a non genuine  part had 
been used and so the phone was no longer covered by the warranty.  It also identified that 
the waterproof gasket was missing.
He made  a section  75 claim which was rejected.  Initially  the bank doubted there  was the 
required debtor-creditor-supplier  link, but later accepted  this was not an issue. However, it 
said the leaflet  from W didnt claim it used genuine  parts and the invoice didnt reference  
genuine parts. It concluded there  had been no misrepresentation  or breach of contract 
regarding he broken screen.
Mr B explained that his claim  was not about the screen,  but the fact that W had fitted  a non-
genuine battery having broken the original which had invalidated the warranty and left him 
with a non-functioning phone. Tesco rejected his complaint and the matter was referred to 
this service. It was considered by one of our investigators who recommend it be upheld.
She was satisfied from the hand written receipt, Mr Bs testimony  and the text exchanges he 
had provided that W had agreed to fit genuine  parts  and that it had failed to do so. This was 
confirmed in the report from the manufacturer. She noted the banks comments that there  
was no evidence to show the battery  which had been replaced  was genuine and it query  as 
to why the original  one hadnt been replaced along  with the screen. She accepted  the phone  
was only six months old which suggested  the battery was original. She couldnt say why W 
hadnt reinstalled the original battery. 
She recommended Tesco pay Mr B £150,  but it didnt agree. It said the invoice didnt have 
any detailed information  and didnt mention the battery. It also said the leaflet provided  by Mr 
B didnt  refer to W using  genuine parts and there was no evidence  the battery had been 
replaced or that the damage had been  caused  by W.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
Ref: DRN36282132For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
It is now agreed there is a clear  debtor-creditor-supplier chain and the only issue  is whether 
there was misrepresentation or a breach of contract. I would say at the outset that I find 
myself in agreement with the investigator.
It is clear Mr B took his phone for the broken screen  to be repaired to W and also that shortly  
after this the manufacturer confirmed a non-genuine battery had been  installed and a 
waterproof grommet was missing. I have  no reason  to doubt the phone  was only six months 
old and it seems more likely  than not that the battery had been replaced by W. This is 
reinforced by the text exchange which shows that telephone  wasnt  ready for collection the 
same day as had been anticipated by Mr B.
That exchange also shows  that Mr B had asked  that genuine parts be used before the work 
was done. Ws website  says it uses genuine parts and it is clear  from the manufacturers  
report that a non-genuine battery has been  installed. Added to that is the fact the waterproof 
grommet was missing. I am satisfied that W failed to carry out the work properly and 
therefore breached  its contract with Mr B. I also believe it was guilty  of misrepresentation  in 
that it didnt use genuine parts.
I appreciate Tesco is seeking to be absolutely  certain that the claim falls within section 75, 
but I am satisfied that the circumstantial evidence is enough to allow  it. In the circumstances 
I dont believe Mr B could be asked to provide more than he has. It seems W doesnt provide 
detailed invoices, but that shouldnt undermine Mr Bs claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Tesco Personal Finance PLC to 
refund £150 to Mr B. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to 
ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision  before 25 March 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3628213