K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that a car he financed through Advantage  Finance Ltd (Advantage) was 
not of satisfactory  quality.
background
On 11 June 2018 Mr B says he took receipt of a used car. He financed  the deal through a 
hire purchase agreement with Advantage that he signed a few days  earlier. The car was ten 
years old and had completed 89,000 miles.
Three months later he noticed  white smoke  coming from the exhaust because the turbo 
charger had failed.  The warranty company  wouldnt cover the cost of the turbo failure as they 
said it was normal wear  and tear. But whilst  the garage were repairing the car Mr B says 
they noticed the Diesel Particulate Filter (DPF) had been removed and re-welded.
Mr B complained to Advantage  about the quality of the car. He said the problem  with the 
turbo was there from the beginning and suggested the DPF had been tampered with to 
conceal the cars emissions.
So Advantage commissioned an independent inspection of the vehicle. But they found  no 
evidence to support  Mr Bs claims that the turbo  had been faulty at the point of supply so 
they advised him that they wouldnt be upholding his complaint.
Mr B was disappointed and referred his complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator  didnt think  
there was sufficient evidence either. She noted that the independent inspector had said 
there was no evidence the parts  had been  tampered  with and the problem had been  caused 
because the turbo spindle  had seized  and oil had been sucked into, and damaged, the DPF. 
She noted the inspector  had explained  that failure of this kind could occur at anytime  but that 
he was persuaded  it had happened since the car had been  supplied to Mr B because  the car 
had passed its MOT  on or around  the date of purchase and a turbo that was failing would 
have generated  emissions that would  result in the car failing the MOT. So the adjudicator  
agreed with these findings and didnt think Advantage needed to take any further action.
But Mr B disagreed. He said welding of the DPF was illegal and shouldnt have been  done 
and he asked for a final decision  by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B but I agree with the adjudicators  view and for similar  reasons. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
Ref: DRN38634012board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
was the car faulty at the point of supply?
Mr B acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Advantage are 
responsible and Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right. 
But Advantages responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Here Im persuaded, by the opinion of the expert  independent engineer, that this fault was 
likely to have occurred  at some point after the car was supplied to Mr B.
I say that because I find the engineers  explanation of the failure  plausible.  Ive seen pictures 
of the failed turbo with bent splines and I understand the engineers view that the car would 
have failed its MOT if the turbo  had been failing at that point. The MOT was completed  on 6 
June 2018 a few days before Mr B says he took receipt of the car. So Im persuaded that the 
fault with the turbo wasnt present at the point of supply.
Im also persuaded  by the engineers explanation that the fault with the turbo  caused the 
DPF to fail as it contaminated the DPF with oil. So I dont believe theres evidence to suggest  
the turbo or DPF failed or were failing at the point of supply. 
Mr B says that the DPF filter had been tampered with and that it had been welded.  Im not 
persuaded that it had been tampered with because the independent  engineer couldnt find 
any evidence of tampering.
So I therefore dont  think Advantage need  to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3863401