K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about the sale of a private  medical  insurance policy  by Aviva  Insurance 
Limited.
background
Mrs B had an existing private medical  insurance policy  with another insurer. In 2016, she 
called Aviva as she wanted  to leave her current insurer. A new policy  was then taken out on 
a moratorium basis. That meant any pre-existing conditions  in the previous five years  
wouldnt initially be covered, and could only subsequently be covered if Mrs B hadnt had 
any medication, tests, treatment or advice for that condition for two continuous years after 
the policy started.
In 2018, Mrs B made a claim relating to her hip. Mrs B explained  shed previously had a hip 
replacement. Although this took place more than five years before the policy  started, Mrs B 
said she had been uncomfortable since the hip replacement. 
Aviva therefore wanted to contact Mrs Bs GP for more  information about this, to check  her 
claim didnt  fall under the moratorium. Mrs B refused to give her consent to allow Aviva to 
contact her GP. She made  a complaint about  the sale of the policy, and said shed 
understood pre-existing conditions would be covered.
Aviva didnt uphold  Mrs Bs complaint, so she brought the matter to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He thought Aviva had made  it 
clear to Mrs B how the moratorium  worked at the time of sale.  He therefore didnt think the 
policy had been  mis-sold.
Mrs B didnt agree, so the matters  been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive listened to the sales call that took place between Mrs B and Aviva.  Mrs B called Aviva 
for a quote as she wanted to leave  her existing insurer. As Mrs B had received treatment in 
the previous year, Avivas  underwriters said she wasnt able to transfer the underwriting  
terms from her existing  policy,  and so Mrs B said she would take out a new policy.  
Avivas adviser discussed the two options  available  full medical underwriting, or a 
moratorium. The adviser explained what both of those meant. Mrs B said she wanted the 
moratorium. The adviser saved the quote  and sent Mrs B the policy  information  for her to 
look through before making a decision.  
Mrs B later called Aviva and asked to take out the policy on a moratorium basis. 
Ive looked at the policy information, and this made it clear  how the moratorium  worked.  The 
adjudicator has already  set out the policy wording, so I wont repeat it here.  
Ref: DRN38189022Mrs B complains that she wasnt asked for her medical history. However, the adviser  
explained during the phone call that if she opted  for full medical underwriting, then she would 
be asked for her medical history and relevant exclusions would be applied.  The alternative  
was the moratorium,  which  completely  excluded any pre-existing conditions  in the previous 
five years.  Mrs B opted for the moratorium. 
The adviser could  have started  the policy during the initial  phone  call, but instead she said 
she would  send Mrs B the relevant paperwork to read through  first. She told her it was very 
important that she read all the information and understand it. I think this was the right 
approach. There was a lot of information to take in over the phone, and the adviser  was 
concerned that Mrs B may not fully understand all the information  she was giving her about 
the policy. 
After Mrs B had received  the policy information  through the post, she was presumably  happy 
to go ahead as she called  Aviva back and took out the policy.  
I think the Aviva adviser took a lot of care to make  sure Mrs B understood how the policy 
worked. She explained she couldnt give Mrs B advice about which underwriting  option  to 
choose, and told her a number  of times  what the two options  were and what they meant. 
Im therefore  satisfied that Mrs B was told how the moratorium worked and wasnt  led to 
believe that pre-existing medical conditions would be covered by the policy.  Consequently, I 
dont find that the policy  was mis-sold. 
Mrs B says her specialists have told her that her hip problem  experienced in 2018 had 
nothing to do with her previous hip replacement. Aviva hasnt made a decision on Mrs Bs 
claim, so I cant comment on this. If Mrs B wants Aviva to make  a claims decision, she 
should provide  it with the necessary consent allowing it to contact her GP for more 
information relating  to her hip. It can then let her know whether her claim falls under the 
moratorium or is accepted.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3818902