K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Marks & Spencer  Financial Services plc didnt stop a duplicate  
payment from being made.
background
On 5 April 2019  Ms W made  an online payment of £3,000 to her M&S credit card account.  
Instead of telling her the payment had gone through,  M&Ss website redirected  her back  to 
the original screen.  So she thought the payment  hadnt been authorised, and made it again.
She later realised that both payments had been  authorised and contacted her bank. It gave 
her an authorisation  code  and told her to ask M&S  to send it an email containing this code,  
details of her account, and the transaction she wanted to stop. But M&S told her it wasnt  
able to do this. Instead it advised Ms W that if there werent sufficient funds in her bank 
account then one of the two payments may reverse.  But that if they did both clear then she 
should let it know  and it could return one of them. 
Ms W wasnt happy with this response so she brought  her complaint to our service. Shes 
frustrated that M&S didnt  take any action to stop the duplicate payment going through.  And 
that it wouldnt communicate directly with her other  bank about the issue. She says this 
caused her a lot of stress  and anxiety.  And she wants  M&S  to revisit its policy.
Our investigator looked at what happened, and said that M&S had acted in line with its own 
policies and procedures  here. So he didnt recommend that the complaint  should be upheld.  
Ms W didnt  accept our investigators findings, so the case  has been referred to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise that Ms W will be disappointed, 
but having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator  did here. 
I appreciate Ms W was concerned when she realised this payment had been made twice. 
Shes told us she was worried that her bank account would go overdrawn. And shes  
frustrated that although  her other  bank had a procedure to stop the payment being made, 
M&S said it couldnt meet its request for information to do this. I understand the third party 
bank told Ms W that other businesses havent had any problems complying with its requests  
to stop payments.
M&S has explained that it doesnt contact other banks in situations  like this. And that it 
followed its usual procedures here by waiting for the payment to clear and offering to return  it 
to Ms W. I appreciate  this wasnt  what  Ms W wanted  it to do. And that other businesses may 
have different processes in place. But as M&S  followed  its usual procedures  correctly here, I 
cant say that it treated  her unfairly.  
Ms W has suggested  M&S should revisit  its procedures. But its not the role of this service to 
review M&Ss processes and procedures. And I dont have the power to ask it to make 
changes to these.  So Im afraid I cant direct it to do this. 
Ref: DRN37481372I understand this issue arose because M&Ss website didnt show  Ms W any confirmation  
that her first payment had been authorised. And I can understand why this caused 
confusion. Ms W has explained  that she was able to transfer sufficient funds into her bank  
account to cover both payments. So fortunately she didnt suffer any financial loss here,  
though I appreciate the incident caused  her some  inconvenience. 
However overall Im satisfied that M&S responded promptly  when  she contacted it to let it 
know what had happened, and that it told her what its procedures  in this situation were. I can 
also see that it followed this up with a letter asking her to call its customer service  team  so 
that it could return  the second payment if she wished.  And I think  this was reasonable in the 
circumstances. So whilst  Im sorry to disappoint  Ms W, Im not going to ask M&S to do 
anything further  here.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3748137