K820x#14complaint
Mr C says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA France IARD (AXA)  has taken on that responsibility.  To keep things 
simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mr C bought the policy in 1994 at the same  time as taking out a store card.  He applied for 
the store card and PPI policy in-store. 
At the time,  Mr C was employed.  Mr C told us he was a customer service advisor/assistant  
manager. He has said he was entitled to at least six months sick pay, death  in service 
benefit and redundancy  pay. He also said he had life cover. Mr C has said he told us about a 
disability he had. From the dates  hes given, it seems this disability was something he had 
from birth or soon afterwards. 
Not all the paperwork is available  from the time. This isnt unusual  given how long ago the 
sale took place  and businesses arent required to keep its paperwork  indefinitely.  But to help 
me decide, Ive used  the nearest policy document from the time which I think is likely  
representative of the policy document relevant to this sale.
The policy provided  cover  for life, accident,  sickness and unemployment subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It likely  offered to repay  15% of Mr Cs store  card balance  in the 
event of Mr C being  unable to work due to accident,  sickness and unemployment. 
At the time,  the policy cost no more than £1 per £100 of the monthly  outstanding  balance. 
The premium would  continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did attract  
interest. 
Mr Cs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Cs representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr C wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Cs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN31347652The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AXA should have told 
Mr C about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr C and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
The information Mr C received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Cs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1994 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
Ref: DRN31347653The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer  was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992  and set out standards of good  practice  for the finance  and 
leasing industry. Section  4 of the code  covered  Credit  Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member  of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed  to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller  (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of the insurer.  
So Im satisfied it is right that I should  take these  codes into account when deciding what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mr Cs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Cs complaint.  
Ref: DRN31347654key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr C with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Mr C sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr C, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr C suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr C and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr C know  he had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ive been provided  with a copy of the completed  application form from the time. On it theres 
a section about PPI headed protection for your autocharge payments and the tick box 
confirming Mr C wanted the cover has been  completed. There was an equally  prominent no 
box which has been left blank. There are other optional products on the application form 
which Mr C hasnt chosen.  Given that he could pick and choose which products he wanted I 
think its more likely  he would have understood he didnt need to take out the cover to get the 
card and that he had a choice about taking it out.
I also think the PPI charge would have appeared on his store  card statements and if hed 
wanted to question them he could have done so at any time.  I havent seen evidence that 
this was the case.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr C knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did AXA provide advice?
Mr C said he was given a leaflet to complete but hasnt told us whether he thought  this was 
an advised sale. AXA says that advice wasnt provided during this sale and I think thats 
right. There  is nothing on the application  to make  me think  the representative  gave tailored 
advice to Mr C about the PPI and Im not persuaded that it provided  advice.
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr C. Instead, it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable Mr C to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
Ref: DRN31347655clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
AXA has provided us with Mr Cs application  form  showing that PPI had been selected. It 
has also referred us to a copy  of the paperwork it says he wouldve received,  including the 
policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied  to 
policies like Mr Cs. 
Looking at the information provided to Mr C at the time, I dont think AXA gave Mr C the 
information he fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether or 
not to take out the policy. 
This sale took place  in a store. I dont know what AXA told Mr C about the PPI but I think its 
unlikely he would have  agreed to take it out without  at least having a broad understanding  of 
the cover  it provided  i.e. life, accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  And I think  its 
unlikely Mr C would have  thought it was free.
But it was AXAs responsibility  to draw to Mr Cs attention the important information  i.e. the 
key information  about the nature  of the cover  and any significant exclusions and limitations  
which might  be relevant to his decision.  
I dont think its likely  AXA did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think  its likely the true 
cost of the policy was made clear to Mr C, including the need to maintain premiums  during a 
claim or that the payments would attract interest. In addition,  its unlikely AXA adequately 
drew to his attention the main provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and 
exclusions.
So I dont  think AXA gave Mr C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Cs representative has raised a number 
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr Cs. I have considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Cs representative considers to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr C about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Ref: DRN31347656Im not persuaded by Mr Cs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer  having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mr C has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards 
of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair or 
reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mr C? To what extent did Mr C suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr C. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr C suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr C would have 
still taken out the policy,  had AXA done  things properly. 
Mr C says he would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr C had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr C chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr C thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr C has suffered any loss or detriment.  
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr C ought  reasonably to have known he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of his outstanding balance.  But, I 
accept that AXA didnt make clear  the on-going cost information. So while Mr C didnt know  
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful  claim was not dissimilar to 
what he would reasonably have thought from the information he based his decision to take 
out the policy on and found  acceptable.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr C thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Mr C knew  about or ought  reasonably to have known about or which  he had 
sought or received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor  during  the 12 
months immediately before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr C 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
Ref: DRN31347657The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr C be unable  to 
do his normal job which included any similar  job, and not doing  any other paid or 
profitable job which his training,  education  and ability reasonably qualified him to do. 
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr C pause for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as he thought  and he might have decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr C from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. he was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Although Mr C has told us about his disability this 
wouldnt have likely  been something he thought he had to take long times off work for and I 
dont think better information  about  this exclusion would have put him off agreeing to it. 
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the 
significant exclusions. So, I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr C might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr C 
from taking out the policy,  Mr C, in his circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it 
out.
If Mr C had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any work which in the insurers view he might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into his thinking about  what he would do. 
And I accept  it may have  given him pause for thought  although given Mr Cs circumstances 
on balance, I still think he would have  been interested in taking out the cover. 
 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr C would still have taken  out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what he thought  he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits and other  means. Mr C has told us he 
he was entitled  to at least  six months sick pay, death in service  benefit and redundancy pay. 
He also told us about life cover  he had. But the policy would have paid out in addition to and 
likely for longer than his sick pay lasted and any redundancy pay he got could have been 
used for other important  expenses if he lost his job. Any death  in service and life cover he 
had was not the same as PPI as it would have paid out on the unfortunate event of his death  
not as the PPI did if he lost his job or couldnt work through accident or sickness.  And in 
those circumstances  I consider it more  likely  than not that he would have taken out the policy 
in any event. 
Mr Cs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
Ref: DRN31347658That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mr C would not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Cs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr C 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr C believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr C in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible that he would not have  taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude that AXA should pay Mr C compensation, as that would put him in a better  position  
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr C thinks AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
AXAs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  AXA gave Mr C, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1994 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Cs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find AXA negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr C and about the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that AXA had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr C in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
Ref: DRN31347659my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 May 2021.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3134765