K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that GLM  Finance Limited  refused his claim made  under  section  75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.  He wants a refund of the payments hes made.
background
Mr S tells us he took out a fixed sum loan agreement, in June 2018,  in order  to purchase a 
motor vehicle from a dealer  Ill refer to as A. He says theres been various faults with the 
vehicle and he doesnt believe it should have passed an MOT  prior to him purchasing  the 
vehicle. He states hes provided a report to this effect from a garage  Ill refer to as AT.  And 
says this supports  his claim that there were numerous faults with the vehicle at the time he 
bought it.
GLM told us that in October 2018 it received a complaint from Mr S about  the vehicle. It said 
this had listed concerns  about a broken exhaust; bent axle and dirty oil. It said it 
subsequently received  a complaint that the driveshaft was rusty and that washer jets were  
burnt. And it advised  that Mr S had threatened it with court action in respect of repairs  hed 
had done to callipers and other items at a cost of just over £1,100. Later  it said Mr S had 
offered to settle  the complaint for £550  and had confirmed the axle wasnt  bent and there  
wasnt a problem with the oil. It said it didnt  accept that faults were present at the point  of 
supply. And it pointed out that the MOT  included  specific tests for exhaust  emissions  and 
brake efficiency. It later told us Mr S had left the vehicle at As premises in early February 
2019 with a letter saying he was returning  the vehicle and cancelling the agreement. But it 
said that as Mr S wasnt able to voluntarily terminate the finance agreement it had issued a 
notice of default.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said he hadnt seen 
enough to suggest the MOT test hadnt  been  completed correctly. And he didnt think it 
would be reasonable to conclude that issues were overlooked.  He observed that as no 
payments had been made on the agreement since December 2018 the agreement had been  
terminated and the vehicle repossessed. He said itd subsequently been sold and the 
proceeds applied  to Mr Ss account. But as this had still left a shortfall he didnt think Mr S 
was entitled to any money back. 
Mr S wasnt  satisfied with this outcome. He said the reason he hadnt  paid since  
December 2018  was that the issues hadnt been sorted out and hed had to pay for the 
repairs. As its not been possible to resolve the complaint an ombudsmans been asked to 
make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S would be disappointed  with the problems which he experienced with 
this vehicle. Unfortunately with older,  high mileage  vehicles  theres  a greater risk that things 
can go wrong.
Ref: DRN38910512Mr S complaint is brought  under section 75 and is against GLM so Im looking at its actions 
and whether its treated Mr S fairly. Im not deciding on the merits of any claim he may have 
against A. Although in deciding if GLM handled Mr S complaint properly Ill take this into 
account. Whilst I dont  apply the law directly  I do take it into account. And section 75 is 
relevant legislation here. Where information is unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here 
- Im required  to make my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Briefly summarised, section 75 says that if a consumer uses  certain types of credit - and that 
includes a fixed sum loan - to purchase  goods,  then if theres  a breach of contract by the 
supplier (in this case A), or a misrepresentation,  the consumer will have a like claim 
against the provider of finance (GLM) as they would against the supplier. There are other 
conditions but its not disputed that they are met in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to deal with one issue  raised by Mr S in correspondence. He makes  reference to 
voluntary  returning  the vehicle under section 75a of the Consumer Credit Act". 
Section 75A has no application in the circumstances of this complaint. It relates only to 
finance agreements  where the item purchased cost between £30,000  and £62,260. That 
doesnt apply  here as the cash price of the vehicle was £6,350. And as this was a fixed  sum 
loan theres no provision for a voluntary return of the vehicle.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which  induces  a consumer to enter an 
agreement and as a result of the misrepresentation to suffer  a loss. And a breach of contract  
might occur if goods werent  of satisfactory  quality at the time of supply. 
In order to support  his complaint, Mr S relies on a report  from AT. On an invoice dated 23 
October 2018 its stated  that in the opinion of its vehicle technician  the exhaust  is corroded; 
a rear brake calliper is leaking and has been for some time.  It further  identifies  an oil leak 
from the rear of the engine. And it said there was a mileage discrepancy of around 10,000 
miles between  that recorded  on the service history and the MOT. This was despite  the 
service and MOT  being carried out on the same day. It concludes that these faults  were  
present when the MOT  was completed and the vehicle shouldnt  have passed that test.
Ive considered these  comments  but Im not satisfied that they show  there  were  errors in the 
way the MOT test was conducted. MOT  examiners  have  to be approved and have to 
undertake annual training and assessment. In my opinion  its improbable an examiner  would 
fail to observe  such obvious issues if they were  present at the time.  And Ive no information 
as to the level of experience of ATs technician.  So its not possible for me to say if they were 
sufficiently experienced and knowledgeable  to draw  such conclusions.
I can see the vehicle  passed its MOT on 4 May 2018 and at that time the recorded mileage 
was 107,105.  There were no advisories indicating potential future problems. The mileage 
when the vehicle was supplied to Mr S was stated to be 107,107  miles.  This is consistent with 
that recorded at the MOT  test and so I cant see theres been any misrepresentation over this.
A further  MOT test was carried out on 14 February 2019  which  is a few days after Mr S left 
the vehicle at As premises.  On this occasion  the mileage is recorded  at 114,998. This 
shows that in the time Mr S possessed the vehicle its probably  done around 7,800 miles.  
That appears to be above average for the period in which Mr S used the vehicle. Whilst this 
isnt conclusive in determining if the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when supplied, I can 
properly infer that the vehicle was performing to reasonable expectations.
Ref: DRN38910513I dont agree with Mr S suggestion that as the vehicle initially failed this later MOT  test in 
respect of some  of the issues identified by AT this is sufficient proof to enable him to get a 
full refund. Two elements  of the failure  related to lights - of which  Mr S made no previous 
complaint. And theres nothing to say that the failure related to the brake lever having 
insufficient travel was linked to any of the earlier issues raised by Mr S. The only aspect of 
the test which  might  reasonably be viewed as consistent with what  AT found  was the front 
exhaust leaking. But in view of the mileage covered by the vehicle prior to supply to Mr S - 
and the fact that there were  no problems discovered  at the May 2018 MOT - I wouldnt think  
it unusual in a vehicle which had covered this mileage for the exhaust to begin  to fail purely 
as the result of ordinary  wear and tear.
I was initially concerned that GLM  had sold the vehicle after Mr S had left it with A. With a fixed 
term loan, goods  purchased with such a loan become the property of the purchaser not the 
supplier of the finance. But Ive since been supplied with information to show that the loan was 
secured against  the vehicle by way of a bill of sale. And that this was registered with the High 
Court. As Mr S had stopped making payments on the loan this entitled  to GLM to recover the 
vehicle and apply  the proceeds  of sale to Mr Ss account. And I understand before doing so it 
issued a notice  of default. In taking these actions I think  it acted fairly and reasonably. 
GLM has indicated that the balance outstanding on Mr S account  is presently in excess  of 
£3,700. But it says its no intention of pursuing the balance and currently  plans to write it off.
As Ive not been persuaded that the vehicle wasnt of satisfactory  quality when supplied  to 
Mr S, I think GLM has dealt with this complaint fairly.  And its decision not to seek  to enforce 
the terms of the agreement reinforces that conclusion.
In summary,  Im not upholding this complaint. I dont consider theres sufficient information to 
show thered been a misrepresentation and/or  that the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory  quality 
when supplied. So I think GLM was entitled to reject Mr S complaint. It acted fairly in 
applying the proceeds of sale of the vehicle to his account and indicating  it would  not take 
any further action  against him. I dont find that Mr S is entitled  to any refund of the payments 
he made as he had fair use of the vehicle.  And by not making the required payments he 
breached the terms of the agreement. So I shant be asking GLM to make  any adjustments  
to any entries its had recorded  on Mr S credit file.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3891051