K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with what Coventry Building  Society (CBS) has offered to pay following his 
complaint about  the commission it got when  it sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy  to protect his mortgage.
background
In August  2017,  following  a Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance from the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA),  CBS wrote out to Mr S offering him compensation. 
The compensation it offered was in relation to the level of commission and profit  share it 
received on Mr Ss PPI policy.  CBS offered Mr S £133.82. 
CBS explained  to Mr S that it got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium).  And because it didnt tell Mr S this created an unfair relationship. 
To put that right, CBS offered to pay back to Mr S the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium. It also offered Mr S additional compensation, 
set at 8% simple interest  for the time he had been out of pocket of that money.
Mr S disagreed with what CBS has offered. Mr S thinks that CBS should pay back  any 
commission and profit share that was charged that was over 20% of the PPI premium.
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to our service.  Our adjudicator looked at what  CBS 
had offered and thought CBS had acted fairly  and that its offer was a fair way to resolve  the 
complaint.
Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Mr S explained there had been other court  
cases where, because  of the high level of commission that hadnt been disclosed,  the 
consumers had received all their commission back.  Mr S remained of the opinion that CBS 
should pay him more  in compensation  for the high level of commission  it received.
As the matter hasnt  been resolved its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint and Ill explain why.
The FCAs rules and guidance set out how firms,  that are lenders, should assess a 
complaint to establish whether failure  to disclose commission gave rise to an unfair 
relationship under section 140A of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (CCA). And also how 
businesses should  determine the appropriate  compensation  (if any) to offer to a consumer.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN30401522CBS, in light of the FCAs rules and guidance,  looked at Mr Ss PPI policy. CBS said that the 
level of commission and profit share it received did create an unfair relationship. So to put 
things right it offered  to refund  the extra Mr S paid each  month  for the time the commission 
and profit share it received  was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. It also included  8% per 
year simple  interest to compensate Mr S for any time he was out of pocket.  
Mr Ss complaint is that he wants CBS to pay back any commission  and profit share that was 
charged that was over 20% of the PPI premium.  And later on, Mr S has said that because  
there have  been  other court cases where  consumers have received everything back; he is 
now seeking a refund of all the commission and profit  share CBS received on his PPI 
premiums.
One of the things we take into account  when deciding what  is fair and reasonable  in all the 
circumstances of a complaint is the law. But we also need  to take into account relevant 
regulators rules,  guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where  appropriate)  what 
we consider to be good industry  practice at the relevant time.
In this case CBS has made  Mr S an offer of compensation in relation to the level of 
commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA. But Mr S wants 
CBS to do something different than the rules and guidance as set out by the financial 
regulator. 
We do look at the particular circumstances of each  complaint and each consumer to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different  if 
the remedies set out in the FCAs rules  wouldnt lead to fair and reasonable redress  for that 
individual consumer.  But there isnt anything about  Mr Ss complaint  that suggests the 
redress paid by CBS isnt fair or reasonable.
I accept that if Mr S went to court and it was decided there was an unfair relationship  under 
section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act, he might be awarded a full refund of the premiums 
he paid  this would  be a remedy available. And this is a route thats available to Mr S if he 
doesnt accept  my decision. 
In this case I think CBSs offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
my final decision
Coventry Building Societys  offer of compensation to Mr S, for the level of commission  and 
profit share it received  on Mr Ss PPI policy is fair. It doesnt need to do anything  further.
I am unsure whether  the offer has been  paid. If it hasnt, Coventry Building Society should 
pay the compensation ensuring that it is brought up to date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3040152