K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Amber  Homeloans Limited  increased the standard variable rate (SVR) 
applicable to his mortgage relying  on exceptional circumstances  but despite the passage 
of several years, the rate has not reduced  back down again.
backgroundMr B took out a buy to let mortgage with Amber in or around  April 2006, through an 
intermediary. The mortgage was for a loan of £68,850 with a term of 25 years. The initial  
fixed rate was fixed at 5.45% until 1 April 2008.  After this rate finished, Amber  applied their 
standard variable  rate (SVR).
In April 2008 when  the fixed rate expired, the rate changed to the SVR which at the time was 
7.24%. The SVR reduced gradually until it reached 3.49% at the start of 2009.
In March 2010, Amber  wrote to Mr B to let him know  that his rate would be increasing  to 
4.95% from that month  March 2010.  They explained that they were  increasing the rate due 
to exceptional  circumstances affecting  the UK economy and the high cost of funding.
The SVR remained at 4.95% until September 2016,  when  it reduced to 4.7%. Amber said 
the reason for the decrease was because  of a reduction in the Bank of England  base rate.
Mr B raised his concerns with Amber  because the SVR had remained the same for a 
number of years, following the increase in 2010.  He said he felt that the exceptional  
circumstances Amber  took into account  at that time, were no longer relevant due to the time 
that has passed.
Amber responded  to Mr Bs concerns in November 2016 and they said that they couldnt 
agree that the interest rate shouldve  been  amended, or that the exceptional circumstances  
were no longer relevant.
As Mr B was unhappy  with Ambers response, he brought  the complaint to our service where 
it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator didnt think that Amber acted 
unreasonably or unfairly. 
Mr B didnt agree with the investigator and asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  While Im sorry to disappoint Mr B, I agree 
with what the investigator has said so I wont  be upholding  his complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B originally complained in 2010 about the SVR increase  which Amber responded to. He 
has made it clear that this is not what he is complaining about. His concerns are that Amber  
are still using exceptional circumstances as a reason not to reduce their SVR,  even  now that 
several years have passed. This is what I will be looking at and not the SVR increase itself,  
although I will mention  some information around  the circumstances of the change, to give 
some context to this complaint.
In 2010, Amber identified  a need to increase the SVR they charged  their borrowers. They  
said their SVR at the time was low. Some  of their borrowers had a term in their mortgage 
Ref: DRN32787752that capped the SVR relative to the Bank  of England base rate. Mr Bs mortgage didnt 
contain this term so no cap applied to his mortgage. However, Amber charged  the same  
rate to all of their borrowers. As a result, the SVR was substantially lower  than most of its 
competitors. Amber increased their SVR and undertook to reduce it again if certain 
conditions were met  although there  is no contractual requirement for them to do this with 
Mr Bs mortgage.
Amber have provided information  to us to support the exceptional  circumstances, which are 
set out on their website.  Its commercially sensitive information, so Ive decided to exercise 
the power our rules allow  me to receive this information in confidence. In summary it shows  
that there  would be an impact on funding and the operation of the business if they were to 
reduce their SVR, while the exceptional circumstances still apply  which they do.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Bs mortgage and they set out that the SVR can 
be changed for a number  of reasons. Ive also taken a look to see if the SVR applicable to 
Mr Bs mortgage is linked to the Bank  of England base  rate. There is nothing that I have 
seen in the terms and conditions which says the SVR must change  in line with the Bank of 
England base rate, or that Amber should  change the rate by any specific margin when there 
is a change. So bearing this in mind, Amber  didnt have to amend this rate when the Bank of 
England base rate changed.
There was also no contractual barrier,  such as an early repayment  charge, which  would 
have prevented Mr B from changing his interest rate with Amber or in fact moving his 
mortgage to another lender  if he was unhappy with the changes  that Amber  had made.  So 
overall, I cant say that Amber have acted unfairly by not reducing the SVR at an earlier date.
I appreciate that there may have been  changes to Mr Bs circumstances or the position of 
the property market which may have limited his options. But changes  to circumstances such  
as these arent something that I can hold Amber  responsible for, as they wouldnt have  been  
able to foresee  this when Mr B took his mortgage out with them.  So it wouldnt be fair to hold 
them liable or responsible  for any changes of this nature.
Amber reduced the SVR in September 2016 following on from the Bank of England base 
rate reduction at that time. Since  2010 and up to September 2016, I can see that the SVR 
has remained unchanged  as did the Bank of England base  rate. However, it doesnt follow  
from this that the SVR tracked the base rate  and as Ive already mentioned, it didnt have 
to. The SVR was also in line with SVRs that other  similar lenders were offering  at the time.
I appreciate that Mr B is unhappy that the SVR hasnt  reduced as he would have wanted it 
to. But there  are no specific rules or terms and conditions that apply to his mortgage which 
mean that it had to move in the way he expected. 
Our investigator said that Mr B may want to seek independent financial advice to see what 
options are available to him at this time. This may be something  he would like to consider.
Taking everything into account,  including the relevant laws and regulations, I dont  think that 
Amber have acted unfairly in this case.  They said they would undertake to reduce that rate if 
certain conditions  were met. They have shown that these  conditions are still to be met and 
that there  would be an impact on them  if they reduced the SVR before then. Bearing this in 
mind, I cant  agree that Amber are acting  unfairly by not reducing the SVR.  
Ref: DRN32787753my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3278775