K820x#14complaint
Miss G complains  that AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited  (AXA)  declined her claim for a 
procedure only 12 days before it was due to take place having  previously  been  under the 
impression for 5 weeks that it had been approved.
Miss G is also unhappy that she was then locked out of her online account. She feels this 
was an intentional  act by AXA and constitutes a breach of GDPR. 
background
Miss G called AXA to discuss a procedure with it on 10 September 2018. She explained 
what it was for and asked  if theyd  cover it. During the call AXA lead her to believe the 
procedure would be covered by it. Following  the call, Miss G sent the consultation  papers to 
AXA, who reimbursed her the cost of £100 for it.
It wasnt until Miss G contacted AXA about her travel costs that this seemed to raise 
concerns. AXA phoned  Miss G on 8 October to say that the procedure wouldnt be covered. 
Between her initial call and the call on 8 October, Miss G had a number of conversations 
with AXA.  During  these conversations, Miss G was asked to provide some further 
information in relation  to the procedure such  as procedure  codes,  details of the surgeon  and 
clinic as well as an explanation why this couldnt be done on the island where  she lived. 
However, she was also told not to worry - the queries  didnt mean the procedure was 
declined. Shed been given an authorisation code which in turn allowed  her to make  
arrangements for the procedure including booking time off work  and arranging  for a friend to 
be present during her recovery. 
In the call on 8 October, AXA told Miss G that the procedure wasnt authorised for a number 
of reasons including that:
-the procedure  isnt covered under the policy. This is because  it excludes cover for 
Cosmetic (aesthetic)  surgery or treatment or The removal  of fat or surplus  tissue 
from any part of the body whether or not it is needed for medical or psychological 
reasons; and
-the surgeon and clinic arent recognised  by AXA.
Miss G wasnt happy with this and raised a complaint.  AXA agreed to answer  her quickly due 
to the procedure being scheduled in a matter  of days time. But it still declined  to pay for it. 
Miss G feels  that if she hadnt phoned  AXA about  her travel costs, she wouldve gone ahead  
with the procedure and AXA wouldve ended up covering it. And this doesnt feel fair to her.
Although the procedure  is considered  cosmetic  surgery, Miss G says the main reason  for 
having it is due to discomfort she feels and mental  anxiety  it causes,  as opposed to aesthetic 
reasons. And even  though AXA refused to cover  the procedure,  she went  ahead paying for it 
herself bearing in mind  she had little time to make a decision  before the procedure was 
booked, had already made  a number of arrangements  and needed time to recover  before 
taking a long haul flight which had already been  planned.
Miss G brought her complaint to our service.  To put things right, she wants AXA to 
compensate her for the cost of the procedure.
Ref: DRN32776932Our investigator looked into matters and felt that, although AXA shouldve told Miss G 
sooner than it did that the procedure wouldnt be covered, it had accepted this and took 
steps to put things right. These steps  included the following:
1.offered £200  to compensate Miss G. 
2.offered to see if they could approve the procedure as a gesture of goodwill if Miss G 
could find a doctor on the island  where  she lived to complete  the procedure, and also 
gave her names of three consultants who were recognised by it for this purpose.
3.offered to reimburse Miss G for any costs shed have to pay, including  travel  and 
accommodation costs  she already  paid for, if she chose to cancel  the procedure.
She also recognised  that AXA had dealt with Miss Gs complaint urgently due to the limited  
time before the procedure was due to take place  even  though  its allowed to take up to eight 
weeks to look into complaints. And it had already paid for Miss Gs initial  consultation.
Taking all of the above into account, she felt AXA had dealt with this matter fairly and 
reasonably to put things right. So she didnt ask AXA to do anything more.
Our investigator also explained  to Miss G that, whether a breach of GDPR  had occurred  
wouldnt be a finding our service can make. However, from reviewing a snapshot of account 
activity she couldnt  see a suspension or block put in place by AXA.
Miss G was unhappy with our investigators view. She says this is completely unethical. And 
feels that if this was an operation for something  terminal thatd been approved originally then 
the view would be different. She also feels the view has been  bias as the operation was 
deemed as cosmetic and feels this has resulted  in her being discriminated against.
Our investigator responded to explain  that the type of procedure  Miss Gs claim was in 
relation to is important  to the case. This is for several key reasons:
1.Because it is a procedure which  isnt covered under her policy. 
2.Its relevance to the impact it not being  authorised had on Miss G. So, if the 
procedure was for something extremely serious  (such a terminal  condition) then the 
effect would  be potentially greater.
3.Shed  considered what the procedure was for, and why Miss G went ahead  with it, 
acknowledging that Miss G said she went ahead due to physical discomfort.
But she also went onto explain that it doesnt mean our approach would differ.  We consider 
each complaint on its own merits and any compensation we award  is specific  to that 
particular complaint.
The matter  has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Having done so, I have to tell Miss G that I think the investigator has reached the right 
outcome here. And I think she set out the position  clearly about why she didnt feel AXA 
Ref: DRN32776933needed to do anything more to put things right. So theres not much I feel I can usefully add 
to what has already been said.
Theres no dispute that AXA got things  wrong here  it accepts it could have  and should 
have  told Miss G sooner  than it did that it wouldnt cover the procedure she was having.
The key facts about this arent in dispute. The only issue I have to decide is whether the 
amount of compensation its offered to pay is fair and reasonable when taken into account 
with the other things  it has agreed  to do  and has done  to put things right.
I think its right that AXA should  compensate Miss G for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by its mistake in this matter. However, our awards are designed to compensate 
consumers, not punish  organisations. We look at the impact  this has had on the consumer 
concerned. I can see from what has been said by Miss G how concerned she has been by 
this and that this was an already worrying time for her. But I think AXA took this matter  
seriously it apologised to Miss G and offered  £200 to her. This was in addition to having 
already taken a number  of other  steps to put things right and reduce the impact of its 
mistake, including covering the costs  that Miss G had already incurred or would be liable for 
if shed chosen  to cancel the procedure when she was told AXA wouldnt cover  it. Whilst 
Miss G decided  to go ahead with the procedure, it was an option for her to cancel it knowing 
she wouldnt  have been out of pocket  in terms of cancellation fees and other expenses.  And 
I believe this is a fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I know Miss G will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an end what  
we  in trying to informally resolve her dispute  with AXA  can do for her. 
Finally, I want  to reassure Miss G that I havent seen any evidence  of bias or discrimination 
in this matter as a result  of the fact that the procedure  is deemed  to be cosmetic. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint against  
AXA PPP Healthcare  Limited. So it doesnt need to do more than it has already done to do 
to put things rights.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Rebecca Ellis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3277693