K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Miss F complain  about the way Aviva Insurance Limited has handled their car 
insurance claim. Specifically they are unhappy about the valuation,  the courtesy car they 
were given and the handling of the claim.
background
Mr F has a car insurance policy with Aviva. Miss F is a named driver on that policy. Earlier  
this year Miss F had a collision  in the car. Aviva assessed the damage and declared the car 
as a total loss.
Mr F explained that he had to speak to a number  of claims  handlers during his claim, and he 
was originally given  a valuation much lower  than the one he has now been given. Mr F also 
had problems with his courtesy car. He had paid an additional premium on his insurance for 
an enhanced courtesy car  one that has at least a 1.6 litre engine.  But he didnt receive  this 
type of courtesy  car.
Aviva acknowledged  it hadnt provided the service  it should have when communicating  with 
Mr F, so it offered  £250 compensation for this. Aviva also refunded Mr F his additional 
premium he had paid for his enhanced  courtesy car. Aviva  instructed its lead engineer  to 
value the car  taking into account the modifications. It valued Mr Fs car at £3,000. Mr F felt 
this valuation was too low.
Our investigator felt Aviva had acted fairly. He felt the compensation  offered  was fair and he 
explained that he felt the valuation was reasonable. Mr F disagreed and felt the valuation 
was too low so the complaint has been passed  to me to reach a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Aviva has done 
enough and so I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why below.
courtesy car and poor communication
Aviva has acknowledged  that it didnt provide a good  level of communication  throughout 
Mr Fs claim.  It has offered him £250  for this and I understand that Mr F feels  that 
compensation figure is fair. Having looked at the communication  issues,  and the time it took 
for Aviva to reach a valuation for Mr Fs car I think this amount is fair and I wont be asking 
Aviva to increase  it. I also understand Mr F was given two different courtesy cars  both of 
which had engines smaller than he expected. Hed paid an additional premium specifically to 
have a courtesy car with an engine of a certain size. As Aviva  wasnt able to provide this I 
think its fair that it refunds the additional premium he paid to add this on. It has already 
agreed to do this so I wont  be asking it to do anything more in relation to these complaint 
points.
valuation
Under Mr Fs policy terms,  Aviva will pay him the market value of his car if it is declared as 
a total loss. I can see that initially Aviva  valued  the market value at around £1,000. This was 
based on using  the industry guides  that wed expect insurers to check  when coming to a 
Ref: DRN39483412valuation. However  this didnt take account  of the modifications Mr F had made to his car. At 
this point, Aviva hadnt assessed the car. When it instructed an engineer to inspect the car 
an increased valuation  was given based  again on industry guides. But the policy  states the 
market value is the cost of replacing  your vehicle with one of the same make, model, 
specification and condition.
Aviva later instructed its lead engineer to assess the value of the vehicle as Mr F complained  
that the valuation didnt  take account of the modifications. The engineer  valued  Mr Fs 
vehicle at £3,000. This was made up of the valuation from the industry guides and an 
additional £1,100 for the modifications that Mr F had made  to his vehicle. Mr F explained that 
this wasnt acceptable.  He felt the fair value  would £4,000 and he has sent in adverts  for 
similar cars to his with similar modifications to prove the market value. Ive looked at these 
adverts, and I can see similarities  with Mr Fs car  but these adverts  also showed newer 
cars with lower mileage  and were likely to have included a margin for negotiation.
I understand that Mr F paid a lot of money to have the modifications to his car completed.  
But whilst these modifications were  expensive, it doesnt necessarily mean  the market value 
of the car is entirely reflective  of the amount Mr F paid. Its also very difficult to know  what 
Mr F could  pay to purchase exactly the same car as his because his modifications were 
unique to his car. In situations like this Id expect  an insurer  to value to car and take account 
of the additional modifications when considering the value. I can see that it did this. The lead 
engineer made a list of the modifications, and used industry  guidelines for the retail  prices of 
similar cars. And as the exact car with the same  modifications isnt something that is 
advertised, Ive not seen anything to suggest  the valuation  of £3,000 is unreasonable.
In summary  I think that Aviva has acted fairly in response to Mr Fs complaint. I also believe 
the valuation for Mr Fs car is fair and reasonable. So I wont  be asking  it to do anything  
more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Miss F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3948341