K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) unfairly declined cover  for 
a new cylinder under  his Home Care  policy  and is also unhappy  with the proposed  price  
increase of his policy upon renewal.
background
Mr H holds a Home  Care policy with British Gas.  He was visited  by one of their engineers 
and was told that he required a new cylinder  for his central heating. However,  Mr H 
complained when he was told that the policy would not cover the costs of a replacement 
cylinder because  it had failed due to limescale, which  British  Gas said was excluded under  
the policy. 
Mr H says that when he first took out the policy, he was under the impression that his 
cylinder would be covered  against  such eventualities. He also says that British Gas have  
repaired other items in his property, such as the toilet, that have failed  as a result of 
limescale. So he feels they are only declining to replace his cylinder because this would be 
more expensive to replace.  Mr H was also unhappy  that his premiums had increased upon 
renewal.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. She concluded that British Gas had fairly 
relied upon the policy exclusion, and she also didnt think Mr H had been  treated unfairly  by 
the way theyd set the price of his policy. The investigator noted  that British  Gas had paid 
£30 compensation  in recognition of the level of service he had experienced, which  she 
concluded was fair compensation.
Mr H accepted the investigators explanation  with regards to the pricing  of his policy, but 
disagreed with her view on whether the cylinder  should be excluded.  As a result, the matter 
has been passed to me to determine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
As Mr H no longer disputes  the price  increase  of his policy, I will not be exploring this point in 
any further detail.  But in any event, based  on the evidence Ive seen, I dont  think  the way 
British Gas has set the price of Mr Hs policy upon  renewal is unfair. 
In terms of whether  British  Gas has fairly declined his claim for a replacement cylinder, the 
policy terms and conditions set out:
Whats not covered
Damage caused  by limescale, sludge  or other debris  if weve  told you before that 
you need to carry  out repairs,  improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, or a similar  
process, but you havent done  so.
An engineer  from British Gas attended  Mr Hs property on 18 January 2018  and reported  
that limescale and sludge were present in the cylinder such  that it would need replacing. As 
Ref: DRN34406142a result,  I dont think British Gas have unfairly  declined Mr Hs claim for a new cylinder  as I 
think it clearly  falls within the policy exclusion.
Mr H says that when he first took out the policy, he was under the impression that his 
cylinder would be covered  in such circumstances. Mr H hasnt submitted any evidence  to 
substantiate this claim,  and British Gas say that limescale damage within a cylinder has 
never been covered by their policies. But whether  or not the policy  would have covered 
limescale damage when  he first took it out, he has since renewed his policy,  at which  point 
terms and conditions can change. So Im only considering the policy  terms and conditions  
that were in force at the time of Mr Hs claim, which says that limescale damage is excluded. 
Mr H also doesnt think its fair that British  Gas have previously replaced  other  items in his 
property that have been damaged due to limescale,  but not his cylinder. However, I note that 
the policy only excludes limescale damage in relation  to the central  heating  system, boiler 
and gas appliances.  The policy doesnt  mention limescale in respect  of any other heads of 
cover, so if British Gas chose to replace his toilet that had been  damaged  by limescale,  this 
may be because it was not excluded for this particular fitting. 
But even if it was excluded, it is at the discretion of British Gas to choose whether to provide 
cover for something which would  otherwise  not be covered under the policy. This does not 
mean, however,  that they ought to provide cover for everything else that is clearly excluded  
under the policy.  So I dont  think British  Gas have acted unreasonably in the circumstances 
by refusing to cover  Mr Hs cylinder.
I note that British Gas has acknowledged that the level of service provided to Mr H had, on 
occasion, fallen  below  standard, for which they offered £30. And in the circumstances I think 
this is a proportionate reflection of the trouble and upset caused by their poor service, so I 
will not be making any additional award.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3440614