K821x#15complaint
Ms C complains that a second loan was lent to her irresponsibly by Provident Personal 
Credit Limited.  When she took that second loan a mistake on the previous loan balance had 
been made by the Provident  representative. Ms C says that one of the reasons she agreed 
to the second  loan was because she was told the Loan 1 balance was lower than it was. 
background
Ms C had a loan with Provident and she took a second in June 2018. Providents Agreement 
Summary has been used to set out a brief loan table. 
Loan Issued Value Total due Charges ESB Weekly Rate
Weeks
*1866 06/01/2018 £700.00 £1,310.40 £610.40 0.00 £25.20  52  
*3388 19/06/2018 £410.00 £767.52 £357.52 0.00 £14.76  52  
ESB refers  to early settlement balance. 
On 21 April 2020 I issued  a provisional decision. That is attached  to this final decision  and 
forms part of it. 
Originally, I invited both parties to come back to me with their views and more evidence, if 
they wished, by 5 May 2020. We have  not heard from Provident.  We did hear from Ms C 
who disagreed  with the provisional decision outcome and the compensation sum suggested. 
Ms C made several points which I have summarised here:
she had applied to reduce her work  hours because she thought she had almost  
finished paying for Loan 1;
applications for a bank loan, and to be added to a bank account failed. Ms C said that 
these were due to the incorrect  information added  to her credit file because of these  
events surrounding  the loans;
she explained that it was humiliating  for her and caused distress;
the £250 compensation sum is disgraceful.
And in light of her concerns I extended the reply  date to 19 May 2020 to give her more time 
to send evidence  of the issues  she had raised.  I explained that without specific  evidence  
then I would not be able to draw  conclusions and make decisions.  
We informed Provident that the reply date had been extended. But I have not received 
anything more from Ms C and nothing from Provident. 
The complaint remains unresolved and was passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
In light of Providents acceptance  of the error then I do not need to make  any findings on that 
aspect: the issue  remaining  was what ought  to be done to make things right for Ms C.
Ref: DRN31054482I said in my provisional decision that I accept that this error has caused  stress and anxiety in 
general, added to which the matter  has affected  Ms Cs credit  file, and the debt has been 
sent to a collection agent which would  have added to the stress. I had taken this into account  
when considering how to put it right for Ms C. 
I am sorry  to hear a few more details  about  the upset that this has caused to Ms C. But 
without evidence of her reduced hours  and what that has meant  to her financially, I am not 
able to come  to any firm conclusions. And I have nothing which specifically links the failed 
bank loan and bank account applications  to a specific Provident entry on her credit file. 
And in any event, the proposed resolution to put this right, so far as possible, was set out in 
my provisional decision and, without any further evidence  then I repeat them here. I think 
that the combination of the interest free credit for the second loan and the compensation 
plus the credit file amendments is fair and reasonable.  
putting things right  what Provident  and Ms C need to do
Loan 1 will have  to be repaid which means  £1,310.40 (inclusive  of all interest and 
charges) as agreed in January 2018; and
Provident needs to calculate how much it has received in total from Ms C on Loan 1 
and reduce the full balance by that; and
the repayments to clear the balance remaining on Loan  1 need to be agreed between  
Ms C and Provident and for it to remember to treat Ms C sympathetically if a 
repayment plan is needed to be put in place; and
the Loan 2 principal  of £410 needs to be repaid by Ms C and Provident must  remove  
all the unpaid interest and charges and deduct all the repayments paid towards 
Loan 2 as if they were made  to pay down the principal sum; and
both loans need to be pulled back from the collection agent  and any of its charges 
are dealt  with as between Provident  and its agent with no cost to Ms C; and
Ms Cs credit file needs to be corrected for Loan 1 and, once Loan 2 has been  
repaid, all records of Loan  2 removed completely. I say this because  although Ms C 
is repaying the £410 which stems from Loan 2, I do not think it fair that this is 
registered on her credit file as a loan.
For the upset and anxiety caused  in general  to Ms C, to compensate  her for the error, and 
for the additional  upset caused because of the involvement of a collection agent  which  I do 
not think would have been necessary, had the error not been made, I award £250. The £250  
for Ms C is not to be paid as a reduction of any balance but a payment directly  to her.
The whole rationale behind compensation is for those monies to be a sum for Ms C, not 
simply to be reintroduced  back to Provident by a balance reduction.  It may be that Ms C 
does choose to use that money to pay off some of the outstanding balances.  But that is a 
matter for her to choose  not for Provident to choose that it is done  for her. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Cs complaint and Provident  Personal Credit Limited 
should do as I have set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 June  2020.
Ref: DRN31054483Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN31054484my provisional decision dated 21 April 2020
Providents final response letter (FRL)  dated September 2018 said that a Provident representative  
had made  an error   apologised and upheld  that part of Ms Cs complaint. 
As an apology Provident  reduced  or offered to reduce - Ms Cs balance by £60. 
Another element of Ms Cs complaint addressed in the FRL related to a refinancing  concern  brought 
by Ms C. Ms C did not include that in her complaint form with us and so I have not addressed it. I 
assume that has been resolved. 
Ms C brought  her complaint  about the mistake and Loan 2 to us in late November  2018. 
In February 2019 Ms C received from Providents debt collection agent details  that the outstanding  
balance was £1,222 (rounded up by me). Provident has said that it was passed  to this agent as no 
repayments had been received for some time. This seems to be an addition of both loan balances 
together.
One of our adjudicators  investigated and as a result Provident sent to us photographic details and 
accepted that an incorrect entry in the payment book had taken place  on 15 May 2018.  It explained: 
The customers  balance  at the time of applying  for the second  loan was £755.40. The customer  was 
given a lower balance  in her book which  was £452.00.  There was a difference  of £303.40. 
Provident went  on to say: We would like to offer to put the customer  in the position  she believed she 
was in at the time of applying  for the second  loan.  This would mean  reducing her balance by £303.40. 
We also propose to remove any adverse information on her credit file from 19/06/2018 to present. 
This will leave  the customer with a balance  of £918.52 to repay. 
This offer was put to Ms C with an explanation that it was a reasonable one. Ms C declined  it. The 
matter has remained unresolved and so was passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I have considered the law and good general practice when 
considering this decision.  
I have outlined all the relevant details in the background  section to this provisional decision.  
Provident has accepted, and sent photographic evidence, of the incorrect entry in the payment book.  
Following on from that error in May 2018 the repayment book shows five additional repayments 
entered, together with the additional incorrect balance entries, leading up to 19 June 2018. So, the 
error was repeated several times.
Ms C has given us details  of how she would  never have taken  another  loan had I known  the correct 
balance on the first one was.
In light of Providents  acceptance of the error then I do not think that I need to make any findings  on 
that: the issue  is what ought  to be done to make things right for Ms C.
Provident has said it wishes to put the customer in the position she believed she was in at the time of 
applying for the second  loan. And I agree with that approach and it seems that Provident does too. 
But the offer made  does  not put Ms C back into that position. My provisional decision is that I accept 
that Ms C would not have taken that second loan for £410 if she had realised that her first loan still 
had a £755 balance on it. Providents resolution  leaves Ms C with two loans with interest to pay off 
and a credit  file showing both. I explain  my provisional  findings and decision in more detail here.
Ref: DRN31054485Loan 1 was agreed by Ms C in January  2018. Whilst I have made  a provisional finding that she would 
not have taken  the second loan if she had realised what  the true Loan 1 balance was in mid-June 
2018, if the true balance had been known to her at that time, she would  likely  have continued to repay 
Loan 1. So, putting Ms C back into the position she would  have been in had the error not been means  
that the Loan  1 agreement ought not to be affected.  It still needs to be repaid in full. I hope that Ms C 
understands that. 
I can see that before the second loan was taken Ms C was a regular payer. I anticipate that had the 
second loan never been given, its likely  the first loan would have been repaid on time or close to that 
52nd week  of the agreement end date. I do not know this for certain  but looking at Ms Cs repayment 
history from January to June 2018 I think that is a reasonable  assumption to make. Her repayments 
added up to between  £80 and £100 in each of those months. And they were  likely  to have continued  
and it would have been unlikely  that a collection agent would have  been involved.
I do accept that this error  which was repeated by the Provident  representative at least five times 
from May to June 2018 - has caused stress and anxiety  in general, added  to which the matter has 
affected her credit file, and the debt has been  sent to a collection agent which would have added  to 
the stress. I have  taken this into account  when considering how to put it right for Ms C. 
I have to consider that Loan 2 did involve  the receipt of £410 cash by Ms C and that she has had the 
benefit of that. I know that Ms C wants this to be written off, but in fairness  to both parties  I do not 
think that is the correct  resolution.  I do think  it ought to be interest free for Ms C.
I set out below what I consider this to be fair to both parties to put this right.  I am planning to direct 
that this is what Provident  and Ms C should  do:
Loan  1 will have to be repaid which means £1,310.40 (inclusive of all interest and charges) as 
agreed in January 2018; and
Provident needs to calculate how much it has received in total from Ms C on Loan 1 and 
reduce the full balance by that; and
the repayments to clear the balance remaining  on Loan 1 need to be agreed between  Ms C 
and Provident and for it to remember  to treat Ms C sympathetically if a repayment plan is 
needed to be put in place; and
the Loan  2 principal of £410 needs to be repaid by Ms C and Provident must remove all the 
unpaid interest and charges  and deduct all the repayments paid towards  Loan 2 as if they 
were made to pay down the principal  sum; and
both loans need  to be pulled back from the collection agent and any of its charges  are dealt 
with as between Provident and its agent with no cost to Ms C; and
Ms Cs credit file needs  to be corrected for Loan 1 and, once Loan 2 has been repaid, all 
records of Loan 2 removed completely. I say this because although  Ms C is repaying the 
£410 which  stems  from Loan 2, I do not think it fair that this is registered on her credit file as a 
loan.
In relation to the £60 reduction in balance  mentioned in Providents  FRL (September 2018), I cannot  
see from the records I have that this was done and so I do not think  that it was. It may be that it 
remained as an offer. So, I have factored that into my overall thoughts on the redress for Ms C.
For the upset and anxiety caused in general to Ms C, to compensate her for the error, and for the 
additional upset caused  because of the involvement  of a collection agent  which I do not think would 
have been necessary had the error  not been made, I award £250.  The £250 for Ms C is not to be 
paid as a reduction  of any balance but a payment directly to her.
The whole rationale behind compensation is for those  monies to be a sum for Ms C, not simply to be 
reintroduced back to Provident by a balance reduction. It may be that Ms C does choose  to use that 
money to pay off some  of the outstanding  balances. But that is a matter for her to choose  not for 
Provident to choose that it is done for her.
End of this extract
Ref: DRN3105448