K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
2002. Mrs D says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
In my provisional decision sent in July 2019 I explained that I dont think  this complaint  
should be upheld.  I said:
FICL had to make Mrs D aware that the PPI was optional  and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I cant be certain  what was said at the time Mrs D applied for her card 
and PPI but FICL has provided us with a copy of the available  paperwork. The application 
form Mrs D completed  when she applied for her card had a separate  section for PPI that 
Mrs D has signed separately  to signing in agreement with the card itself.  The section stated 
only sign this box if you require account  cover and Mrs D didnt have to sign this section to 
apply for the card. So with this in mind I think FICL made it clear that Mrs D didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she may 
not remember this.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs D so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs D got the information she needed to decide  if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she had of making her 
repayments which included sick pay, savings and help from her partner. Although  the 
information Mrs D has given about  her savings and sick pay to us and FICL hasnt been 
consistent, and Mrs D hasnt been able to provide  evidence of either her sick pay entitlement 
or her savings. So with the information  I have  Im unable to say with certainty  what  other  
means Mrs D had of making  her repayments.
In any event the PPI would  have paid out in addition to any sick pay Mrs D was entitled  to, 
and protected  her savings so they could be used towards other  expenses. And while  Mrs Ds 
partner would have  wanted to help,  their ability to would have been dependent on their 
circumstances at the time which  could have changed. So I dont think this offer of help could 
be guaranteed.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ds circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means FICL doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mrs D.
I gave Mrs D and FICL  time to respond  to my provisional decision, Mrs D responded but didnt 
provide any further  evidence  for me to consider.
Ref: DRN33969752my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. But as no further evidence was provided  after I issued my 
provisional decision I see no reason to come to a different decision to that explained above.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3396975