K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Lloyds Bank  PLC gave them incorrect information about the 
balance on their mortgage account. When they repaid the mortgage they found out they 
owed about £1,000 more  than theyd expected. They ask that Lloyds pays them  the £1,000 
difference.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out an interest only mortgage  with Lloyds in 2002.  For some  of the time 
since then payments were  made to the mortgage account by the Department  of Work and 
Pensions (DWP). 
In 2018 Mr and Mrs H took out an equity release mortgage. They used  the proceeds to 
repay their mortgage with Lloyds. They say Lloyds didnt tell them  that the DWP  had been  
underpaying for some  years.  They also say that the account balance  online was wrong. As a 
result, the mortgage balance was about  £1,000 higher than theyd thought.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  She said the 
discrepancy was caused  by overpayments and underpayments by the DWP from time to 
time. The balance  shown online is an estimate  and not the redemption amount. As the 
account balance  appeared  correct, she said she couldnt uphold the complaint. Our 
adjudicator accepted that Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy with what  they see as poor 
communication by Lloyds.
Following our adjudicators  recommendation, Lloyds  apologised to Mr and Mrs H for any poor 
service and communication.  It paid £50 compensation.  Mr and Mrs H werent  happy. Mr H 
said the online balance  showed the same amount  £59,000  for many years and they 
didnt find out they owed  about £1,000 more than this until they closed  the account. They ask 
that Lloyds pays  them the £1,000 difference.
Lloyds said its website  makes it clear that online balances arent a final settlement figure. It 
says payments made by the DWP on behalf of Mr and Mrs H are benefit payments and a 
matter between them. Lloyds said it isnt responsible for telling Mr and Mrs H about changes  
made by the DWP. And it said Mr and Mrs H were aware of the issues  with the payments 
from the DWP.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
the mortgage balance
Mr and Mrs H raised  concerns about the mortgage balance  and whether  thered been an 
error. Ive considered  what  theyve said and I dont think  Lloyds made an error  when it 
calculated the amount  owed: 
Ref: DRN31016822In a letter to Mr and Mrs H, Lloyds  said it received payments from the DWP to their 
mortgage account from 2010. Mr and Mrs H said the DWP started making  payments in 
2006. Lloyds agreed,  but said thered been a break  in payments. It said the letter 
referred to 2010 because  the DWP had made  payments on a regular basis since then. 
Mr and Mrs H say they made  payments and the DWP made overpayments so the 
balance should  be lower. Lloyds said the DWP had overpaid  for a time and this reduced 
the amount owed.  But since  2014 the DWP  had made underpayments and so the 
amount owed had increased. Lloyds provided evidence  annual mortgage statements 
which support this Lloyds says there  were some  months when no payment was received.
Mr and Mrs H say the online mortgage  balance was lower  than the amount in the 
redemption statement and this was the case for many years.  Lloyds said the online 
mortgage balance  is an estimate. It says it needs  to recalculate the account to provide  
the correct balance. It did this when it was asked for a redemption statement.
I think Lloyds provided a reasonable explanation for the concerns raised by Mr and Mrs H. 
The available evidence doesnt  suggest Lloyds made an error in the redemption  statement. 
Lloyds service and communication
Lloyds sent annual mortgage  statements to Mr and Mrs H. So it provided  information about 
the payments  it received and changes  in the mortgage balance. I dont think  its reasonable 
to say that the balance on the website was the only information available to Mr and Mrs H. 
The last mortgage  statement  sent to Mr and Mrs H, dated 31 December 2017, said the total 
cost of repaying their mortgage was £59,852.
The website says that the amount shown isnt a final settlement figure.  When Mr and Mrs H 
asked for a redemption statement Lloyds provided it. I understand that Mr and Mrs H are 
disappointed that the amount they owed was higher than the balance on the website. Theyd 
like Lloyds to pay them the difference. But I dont think its fair and reasonable to require 
Lloyds to do this. I think  this was the amount owed by Mr and Mrs H to Lloyds. 
what should happen now?
Lloyds apologised  for any poor communication, particularly  in its response to Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. It paid £50 compensation. I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3101682