K820x#14Complaint
Mr S has complained that Unum Ltd unfairly  declined a claim he made  for incapacity benefit 
under his employers group income protection policy.
Background
Mr S had the benefit of income protection  insurance  through his employer. The policy  would 
provide him with a monthly  benefit if he was unable to perform the material and substantial  
duties of his insured occupation due to illness  or disability for more than 26 weeks.
In April 2016 Mr S was signed off work  by his General Practitioner (GP)  due to stress. Mr S 
took early retirement  in April 2017  and around  the same time, made a retrospective claim 
under the insurance policy.
Unum received Mr S claim forms in July 2017. After receiving  copies of Mr S medical 
records, Unum  declined  the claim. It said it wasnt satisfied an illness  was preventing  Mr S 
from working. In January  2018 Mr S complained  about the decision, but Unum didnt change 
its position.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service saying that his GP had deemed him unfit for work.  
He thought if Unum  wasnt satisfied  by the GP records it shouldve contacted his GP or his 
employer for further information.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Unums decision was reasonable 
based on the evidence available to it. This was because Mr S GPs  notes didnt  detail any 
symptoms he was experiencing  that would explain why he couldnt work. The GP also hadnt 
prescribed any treatment. The investigator recognised that Mr S was under stress due to his 
wifes illness and other family issues. But she wasnt persuaded this had resulted in an 
illness that was stopping him from working. She didnt  think  it was unreasonable  that Unum 
hadnt sought further information because of the late notification of the claim. She said Mr G 
had the opportunity to provide more information  but he didnt  do so.
Mr S appealed so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.  He said it was 
clear his GP considered him unfit for work  due to illness. Mr S asked what  difference  further 
information about the illness would  make and added he couldnt obtain this now as his GP 
had retired. He still thought Unum shouldve obtained more information,  or carried  out its 
own assessment when he made the claim. Mr S explained how his symptoms  stopped him 
from carrying out his insured  occupation.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
largely the same reasons  as the investigator.
Under the terms of the policy, incapacity  benefit  will be paid at the end of the 26 week 
deferred period  if:
Unum is satisfied that the member is unable, by reason of his illness or injury, to perform 
the material and substantial duties of his insured  occupation
Ref: DRN31247932It isnt in dispute that Mr S GP issued fit notes saying Mr S wasnt fit for work. However, as 
per the policy  terms, Unum needs to be satisfied Mr S is unable to perform his insured 
occupation as a project services manager due to his illness.
Mr S was first absent from work  on 21 April 2016, meaning the deferred period ran until 
20 October 2016. Any potential liability ceased on 14 April 2017  when Mr S left his 
employment.
Unum was first notified of the claim in July 2017. Technically under the policy  terms, Unum 
couldve declined the claim without considering it. This is because the terms stipulate that it 
should be notified of any claim after 14 weeks of absence.  However, Unum  has discretion as 
to whether it considers a claim outside of this time limit, and I think it was reasonable for it to 
exercise its discretion  in favour of Mr S on this occasion.  
Unum considered the medical evidence available to it when the claim was reviewed  in 
July 2017. This consisted of the claim forms and medical records.  Unum  declined the claim 
as it wasnt satisfied an illness was stopping Mr S from working throughout the deferred 
period and beyond.
Having considered the same evidence, I think Unums decision was fair. Mr S was first seen 
by his GP on 21 April 2016.  The GPs note says that Mr S was clearly stressed about his 
wifes diagnosis and signed  him off work for two weeks  due to family illness. He was next 
seen on 3 May 2016. The GP recorded notes about  Mr S wifes progress and also noted 
Mr S intention to apply for early retirement  due to his parents both being  in their nineties.  He 
issued a further sick note for one month.  The diagnosis  was family history/stress related 
illness.
Mr S saw his GP for the last time on 7 June 2016. The GP again recorded notes about  his 
wifes progress and noted that Mr S was receiving support from the hospital and a charity.  
He also noted  that hed given advice regarding diet and exercise. Mr S was signed  off for 
two months and the diagnosis given was stress related  illness/family illness . Whilst Mr S 
continued to be signed off for a stress related illness or family illness every three months  
thereafter, all of the consultations  were  done over the phone. Any notes made by the GP 
referred to Mrs S health.
Ive considered this evidence  carefully  but I dont think it shows Mr S was experiencing 
symptoms of an illness that prevented him from carrying out his insured occupation. Apart 
from the first note in which Mr S GP described  him as clearly stressed, there are no further  
entries that detail Mr S illness  or symptoms.
I dont doubt that Mr S was going  through a very difficult time supporting his wife and elderly 
parents and that this wouldve taken an emotional  toll on him. I also accept that stress can 
be considered  an illness if it manifests as physical symptoms. But there is very little objective  
evidence that demonstrates Mr S was incapable of working. As I understand it, he was able 
to maintain a normal routine, undertaking housework and other  tasks,  in between hospital  
visits to care for his wife. Mr S says he wouldnt have been able to concentrate  at work 
because he was having trouble sleeping and he was also very anxious. But there is no 
objective record of these symptoms, how the stress  he was under impacted him and how 
this affected his ability to work. It also seems he was intending to retire as early as 
May 2016, which suggests he may not have been working regardless of the stress he was 
under.
Ref: DRN31247933The GP also didnt  recommend  any treatment. Mr S has said he was receiving support at the 
hospital and through a charity instead.  This is detailed in the GPs notes  but I dont think 
this shows he was receiving this support to treat his symptoms of stress. It appears this 
support was available to him and his wife to cope with her illness.
Mr S also believes Unum  shouldve asked for further medical evidence or carried  out an 
assessment if it felt the GPs notes  were insufficient. But I dont think  it wouldve been useful 
for Unum to carry out an assessment in July 2017 as it needed  to be established Mr S was 
unfit for work  from April 2016. This could only be established by reviewing the medical 
evidence from the time.  Whilst  the GPs notes were brief, Unum believed  they were  sufficient 
to decline the claim  and I agree. It was open  to Mr S to provide further evidence in support of 
his claim after it was declined but he didnt feel it was appropriate to do so.
I appreciate Mr S attempted to obtain  further evidence  more recently, but his GP had since  
retired and his new GP wasnt prepared to comment on the historic records. Mr S asks what 
good further evidence would have  done,  given the GP stated he wasnt fit for work  in the fit 
notes. But the GP couldve  provided  context  what his symptoms were and why in his 
professional opinion they rendered him unfit for work.  I think  this wouldve been  helpful to 
know at the time.
I can completely understand why Mr S wouldnt  have gone to work whilst  his wife was so 
unwell. But I dont think I can say Unums decision to decline  the claim was unfair  based  on 
the evidence available  to it. I appreciate this will be very disappointing  for Mr S, but Im 
pleased to hear that both he and Mrs S are doing better.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3124793