K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) unfairly accepted liability for a claim 
against her under her car insurance policy.
Mrs E previously made a separate complaint  to UKI regarding court proceedings going 
ahead without input  from UKI leading to a CCJ. This complaint was settled separately and 
does not form part of my decision.
background
In January 2017 Mrs E was reversing her car and collided with a third party vehicle. Mrs E 
said there was no damage  caused.  But the third party claimed  on their insurance  and 
Mrs Es insurer (UKI)  settled the incident as a fault claim.
Mrs E complained to UKI. She disputed causing  any damage to the third partys  vehicle and 
said UKI had failed to investigate  this. Mrs E said the third partys car had never been 
inspected by UKI, and it hadnt asked for detailed invoices to show  what damage was being  
claimed for. Instead  Mrs E said the third party was claiming for pre-existing and exaggerated  
damage.
 
UKI agreed  its communication and lack of action when handling the claim was unacceptable.  
It said it failed to keep  Mrs E informed, didnt  respond to emails or challenge the extent of 
damage claimed for by the third party.
As a result UKI offered Mrs E £250. However it stood by its liability  decision, saying Mrs E 
had reversed into an unattended  and parked  vehicle  so considered  her at fault. It said 
therefore  under the terms of the policy  it wouldnt  chose to defend  the claim in court as it 
felt there  would be a low prospect of success.
Mrs E brought her complaint to our service.  She asked for the accident and any amount paid 
to the third party to be removed  from her record as she wasnt  given an opportunity to 
defend her case. And she asked for compensation for the stress the experience  had caused.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and didnt uphold it. He said the policy 
allows UKI to decide how a claim is settled. And in this case they had decided to settle as a 
fault claim.  He said hed listened to the initial notification call Mrs E made to UKI. In the call 
she said had she felt a slight resistance and touched the car behind her. UKI took this as 
sufficient evidence to show she was most likely  at fault,  and he felt this was fair.
The investigator said UKI had provided  a very poor service overall. But he felt the offer of 
£250 accounted for this. And he said while UKI had provided poor service, he felt the liability  
decision wouldve remained the same  given the facts of the incident.
Mrs E disagreed and said shed never  collided with the other  vehicle and that UKIs mistakes 
would affect her claims history going  forward. And she said £250 was not reflective of the 
distress shed suffered.  Because  Mrs E disagreed the complaint has been  passed to me for 
an ombudsmans decision.
Ref: DRN31451942my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
liability decision
Under the general conditions of Mrs Es policy it says UKI is entitled  to take over and carry 
out the negotiation,  defence  or settlement of any claim in your name, or in the name of any 
other person covered  by this policy.
This allows UKI to decide how to settle a complaint. In this case UKI chose to settle the 
incident as a fault claim. Mrs E disputes the reasons  behind this, and said it failed to 
investigate the damages claimed for by the third party.
UKI agreed  it failed  to investigate the claim thoroughly  but said these mistakes  wouldnt have 
impacted the outcome reached. Ive thought  carefully about this and considered  the 
evidence available. During the phone  call our investigator has referenced, Mrs E said she 
essentially reversed  into the vehicle  and that she felt resistance and touched  the third 
party car.
I think this is persuasive evidence to show Mrs E did collide with the third party vehicle. And 
as such, because the other vehicle was unoccupied  I think  its reasonable to say Mrs E was 
at fault for the incident.
Mrs E now says she never had any collision with the other vehicle. But this goes against  
what she said at the time and Ive been  given  no persuasive evidence to suggest why there 
is a discrepancy in her versions of events.
Mrs E has said the third partys  car was already damaged.  And I accept this is possible and 
that the extent  of damage couldve been investigated by UKI. But Im not persuaded this 
wouldve changed the outcome of the claim and how the liability  of this would be recorded, 
for the reasons Ive given.
Based on the evidence  Ive been  given, I think  UKI acted fairly and reasonably by choosing 
to settle this claim. Mrs E feels very strongly that UKI has made the wrong  decision,  but this 
isnt her decision to make.
So while I agree UKI couldve  investigated the claim further than it did, Im satisfied this 
wouldnt have affected how the claim was settled.
Ref: DRN31451943customer service
ICOBS 8.1.1 requires  UKI to:
(1) handle claims promptly  and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; 
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
I think its clear  UKI hasnt met these obligations as it hasnt handled this claim promptly  or 
kept Mrs E updated. And UKI hasnt disputed this. So I have to consider what UKI should  do, 
if anything further  than it has, to put things  right for Mrs E.
Mrs E has described this experience as being very stressful. And I can understand that she 
may have  lost faith in UKI as a result of how its handled this claim  having to chase for 
updates herself  and not feeling listened  to by UKI.
However I think most of the frustration shes described to us relates to how the claim was 
settled and not the case handling  as she disagrees there was an accident and the level of 
damage caused.
And as Ive explained,  Im satisfied UKI has acted reasonably  and within the terms of the 
policy  when deciding  to settle  the claim. For this reason I think  UKIs offer of £250  is fair 
and accounts  for the lack of updates and slow progress on the claim. So Im not asking UKI 
to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3145194