K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Birmingham  Midshires (BM) changed  
its policy requiring her to increase her payments  towards  her mortgage. Mrs D wants  BM to 
comply with the arrangement she reached with the Customer  Priority  Team.
background
Mrs D has been unable  to work  and so was unable to maintain the payments on her 
mortgage and is in arrears. Mrs D also has unfortunately been  ill over these past few years 
following an accident  in 2012 which would have impacted on her ability  to work and pay off 
the mortgage in a timely manner.
Mrs Ds benefit entitlements changed a few years  ago which meant  that she got no further 
assistance from the DSS with her interest payments. At about the same time, BMs interest 
rate went  up which  meant Mrs D had to find another £200 per month. Mrs D contacted  BM 
about this and in February  2017, Mrs D was contacted  by an adviser from BMs Customer 
Priority Team. Mrs D and the BM adviser  arrived at an arrangement that allowed Mrs D to 
pay the contractual monthly payment and an additional sum towards the arrears.  At one 
stage Mrs D was under pressure to pay off a council tax bill and her contact at the CPT team 
suggested that she could pay this off which meant  that she paid less off the arrangement 
that month.  But whilst  Mrs Ds account was handled by the CPT team, Mrs D says that she 
had regular contact  with that team and none  of the advisers suggested that there  was an 
issue with the arrangement. 
Mrs D says that she was contacted in September 2018 to say that BM now required an extra  
£260 per month so that the arrears would be paid off by the end of the term of the mortgage  
and that the adviser offered her £100  for the stress  that this change of policy  would cause 
her. Mrs D asked the adviser to put it towards  her arrears but he said that it was a payment 
for her. Mrs D is now paying her contractual payments and £100 towards the arrears 
although this isnt part of a formal  arrangement.  Mrs D is concerned that BM will not accept 
less than the £260 extra per month. Mrs D believes that she got incorrect advice from BM 
and that it wont  listen to her reasonable offers of payment.
BM says that Mrs Ds arrears preceded her illness in 2012 and went back to 2004  and 
shortly after the customer  took out the mortgage.  It says that it consolidated £7,396.74 
arrears in December 2008  and then consolidated  £14,737 arrears in September 2012   it 
obtained a suspended Possession Order in 2011.  BM says it transferred Mrs Ds account to 
its customer priority  team to help Mrs D with her finances and come up with a solution about 
her account.  Mrs D agreed an arrangement at that time. BM says that it accepted that Mrs D 
pay of her council tax bill but this didnt have a major impact on Mrs Ds account.
 
  
BM says that it recognised that Mrs D was a person in financial difficulties and has been 
positive and sympathetic  in its dealings with her. But following guidance from the FCA in 
2018 there was a remediation and change in policy which meant that the way the bank 
calculated the monthly  payments when customers are in arrears changed. This meant that 
any customer in arrears  had to pay the Threshold  Payment Amount (TPA)  as a minimum 
rather than just the Contractual  Monthly  Payment (CMP). The TPA is higher  because it is 
the CMP + arrears over the term so that at the end of the term the balance  in full (including 
Ref: DRN35472672the arrears) is paid.  So, BM agrees that it did advise Mrs D that the payments it required 
were higher  in 2018 than previously. BM says that the CMP is £879.72 and that the TPA is 
£1149.88. BM says that Mrs D has a direct debit set up for £879.72 and that Mrs D  
sometimes pays more but not as much as the TPA.  
As a solution  to Mrs Ds present difficulties BM suggested that it would look at the possibility 
of a term extension  and says that it may be able to progress this if Mrs D makes contact with 
its specialist team.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt believe 
that BM had done anything  wrong. Mrs D disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Ds account has been in arrears for some time and so Ive looked at a large  volume of 
notes on the file and listened  to a number of phone calls Mrs D had with BMs advisers. The 
crux of Mrs Ds complaint  relates to the fact that she was content with the payments she was 
making whilst  her account was supervised by BMs CPT team and isnt happy  with the 
change of policy where BM want her to pay more each month. I believe that Mrs D 
understood that although her mortgage balance would be paid off by the end of term her 
arrears wouldnt but that she could then pay these off later so that the mortgage would be 
effectively extended  by default.  I dont  believe that BMs change of policy  was affected by 
Mrs Ds decision  to pay off her council tax bill rather than the mortgage.
BMs change of policy requires Mrs D to pay off the arrears and mortgage balance  within  the 
term of the mortgage.  From the phone conversations Ive listened  to, BM say that the TPA is 
unaffordable for Mrs D given her income and expenditure but a possible solution is that Ms D 
apply for a term extension  so that the mortgage balance and arrears  are paid over a longer  
period. From  the contact notes I can see that this was discussed in November  2018  but 
there seems to have  been an issue about contact  with Mrs Ds ex-husband who is still a 
party to the mortgage and no application seems to have been made.
Although Mrs D was content with the payments she was making to BM whilst her account  
was with the CPT team I dont believe that BM had committed itself to accepting these 
payments indefinitely which would mean it was accepting that the mortgage term would be 
effectively extended  by default.  BM had already consolidated Mrs Ds mortgage on a number 
of occasions and it was reasonable for it to expect that the balance and arrears be paid by 
the date when the mortgage is to end. That said, Mrs D, as BM has worked out, is presently 
unable to pay the revised TPA. BM should be positive  and sympathetic  in Mrs Ds financial 
difficulties. One possible  solution is a term extension  and it seems that BM is still willing  to 
consider an application for such an extension should  Mrs D progress with it. I dont know  
what the result of that application will be. Given the history  of the arrears on the account  and 
the various arrangements and restructuring, I cant fairly say that BM hasnt dealt fairly with 
Mrs D in the past and that still appears  to be the case. I know that Mrs D is anxious to stay in 
the property and I hope that a solution can be found.  But on the evidence  before me I cant 
fairly uphold  this complaint.
Mrs D has recently  told us that she recently  got a court  order  for repossession.  Although  not 
part of this complaint,  I understand  Mrs Ds concerns and asked BM why that was. BM 
Ref: DRN35472673replied that At this stage  we are just looking to get an extension on the previous court order. 
We explained to Mrs D on 25 April 2019 that this does not mean enforcement  and if an 
arrangement can be made  between  the Bank and customer  we can work  together to keep 
her in the property . 
I have also noted  when considering this complaint that some  of the calls are quite lengthy 
which I appreciate are what I would expect  when conveying complicated pieces of 
information to a customer. I dont have an issue with the quality of the advice being given. 
But the length of the calls also suggests  that Mrs D may have difficulty  processing what she 
is told as the information  can be quite complicated. Mrs D has suggested that information is 
conveyed to her in writing  so that she can take independent advice on it. Could I suggest 
that if BM is communicating with Mrs D on significant matters which she might  want  to take 
advice on that it does so in writing?
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3547267