K820x#14complaint
Mrs L is unhappy because Scottish Equitable Plc (trading  as Aegon) has refused  to pay out 
for a critical illness claim after she suffered a heart attack. Mrs L has two policies with Aegon  
 it has met a claim for heart  attack on her second policy, but not her first. 
Specifically, she says Aegon is unreasonably  relying  on unfair  criteria  for her claim, when it 
lessened the criteria  for new policies shortly  afterwards. Mrs L says it is unfair to apply  
differing term across the two policies. Further, she says the wording  applying  to the refused 
claim is an unfair measure because a layperson would not have any knowledge of the 
measures of severity used to assess heart attacks.  
To resolve  her complaint,  Mrs L wants her outstanding claim paid in full, with interest.  
background
Mrs L took out a level term life and critical illness policy with Aegon in April 2014. It offers life 
cover of £200,000  and critical  illness cover of £50,000. The policy is set up to run until April 
2049.  
In August  2017,  Mrs L took out a second life and critical illness policy.  This had the same 
term as the first policy, with a lower sum assured  of £25,000 for both benefits. Both policies 
were taken out through an independent  financial adviser.  
In November 2018, Mrs L sadly suffered a heart attack. She made  claims to Aegon on both 
policies. It agreed to pay a claim on the second policy  in February  2019,  but it would not pay 
a claim for the first policy. Aegon said that Mrs Ls recorded troponin levels  were  below the 
threshold required by the first policy. The second  policy did not have a specified threshold,  
and so the claim was met. 
Mrs L complained, via her financial adviser. The complaint was about the application of 
differing terms.   
The adviser said that it was only once the policy was in force that a policyholder would  have 
the ability to read through all the terms and conditions. And having done so, it is not clear  to 
a layperson what specified severity meant. Further, the adviser said it was unfair to waive 
the threshold for policies after 2017, as it clearly offered significantly better  terms than earlier 
policies.   
  
Aegon rejected the complaint. It said that the second policy  was priced to reflect  newer 
terms, but that this did not mean  the 2014 policy was unfair  or unfit for purpose. It was 
commonplace for insurers  to revisit their insurance offerings, and it was simply not possible 
to underwrite old policies.  It also pointed  out that the 2014 terms were  available online at the 
time of the advice  and sale, so the adviser  could have shown Mrs L the terms when 
discussing them with her.  
Mrs L referred her complaint to this service.  She said that Aegon  ought to have told her that 
it updated its policy definition for heart attack  to something more favourable. She said Aegon  
was in the informed position   a policyholder is unlikely to appreciate the differences 
between policy wordings.  
Ref: DRN38251622Aegon said it had provided Mrs L with the cover that it was asked for by her adviser. It takes 
the view that Mrs Ls cover is fully and clearly explained in her policy documentation. It 
maintained that it was under no obligation to let Mrs L know  about  any changes  to new 
policy conditions it could  offer, as these had no impact on the cover it provided to her, for the 
agreed premiums. Aegon said that if there  was a change in what  cover might  be available  
within the insurance market, that was a matter  for Mrs L and her IFA. 
An investigator considered the complaint but did not feel it could succeed. She noted that 
Mrs L was not complaining about the fact her heart attack was not of the specified severity  to 
pay out claims on both policies. So, she had not investigated that point further.  
The investigator considered that Mrs L said the lower severity criteria ought to be 
retrospectively applied  to her first policy. However,  she disagreed. She said the correct  
position for Aegon to take was to apply the respective  terms to each policy. That was 
because over time, policy wordings that change could adversely affect policyholders as 
much as it could benefit them  and so they remain the same throughout the life of a policy.
The investigator said it was right to apply the terms specific to the policy  from the time of the 
sale. So, she felt Aegon did not behave unfairly in assessing the claim on the 2014  terms.  
Mrs L disagreed. She said she had suffered  a further heart attack but again, her troponin 
levels were insufficient  to meet the 2014 terms. She remained of the view that this was 
unfair. She therefore  asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to learn  of Mrs Ls circumstances and that she continues to be unwell. I 
realise how strongly she feels that the actions of Aegon have been unfair. 
However, I will not be upholding  this complaint. Thats not to say I dont recognise how 
poorly Mrs L has been, or that Aegon has made changes to its critical illness  insurance  
across the relevant years. Its because I dont believe Aegon has behaved unreasonably by 
applying the policy terms as they are set out under  the 2014 policy.  I will explain why that is. 
Aegon says a claim is not valid under the 2014  policy because the wording says:
Heart  Attack  - of specified  severity
Death of heart muscle,  due to inadequate blood supply, that has resulted in all of the 
following evidence of acute myocardial infarction:
New characteristic  electrocardiographic  changes;
The characteristic  rise of cardiac  enzymes or Troponins recorded  at the 
following levels or higher:
-Troponin T>1.0ng/ml
-AccuTnl>0.5ng/ml or equivalent threshold with other Troponin I 
methods.
The evidence must show a definite  acute  myocardial infarction.
For the above definition, the following are not covered:
Ref: DRN38251623-Other acute  coronary  syndromes including but not limited to angina 
The wording  Aegon uses  in the 2017 policy omits the part set out in bold above. 
When Mrs L was admitted to hospital  in November 2018, three separate recordings of her 
troponin levels were taken. None of the three met the threshold of 1.0ng/mL  (also recorded 
as 1000ng/L).  
Neither party has made any submissions on that point. As our investigator  said, it is 
accepted that Mrs Ls circumstances  did not meet the required severity in the 2014  wording. 
Where the issue arises is that sometime before the second policy of August 2017, Aegon  
had decided to scrap the severity requirement  altogether for new customers.   
I appreciate that Mrs L believes  it is particularly unfair that Aegon did not seek  to improve  the 
terms it had offered to applicants in previous years based on newer, better wording. 
An insurer  may periodically revise the type of cover it offers its customers.  That decision is a 
commercial one, and not something that our service can generally interfere with. Thats 
because we dont  regulate actions of businesses; that role is undertaken by the Financial 
Conduct Authority.
That being  said,  we are required to take into account relevant laws, regulations and 
guidance. And in this case, this is where insurers should look to comply with the guidance 
issued periodically  (approximately every  few years) from the Association of British Insurers. 
The guidance is set out in the form of a Statement  of Best Practice (the Code). 
At the time of the first policy application,  the most recent Code was issued in February 2011. 
Further Codes were  then issued in December 2014 and May 2018.  
Beyond key conditions of cancer,  heart attacks,  and strokes, insurers  can decide what 
illnesses will be included  in critical illness cover. The Code says (identically in the Codes of 
February 2011 and December  2014) that:
Critical illness cover  means insurance  which pays out on meeting the policy  
definition of a specified critical illness and where  all of the following are included  
before the application of any individual underwriting decision:
1.2.1  Cancer - excluding less advanced cases
1.2.2  Heart attack - of specified severity [my emphasis]
1.2.3  Stroke - resulting  in permanent symptoms
By May 2018, the guidance format had differed, but the requirement was the same:
1.2.1 This Guide applies to critical illness insurance, meaning insurance cover  that 
pays out a specified sum when the policyholder  or other insured person is diagnosed  
with a serious illness of a specified kind. This Guide means that insurance offered by 
ABI members can only be described  as critical illness insurance if it covers  the 
three conditions set out in Chapter 3 as defined in this Guide  or better
 3.2.1 Cancer  excluding less advanced  cases
3.2.2 Heart attack  of specified severity
3.2.3 Stroke  resulting in permanent  symptoms
Ref: DRN38251624The 2014  and 2018 Codes have a lower Troponin  T threshold of 200 ng/L (0.2 ng/ml  or 0.2 
ug/L) and the same level of Troponin  I. The 2011  Code has a threshold of Troponin T > 1.0 
ng/ml and this was replicated by Aegon in the wording of Mrs Ls first policy.  
Importantly, none  of the Codes remove the requirement to offer cover for heart attack  of 
specified severity.  
Its evident that the revisions of the thresholds between the 2011 and 2014 Codes prompted 
Aegon to go further than the Code recommended. It decided  to offer what it terms an ABI+ 
condition  that being a definition that is more  favourable than the recommended minimum 
standard wording. So I cannot  conclude it has been  unreasonable in reviewing its critical 
illness policy  wording in the years since Mrs L took her 2014 policy out. 
In fact, Aegon had to make  changes to the wording in order to remain compliant with the ABI 
Code and in doing so, it decided to offer better  cover  than the minimum requirement for any 
new policies  going  forward. In doing so, it increased  the price  it charges  for its policies, 
because of the increased likelihood of claims.  Mrs Ls two policies were therefore  set up on a 
different cost basis. 
Though Mrs L has said otherwise, that Aegon  didnt downgrade the level of troponins to all 
existing policies doesnt mean  it is unfair in the way policies are offered. These types of 
protection policies  are long-term products. If insurers did propose  new terms, customers  may 
need to be re-underwritten based on their health given that it would  be a change  to the 
agreed insurance contract between the parties. This could cause the loss of valuable  cover 
as a customers health may have worsened with time. Its for that reason that the fair 
approach is to assess each policyholder against  his or her agreed terms. That is what  Aegon  
has done here. An insurer would also need to possibly  charge a policyholder more, which  
would contrast from a contract  with an agreed set monthly premium.  
Put another way, older policies sometimes provide cover for illnesses that arent  covered  by 
newer policies. If a business was to decide to remove certain conditions (beyond the 
minimum three of heart attack, cancer and stroke) a policyholder  could lose valuable cover  if 
detrimental changes  made to new policies  applied retrospectively to everyone.  
Medical advances  will mean that both the ABI and insurers will revisit what may or may not 
be considered  a critical illness, and the severity of each listed illness. But to make wholesale 
changes each time could reduce a persons ability to claim for one condition as much as it 
might increase it for another. 
Mrs L could never have predicted  at the time of taking out either policy  that she may go on to 
suffer from a heart  attack of any severity,  at such a young age. Im sorry that my decision  will 
disappoint her. But because Aegon revises its critical illness terms to new applicants  from 
time to time doesnt mean shed have been able to change her policy  each time a listed  
condition was added, removed, or amended.
It was for Mrs L and her adviser to decide whether the cover was suitable for her 
circumstances in 2014 and 2017.  Aegon has correctly assessed each claim against the 
relevant wording (matching or bettering the minimum standards  on each occasion) and it 
wasnt unreasonable for it to amend the terms going  forward;  these were instigated  by 
changes set out by the ABI.  
Ref: DRN38251625my final decision
Despite my sympathy for her circumstances, I dont  find Scottish Equitable  Plc (trading as 
Aegon) to have treated  Mrs L unfairly in the way it has applied the respective policy terms 
to each of her claims. I therefore  do not uphold her complaint.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Jo Storey
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3825162