K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) cancelled his black  box insurance policy.
background
UKI said it cancelled Mr Ss policy as it hadnt received a signal  from the telematics device 
for continuous 28 days. Mr S said hed been  out of the country  for the time. He said the 
email warnings UKI sent him about  this werent  clear and he didnt receive the notice of 
cancellation.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. UKI provided  
evidence that the device  would keep sending a signal even if the car hadnt been  used.  She 
thought UKI had emailed Mr S asking him to contact  it when no signal was received, but 
there was no record that hed done so. And so she thought UKI had cancelled the policy  in 
line with the terms  and conditions.
Mr S replied  that the box must have  been faulty.  He said he called UKI when he received its 
emails but was told it wasnt an issue as he was on holiday. He said he wasnt  sent notice of 
the cancellation. He also said that UKI later told him that the device would have to be 
recording journeys  to continue sending a signal. He said he wasnt told that he had to keep  
moving the car or tell UKI if he went on holiday. He said he hadnt unplugged the device. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that this has been  a stressful  experience for Mr S. I can also see that UKIs 
decision has had a significant financial impact for him. But Im unable  to uphold his 
complaint. Ill now explain  why I think this. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I can see that when  Mr S took out his policy he was sent a link to the telematics terms and 
conditions. These contain  the following term in the first page, 
If we dont  receive a signal from your device for 28 continuous days,  we reserve the right to 
cancel your policy. This may affect your ability to purchase insurance  in the future.
UKI said it didnt receive a signal from the device  in Mr Ss car for 28 days, and so it then 
sent him three  emails asking him to contact it. Mr S told us that he received the emails, but 
he said they didnt  make it clear there was a problem. He also said hed called UKI, but he 
said he didnt go through security  or his details.  So I think  its likely that he asked a general  
question about  the emails  but his policy wasnt opened. He recalled that he was told not to 
worry as the device was still plugged in. UKI has no record  of this call, and Mr S said he 
didnt use his own phone. So I cant verify that it occurred or hear what was discussed.
Mr S said he didnt  make further calls due to the cost from abroad.  But I can see that he had 
returned to UK before  the last email was sent to him. I think  he should reasonably have been 
concerned about  receiving three  warning emails  and so acted on them further. 
Ref: DRN34193222The emails  UKI sent say that it hadnt received  a signal  from the device. They ask him to 
check that it was installed  correctly. And then they say that if the device isnt plugged in, it 
reserves the right to cancel the policy. I think this is clearly explained in the policy terms and 
conditions. So I cant say it was unfair  for UKI to rely on this. 
Mr S is adamant that the device remained plugged  in whilst he was abroad. But UKI said it 
didnt receive a signal from it. It said that the device  would  continue sending a signal every 
24 hours even when the car wasnt in use. This required the battery  to be in working order. It 
said that if it had been  told that Mr S was abroad, then it would have halted the cancellation 
process until he returned and was able to act to resolve the matter. 
Mr S thought  the device might have been  faulty.  I can see that UKI didnt receive any signals 
from it since he went abroad. But I think it was for Mr S to respond to UKIs emails  and 
contact it to resolve the matter. UKI didnt know why the signals werent  being  received. 
UKI said it then sent Mr S a notice of cancellation  and a cancellation letter  to his last notified  
address. Mr S said he was moving house  and so he didnt receive these. But I cant 
reasonably hold UKI responsible for this. I think UKI took reasonable care to warn Mr S 
about the pending cancellation and then to tell him that the policy  had been cancelled.  Mr S 
said he found that he was uninsured when he received an email asking him for feedback. I 
can appreciate that this must have been  a shock.  
Mr S thought  UKIs  emails were unclear. But I think they were sufficiently clear  to prompt his 
concern. He said he did call UKI after the first one. Mr S also thought  the policy didnt say 
that he had to notify UKI if he was going  on holiday.  I agree. But I dont think  this is relevant 
as the device should have  continued to send  signals whilst he was away.  However,  I do 
think UKIs staff could have been better  at explaining this to Mr S. 
So I think UKI followed its policys terms and conditions and cancelled Mr Ss policy after it 
didnt receive a signal for 28 days.  I think it gave  Mr S fair warning of this but he didnt  
respond. So I cant say UKI acted unreasonably. And I dont require it to change its decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 22 
March 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3419322