K822xcomplaint
Mrs T complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) didnt deal with her claim 
under section 75 (S75) of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 fairly.
background 
In or around May 2018 Mrs T chose a new kitchen from a retailer  and entered into a 
fixed sum loan with Ikano  to fund the purchase. The retailer  introduced Mrs T to a third-
party kitchen fitting company to install the kitchen for her. Mrs T says she did agree with 
the kitchen fitter for them to do some  additional  work outside of the agreement she 
made with the retailer to fit the kitchen.
Unfortunately, a number  of issues arose  during the fitting of the kitchen. Mrs T was 
unhappy about the poor project management and the length of time it was taking to 
complete the work. She was also concerned about  the quality of some  of the work 
being undertaken. She complained to the retailer several times about how the kitchen  
work was progressing.
In August  2018,  Mrs T contacted Ikano to complain about the length of time being taken to 
fit the kitchen, and she also raised concerns  about  the workmanship. Ikano requested that 
she filled out a dispute form, which she did. Mrs T returned this form in September 2018. 
A dispute was raised and the payments on the loan were suspended. Due to an 
administrative error the retailer was only made aware of the S75 claim in December 2018. 
Ikano said it applied £75 compensation  to Mrs Ts account because of this delay.
Although it accepted there had been a delay, Ikano  says that the retailer told it that they 
were dealing with Mrs Ts complaint as she had raised the matter directly  with them as 
well. The retailer informed  Ikano that the complaint had been  escalated and extra works 
had been completed at no cost to Mrs T.
However, Mrs T complained to this service as she remained  unhappy about the quality  of 
some of the work to the kitchen, which she said had left damage  and that some  things  
were still unfinished.  She provided photos  of the areas that concerned  her. 
Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ts complaint should  be upheld. He said under 
S75, in certain  circumstances  the borrower, under a credit agreement, has an equal right 
to claim against the credit  provider if theres  either a breach  of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the supplier of the goods  and services.  Here, Mrs T had a contract  
for the supply and installation of the kitchen. Installation  included fitting the cabinets,  
electrical test certificate, lighting and removal of the existing kitchen. He noted  that there 
had been a separate agreement with the fitter to undertake electrical  and plumbing work.
Our investigator said that, looking at the photos supplied by Mrs T, there was work  
outstanding on the kitchen as there  was an issue  with a light that had been left dangling, a 
cabinet bracket not being fitted  correctly, and some damaged tiles caused  by the poor 
fitting of the boiler housing unit. He said that he thought  there was enough  evidence  to 
consider the contract hadnt been fulfilled by the retailer.
He acknowledged  Mrs T had been  distressed at the service provided, both by the retailer  
and the fitter but said that the remit for this service was to look at Ikanos handling of her 
claim under S75, and whether it had acted fairly and reasonably.  He said the poor service  
provided by the fitter wasnt something  he could  take into account when looking at the 
Ref: DRN39885042actions of Ikano.
As the contract hadnt been fulfilled, due to the outstanding issues, our 
investigator recommended that Ikano should  do the following:
Pay for repairs  of the outstanding issues  the dangling light,  the correct 
bracket to be fitted and repairs to the damaged tiles.
To ask the retailer to do the repairs and if they were unable  to do so to cover  the 
cost of independent workmen.
To ensure  all repairs were carried out within the next 60 days.
Pay Mrs T £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused by the time it had 
taken Ikano  to deal with her claim.
Following our investigators view the retailer arranged for the repairs to be undertaken. 
The light,  bracket  and tiles were all fixed.  However, the engineer  who attended Mrs Ts 
home also pointed  out to Mrs T other  unfinished  work that she had been unaware of, 
which consisted of electrical cables that had been  left loose on the tops of cabinets  that 
should have been secured, and gaps between  the walls and the cabinets that should have 
been filled. Mrs T also said she had been left with holes  in the wall by the cooker due to 
errors when  fitting  the boiler  housing  unit. Mrs T again provided photos  and explained  that 
she had been  unaware about the electric  cables as these were  on top of the cabinets but 
had, earlier  in her complaint, raised the holes in the wall by the cooker.
Our investigator contacted Ikano, who in turn raised matters with the retailer.  The retailer  
responded that these were new issues and that the repairs required by the investigator 
had now all been completed.  
As Mrs Ts complaint had been taking  some time to resolve, in part due to Covid-19 and 
the availability  of the parties,  Mrs T had also escalated her complaint with the retailers 
Customer Care  Department, though  it would appear that the manager  who had been 
dealing with her complaint  was unaware of this departments involvement. The Customer  
Care Department had agreed  to send someone to inspect the kitchen, fix outstanding 
issues and discuss possible compensation with Mrs T. However,  as yet, none of these 
actions have taken  place. So, in light of the length  of time this matter  had been ongoing, 
the lack of action  by the retailer and Ikano in respect of the matters raised by Mrs T, and 
the contradictory information  being  received from the retailer  this complaint has been 
passed to me.
Mrs T says that she thinks  the amount of compensation recommended by our investigator 
is inadequate for the distress and inconvenience  she has suffered from the ongoing issues 
she has had with her kitchen.
I issued a provisional decision along the following lines. I thought it had been agreed 
that there  was a breach  of the contract between Mrs T and the retailer, as the kitchen 
installation had not gone smoothly, and there were a number of unfinished  items  left to 
be completed. Id seen  that some of those issues had now been  resolved but further  
matters were still outstanding.
As set out by our investigator, in certain  circumstances where a transaction  had been 
Ref: DRN39885043financed by a credit agreement and there was a claim against the supplier in respect of 
misrepresentation or breach of contract, then a like claim could be made against the 
creditor. Here, that it was Ikano who had provided  the fixed sum loan to Mrs T for the 
kitchen to be supplied  and installed.
My remit was to look at the actions of Ikano in its handling of Mrs Ts claim under S75, 
so the behaviour of the fitters and the retailer werent things I could consider. I 
appreciated Mrs T felts very let down by the retailer and wanted greater compensation 
for that due to the stress this had caused her, but many of things she had raised  I 
couldnt hold Ikano responsible for.
Id seen that Ikano  had struggled to get responses  from the retailer  on occasions, and that 
there have  been  contradictory views  expressed  as to whether the faults with the kitchen 
had now been  resolved  or not. So, I thought  it was fair and reasonable for me to now 
consider Mrs Ts complaint, rather than give the retailer  further time to decide if they were 
going to take any further  action.
I was satisfied that, looking through the history of Mrs Ts complaint, she had already 
raised the issues with the holes in the wall by the cooker caused by the incorrect fitting of 
the boiler housing.  I was also satisfied that this work  was part of the kitchen installation and 
so fell under  the contract Mrs T had with the retailer. I thought it was fair that these were 
repaired at no cost to Mrs T.
In respect of the electrical cables and gaps behind the cabinets, Id seen these issues 
were pointed out to Mrs T by the engineer who attended her home  to undertake  the 
repairs recommended  by our investigator. I also thought  Mrs T wouldnt have reasonably  
been expected to be aware of these  matters until they were  pointed out to her due to their 
location, as she would  have needed  a ladder to be able to look at the top of the cabinets. 
Mrs T has supplied photos to show these issues.
I therefore thought these werent new matters as such but are part of Mrs Ts complaint 
that the kitchen hadnt been fully installed to an acceptable standard.  I thought it was fair 
that these issues  are sorted out at no cost to Mrs T.
As the retailer hadnt taken any action to rectify these issues, I thought it would  be fair for 
Ikano to cover the cost of an independent workman  to secure the electrical  cables, repair 
the holes in the wall by the cooker  and fill in the gaps  between the cabinets and the walls. 
Mrs T will need to provide an invoice for this work to Ikano.
In respect of compensation, our investigator had recommended  £250,  which  I believed  
may have  already been paid to Mrs T. Looking at Ikanos actions, I agreed that it could  
have done more to deal with this complaint more proactively but, as set out, I couldnt  hold 
it responsible for the actions of the retailer or the fitters. I also appreciated that Covid-19 
had caused further delays  in the matter being  resolved. However,  I thought compensation 
of £350 would be fair in these circumstances.
So, for the reasons given above,  I intended  to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Im asked  Ikano 
to do the following:
Pay Mrs T a total compensation amount of £350 for its handling of her S75 
claim and the distress and inconvenience  caused to her.
Cover the cost of an independent workman sorting out the following issues  with 
Ref: DRN39885044the kitchen; the holes  in the wall by the cooker,  the electrical cabling to be secured 
and the gaps between the cabinets and the wall to be filled.  Mrs T to provide an 
invoice for this work to Ikano.
Mrs T hasnt  asked  me to reconsider any parts of my provisional decision.  She did make 
further contact with the retailer  who informed  her that it considered  all required  remedial  
work had been  completed and so there would be no further site visits. The retailer also 
said that they were  not looking to offer compensation to Mrs T.
Ikano says that its unclear why this complaint had required a provisional decision  as all the 
work specified by the investigator in his view had been undertaken. It says the further work 
that was highlighted wasnt raised  as a new claim or complaint and it was also unclear why 
the retailer had repaired these additional matters.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I disagree with Ikano that the additional  works  that were raised after the investigator issued 
his view required Mrs T to make  a new claim under S75 or make a fresh complaint. I think 
its reasonable to consider that these further repairs are all part of the same  breach of 
contract claim and that this is other  evidence that has come to light as part of that complaint. 
In addition, the holes in the wall by the cooker  were always included  in Mrs Ts complaint 
and so arent something new.
Ive seen that the evidence about  faults discovered  after the first repairs  was provided  to 
Ikano and the retailer (which included photos) with ample time for it to be considered. I cant 
answer why the retailer has later taken the view that they have that all the required work to 
rectify the kitchen has been carried out as I dont think this evidence supports that. I think  the 
retailer has been confusing about what actions they were and werent going to do but this 
isnt the fault of Mrs T. The evidence Ive seen supports the view that the kitchen wasnt  
installed properly and that therefore a breach  of contract has arisen.
Im also satisfied that there are remaining issues that still need  to be rectified that arose from 
this breach of contract,  namely the holes in the wall by the cooker to be filled,  the electrical 
cable to be secured  and the gaps between the cabinets and the walls  to be filled.
As the retailer has been clear that they are satisfied  they have no more  to do and that they 
arent prepared  to look again  at the works still required  then Ikano is liable to put these 
matters right.
I also think that as Ikano could have been more proactive in in dealing  with Mrs Ts claim 
that the compensation totalling  £350 is fair. This is an increase of £100  from the 
recommended award by our investigator.
So, for the reasons given I havent  changed  my mind and Im upholding Mrs Ts complaint as 
set out above.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  Mrs Ts complaint. Im asking Ikano Bank 
Ref: DRN39885045AD (publ) to do the following:
Pay Mrs T a total compensation amount of £350 for its handling of her S75 
claim and the distress and inconvenience  caused to her.
Cover the cost of an independent workman sorting out the following issues  with 
the kitchen; the holes  in the wall by the cooker, the electrical cabling to be secured 
and the gaps between the cabinets  and the wall to be filled.  Mrs T will need  to 
provide an invoice for this work to Ikano.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3988504