K820x#14complaint
Mr N says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr N bought the policy in 2002 at the same  time as taking out a credit card. The card was 
taken out in a garage, to help spread the cost of work done to his car. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr N disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ns case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ns complaint because:
 Mr N signed on his application form to show he wanted PPI, separately to where he 
signed to apply for the card. So I think FICL made Mr N aware  that he had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
 FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr N so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr N about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr N doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances at 
the time, it looks like the policy  couldve been useful to him. The PPI wouldve  paid his 
credit card for longer than his sick pay wouldve lasted. And wouldve saved him from 
relying on his wifes income to cover  repayments.  So, given how much  it cost and the 
benefits it provided, I dont think better information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ns comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3888030