K820x#14complaint
Miss S says Lloyds Bank PLC, when  trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester plc,
(C&G) mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.
background
Miss S took out a mortgage PPI policy alongside her mortgage at a meeting with C&G 
in 1997. Her mortgage didnt start until 1998, the cover started at the same time. The 
policy gave her protection against  accident,  sickness and unemployment and she paid 
a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss S disagreed, so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Our general approach to 
complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
I cant  know  what  was discussed at the time with C&G. Miss S cant  remember  and says 
its possible she opted to take PPI at the time because it was not properly explained to her. 
I cant reasonably expect Miss S to remember everything that was said, given how much 
time has passed. Ive seen Miss Ss PPI application   shes  signed  it to say she wanted 
PPI. This was a separate document from her mortgage application, so I think it wouldve 
been clear PPI was an optional and separate product and that she didnt  need  to take PPI 
to get the mortgage. I think it more likely that Miss S chose  to take out PPI knowing that 
she didnt have to have  it. I can understand why she may not remember it that way now.
Lloyds accepts the policy was recommended to Miss S. So C&G had to check  it 
was right for her. It also had to give her information  about the policy that was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that she could  decide  for herself if she wanted to buy it.
Ive looked carefully  at Miss Ss circumstances  and I think PPI was suitable. I say 
this because:
Miss S met the policy requirements,  so she was eligible for the cover;
she was employed  and said she wouldve got six months worth of sick pay at 
full pay and six months worth at half pay from her employer. She also said she 
had a sizeable amount of money  in savings.  The PPI wouldve paid out on top 
of her work benefits  and possibly  for longer, for up to 12 months  per successful  
claim. It wouldve also paid out if she was made involuntarily unemployed. 
Having the cover  wouldve allowed her to use her work benefits and savings to 
meet her other  household  expenditure, knowing  her mortgage repayments  
were protected. She couldve made repeated  claims on the policy, providing 
her with long term protection. Given that Miss S decided not to use her savings 
to reduce her borrowing, I think it likely that she wanted to keep hold of these. 
Ref: DRN36775142So, overall, I think the PPI couldve been useful for Miss S if she was sick or 
lost her job;
I cant see that Miss S was affected by the main  limitations or exclusions in the 
policy. So, as she couldve benefitted from everything the policy  offered,  I 
dont think having better  information  about the things  the policy didnt cover 
wouldve affected her decision to take out the policy. I think the PPI provided 
her with valuable  protection  to safeguard  her home;  and
Ive seen nothing  to suggest that at the time of the sale the PPI wasnt  affordable. It 
cost her £20 per month. She couldve cancelled the monthly  paid policy at any time 
without losing out financially.
Overall, I think  the PPI was suitable  for Miss S.
As Ive said, C&G also had to give Miss S information that was clear, fair and not misleading 
so that she could  make an informed choice about  the PPI. Its possible C&G couldve  given  
her clearer  information,  particularly about  the costs of the policy.  But for much the same 
reasons that I found the PPI was suitable, I dont  think Miss S wouldve decided not to take 
out PPI if better information had been  provided.  It follows I dont think shes lost out because 
of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3677514