K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy with the way that his home insurance claim for theft was dealt with by Aviva 
Insurance Limited and with the settlement paid to him. 
background
Mr R made  a claim to Aviva on 6 December 2018  following  a burglary at his home. The theft 
was of a number of items of jewellery.  Mr R submitted  his list of items taken and Aviva 
instructed its jewellers (H) to carry out a valuation. H spoke to Mr R on 15 December (after 
he chased the matter up) when Mr R says he was told he would receive a registered 
envelope to send in a pearl necklace for repair, which had been damaged during the 
burglary. Mr R chased this up and in late December it was agreed that his jeweller would 
carry out the repair and the settlement would include that cost.
H assessed the items for valuation,  it had to obtain  information from Mr Rs jeweller, and this 
caused a delay while they waited  for this. On 28 January 2019 H sent its final valuation 
through to Aviva. Aviva  offered vouchers to the value of £26,383 or a cash settlement of 
£15,830. Mr R was unhappy with this, as it was £1,000 short  of the policy limit. He didnt 
want vouchers, but pointed out that there  were  some  items that H agreed  werent  able to be 
replaced. He didnt feel the valuation was drawn  up on a scientific  basis  and that Aviva  
hadnt offered  any justification for it. He was also disappointed with the service provided  by H 
as he had to keep chasing  them up.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that Aviva had paid a settlement within the 
policy terms. She thought  the service provided couldve been better, but she didnt 
recommend that Aviva  take any further action.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
valuation
I understand that Mr R is unhappy with the valuation put on his jewellery items. In such 
cases we say its reasonable for insurers to consult  jewellers. Its difficult  to challenge such 
valuations without using  another  expert  and this service doesnt carry out valuations. So I 
have to rely on the expert evidence concerning the valuation  of the jewellery.
As it is, it appears that H valued  the items  by reference to what it thought  the retail price  of 
each item was. As insurers are able to get large reductions in price from jewellers, that 
discount was applied to the valuation. Thats the reason why the vouchers are worth  much 
more than a cash  payment   essentially the cash payment is the actual cost of the vouchers 
to the insurer. And, as our investigator and Aviva advised it is entitled to do this under the 
policy term concerning  claims pay-outs. That sort of term is common to most home 
insurance policies.
I understand that Mr R believes  that Hs valuation didnt take into account some items it 
couldnt replace.  But from what I have seen  from the file of papers is that H did take those 
items into account.
Ref: DRN33592592So I think that Aviva offed a fair cash settlement for the jewellery items. Even though  the 
policy limit might not have  been  reached, Aviva was entitled to pay a settlement in 
accordance with Hs valuation.
service
Mr R made  his claim in early December. Whilst he expected  to hear from H straight away  I 
don't think  that 14 days to get in touch  with him is unreasonable (even  if he did chase it up). 
Mr R also says he was promised a registered envelope to send the pearl  necklace  to H for 
repair. I dont know exactly what was said here but it appears that there may have been a 
misunderstanding. Maybe that was Hs fault. When Aviva spoke to Mr R about it in late 
December it was agreed that his jeweller  would  repair the necklace. I think this was a 
reasonable way of resolving that.
There was a delay  while H was waiting for further information from Mr Rs jewellers. Aviva 
put the full offer of settlement to Mr R in late January  2019. Bearing in mind that the 
Christmas period intervened I don't think that was unreasonable.
Mr R also complained that Aviva didnt  answer  questions he put to it after it issued its final 
response. As our investigator advised,  how Aviva handled its complaints process was a 
matter for it. Complaints handling by a business doesnt come  under our remit to deal with.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3359259