K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Ms V says Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI.
background
In January 2002 Ms V took out a credit card with Barclays. At this time no PPI policy  was 
purchased. Then in April 2005, during a telephone call, Ms V bought a PPI policy associated 
with the credit card.
Ms V has now complained that the PPI policy was mis-sold. Barclays didnt agree but did 
say that Ms V had paid some excess commission with her PPI premiums  and refunded  
compensation for this commission.
Ms V didnt agree with what Barclays said and brought  her complaint to this service.  Our 
adjudicator said they thought the PPI had been  mis-sold and Ms Vs complaint should be 
upheld and full compensation  paid for the mis-sale.
Barclays didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The PPI policy was sold to Ms V during  a telephone  call in April 2005, some  three  years  after 
she had opened  the credit card account. Barclays states this was a recommended  sale of 
the PPI. This means Barclays had to ensure  the policy was suitable  for Ms V and her 
particular circumstances.
Barclays records show that during the call in 2005 Ms V told the advisor that she had an 
existing medical condition. No details or information about what  was discussed or said about 
this, other  than Ms V saying she had a condition, are noted  on the records.  
Barclays says there  would have been  discussion around the medical  condition  and Ms V 
would have been advised she would be unable  to claim for any time off work for that 
condition. It also sent her a letter, including a copy of the terms and conditions,  and the letter 
also states she said she had a medical condition  and indicates as a result she may be 
caught by some of the terms and conditions. 
Ms V says she recalled  being told she had to have  the PPI because  she needed it but can 
recall little else about the sale.
When Ms V first complained about the mis-sale to Barclays in 2018,  it seems she may have  
stated she did not have had a pre-existing condition.  She also told Barclays that in 2005, 
when she bought the PPI, she was not working  regularly and had periods of unemployment.  
Barclays says it was a long time ago and Ms V may not recall  the past totally  accurately. It 
has Ms Vs bank records which show she was paid weekly by a specific employer  for a 
number of years before  the sale of the PPI. So Barclays says it is unlikely she was 
Ref: DRN31882402unemployed. I can also see that on the demands  and needs notes in 2005 it indicates  Ms V 
said she was working full time.
Having looked  at the records from Barclays I can see there are regular payments from an 
employer shown, as Barclays  has indicated. However the payments are not for a generally 
consistent amount  every  week which would be expected for someone employed full time. 
In the period of the statements provided,  between July 2003  and July 2005, the weekly 
amount ranges from around £23.00 to £599.00. There are also very occasionally weeks 
when no payment is made into the account.  The variance in the payment  amounts suggests 
Ms V wasnt working the same hours every week and she may only have been paid for the 
hours actually worked. Some weeks it is possible that because  of her medical condition 
Ms V worked reduced hours or took some time off.
The PPI was taken  out in April 2005.  From 24 March 2005  to 6 May 2005 the records show 
eight payments were  made into Ms Vs salary for employment of which  4 were similar 
amounts, around  £269.00 but other payments are less, including  one of £58.00. I also note 
that from 1 July 2005, when a payment of £23.00 was made, there are no further  payments 
shown until the records end on 22 July 2005. It is unclear if Ms V may have received further 
payments after this date and if not its perhaps  then she became unemployed.
It is impossible  to know for certain  whether Ms V was taking time off sick as a result  of her 
medical condition  or was later made unemployed. As Barclays  says,  this was a long time 
ago and memories  are not are ways reliable and Ms V could quite  easily confuse periods of 
time. Therefore, I think the most reliable information is contained in the records  provided 
from the point of sale.
These clearly show that Ms V told Barclays she was working full time. And that she had a 
pre-existing medical condition. They do not show any more detail about  the medical 
condition or what may have been  discussed  about it. Therefore it is impossible to know  that 
the full implications were  explained to Ms V. But the advisor knew  that there  would be 
restrictions on Ms Vs ability to claim for this medical condition,  yet still recommended this 
was a suitable policy for her circumstances.
Barclays evidence indicates that where  a policy is advised the records  show  that the policy 
is Recommended Y or C (Recommended with Caution).I have noted on the screen shot 
provided for Ms V it states  Y after the point where it is recorded that Ms V had a medical 
condition. As Ms V would have been  unable to claim on the policy  for her existing condition, 
if this had been discussed and taken into account,  it may have been  more reasonable and 
appropriate for a conditional recommendation to be made. This would have suggested  the 
medical condition  had been  discussed  and taken into account when making the 
recommendation.
Overall, I dont  think the PPI policy was a suitable  recommendation in the particular 
circumstances of Ms V because of her medical condition, as she was paying for full cover 
but not eligible for the full cover. And Im not satisfied  on the evidence presented that the full 
implications were made clear to Ms V at the point of sale,  during  the telephone call, and that 
a suitable recommendation was made. 
If Barclays hadnt recommended  the PPI to Ms V, I dont think  she wouldve bought  it. She 
didnt select to take it out when originally opening the credit card account in 2002. Ms V was 
entitled to place her trust in Barclays professional advice that this was a suitable  product for 
Ref: DRN31882403her. And looking at Ms Vs situation I dont think Barclays did make  a suitable 
recommendation in this case.
Therefore, think this policy was mis-sold and I am upholding the complaint. 
Barclays needs to work  out and repay to Ms V the full costs of the PPI including premiums  
charged, interest at card rate caused  by those premiums, any fees caused  by the PPI plus 
compensatory interest  at 8% simple  for any time Ms V was out of pocket. Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs  requires Barclays to deduct  basic rate tax from the compensatory  
interest. Ms V can request  a certificate  from Barclays about this is she needs one.
I understand the excess commission  element  of the PPI costs  have already been repaid to 
Ms V. This amount can therefore be deducted  from the full compensation due for the mis-
sold PPI once this is calculated. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  I think that Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  the credit  
card PPI policy to Ms V. Therefore, I am upholding  her complaint and directing 
Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay full compensation for the mis-sold policy less any payment  
already made as I have indicated. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3188240