K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains about a faulty car she hired  from Ald Automotive Limited under a regulated 
hire agreement. She is represented in this complaint  by her husband, Mr C.
background
In June 2016 Mrs C, a sole trader, hired  a van for her business. The hire agreement was for 
four years. In December 2018, she experienced a variety of electrical faults, which  turned 
out have occurred due to water leaking into the car and affecting  the body control module 
(BCM). The first garage she took the car to said that the leak had occurred due to 
inadequately-fitted roof rails. That garage  recommended that she take the van back to the 
garage she had originally got it from, which  had fitted the roof rails, in order to get it repaired 
under warranty.
The original  garage, which I will call the second  garage as it was the second one to deal with 
the leak, replaced the roof rail, the BCM, and the carpet. It also identified  and repaired a 
water leak which was coming from the windscreen  and reaching  the BCM. It provided a 
courtesy car until the work  was complete.  But Mr C complained on behalf of his wife that the 
repairs had not been carried out properly. Water  continued to leak into the car, and the roof 
rails, the carpet  and trims  had not been fitted properly. The second garage  offered to take 
the car back  and repair it again, and to provide a courtesy car again while this was being  
done. Mr C declined that offer, having lost confidence in the garage,  and asked Ald to 
terminate his agreement  at no cost to his wife.
Ald did not agree to end the agreement,  or that it was liable  for the fault. It said that since  the 
van had been  driven for two and a half years and for over 76,000 miles before the problems 
began  the contractual maximum being 60,000  (that is in dispute)  this suggested  that the 
van had not been faulty when it was first hired.  Instead, as a gesture of good  will, it offered to 
refund two monthly rental  payments (over £650). But Mr C declined that offer,  and asked for 
£1,500. When  no agreement could be reached, be brought this complaint to our Service, on 
behalf of Mrs C.
Mr C obtained from the second garage  a technical  service bulletin, which  he provided to our 
Service. The bulletin is from the manufacturer, and is about an issue with water entering 
vans of the same model and causing the BCM to fail. However, the second garage did not 
agree that the issue described  in the bulletin was the cause  of the leak that Mrs Cs van had 
experienced, since other vans  with the fault described in the bulletin had leaked within one 
year of sale, not two and a half years as in this instance.
In May 2019, Mr C had the van inspected by an independent third party.  He said this report  
supported his wifes complaint. But our adjudicator did not agree, and so he did not think that 
Mrs C was entitled to end the agreement and return the van. He said that the refund of two 
monthly payments  was fair compensation. But he also thought that Ald should pay £250,  
being the fee for the inspection, which Ald had declined to pay for, after initially saying that it 
would pay. Mr C did not accept that opinion, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I wrote  a provisional decision which read as follows.
Ref: DRN37421692my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so, I have had regard  to the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015, which says that when a fault becomes  apparent  more  than six 
months after goods are hired, it is for the hirer to prove that the fault was present all along.  
Ald is not liable for any fault which was not present when the van was hired  in June 2016. So 
to uphold this complaint,  I must be satisfied that the BCM failed as a result of a leak which 
was either  present at that time, or which developed  as a result of some other defect which  
was present at that time.
Its clear that the leak didnt start until about two and a half years  later.  But the leak has been  
blamed on the windscreen and on the roof rails. If either of those items  was faulty when the 
hire agreement was executed,  then Ald will be liable  for the fault, even though  the leak did 
not appear until later.
The first garage reported this about  the leak:
On further investigation we located that water was entering the vehicle via the roof 
bar rail mounting joint (front  OS mounting point) running  down the OS 'B' pillar  and 
also down the 'A' Pillar and ending up dripping onto and into both the BCM and fuse 
box.
The first garage recommended refitting the roof rails, replacing  the seals  (possibly using  a 
sealant), and then testing  them for water ingress.
Ald has confirmed that the roof rails were fitted by the second garage before the van was 
delivered to Mrs C.
The second  garage replaced  the roof rails (and also identified a leak in the windscreen). But 
afterwards, Mrs C reported that water was still leaking into the car, and Mr C provided 
photos of the roof rails,  showing gaps where they attach to the roof.
The third party who carried out the inspection in May said the following in his report:
The vehicle  is fitted with non-standard roof bars (roof rail). This assembly is poorly 
fitting and there is limited  watertight seals at the contact points on the roof.
The roof bars are poorly fitting with little or no watertight seal present at contact 
points, thus there is a very high possibility of water ingress, ingress  that may well be 
running down the various inner channels of the roof and 'A' posts etc. sections that 
will include wiring harnesses etc. Thus,  it's not unreasonable to conclude that water 
can penetrate  the wiring  loom.
He also said that the leak in the windscreen had been repaired successfully, although he 
added that the repair  would be effective  only in the short term. The van was otherwise in fair 
condition for its age and mileage. I think it follows that any water leaking into the van since 
the repair must have  entered via the roof rails.
Based on the evidence  I have summarised  above,  I conclude that the roof rails were 
defective when  the van was supplied  to Mrs C, that they are the site of the leak which  
subsequently developed,  and that the second garage failed to adequately  repair  them.
Ref: DRN37421693It follows that the van did not conform  to the Consumer Rights Act when Mrs C first hired it, 
and that the first attempt to repair it having failed, she was entitled to exercise  her statutory 
right to reject the van and terminate her hire agreement. The fact that the leak took so long 
to develop does  not mean  that the van was not defective in 2016: the rails were ill-fitting all 
along, and that is the relevant fault.
(It is therefore not necessary for me to comment on the windscreen  leak,  and so I make  no 
findings about it.)
Ald has described the problems with the van as cosmetic, but I do not agree, because the 
failure of the BCM  caused by the water  caused  the van to break down.
Mr C has said that the courtesy car was not sufficient for his needs, and that this has caused  
him financial loss due to lack of business. However,  he is not the complainant  in this case, 
his wife is, and so I cant award compensation to him. Nor can I award compensation to his 
wife for his loss.
Ald supplied a courtesy vehicle even though it was not required to by the terms of the hire 
agreement, so I think that a full refund of the rental  payments since  the failed repair would be 
disproportionate. Theres no evidence that the courtesy car was not suitable for Mrs C. And 
I also take into account the fact that if the hire agreement had been terminated  in February 
2019, then Mrs C would still have been making  rental payments on another  vehicle, 
presumably one of a similar kind and therefore at a similar price. So on balance, I currently 
think the compensation recommended by our adjudicator is fair  that is, two monthly  rental 
payments plus £250. But I also think the agreement should be terminated,  and the van 
returned.
So my provisional decision is that I intend  to uphold this complaint. Subject to any further 
representations I receive  from the parties   I intend  to order Ald Automotive Limited to:
Pay Mrs C £957.22,
Terminate the hire agreement and allow Mrs C to return the van,
When reporting the termination on Mrs Cs credit file, backdate  it to February  2019.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr C said he no longer  wished to return the car, because he had spent over £2,000 on 
upgrading it. He said he now wants it to be repaired,  and he asked for the cost of the repairs  
to be deducted  from his balloon payment, so he can buy the car at the end of the agreement  
and have it repaired by a third party at no cost to him. (He offered to get a written quote  for 
the repairs.) He said I had made a presumption that his wife would have driven  another  car if 
the agreement  had been terminated in February  2019, but that wasnt necessarily true, so he 
argued that she should be refunded  all of the payments made since  then. He denied that the 
second garage had replaced  the roof rails, because they still dont fit properly.
Mr C also wrote more  about the windscreen, and referred to another inspection  of the car, 
which was carried out in June 2019,  and which he would  also like to be reimbursed for.
Ald initially  said that the best solution now would be for Mr C to return the car, since  the 
agreement was about to end soon  anyway, and because due to the coronavirus lockdown 
there will be a long backlog of repair work at garages. But Ald later arranged to have the 
repairs done under  warranty,  as an alternative  to paying for a third party to do them.
Ref: DRN37421694my findings
Since Mr and Mrs C no longer wish to return the car, I think  that Alds offer to have the car 
repaired under  warranty is fair, as this is what the Consumer Rights Act envisages  should 
normally happen, and it is likely  to be quicker. So that is what I will order  it to do. I will also 
order it to pay the cost of the May 2019 inspection (£250) and two months  rental payments, 
as set out in my provisional findings. But I wont order  it to pay the cost of the June 2019 
inspection, as I dont  agree  that it was necessary, or to refund  all of the payments since  
February 2019. Since Mrs C had a courtesy car during that time, and since  she hired the 
original car for four years (until mid- 2020), I think it is more likely  than not that she would 
have driven a replacement car in 2019 if the hire agreement had been cancelled.
For the reasons  I explained in my provisional decision, I do not need to make any findings 
about the windscreen. It still remains the case that it is not leaking.  This is confirmed in the 
June 2019 report. I understand that Mr C says that that report proves  that the windscreen 
was never  repaired  and was never leaking in the first place, but that is contradicted by the 
May 2019 report, which was an independent  report and was much more  detailed than the 
later report.  So I remain  of the view that I do not need to say any more about the windscreen 
than I have already.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Ald Automotive  Limited  to:
Pay Mrs C £957.22 (this consists of two monthly rental payments plus £250),
Repair the car at no cost to Mr or Mrs C. This means:
 fixing the leak,
 fitting the roof bars correctly, so that they are watertight,
 fitting the seals  and trims correctly,  and
 fixing the carpet void.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C, or Mr C on 
her behalf,  to accept  or reject my decision before  26 June 2020. My final decision concludes  
this Services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further 
discussion of the merits of it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3742169