K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that they have restricted online access to their TSB Bank plc 
account.
background
Mr H says he spoke to TSB in 2018  about access problems to the renewal section of his 
online account. He also says he couldnt  update personal information and is concerned 
about future security  issues. Mr H says he would  like TSB to sort out the problem  and allow 
him full account  access. He says TSB has paid him compensation but he has written to it on 
a number of occasions since then without  reply.
TSB says Mr H didnt need  to renew  his account and has paid compensation for what  took 
place.
Mr H brought his complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought it 
unfair that TSB hadnt sorted out the problems and recommended  it pay further 
compensation of £125 as well as contact Mr H to try and help him.
TSB doesnt accept that view and says its already paid Mr H appropriate compensation and 
interest and that Mr H can update his details via other methods. It also says it has known 
issue that its trying to fix.
Mr H says he has received a letter from TSB telling him that it will pay him a further £75 
compensation as its reviewed its original payment.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that TSB ought to pay further compensation but for slightly different reasons to those of 
the investigator.
I appreciate Mr Hs frustration here in not having full online account access and I appreciate 
that Mr H wished to consider moving  his account onto a different interest rate but couldnt.  
But Im satisfied that TSB apologised for what happened and fairly paid interest for the 
interest rate problem.  Im also satisfied that its compensation payment at that time was fair 
and reasonable.
I can see that what Mr H would  like is not compensation but full account access. But TSB 
has explained that its aware of a known problem and in those  circumstances I cant fairly 
order TSB to rectify the mistake or speed  up the process to try and sort matters out. I say 
that as the problem may not be able to be solved and that its not our role to punish a 
business as we are not TSBs  regulator.  So I dont think it reasonable to make any order 
about the system  problems. I appreciate Mr Hs concerns  but I think TSB has offered fair and 
reasonable alternatives such  as attending a branch  to make any account decisions. 
I appreciate that TSB says it has paid a fair and reasonable level of compensation. But I 
dont think TSB dealt fairly with Mr H after it paid that compensation. I can see that Mr H 
wrote to TSB on a number of occasions  and I have no doubt spent some time dealing  with 
this complaint. And I cant see that TSB replied to those letters or explained what the 
Ref: DRN36856832position was- that it had known system problems that it was working to resolve. So for that 
reason I think TSB should pay further  compensation. Its not clear why TSB has agreed  to 
pay a further £75 but I think  the fairest approach would  be for TSB to pay a further  £50 in 
addition to that £75.
Overall I think  TSB ought to have managed Mr Hs expectations  more appropriately and 
explained the problems it was experiencing as well as replying to his letters.  I also think  that 
would have allowed  Mr and Mrs H to have  considered their options in the light of such  an 
explanation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order TSB Bank plc to pay 
Mr and Mrs H £50 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3685683