K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) closed his account  
without letting him know and that he wasnt able to access his account  online.
background
Mr G had a payment plan in place on his Barclaycard account that ended in January 2019. 
He says he was sent a form to complete and return to in order  to get a new payment plan set 
up. He says he did this but he wasnt contacted  about a new payment plan and instead  
interest started to be added to his account.
In February 2019,  Mr G started  to experience issues logging  into his account.  He contacted 
Barclaycard and says that although he was promised  a call back  this didnt happen. He 
called again and this time discussed the option of a payment plan. He says he was told he 
would need to complete a form and he explained he had already done this. He says he was 
told that the form hadnt been received and that if he went back  on a payment plan this 
would affect his credit score. 
Following this Mr G continued to experience issues logging  into his account  and although  he 
was promised call backs these didnt  happen.  He was also told after a number of calls had 
already taken place  that his account had been  closed in January 2019. He says he was 
unaware of this.
Mr G says he hasnt been provided with the service he should have. He says he wasnt  able 
to access his account online for a number of months and wasnt called back  as promised. He 
also says that he was given the wrong information on calls about his account.  
Barclaycard says that Mr Gs account was closed after his payment plan expired. It says this 
wasnt explained to him on the calls because  it would  have  been  assumed that Mr G would 
know his account  would  revert to its previous status  after the payment plan. It says that 
Mr Gs income  and expenditure assessment  in December  2018 showed he could  afford 
more than the minimum payment so no payment plan was required.
In regard to Mr Gs online access, it says that Mr G had successfully logged  in several times 
and that while he may have had issues with the connection at his end, it was showing as a 
successful log in at their end. It suggested that if Mr G was still experiencing issues he 
contact its internet helpdesk.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She thought that Mr G hadnt been provided  with the 
service he should  have. She thought  that it should  have been made clear  to Mr G on the 
calls that his account had been  closed and she was concerned that interest  was applied to 
his account while he was asking for help. Our investigator thought that more could have 
been done to assist  Mr G with the issues he was experiencing accessing  his account online.  
Initially our investigator recommended that Barclaycard should:
1.waive the interest and charges from when Mr Gs payment  plan expired;
2.pay Mr G £100  for the inconvenience  caused by calling on several  occasions  and not 
hearing back from the call handlers; and
3.if Mr G was still experiencing issues accessing his account he should contact the 
helpdesk as suggested and Barclaycard should work with him to eliminate and 
potential cause of the issues.
Ref: DRN31322922Barclaycard didnt accept  our investigators  view. It said it sent Mr G a letter in December 
2018 responding to the completed income  and expenditure assessment. This explained that 
his account would return to its standard terms. It said Mr G had shown he could meet the 
contractual minimum payments and so the interest had been applied  correctly. It said Mr G 
has made payments  above the minimum payment since his plan expired. 
In regard to the issues  Mr G experience logging on to his account, Barclaycard said that he 
had been able to log on and that his online account  had been active  over the past months. It 
reiterated that Mr G should contact its helpdesk if he continued  to experience  issues.  
Following responses to her initial view our investigator considered the complaint again  and 
issued a second view recommending  that:
1.Barclaycard pay Mr G £100 for the inconvenience caused by calling on several  
occasions and not hearing back from the call handlers. However  she said that if on 
further investigation it is found the issue Mr G has experienced logging  on to his 
account was due to Barclaycards systems  she expected his amount  to be increased;  
and
2.Barclaycard should speak  to Mr G about  his circumstances both now and at the time 
the payment plan expired and, if their assessment would have put him on a payment 
plan it should  rework  his account accordingly.
Barclaycard agreed  to pay the £100 compensation for the service issues Mr G experienced.
Mr G thought that the interest should  be waived on his account from January and that a new 
payment plan be set up. He also wanted  a minimum of £500  compensation. 
As this complaint  hasnt been resolved it has come  to me, an ombudsman, for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are three parts to this complaint. The first relates to the management of Mr Gs 
account and the actions  taken when his payment plan expired in January 2019.  The second  
relates to the issues Mr G experienced logging in to his account.  The third regards  the 
overall service Mr G has received in response to the issues  he has raised.
management of Mr Gs account post expiry  of the payment plan
Mr G has said he received  a letter in prior to the expiry of his payment plan asking him to 
complete and return a form. I have  looked through the system notes provided and can see 
that Mr G provided Barclaycard with his income and expenditure information in December 
2018. This set out that he had disposable  income of £100 which  he offered as a payment 
towards his outstanding balance. Barclaycard sent Mr G a letter dated 21 December 2018, 
acknowledging the offer to pay £100 and saying that this was above his contractual payment 
and so it was no longer  necessary for him to be on a payment  plan. It then set out that his 
plan would expire on 11 January 2019 and his account would return to its standard  terms 
with interest being  charged. It also explained that as the account was closed  before  the 
payment plan cards wouldnt  be reissued.
Ref: DRN31322923I appreciate that Mr G may not have  received  the letter in December 2018,  but given this 
was sent and it contained the information Mr G needed to be aware that his account would 
return to standard  terms and interest would be charged, I do not find I can say that 
Barclaycard did anything wrong  by starting to charge interest on his account. I also think  that 
Mr G should have been reasonably aware  that his account was closed as this happened 
before the payment plan.
Therefore while  I appreciate that Mr G is upset by interest  being  applied to his account I do 
not find I can uphold  this part of his complaint. I will deal with the service issues  he 
experienced when discussing his options  later in this decision.
online access
Mr G experienced issues logging into his account.  I can understand how frustrating this must 
have been. He was at first told there  was an issue with his browser  but on trying  another 
browser he still experienced the same  problem. Barclaycard have shown that Mr G was able 
to log in to his account however Mr G has said that he would log in but then the system  
would close and he would get an error message. 
I cannot say what  the issue  was with Mr Gs connection  or whether the fault was at Mr Gs 
end or Barclaycards end. I appreciate that this has caused upset but as I cannot  say that 
Barclaycard is at fault I do not find that I can require it to anything  in regard to the previous 
issues. I understand the issues  were resolved and Barclaycard has explained  that if the 
issues continue Mr G should contact  its helpdesk and I would advise him to do this. If issues  
do occur  and again I would expect Barclaycard to assist  Mr G in establishing  why this is 
happening.
service issues
I have listened  to the calls that have been  provided  and can see that Mr G had asked for 
calls back and has said these didnt happen. I have also heard on a call that he explained he 
was struggling with his payments and I think he could have been given further assistance. 
However, as stated above, Mr G was able to make his contractual  payments based on the 
information he provided and so I cannot  say that a payment plan should have been provided  
at this time.  That said, if Mr G is still struggling to make his payments he should  contact 
Barclaycard to discuss this.
I find that Mr G wasnt provided with the service he should have been when he contacted 
Barclaycard and I agree he should be compensated for this. Barclaycard has agreed  to pay 
£100 and while I appreciate Mr G feels a higher amount should be paid, based on the above 
I find that £100 is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) should, as it has 
agreed, pay Mr G £100 compensation for not providing the service it should have done in 
response to Mr Gs calls.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Ref: DRN31322924Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3132292