K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Miss O say Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS), trading as Halifax,  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mr B and Miss O bought  the policy in June  2000 at the same time as taking out a loan. They  
applied for the loan and PPI policy in branch. 
The loan was repayable over a 20-year term. The monthly loan repayment was £40.21  with 
the PPI costing an additional  £4.17  making  the total monthly repayment  £44.38.  The policy  
didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled by either party  with 30-days notice without 
penalty. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr B for accident, sickness, unemployment  and life  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay Mr B and Miss Os monthly  loan 
repayment for up to 60 months in the event of a successful disability claim and 12 months in 
the event of unemployment. 
At the time,  Mr B was employed as an engineer. He has told us he was entitled to death-in-
service and redundancy payments from his employer.  Mr B has said he was in good health 
at the time of the sale. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the loan account closed in 2004. 
Mr B and Miss Os representative  has made lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr B and Miss Os representative  says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  APP 3, it should be presumed  Mr B and Miss O 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  
Mr B and Miss Os representatives  believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that 
presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr B and Miss O about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr B and Miss O and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN39874512Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B and Miss O disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr B and Miss Os. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr B and Miss Os 
complaint.
This sale took place  in June 2000, before the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs)  overarching  Principles for 
Businesses and insurance  conduct  rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2004. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In determining  which of these  is relevant to this sale,  I taken account of the fact 
that, although the original sale date was in June  2000, the loan and PPI policy didnt start 
until July 2000.  So, in these circumstances, I think that BoS should have taken account of 
The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code, as this code commenced  from that month.
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
Ref: DRN39874513The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr B and Miss Os case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr B and Miss Os complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr B and Miss O with reason able care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether BoS gave  Mr B and Miss O sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
Ref: DRN39874514-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of 
Mr B and Miss O, I must  then go on to consider whether and to what extent 
Mr B and Miss O suffered loss or damage  and what I consider would amount to fair 
compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both 
Mr B and Miss O and BoS, Ive decided not to uphold Mr B and Miss Os complaint. Ive set 
out my reasoning  below. 
Did Mr B and Miss O know they had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
BoS has provided a copy of the loan application which Mr B and Miss O signed. Theres  a 
section on this dealing  with PPI where  the consumer can choose between signing  in a box to 
indicate they wanted the cover or signing an equally prominent box to say they didnt. And I 
can see that Mr B has signed  to say he did want PPI. I think  its most  likely that Mr B did this 
after their need  for this protection was discussed with Mr B and Miss O.
Ive also seen a copy of the signed loan agreement.  This has on it the question: Do you 
want Personal Loan Repayment  Insurance?  And theres a pre-printed  cross in the Yes box 
next to this.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr B and Miss O knew the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. But this sale took place 
a long time ago, so I could understand why they might not remember this now.
Did BoS provide advice?
BoS say it did provide  advice during this sale. And as a branch sale, I think this is most  likely 
to have been the case.
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr B and Miss O with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B and Miss O. It seems Mr B and Miss O cant remember clearly  
what happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy. 
This is unsurprising in respect  of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some limited 
information about Mr B and Miss Os financial circumstances, but there  is no specific 
evidence to show the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr B would have been caught 
by the significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully 
meet their needs.  For example,  there  is nothing to suggest BoS considered  whether Mr B 
had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr B and Miss O given their circumstances. 
So Im not persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN39874515While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B and Miss O, I do think its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr B and Miss O had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr B and Miss Os 
ability to continue to meet  their loan repayments  would  have  been  put under  strain if 
Mr B was not working for an extended period of time  even allowing for employee 
benefits Mr B says he would have  been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr B and Miss O.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr B and Miss O. 
There was nothing  about Mr Bs employment  or occupation which  would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr B and Miss O sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what BoS 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B and Miss O were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr B was unable to work through  accident, sickness and disability) and of the approximate 
costs. I have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr B and Miss O would  
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr B and Miss O agreed  to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B and Miss O Im not persuaded 
BoS did enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to Mr B and Miss O. Im not persuaded BoS gave  Mr B and Miss O 
all of the information they needed about  the policy to make an informed decision about 
whether to follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr B and Miss Os representative has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr B and Miss Os. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
Ref: DRN39874516-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr B and Miss Os representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr B and Miss O about  the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone 
further and explained  the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr B and Miss Os representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr B and Miss O have suggested. And taking into account the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that BoS ought to have done either. 
What effect did BoSs shortcomings  have on Mr B and Miss O? To what  extent did 
Mr B and Miss O suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to 
Mr B and Miss O. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude Mr B and Miss O suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must 
decide whether  or not Mr B and Miss O would  have still taken  out the policy,  had BoS done 
things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr B and Miss O, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr B and Miss O have suffered 
loss or damage in this case primarily depends on whether,  if BoS had explained things 
properly, Mr B and Miss O would have  acted differently, or whether they would have taken 
out the policy in any event.
Mr B and Miss O say they wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B and Miss O had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their secured lending  payments in the 
event Mr B was unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
Ref: DRN39874517As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr B and Miss Os 
circumstances at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr B and Miss O knew they would have to 
pay something for the policy, it doesnt  appear  BoS told them  the exact premium at the point 
Mr B and Miss O applied for the policy. Having said that, it does seem  they were  told the 
cost before the policy started. and they paid for the policy for some time, so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might  have 
raised that with BoS at the time,  or reconsidered their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B and Miss O would  have found the cost unacceptable  if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BoS made clear exactly what Mr B and Miss O would  get back  
in return in the event Mr B made  a successful  claim.  But I think  its unlikely 
Mr B and Miss Os expectations  about  what the policy  would pay in the event of a claim (an 
amount sufficient to meet their loan repayment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B and Miss O thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr B knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy  and which recurred  
within 24-months of that date; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonable qualified him to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr B and Miss O pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B and Miss O from taking  out 
the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr B and Miss Os circumstances  at the time of sale shows  the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr B was eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to 
suggest Mr B would have  been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr B didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think he 
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN39874518I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than 
Mr B and Miss O might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely they would have 
expected to be able to make a disability claim without having  to provide some evidence  to 
support that claim. And while  this limitation  might  have  dissuaded  some  consumers in 
slightly different circumstances to Mr B and Miss O from taking out the policy,  
Mr B and Miss O, in their circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr B and Miss O had known  Mr B could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both 
his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers  view he might reasonably 
become qualified for, it might have played into their thinking about  what  they would have 
done. And I accept it may have given them pause  for thought   although its possible they 
may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr B was unable (through disability) to 
carry on his own occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar 
occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B and Miss O would still have taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable  for 
the, was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought they were getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences were Mr B and Miss O made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it 
more likely than not Mr B and Miss O would have taken out the policy  in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr B and Miss Os representatives  say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B and Miss O would  not have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account 
Mr B and Miss Os circumstances as detailed  above,  I consider  it reasonable to conclude the 
position Mr B and Miss O found themselves in as result of the sale was the same position  
they would  have been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.  
Mr B and Miss O believes the presumption  may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN39874519Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B and Miss O in the position Mr B and Miss O would 
have been in if they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mr B and Miss O compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr B and Miss Os representative  says a court might 
take if it were to find BoS had been in breach  of its duty of utmost good  faith.  But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr B and Miss O in a better  position than if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Miss O 
to accept or reject my decision before 26 September 2020.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3987451