K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complained because Gresham Insurance Company Limited  voided (cancelled  from
the start) her buildings and contents  insurance policy.
background
Mrs M bought her policy in 2016  through her bank.  At the time her husband  was in prison.
She said the bank  told her that all she needed to do was give them  a call when Mr M was
released from prison and was back living  at home.  The policy  documentation   which
contained the information the insurance was based  on  said Mrs M confirmed that neither
she nor anyone else insured by the policy had any unspent criminal convictions or police
cautions, and hadnt been charged with any criminal offence.
In 2018 Mrs M called her bank to tell them that her husband had recently been released from
prison. Following the call Gresham decided to void Mrs Ms policy. It said that had it known
about Mr Ms conviction from the start it wouldnt have offered Mrs M insurance.  Gresham
also told Mrs M that it wasnt  prepared to offer her insurance cover in the future.
Mrs M complained about Greshams decision. She said the policy was in her name  only and
she therefore made a truthful declaration. She was unhappy because she was simply doing
what her bank had told her to do. Gresham didnt change its mind.  It said that although Mr M
was in prison his belongings were  in the home  and were covered by the policy. It also said
that if Mrs M was given incorrect information by the bank she would need to complain to
them.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I thought the complaint should be 
upheld. The relevant parts of that decision are outlined below.
Gresham voiding the policy
When taking out insurance consumers must take reasonable care to answer application  
questions honestly and accurately. If any answer is inaccurate it might lead to the insurer 
providing insurance when it otherwise wouldnt have. And the insurer  might  then be 
entitled to void the policy.
Gresham agreed to provide Mrs M with insurance based on the information provided to it 
by Mrs M/the bank. That included the fact that neither Mrs M nor anyone else insured by 
the policy had any unspent criminal convictions.  Gresham said it wasnt  told about 
Mr Ms prison sentence, and that if it had been  told it wouldnt have insured Mrs M  
hence why it decided to void the policy.
There were  arguments about  whether Mr M was insured  by the policy,  and while  it was 
true that he wasnt a policyholder, some  of his belongings  were  at the insured property 
while he was in prison. And if the house had been totally  destroyed  (eg by fire) during 
that time I thought it most  likely that Mrs M (and probably Mr M) would have expected 
Gresham to have  paid the cost to rebuild the whole house  rather  than just paying for 
Mrs Ms share. So I thought there was an argument that Mrs M should  have  declared  Mr 
Ms conviction when she applied for the policy. Gresham provided me with information 
Ref: DRN39995042which confirmed that had it known about Mr Ms conviction it wouldnt have offered Mrs 
M insurance.
I therefore thought  Gresham  had acted  fairly  in deciding to void Mrs Ms policy.
Gresham not wanting to insure  Mrs M going  forward
Gresham doesnt have to continue insuring someone if it doesnt want to. Each  insurer  
has a different attitude to risk, and that will change from time to time. What or who one 
insurer is willing to insure wont be replicated  across the market.  This is each insurers  
commercial decision, and its not something  I usually interfere with. Insurers  
nevertheless must exercise their commercial  judgement fairly  they cant unfairly  single 
someone out and/or treat them differently to someone else.
I asked Gresham to provide me with further information to help me understand why it 
didnt want to insure Mrs M at all going  forward. It explained that it didnt want  to insure 
anyone who has an unspent non-motoring conviction.
In my opinion, the way Gresham treated  Mrs M didnt  fit with what it told me. Its fine if it 
doesnt want to insure  Mrs M while shes living with Mr M and while  it might be liable for 
any of Mr Ms losses, while Mr Ms conviction is unspent. But the blanket decision to not 
be prepared to offer Mrs M any insurance cover at any time in the future  doesnt take 
account for the time when Mr Ms conviction becomes spent. Or for other possibilities 
when Mrs M might want insurance  for herself  only.
I concluded that Gresham treated Mrs M unfairly by deciding to never offer her any 
insurance cover in the future.
responses to my provisional  decision
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision.
Gresham said it wouldnt offer the policy from 2016 when it started as the documents said it 
should have been made aware of any unspent  criminal convictions. It feels that Mr M may 
have had quite  a few belongings at the marital home  and the intention was for him to return 
to the home when  he left prison.  It said if the bank had referred the application to it, it would 
have been declined. It confirmed that when the policy  was cancelled it provided a 100% 
refund of the premiums Mrs M had paid.
Regarding future insurance, Gresham said it wouldnt  offer cover to Mr or Mrs M whilst they 
are living together  until Mr Ms conviction  is spent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my final decision 
remains as outlined in my provisional decision   for the same reasons.
Ive noted Greshams  comments  regarding cover from 2016.  But as I provisional concluded 
that it had acted fairly in deciding to void the policy I dont  think there is anything further to 
add.
Ref: DRN39995043Greshams comments regarding potentially offering cover to Mr and Mrs M once  Mr Ms 
conviction is spent  is a slight move away from its previous position. Originally, Gresham
told Mrs M that it wouldnt offer her any insurance  cover at any point  in the future.  Its now 
clarified that it only wont provide cover while Mr and Mrs M are living  together  and Mr Ms 
conviction remains unspent. As I said in my provisional decision, thats its prerogative.
It nevertheless remains my opinion that Greshams blanket decision to not offer Mrs M any 
insurance cover at any time in the future  was unfair.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Gresham  Insurance Company Limited to remove its blanket  
ban on never offering  Mrs M insurance cover  in the future and allow  her to make any 
application she wishes just like any other customer1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
1 To avoid any doubt, this doesnt require  Gresham to provide Mrs M with any insurance cover going  
forward  thats a decision  it will need to make whenever Mrs M applies for a policy based on its 
attitude to risk at the time.
Ref: DRN3999504