K820x#14complaint
Mr E has complained that St. Jamess  Place  Wealth Management Plc failed to review his
pension policy on a regular basis. He considers he has suffered financially as a result.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint setting out the background and my 
provisional findings on 10 July 2020.
In summary,  Mr E had a personal pension plan that he started in 1989.  In October 2011 a St. 
Jamess Place partner reviewed the pension with a view to transferring in to St. Jamess  
Place. His recommendation  was not to transfer. So it remained where it was. At around the 
same time Mr E signed an agreement with another firm  (who  I referred  to as Firm B) to 
transfer the servicing rights and administration (of this pension)  to them.
St. Jamess Place had said that Firm B are independent financial advisers who work with
St. Jamess Place to provide ongoing  administration and advice for any existing investments
outside the St. Jamess Place Group.
St. Jamess Places position was that its partner couldnt provide specific advice on the
personal pension  but was able to discuss it generically. And that Firm B was responsible for
servicing the personal pension including carrying out reviews of it.
Firm B had said that it was St. Jamess  Places  partner that was the main point of contact.
And although Firm B would provide any advice on the personal pension, the responsibility for
arranging and agreeing a review plan was with the partner. My understanding was that the
pension plan provider  would send plan statements to Firm B who then forwarded  them  to the
partner.
In my provisional findings I said that although  Mr E had provided  quite a lot of information 
and documents  that he considered showed  St. Jamess Place should have provided ongoing 
reviews, I didnt think they went as far as that. I said they might have suggested he had 
annual reviews, said how important they were and that they should be carried  out regularly. 
But I didnt think the documents from St. Jamess  Place itself placed an obligation on it to be 
proactive in providing reviews.
I said I thought of particular relevance  were the documents set out below which were from 
Firm B.
The Tariff document said, amongst other  things:
1.Placing Business  with [Firm B]
[Firm B] is able to act on your behalf  in advising  you on investments and non-investment
insurance contracts.  We offer products  and services as follows:
2. Ongoing Servicing  Regime
As covered in our Proposition and Client Agreement  [Firm  B] believe that it is vital that you
review your finances on a regular basis. In addition to your personal situation and evolving
goals, your attitude to risk is likely  to change with time. It is critical that the products and
underlying funds you hold remain appropriate for your needs and that your money is
Ref: DRN34014202invested as tax efficiently as possible.
In introducing you to [Firm B] your  Partner  has undertaken to provide  you with a
Servicing Regime which  is tailored to your  needs and is designed to take account of
the foregoing  points while being timed  to meet your unique personal circumstances.
As part of your Servicing Regime your  Partner  agrees to:-
- Be your principal point of contact.
- Monitor and review  Your  Policies and underlying funds  to consider whether they
continue to meet  your  needs and take them into account when agreeing your ongoing
Servicing Regime.
- Monitor  and review any correspondence  added to your Client File on a regular basis  to
ensure that your affairs are being  managed.
- Notify  [Firm  B] of any changes to your personal circumstances which  need  to be reflected
in Your Policies.
The cost is 0.5% per annum and is based on the value of your non SJP Investments at each
12 month anniversary paid pro-rata in arrears. Therefore, if the value of your non SJP 
investment(s) totalled 50,000 our yearly fees would be 250.00.
This is collected by [Firm B] and shared with your Partner on a pre-determined  basis.
Proposition and Client Agreement
For Clients introduced  by Partners of St. James's  Place
This document explains:
 Our Proposition
 Your Partner's responsibilities
 Our responsibilities
This document should be read in conjunction  with our Tariff. Together they form the entire
agreement between us.
From our experience the majority of clients want to deal with one Financial  Adviser,  the
Adviser that they trust and have dealt with for many  years. However in todays complicated
financial marketplace, most Financial Advisers choose to specialise.  Your partner has
chosen to align his/her business with St. James's Place and in the process  has decided to
delegate the servicing of your non-St. James's  Place  policies to [Firm B].
Essentially this means that your partner remains your principal point of contact and, where
possible through [Firm B], has access to the information regarding  your overall portfolio.
As [Firm B] is the servicing agent  on your non St. Jamess Place  policies we receive  ongoing
information from your companies and file this securely in your client file. By doing this we
can ensure that your evolving  financial  picture  is always at your partners fingertips. We
believe that it is very Important to review your finances on a regular basis.  Your partner  has
agreed that they will undertake the servicing regime with you. This will be tailored to
your needs,  in particular how often  your finances should be reviewed. There  is a
separate terms of business issued by St James's Place covering the relationship
between you and your partner.
The vast majority of your ongoing financial planning  needs can be met by your partner
Ref: DRN34014203Where this is not possible your partner  may involve other  financial  specialists  including [Firm
B]. Because  we have direct access to your client file we can quickly  assess  your financial
position and help you to find appropriate solutions  to your financial planning needs.
Definitions
This Client Agreement sets out the basis on which [Firm B] will conduct business with you
and on your behalf. The terms of this Client Agreement come  into force immediately on issue
and remain in force until further notice.
Servicing Agent The Firm responsible for servicing  your policies
Servicing Regime A review of your policies undertaken by your partner to ensure that
your ongoing financial planning needs  are met. The frequency of this is tailored to
your personal circumstances.
Your Partner An Appointed Representative of SJPG.
Your Policies Any policy, investment portfolio, wrap account, platform or other  instrument
held by you of which [Firm  B] is the servicing  agent under the terms of this agreement.  This
will exclude  SJPG policies.
2.4. By entering  into this agreement you are appointing  [Firm  B] as the servicing agent on
your policies.
5. Under This Agreement
5.1 YOUR  PARTNER UNDERTAKES TO
5.1.1. Be your principal point of contact.
5.1.2. Monitor  and review your policies  and underlying funds to consider  whether  they
continue to meet  your  needs and take them into account when agreeing your ongoing
servicing regime as defined later  in this agreement.
5.1.3. Monitor and review any correspondence  added to your client file on a regular basis to
ensure that your affairs are being  managed.
5.1.4. Notify [Firm B] of any changes to your personal circumstances which  need  to be
reflected in your policies.
10. Servicing Regime
10 1. [Firm B] believe that it is vital that you review  your finances on a regular basis  In
addition to your personal situation and evolving goals, your attitude to risk is likely to change
with time It is critical that the products and underlying funds  that you hold remain appropriate
for your needs and of course,  that your money  IS invested as tax efficiently as possible.
10.2. By introducing you to [Firm B] your  partner  has undertaken to provide you with
a servicing  regime  which is tailored to your needs and is designed take account of the
foregoing points while being timed  to meet your unique personal circumstances
10.3. Your partner will agree your servicing regime with you. [Firm B] is not party to this and
therefore cannot accept any responsibility for the conduct of the servicing regime
10 4. In order to protect you, we reserve the right to contact you from time to time to ensure
that your servicing regime is still appropriate for your needs. [My emphasis in bold].
I said I thought there were  several references to St. Jamess Places partner actively  
monitoring Mr Es policies  and that the partner would agree a servicing regime.  And I thought 
Firm Bs documentation suggested that the partner would be acting  in his capacity as a
representative of St. Jamess Place.  
Ref: DRN34014204However, I thought  what was key was that all the above documentation was from Firm B. 
And I didnt  think Firm B could fix St. Jamess  Place  with responsibilities unilaterally  it 
would have needed the agreement of St. Jamess Place. St. Jamess  Place  had specifically 
confirmed that there was no agreement between it and Firm B in the background to allow 
Firm B to fix it with responsibility to monitor and agree  a servicing regime  (reviews). 
Firm B referred  to a separate  terms of business issued by St James's Place covering the 
relationship between you and your partner.  St. Jamess Place had provided a copy  of its 
Client Agreement and Key Facts about our services and costs  document and its Terms of 
Business. But these didnt appear  to cover or agree on any servicing  regime. So taking all 
this into account,  I said I wasnt persuaded that it was St. Jamess  Places  responsibility  to 
provide the reviews that Mr E had claimed  it had failed to provide.  So my provisional 
decision was not to uphold Mr Es complaint.
 
Mr E didnt agree with my provisional decision.  In summary, he re-affirmed the nature of his 
complaint and the background  to it. He said that as it was a non-St. Jamess Place pension it 
was explained  that the servicing would have  to run through  Firm B with whom  St. Jamess 
Place had an ongoing  trading relationship to handle non-St. Jamess  Place  pension  
products.  Although  the pension wasnt transferred to St. Jamess Place Mr E said the 
partner made arrangements for the pension to be serviced by both himself  (as the main 
primary point of contact) and Firm B. 
He said the joint Client Agreement and mandate set out the respective roles  and obligations  
of the three parties to the agreement  St. Jamess Place, Firm B and himself. He said it was 
clear that both St. Jamess Place and Firm B had devised and set up a joint business  model  
and their legal teams  must have  set out how they would both administer and service this with 
prospective clients. The responsibilities and obligations of each business was set out in the 
Client Agreement and it wasnt  a matter of one firm seeking to burden an unrelated firm with 
unilateral obligations; the two firms  clearly  had a close business arrangement and had 
agreed how they would both operate  to service their clients needs.  He thought if Firm B 
were using St. Jamess  Place name and obliging them with responsibilities without their 
agreement it might be fraud and a matter for the Financial Conduct  Authority.
Mr E referred to the part of my provisional  decision where Id said St James  Place  has 
specifically confirmed that there was no agreement between it and Firm B in the background 
to allow  Firm B to fix it with responsibility  to monitor and agree a servicing  regime (reviews).  
He raised a number  of questions about  how the relationship between  St. Jamess Place and 
Firm B could work in practical terms if there was no such agreement. 
Mr E said he didnt  have a recollection of the second  and alternative  St. Jamess Places 
Client Agreement and Terms of Business it supposedly issued. He said it was a standard 
generic leaflet; related to the proposed  sale of St. Jamess Places products only and not the 
non-St Jamess Places product which was the case here.  
Mr E said the main joint Agreement said ...  In introducing you to [Firm B] your Partner  has 
undertaken to provide you with a Servicing Regime  which is tailored to your needs and is 
designed to take account of the foregoing  points  while being  timed to meet your unique  
personal circumstances. He said the partner failed to provide a servicing regime; failed to 
provide reviews; and when he asked for a review as he was approaching retirement age he 
was flippantly told to leave it as it was. 
Ref: DRN34014205Mr E said his pension had undoubtedly suffered by not being  reviewed  each year as his 
situation had changed significantly to when  it was last reviewed by the St. Jamess Places 
partner in 2011; in particular more  recently given current  events and market situations.
          
Mr E said when he raised his complaint with St. Jamess Place  and then with Firm B he had 
no idea it would take so long to get to this point. He said he felt the right thing to do was to 
navigate the matter through the complaints  process  and he didnt terminate the contract in 
case it jeopardised the running and outcome of the complaint. He asked that in view of 
everything that had happened I considered a suitable amount to cover the considerable 
distress, time and inconvenience he had suffered a result of the matter.
St. Jamess Place said it agreed with my Provisional Decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has made a number  of points in response to my provisional  decision. Although  Ive only 
summarised them above Ive read them in full and taken them  all into account. An error or 
omission by a firm doesnt,  in itself, create  an entitlement to compensation. It has to be 
shown that the error or omission caused  the losses or damage that was being  claimed  for. 
So Ive focused  on what I consider are the key points  which  I think  determine the outcome of 
this complaint; in particular whether  St. Jamess Place had agreed to reviews  of the pension.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I understand Mr Es frustration with the matter  that has 
gone on for some time and particularly given  the two firms involved were saying that it was 
the other that had responsibility.   But ultimately,  for the reasons  I set out in my provisional 
decision, I dont  think it was St. Jamess Place that had responsibility to proactively  provide 
reviews in the particular  circumstances  of this case.  
Its clear that a number  of references were made to the importance of having reviews by 
both St. Jamess Place  and Firm B. However  that would be the normal in most cases  its 
always good practice to keep  most  investments under review given changing circumstances 
and market conditions.  But whether  or not a firm is obliged  to provide an ongoing  service  
and of what type, will depend on the nature of the agreement between the parties. Matters 
were complicated here because of the involvement of another Firm  Firm B. 
Mr E considers the agreements oblige St. Jamess Place to provide ongoing reviews. But the 
documentation that I have seen doesnt fix them with that responsibility. As I said in the 
provisional decision, the documents  suggesting  responsibility was with St. Jamess Place 
were provided by Firm B  not St. Jamess  Place.  I accept they refer to the roles of the 
parties involved including the adviser  (partner) and St. Jamess  Place.  The agreement was 
for clients introduced  by partners of St. Jamess Place and was between  Mr E and Policy  
Services, albeit I accept  it refers to the roles of the parties involved including the adviser 
(partner) and St. Jamess Place. The agreement said there was a separate  terms of 
business issued  by St James's Place covering  the relationship between Mr E and the 
partner.
St. Jamess Place has said this agreement was between Firm B and the partner themselves.
Its said that this activity was not authorised by St. James's Place or carried  out by the
Partner as an Appointed Representative of St. James's Place - it was completely separate
Ref: DRN34014206and not St. James's Place's responsibility.  
The documentation  provided by St. Jamess Place doesnt provide for annual  reviews. Whilst 
there may have been an agreement covering the partners relationship  with Firm B, St. 
Jamess Place has confirmed that there  wasnt any agreement providing  for Firm B to fix St. 
Jamess Place with review obligations.  Firm B has had the opportunity to provide such  an 
agreement showing either that it was St. Jamess Place  responsibility  or at least  shared  
but hasnt done so. I agree with Mr E that the second and alternative St. Jamess Place 
Client Agreement and Terms of Business dont cover the servicing of this pension. 
So in all the circumstances,  Im satisfied St. Jamess Place hadnt agreed to provide  reviews 
and hadnt agreed for Firm B to fix it with the review responsibility. And I dont think  its 
responsible for what Firm B said in its agreement  or was acting fraudulently.
Firm B sent its response to Mr Es complaint  alerting him to its position  in its letter dated 5 
April 2019. Mr E had said he was desperately seeking a review and it was very urgent. 
Firm B told Mr E it wasnt being  paid any servicing fees but it would provide a review at that 
time free of charge and this would include any fund switches.  The report  explained that Mr E 
was invested in a mix of funds that presented  higher risks - 6 on a scale  of 1-10.  And that it 
would expect his funds to outperform the markets when things were  going well but a decline 
in the market could have  a severe  impact. The fund value at that time was £50,680. So this 
was sometime after Mr E had asked the adviser  to review his pension and he flippantly told 
him to leave  it as it was. Clearly if the adviser hadnt considered the matter properly that was 
inappropriate. But at this point I dont  think that had caused Mr E any damage. 
Mr E was complaining that the firm had failed  to carry out the reviews he considered he was 
entitled to. I dont think he needed  to wait for the outcome of his complaint to know that he 
hadnt had the reviews  and/or he wanted his pension reviewed. Mr E was clearly alerted  to 
how his pension was invested and the risks it presented by Firm B. Firm B offered a fuller 
review free of charge.  
On the one hand I understand that Mr E considered  he was due compensation for the 
reviews that hadnt  been carried out over the years and so was reluctant to accept that 
review.  And he thought  he would wait for the outcome of his complaint. But Mr E also had 
an obligation  to mitigate his position; particularly given he was aware  of the risks and hed 
stressed the urgency of the matter himself. 
I understand Mr Es position. But I still think it would have been reasonable for him to have 
arranged a review;  if he didnt want to accept Firm Bs offer then with another  firm. I think  Mr 
E was aware of, and effectively accepting, the level of risk he was exposed  to following Firm 
Bs performance review  and offer.
As Ive said,  I understand Mr Es frustration  with the matter and appreciate that he has put a 
lot of time and effort into making his complaint. But ultimately Ive not been  persuaded that 
St. Jamess Place was responsible for the reviews. I dont think  St. Jamess Place caused 
the losses that Mr E has claimed. And in the circumstances I dont think  an award  for 
distress and inconvenience is appropriate  against  St. Jamess Place.
my final decision
Accordingly, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN34014207Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 October  2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3401420