K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that RCI Financial Services Limited (RCI), trading as Renault Financial 
Services, mis-sold  her a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
Mrs M took out a loan in June 2005  in order to buy a car. She was sold the PPI in connection 
with this loan.
Our adjudicator considered Mrs Ms complaint and thought  that it should be upheld. RCI 
didnt agree with our adjudicator and so the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint. I will now explain why.
RCI had to make it clear to Mrs M that the PPI was optional and needed her consent  before 
it could be applied to her account. Mrs M has told us that the loan was taken out over the 
telephone and the papers  were couriered  over for her to sign.  She says she did not know  
she had been  sold PPI.
RCI say that their Sweep  Team  a team  set up to offer PPI to offer consumers once they 
had purchased a vehicle  - adhered to the correct  selling  of the product. They  say Mrs M 
would have received a full explanation  about the policy  and could have cancelled it any time. 
But RCI havent explained how PPI would have been presented  during the sale.   And they 
havent provided us with any documents  from the time of the sale. I also note that Mrs M did 
not buy a Renault car so its not clear  whether the same process would have been used in 
any event.
Although I appreciate the policy was cancelled  in 2008, there is no information surrounding 
the circumstances in which the policy was cancelled.  But even if it were to mean  that Mrs M 
was aware of the policy at this time  as opposed to for example, it being cancelled when the 
agreement was terminated - it doesnt necessarily follow that she was aware that PPI was 
optional at the time of the sale or that she chose to take it out.
Based on the limited  information available to me, I cant  say its more likely that RCI made 
the optional nature of the policy clear  to Mrs M or that she actively  agreed to take it out. So I 
think RCI mis-sold  Mrs M this PPI policy.
fair compensation
RCI should put Mrs M in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. The policy 
should be cancelled,  if it hasnt been  cancelled already, and RCI should:
Pay Mrs M the amount she paid each month  for the PPI
Ref: DRN39615372Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, RCI can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires RCI to take off tax from this interest. RCI must give Mrs 
M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ms complaint against RCI Financial Services Limited  and require them to pay 
Mrs M the compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3961537