K820x#14complaint
Mrs J says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mrs J took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1996. Mrs J paid for the PPI with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered her mortgage payments in case 
she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Js case.  
Ive decided that Mrs Js PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
The sale was over two decades ago and the account has long since closed, so I think  its 
understandable that neither side have the original  documents from the time. Indeed, under 
data protection  regulations, Halifax were required to dispose of Mrs Js data rather than hold 
onto it for too long.  Mrs J doesnt remember choosing  PPI, but I think thats understandable 
too, given how long ago the sale was, and since buying insurance is not often memorable. 
Ive thought carefully about whats most likely  to have happened based  on the limited 
information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have added  the policy without Mrs Js 
permission, or to have  misled her into thinking it was compulsory. And I have no evidence  
which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any wider problems with its sales 
process from the time  indeed, it looks like if customers wanted PPI they wouldve applied 
for it separately to the mortgage and signed specifically for it. So I cant  fairly conclude  that 
its most  likely Halifax misled Mrs J. I think its more  likely that Halifax followed a standard  
process, offered  Mrs J the choice to buy PPI or not, and she chose  to take it at the time  
though I can understand if she can no longer recall doing so after so long.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mrs J, so it had to check it was right for her. And based  on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example,  while  Mrs J had 
some benefits through work, the PPI offered her more comprehensive cover,  especially 
when her benefits reduced  to just half pay  a significant drop in income.  And the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of her work  benefits. Mrs J also had a small amount  of savings, but 
these wouldnt have  lasted long if shed had to rely on them, and the PPI meant Mrs J could 
protect her savings and use them for other things. Its worth bearing in mind that this 
mortgage was Mrs Js sole responsibility, and if she fell behind on her payments she risked 
losing her home. So it looks like the PPI couldve  been useful  for her in protecting  her home.
Ref: DRN34476182Mrs J says she may have had a medical  condition which  might  not have  been  covered. Our 
adjudicator tried a number  of times  to follow this up, but we still have not been  told what this 
condition was or whether it was even relevant to the time of this sale. And when Mrs J first 
complained to Halifax, she said she didnt have any health problems at the time of the sale. 
So I cant reasonably  say that Mrs Js condition made this policy  unsuitable. Further, she 
couldve claimed for any other conditions, or if she lost her job. And Mrs J doesnt appear to 
have been affected by any of the policys other main exclusions or limitations. So it still looks  
like the policy was probably right for her. 
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mrs J about PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. But as I explained  above,  it doesnt look like Mrs J was significantly affected by 
any of the main things  the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really  been useful for her in 
case something went wrong. The policy was not bad value given how much  it would pay out 
in a claim, and Ive not seen any indication that it was unaffordable. Then if Mrs Js 
circumstances changed or she changed her mind, she could cancel it at any time without a 
penalty. So overall, I dont think that better  information was likely to have put her off taking 
out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs J to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3447618