K820x#14Complaint
Mr M and Mrs C complain  that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited  has unfairly refused 
to meet  a claim they made on their home insurance  for storm damage.
Background
Mr M and Mrs C had buildings  and contents  insurance with Lloyds. On the night of 
12 October 2018 there were high winds and a wall in their garden fell over,  damaging some 
items including  a bench and a statue.
They made a claim to Lloyds the following day for the damage to the wall and garden  
equipment. Lloyds sent out a loss adjuster  who said the wall had been weakened by tree 
roots and the trees pushing against  it, and its footings were inadequate. Lloyds declined  the 
claim for storm  damage  as it said weather  records for the local area didnt show  winds strong 
enough to be classed as a storm, and although it had been windy that night, this had merely  
highlighted the problems with the walls  footings and the trees  and roots having weakened 
the wall over a period  of time.
Mr M and Mrs C complained to Lloyds about its decision to decline  their claim. In its final 
response Lloyds  reiterated  it was declining  the claim as the weather reports  it used  showed  
the local wind speeds were insufficient  to be classed as a storm.
Mr M and Mrs C didnt  agree so complained to our service. Whilst the matter was being  
investigated Lloyds  reviewed its position and agreed it should have partially met the claim for 
the damaged  garden equipment, as this would have  been covered under the Accidental 
Damage part of their policy. It also offered Mr M and Mrs C £150 for the distress  and 
inconvenience it had caused by not meeting this part of the claim earlier.
Our investigator didnt  uphold their complaint. He thought Lloyds had not been unfair in 
declining the claim for storm  damage  as the local weather reports didnt show the wind gusts 
had been high enough to meet their threshold  to be classified as a storm. Mr M and Mrs C 
didnt agree. They thought  it was unfair as they didnt have any reason to know there  was a 
structural problem with the wall. As no agreement could be reached the matter  has come to 
me for a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For Mr M and Mrs C to make a successful claim for storm damage to their property, they 
need to show  there  was a storm at the time,  and that the storm was the dominant  cause  of 
the damage.  Lloyds checked  its records, which showed the maximum gust in the local area 
that night was 44mph. This has been checked  by our investigator using different records,  
which also show a maximum gust of 44mph. There also wasnt enough  rain recorded to 
meet the required threshold. I have  checked the terms  and conditions of their policy.  Here  it 
says that for damage from high winds to be considered  as storm damage, the wind gust 
needs to be in excess of 55 mph. This is roughly in line with what is considered  reasonable 
by our service.
Ref: DRN37682182Given this Im satisfied Lloyds wasnt unfair in declining  the claim under the storm damage 
part of their policy. However, Mr M and Mrs C have accidental damage cover. So I need to 
consider if Lloyds was unfair in its decision to exclude the damage to the wall under this 
section of the policy.
Lloyds sent a loss adjuster to look at the damage. This is common  in cases like this and I 
think it is reasonable for Lloyds to rely on its experts  opinion  when deciding a claim.  The 
adjuster has provided  photos of the site of the wall. His opinion was the damage  to the wall 
was caused by a natural breakdown of materials. The wall had been built straight on to the 
earth with no footings, and the trees were so close to it that they and their roots were 
pushing against  it, weakening it over a period of time, and the weather conditions  had only 
highlighted this.
Mr M and Mrs C have  said they had no reason to suspect there was any problem with the 
structure of the wall, and they maintained their property well. They  might not agree with what 
the loss adjuster said, but Lloyds has relied  on their evidence when considering  the claim. 
This is a reasonable thing to do, especially as there was no countering  expert opinion.
The photos  taken  by the adjuster show the condition of the ground at the base of the wall, 
and the proximity of the trees. I have examined  these photos  and additionally  can see the 
remaining fence appears to be bowing out rather,  which is likely to be caused by pressure 
from the tree growth behind it. 
So on balance, I think the decision that Lloyds has come to, that the damage to the wall was 
caused by wear and tear over time,  was fair, and I can see from the policy that damage  
caused by wear and tear is excluded. So Im satisfied it was reasonable for Lloyds  to decline 
the claim.
Lloyds has agreed  to meet the claim for the property damaged when the wall fell on it, and to 
pay Mr M and Mrs C £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. This 
hasnt been considered as part of this decision,  so it is a matter  for Mr M and Mrs C if they 
wish to accept this offer.
My final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2021.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3768218