K822xcomplaint
The estate  of Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC gave  bank statements to a third party 
which caused problems  and delays when settling the estate. 
background 
The late Mr W was a Lloyds customer and passed  away in September  2017. Mr Ws son 
was nominated as the executor for his estate. 
In January 2018 a third party contacted Lloyds and obtained bank statements for the late 
Mr Ws current account. 
The executor complains that as a result of obtaining  bank statements from Lloyds the third 
party was able to delay settling the estate. 
Lloyds responded to the complaint and paid the executor £250 to apologise. The complaint 
was referred to the Financial Ombudsman  Service and an adjudicator looked at what had 
happened. They asked Lloyds to increase  the settlement offered to £350, which  it agreed  to 
do. But the adjudicator  didnt agree that Lloyds  mistake  was the main reason there were 
delays in settling  the estate. The executor didnt agree  and asked for the complaint to be 
appealed. As a result, the complaints been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief when setting out the background to this complaint above. But the 
executor has given a detailed  background  when bringing the complaint and I want  to ensure 
him Ive taken on board everything  hes said. Ive noted above what I think are the key 
events. 
I accept there have been delays settling the estate of Mr W. And I can see that by releasing  
the bank statements to the third party Lloyds has made things more challenging for the 
executor. But Im not persuaded that the release of bank statements was the main reason  for 
the delays. 
The executors confirmed that the third party had already lodged a caveat with the courts  to 
stop the estate  of Mr W being settled before the bank statements were provided. And I think  
thats a key point  as it shows there  was a legal challenge to how the estate of Mr W would 
be settled that predates Lloyds mistake. I appreciate the executors comments  that the bank 
statements gave the third party more material to use to delay the estate. But Im not 
persuaded thats the case. 
For me to award additional costs above  the £350  Lloyds  has agreed to pay Id have  to be 
persuaded that the key reason the estate of Mr W experienced delays being settled was 
because of the bank statements released  by Lloyds. But from what  Ive seen, I think  there  
was a private dispute between family  members  that didnt have anything  to do with Lloyds 
mistake. I appreciate  Lloyds error added another layer of complexity to what  was already a 
difficult situation but I havent found it led to a loss for the estate  of Mr W. 
Ref: DRN38065132Im sorry  to disappoint the executor  of the late Mr Ws estate but Im not persuaded it would 
be fair to tell Lloyds to pay for all or part of the additional costs  incurred  as a result of any 
delay caused  by the third party. 
Lloyds has agreed  to pay a total of £350 because it gave  the late Mr Ws statements to a 
third party. I agree that settling the estate  was impacted by Lloyds mistake but Im satisfied 
the £350 its agreed to pay fairly  takes that into account. As Im satisfied Lloyds has agreed 
to pay fair compensation in this case Im not telling  it to take any further action. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay the estate of 
Mr W £350 less any payments already made.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executor of the 
estate of Mr W to accept  or reject  my decision before 
Marco Manente
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3806513