K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
1995 and an amendment made  to it in 2004. Mr and Mrs T say Newcastle Building Society
(NBS) mis-sold them the policy.
background
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage PPI policy in 1995 to cover Mr T if he was unable to work  
because of illness or injury. They amended the policy to cover a further advance in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint in full. Mr and Mrs T disagree, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a decision.
In my provisional decision of 17 January 2019  I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold  the 
complaint about  the mis-sale of the policy and I invited  both parties  to provide any further 
submissions before I reached a final decision.  Mr and Mrs T have re-iterated that they were 
pressured to take out the PPI and that Mr T was self-employed. NBS replied re-iterating that 
it had already paid back  the commission it had offered to refund. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ts case.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  the following.  
Currently, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold and Ill explain why
Mr and Mrs T took out a mortgage in May 1994 but at this time they did not take PPI. Their 
mortgage application form did give them the option  to add PPI by ticking the Yes box, but 
they ticked the No box to decline  cover. Ive seen NBSs record  of a telephone note made  
around a year later where Mr and Mrs T requested cover for PPI. But given they already had 
the mortgage before they requested PPI cover, and that theyd turned it down when they 
were initially  offered it, I think they wouldve known they didnt have to take PPI to get the 
mortgage.
They were  sent a separate PPI form which they signed and completed to add PPI to their 
account. The form is somewhat difficult to read but based on a sample Ive seen, I can make 
out what it says. They  selected cover for accident and sickness only to cover  Mr T. There  
were options  to buy more  or less extensive  cover but they did not choose these.
In their 2004 mortgage application form, they were again given a choice to add or decline 
PPI for their further advance by either ticking the Yes/No box but they ticked  the Yes box 
and signed the form. They signed  a separate declaration for the PPI and their mortgage offer 
set out the PPI under the heading optional insurance.
I wouldve  expected  Mr and Mrs T to have looked over all of the forms before signing them.  
So, overall, based on everything  Ive seen I think its more likely  NBS made it clear the PPI 
Ref: DRN36487522was optional and that Mr and Mrs T agreed  to take it to cover Mr T only in both 1995 and 
2004.
Mr and Mrs T have  added that NBS pressured  them into taking PPI. Pressure can be 
subjective so Id need persuasive evidence to uphold this complaint on this basis. And Mr 
and Mrs T havent provided any detail  as to what NBS specifically said or did to make  them  
feel pressured. Overall, I havent  seen  enough to make me think NBS pressured them to 
take the PPI.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think NBS advised Mr and Mrs T to take PPI on either 
occasion so it didnt have to check if the PPI was right for them. But it did have to make sure 
Mr and Mrs T got the information  they needed to decide if it was right for them.
NBS has explained  that the 2004  sale was not a new policy  but an amendment to the 
existing policy. However, they were  offered  PPI for the further  advance  part of the mortgage  
which had a separate account number. And they were provided with literature about the 
policy. As explained above, it appears this was also non-advised, but any literature NBS did 
provide to Mr and Mrs T in 2004 should  have  been  clear, enabling them  to make  an informed 
choice as to whether they still wanted  PPI. So Ive also looked  at what happened in 2004.
Its possible the information NBS gave Mr and Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted this 
type of cover. Mr T (as the sole policy holder) was eligible  for the policy in both 1995 and 
2004. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like Mr T was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  in either 1995 or 2004 - so the 
PPI would have  been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable.
Our adjudicator noted that the 2004 policy terms had restrictions  in place that made  it harder 
for some self-employed customers to make  a claim for accident or sickness.  And as Mr T 
was self-employed,  she felt this part of the complaint  should be upheld. But given  the nature 
of Mr Ts job, I dont  think based on his particular circumstances,  it wouldve been harder for 
Mr T to make a claim for accident or sickness so I think he couldve made use of the policy 
should he have  needed to. So I dont  think  this part of the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs T also had no sick pay or savings that he or Mrs T couldve used to help them meet  their 
repayments should Mr T have found himself unexpectedly out of work. And the PPI couldve 
paid out for up to 12 months if Mr T was unable to work because of illness or injury. So I still 
think they couldve found the PPI useful and I dont think better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover  in either 1995 or 2004.
Which means NBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But NBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T because:
NBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs T about that. Because NBS didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs T, that was unfair.
To put that right, NBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN36487523Ive again thought about everything Mr and Mrs T have  said but other than repeating their 
initial concerns  about  being self-employed and feeling pressured, they havent said much 
more than this. But as Ive explained  in my provisional decision, I still think  this policy could 
have been useful for Mr T even though he was self-employed and I havent  seen enough to 
conclude they were pressured to take the PPI. 
So having  again reviewed Mr and Mrs Ts case in full  without  any further points for me to 
consider, I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my provisional 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Newcastle Building Society does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs T.
But Newcastle Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs T any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 April 2019.
Asma Begum
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3648752