K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Ms J says Canada Square Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold her 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Egg has sent us screenshots of what it says the online application for the credit  card 
wouldve looked like. These include a section  on PPI, with yes and no options to be 
selected to show  whether  the customer would like to take it out. Egg has also sent us its 
records from Ms Js application, which show she selected the yes option.
Based on this, I think Egg made it clear  to Ms J that she had a choice about the PPI. And 
that Ms J chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms J, so it didnt  have to check  if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Ms J got the information she needed to decide if the PPI was right for 
her.
Its possible the information Egg gave Ms J about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve  
been. But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  So it would have been  
useful for her if something  went wrong.
Ms J has said she was entitled to sick pay from her employer and had significant savings 
she couldve  used to make her repayments.  But the policy couldve paid out for longer than 
shes told us she wouldve received full sick pay. And, from what shes shown us of her 
savings at the time, its likely they couldnt  have  been accessed  immediately or without 
penalty. The PPI policy wouldve meant  she wouldnt need to rely on her savings if she 
wasnt earning. So I still think it wouldve been useful to her. And so I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put Ms J off taking it out.
Which means Egg doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms J.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms J because:
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Ms J about that. Because Egg didnt tell Ms J, that was unfair.
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN37674182my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms J.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Ms J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019..
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3767418