K821x#15complaint
Mr V complained that Calpe Insurance Company Limited declined  his claim under his motor 
insurance policy.
background
Mr Vs car was stolen  and he reported it to Calpe.  But Calpe declined his claim.  They  said 
this was because  his policy didnt cover commuting.  So it also didnt cover his car being 
stolen from near the workplace that hed commuted  to. They said hed breached the policy 
terms. 
Two investigators thought that Calpe  had been unreasonable  to decline his claim and 
recommended that his complaint be upheld,  but they should settle his claim proportionately. 
But Calpe disagreed. In their view it wasnt a misrepresentation, and so CIDRA didnt apply. 
It was simply that Mr V was driving his car outside of the policy  terms hed chosen.  So the 
case was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im looking  at the actions  of the insurer here, but as a broker set up the policy, Ill also refer 
to information  Calpe  provided from the broker. 
Mr Vs policy  didnt  cover him commuting  to or from work. But when Mr V reported his cars 
theft to Calpe he said it had been stolen between 9am and 7pm from a road near his 
workplace, where  he usually parked  it after driving  to work from home. He said the same  in 
his statement to Calpes  agents who were investigating the circumstances of the theft. 
Because hed been commuting to work and his car was stolen from near his workplace while  
he was at work, Calpe  wouldnt  pay his claim  for his cars theft. They  said it wasnt an 
insured risk and he had breached the policy conditions. 
Ive looked at his policy certificate  and it says at paragraph 6 that it covers:
Use for social, domestic  and pleasure  purposes only,  excluding  travel to and from a place of 
work or study, any business use. 
So its clear that his policy didnt include commuting. Calpe said if that had been  a mistake,  
Mr V should  have checked that and let them  know, but he didnt.  But Mr V said that he 
thought that he had included commuting when he applied for the policy,  through a broker.  
He said, alternatively, there  had been a genuine mistake at that point,  but he still thought  
that he was covered for commuting.  He also said that the broker  didnt send him the policy  
documents despite him asking for them a significant number of times.  And if they had, he 
would have checked them and seen that they were  incorrect in not including commuting. 
Ref: DRN38428532Calpe think that it is simply a case of Mr V driving outside the terms of his policy,  but I dont 
agree. Mr V wasnt asked  to select the level of cover  he wanted, he was asked what  he uses 
his car for. So, I think he was asked a question and as such the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representation)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) applies. When Mr V bought his policy he 
had a responsibility under CIDRA to take reasonable care not to make  a
misrepresentation. And for Calpe to take any action at all they have to show that Mr V didnt 
do this and that he made whats described  as a qualifying  misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of things which need  to be considered when deciding whether a
consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions  the
consumer was asked.
Mr V bought his policy online through a broker. Calpe  said that when he was selecting online 
the broker asked  What  do you use the car for? and given three options:
Social, domestic and pleasure  only (SDP)
 Social, domestic, pleasure  and commuting (SDPC)
 SDPC and Business  Use
So I think this was clear.  Calpe have shown us evidence  that that the broker  sent him a 
welcome pack, on 7 November 2018  to his correct address at the time, with a link to their 
website. The letter contains  a warning that:
Your policy booklet(s) contains details of the cover that has been arranged for you and you 
should ensure  this meet your demands and needs for Comprehensive cover. If you have any 
questions or concerns, please contact us immediately.  
Calpe have also sent us a screenshot  of Mr Vs online  portal holding  the policy documents, 
including the policy certificate, showing they were uploaded to that website on 7 November  
2018. So Calpe think that Mr V could  have accessed the policy  documents online to check  
them. 
I can see that Calpe have doubted  Mr Vs honesty.  Thats because he at first gave Calpe 
statements that the car was stolen from his workplace,  to which  he commuted. But he later 
denied this and said he was just visiting a friend who worked  there. However, I dont think  
that it follows that he dishonestly left out commuting from his application in order to get 
cheaper premiums.
Mr V has suggested that if he didnt  include  commuting on his policy it was a genuine 
mistake and he didnt  feel he should be penalised for it. He said that he had been  honest in 
his application,  because he had disclosed all his penalty points, though  he knew that was 
likely to mean a higher  premium for him. And so it would be contradictory and illogical for 
him to be dishonest in his application about  commuting, because  he knew that wouldnt have 
increased his premium very much. In fact, as Calpe  have  confirmed,  including  commuting in 
his policy  would only have  cost him another  £35.31  for the year.  
The investigators thought that Mr V had made a careless misrepresentation under The 
Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and that meant 
that Calpe  should work  out what Mr V had paid in premiums as a percentage of what  he 
would have paid if he had selected  commuting  and apply this proportion  to the settlement of 
his claim.  But Calpe still said the issue wasnt about  CIDRA or misrepresentation. 
Ref: DRN38428533They said that, even  if it was because of a mistake, Mr V didnt  have the cover he says he 
wanted. This meant that commuting,  and having his car stolen from the place near his 
workplace that he commuted to and left it that day, was not a risk Calpe had agreed to 
insure him for. And so the policy did not cover him for that risk. 
But I have to look at whether  Calpe acted in line with their policy terms and reasonably.  
Given what Mr V has said, Im satisfied he failed to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation. But to show that this misrepresentation  was a qualifying  one, under 
CIDRA Calpe  must show that either they would not have offered  the policy at all if the 
misrepresentation hadnt been made or that they would have offered it on different terms. 
Calpe have said that they would have included commuting under the policy  but at a premium 
of only about £35 more. So Im satisfied  Mr C made a qualifying  misrepresentation. 
Under CIDRA a qualifying  misrepresentation is either deliberate, reckless or careless.  Calpe 
think that it was up to Mr V to choose what type of cover he wanted  and if hed made a 
mistake he should have checked  the policy documents. But as Calpe havent shown 
anything to persuade me the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless,  Im satisfied  it 
was a careless mistake.
CIDRA sets out what remedies are available to an insurer when a careless
misrepresentation has been made. They include that, if an insurer  would still have
entered into the contract but would have charged a higher premium, the insurer  may reduce 
proportionately the amount to be paid on a claim.  
Mr V paid £2.378.13  for his policy but if he had included commuting this would have cost  
£35.31 more, making it £2,413.44. This means  that the premium  he did pay, was 98.54%  of 
the premium he would have paid to include commuting.  And so I think that as CIDRA applies 
Calpe should  treat Mr V as having being  insured and deal with his claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, and if they pay on the claim they should do so 
proportionately by paying 99% of the claim,  plus interest. I award interest  as Mr V has lost 
the use of the value  of his car while his claim has been unpaid.
Overall, I need to decide whats  fair and reasonable in all of the individual circumstances of 
this complaint. And I dont think that it would be fair in this case for Calpe to decline Mr Vs 
claim given  that hed paid 98.54% of the premium, and they would have agreed to cover  him 
for commuting if he had included it.
my decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I partially uphold Mr Vs complaint.
I require Calpe Insurance Company Limited to:
deal with the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. If 
they pay out on the claim, they should  do so proportionately  by paying 98.54%  of the 
claim. They should add 8% simple interest  * per year to that amount from the date of 
the theft until they make payment.
Ref: DRN38428534Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or
reject my decision  before 5 September 2020.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
*If HM Revenue and Customs require Calpe to take off tax from this interest.  Calpe must 
give Mr V a certificate showing how much tax theyve  taken  off it if Mr V asks for one.
Ref: DRN3842853