K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a PPI policy for their mortgage in 1999. Mr and Mrs B paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Bs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
At the point of sale in 1999,  Mr and Mrs B had already had their mortgage without PPI for a 
number of years. And it was a standalone  policy  it wasnt linked to the sale of a loan, as far 
as I can see. So Mr and Mrs B wouldve known they didnt have to take out PPI to get 
approved for their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs B submitted an application specifically for PPI, 
which they both signed. And I can see they later made claims on the policy,  so they knew  
they had it. Overall, I think that it wouldve been  clear to Mr and Mrs B that they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  even  if, understandably, 
they no longer  remember doing so after so many years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs B, so it had to check it was right for them.  And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, 
neither Mr nor Mrs B were  affected  by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. 
While they both had some sick pay, the PPI covered them  for much longer and paid out on 
top. And they dont seem  to have had any other cover in case  one of them lost their job, 
which wouldve been a significant drop in income.  Mr and Mrs B said they couldve sold off 
their belongings, but the PPI meant they wouldnt have to go to such  extreme measures and 
couldve protected their belongings. Its also worth bearing in mind  that if Mr and Mrs B fell 
behind on their mortgage payments, they risked  losing  their home. I think  the PPI couldve 
really been useful for them  in protecting their home.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs B about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. Here, Mr and Mrs B chose to buy the policy,  which implies they wanted 
this type of cover. As I said above, it doesnt look like they were affected by any of the key 
things the PPI didnt cover, and it couldve really  been useful for them in case  something  
went wrong. So I dont  think better  information was likely to have put them  off taking  out the 
cover. 
Ref: DRN37317332my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3731733