K821x#15complaint
Mr J appointed a Claims Management Company (CMC)  to deal with his complaint.  The CMC 
complained about advice  given by Cannon Lincoln to start a pension  plan to use to repay his 
mortgage. They said that this was too high risk for Mr J.
Cannon Lincoln has been taken over by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited (SLoC). For convenience I will refer to SLoC  throughout this decision.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 3 January 2020, a copy  of which is attached to and forms 
part of this decision.
Mr Js CMC accepted my provisional decision.
SLoC did not agree with my provisional  decision. In summary, they said:
The adviser could  not, and would  not, have advised over the fund selection. 
There was no requirement  to record the basis  of the discussion about how the 
attitude to risk was arrived at when the advice  was given in 1991. There  is no reason 
why a more speculative attitude to risk should not be appropriate for someone  with 
19 years  to go until their intended  retirement age. 
If I maintained my conclusion about the ATR, they challenged  my use of the 
Managed 3 fund as an appropriate  comparator fund.
Mr J says that he only took advice from SLoCs adviser about his mortgage.  But that 
cannot be true as the adviser was not authorised  by SLoC to give that advice.
There is a letter from Mr Js solicitor in 1993 querying whether the mortgage was 
pension linked and the confirmation it was not.
By 1994  Mr J had clearly seen  a separate adviser because by that time the mortgage 
was pension linked.  There is no evidence that SLoCs pension was being  used. The 
adviser was diligent  in his recommendation to increase the life cover  to protect the 
mortgage. All subsequent advice was for retirement income  provision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
decision and for the same  reasons  as set out in my provisional decision.
SLoC did not agree with my provisional  decision. I will deal with these points now. I accept 
that the regulations in 1991  were not the same as they are now.  Many firms did not record  
evidence to show how they had arrived at conclusions about how they assessed  a 
consumers attitude  to investment risk. I have also taken account of the fact that these 
events were many years  ago. 
However, the evidence  from the time does  not indicate that Mr J had any experience of 
investing. The policy with SLoC appears  to have been his only pension provision.  I accept  
that he had a number of years to go until he retired and that could be a factor  in whether he 
was prepared to accept investment risk. But as it was his only pension  provision, I think 
investing in higher risk funds was unsuitable  for him.
Ref: DRN33957452SLoC has not made any suggestions about how a comparison should be made with a 
suitable fund.  I remain of the view that Mr J was prepared to accept some  risk. The Managed 
Fund 3 would have  been  suitable  for him at the time.
The evidence from 1994 shows that the adviser knew that the pension was to be used  to 
repay the mortgage. Mr J says that he only ever took advice  from SLoC. I think  it is simply 
speculative for SLoC to say that it must  have been another  adviser  who recommended the 
pension mortgage.  There is no evidence to support that speculation. The available evidence 
shows that the adviser knew that the pension was to be use to repay the mortgage. The life 
cover was increased to the amount of the mortgage  and contributions increased. This all 
points to the SLoC policy being used to repay  the mortgage.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited should 
calculate any loss that Mr J has suffered and pay redress as set out in the attached  
provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN33957453Copy of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr J appointed a Claims Management Company (CMC)  to deal with his complaint.  The CMC 
complained about advice  given by Cannon Lincoln to start a pension  plan to use to repay his 
mortgage. They said that this was too high risk for Mr J.
Cannon Lincoln has been taken over by Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) 
Limited (SLoC). For convenience I will refer to SLoC  throughout this decision.
background
SLoC provided a copy of a Personal Financial  Analysis document  completed by the adviser 
on 5 July 1991. This records that Mr and Mrs J had a repayment  mortgage with £18,000 
outstanding that had started in 1984. Mr and Mrs J also had an endowment plan with a sum 
assured of £25,000. At the time Mr Js attitude to investment risk was recorded as 4 on a 
scale of 1 to 5.
The adviser recorded that the recommendations would include looking at income protection, 
contracting out of SERPS and current mortgage situation.
Mr J was advised to start a pension plan in July 1991 with a normal  retirement  date of 50. 
The gross monthly contributions were £66.67 (net £50). The application form was completed 
for the contributions to be invested  in the following funds: Global 25%;  America  25%;  and 
Far East 50%. It also included £25,000 life cover. 
On 26 May 1994, the adviser completed a Report and Summary where he recorded in the 
Summary of Recommendations  section that Mr and Mrs J owned  their own home  with a 
mortgage of £20,000, which was pension  linked. He also said that they were  moving home  
and would increase the mortgage to £29,250. The pension plan was to be extended to age 
55. The adviser said that he recommended increasing the existing policy to cover the 
objective.
Mr J met with the adviser  in October  1996 and it was recorded that the mortgage was 
pension linked. The adviser said that Mr J wanted  to increase the life cover  within  the 
pension plan to £48,000 for family  protection and pensions.  The monthly contributions  
increased to £152.16.
The adviser recorded that the contributions were invested in the following funds: 25% 
Global; 25% America; and 50% Far East. At that time, Mr Js risk profile  was assessed as 
five out of five where five was described  as more speculative.
The adviser met with Mr and Mrs J again in March 1997. He then recorded  that Mr J had a 
mortgage of £48,000 with Cheltenham & Gloucester.
Mr J has told us that he stopped the monthly  contributions in 2001  because his new 
employment offered  pension  scheme  membership. He restarted the contributions  in 
September 2002 at a reduced  level but stopped them again in December 2002. He has said 
that he then switched the mortgage to a repayment basis.  SLoC  told us that he transferred 
the pension fund to Clerical Medical  in October  2006.
Ref: DRN33957454The CMC complained to SLoC about  the advice given to Mr J. They  said that the risks of the 
pension mortgage  were not explained  and that the investment background and experience  
of Mr and Mrs J did not support such a recommendation.
SLoC rejected the complaint. Briefly, they conceded  that the paperwork showed that Mr and 
Mrs J did at some point  link the repayment of their mortgage to the pension plan but there 
was no evidence that the adviser had given them the advice  to do so.
The complaint was referred  to this Service. One of our adjudicators investigated the 
complaint. She thought that the funds selected for Mr Js pension were  unsuitable  and that 
advice had been given to use the pension to repay the mortgage. She recommended that 
SLoC should calculate any loss and pay compensation.
SLoC did not agree. In summary,  they said:
There is no evidence that the pension was recommended for mortgage  repayment. It 
was intended  for retirement provision and life cover  for family protection.  They did not 
feel that the comments about the funds were  relevant to that; and advice could not be 
provided about fund selection. Information about available funds  was provided for the 
client to select the funds.
The advice in 1994 does not show that the pension was to be used for mortgage  
purposes. The areas agreed for action were to protect Mr Js dependants and his 
retirement income.
The increase  in life cover  and pension contributions made  in 1996 were to increase 
family protection and retirement provision.  Whilst the life cover  was increased to the 
level of the new mortgage, the only evidence is that the advice  was provided for 
family protection (which could include paying off the mortgage) and retirement 
provision.
The adjudicator was not persuaded  to change her opinion that the complaint should  be 
upheld and said it would be referred to an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advice to start personal pension in 1991
Mr J was employed with no pension provision. I think it was suitable  for him to make  some 
provision for his retirement. However, when  giving advice,  the rules  at the time required an 
adviser to know their client and give suitable advice. That must include the purpose the 
funds were intended for and the funds  used within the pension plan.
It is recorded that Mr Js mortgage in 1991  was on a repayment basis and had started in 
1984 for a term of 25 years.  The outstanding balance was shown as £18,000. By 1994 the 
mortgage was recorded as being  pension linked with £20,000 outstanding; Mr and Mrs J 
were moving house and the mortgage would increase to £29,250.  What  I can see from this 
is that Mr and Mrs J changed their mortgage between  1991 and 1994. Mr J told us that he 
only received advice from SLoCs adviser during that time. 
Ref: DRN33957455I think it is more  likely than not that the mortgage  was changed after the advice given in 
1991. It had certainly  changed by 1994  and Mr J says he did not take advice from anyone 
else. Although this issue is not specifically addressed in the advice given by SLoC  the 
evidence indicates  that the adviser was at least aware of this as the mortgage was an issue.  
The life cover was recommended that at least covered the amount of the mortgage. 
Although the adviser did not deal with the mortgage  in his advice, I think he should have 
done. The pension  was being recommended and was being used to repay the mortgage.
However, I do not presently think it will be possible to calculate  the loss caused. I say this 
because the mortgage was recorded as £18,000 in 1991. I think that is unlikely to have been 
the exact balance. In 1994 the outstanding  balance is recorded as being  £20,000.  I do not 
know why the balance has increased. I do not have any other details of the mortgage and 
although he has been asked, neither does Mr J. I think the loss caused between  1991 and 
1994 is likely  to have  been relatively  small.  I will deal with this in my assessment  of 
compensation for distress and inconvenience.
The CMC said that the pension  mortgage was too high risk for Mr J. In my view, that must 
include the funds  that the pension was invested in. The adviser assessed Mr Js attitude to 
investment risk as 4 out of 5. SLoC  says that their advisers did not give advice on funds, but 
provided information and let the client choose  funds.  In my view,  this did not meet the 
requirement to give suitable  advice. It is not clear to me how the funds were selected  for 
Mr J, but I accept it is likely he was left to choose these for himself.  I do find it surprising that 
he was assessed  as being prepared  to accept a high level of risk. The evidence I have does 
not suggest he had taken  that level of risk before.  The pension  appears to be the bulk of his 
savings at that time. I think  even if he was prepared to accept a high degree  of risk that he 
should have been advised against this. 
I think with suitable  advice that Mr J was likely to have invested in a medium risk or balanced 
approach to investing. This would have  balanced the need for growth in his pension funds 
over the period to retirement with some security offered by a spread of investments.  SLoC  
offered a number of managed funds.  I think the Managed Fund 3 would have met Mr Js 
needs. If either party has any comments about  the fund selection, they should comment  on 
this in reply to this provisional decision.
Advice to increase contributions in 1994
By 1994 the adviser knew that the pension plan was to be used to repay  Mr and Mrs Js 
mortgage. This was increased to £29,250 and the amount of life cover increased to the 
same amount. The retirement  date for the personal  pension was to be extended to age 55. I 
am satisfied  that this shows  that the adviser knew that the pension was to be used  to repay  
the mortgage. I think it is more likely than not that the adviser recommended  using the 
pension to repay the mortgage.
Ref: DRN33957456The mortgage was to be repaid using the tax-free  sum available when Mr J retired,  which 
was a maximum of 25% of the fund value.  Mr J would have to pay the contributions  into the 
pension plan. This meant that he had to be able to afford the contributions  and have 
sufficient earnings to be eligible to pay into the pension  plan.  If he joined an occupational 
pension scheme, he would not be able to pay into the personal pension. In addition to these  
risks, the fund size depended upon  the investment performance. Mr J had been assessed  as 
having an attitude to investment risk of 4 out of 5. As I said earlier, I do not consider he was 
in a position to accept  that level of risk. And I think the risk was increased because Mr J was 
relying on the pension fund to repay  his mortgage when that was due to be repaid. In my 
view, the advice for Mr J to use the pension to repay  his mortgage  was not suitable.
Advice in 1996/7
Mr J received further advice between October  1996  and March 1997. He increased his 
contributions to the personal pension and the associated life cover to £48,000. The 
mortgage was recorded as having  increased to £48,000 by March  1997. In my view, this is 
consistent with the evidence  that Mr J was being advised to use the pension to repay his 
mortgage. For the reasons already explained, I think the advice was unsuitable.
Fair compensation
Funds selected
In my view, the funds  selected were not suitable for Mr J. The adviser was required to give 
suitable advice.  I think investing in the Managed 3 fund would have been suitable for Mr J. 
SLoC should now calculate the fund value that would have been available when Mr J 
transferred it away from SLoC  assuming that the contributions  had been  invested in the 
Managed 3 fund.
If the fund value would have been  higher, if invested in the Managed 3 fund, that loss should 
be increased in value by the growth in the funds where Mr J has since  invested. If it is 
difficult to calculate  that loss then SLoC  should calculate the growth using The FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock  
Market Income total return  index). I think this is a suitable  measure  for someone who was 
prepared to accept  some risk.
SLoC should pay the difference  in fund value into a pension for Mr J. If that is not possible,  
this should be paid to Mr J as a cash sum. However, the income from the pension  fund 
would have been subject to income tax. After  25% tax-free cash is taken Mr J is likely to be a 
basic rate taxpayer in retirement and pay tax at 20%. The compensation can therefore be 
reduced by 15% to reflect the net of tax loss Mr J has suffered.
Loss for linking  the pension  to the mortgage
My aim is to place Mr J as closely  as possible in the position he would now have  been  in, if 
suitable advice  had been given. I think that suitable  advice  would have  been  to recommend 
some pension contributions and a repayment mortgage.
Ref: DRN33957457The basic  methodology is set out below and takes  into account the fact that a pension plan 
cannot be surrendered for cash as this was not the case at the time of the advice.  The 
framework SLoC should follow is set out below.
1. Comparison of a repayment mortgage  and the value of the pension  plan
SLoC should establish how much  of the mortgage  would have been  redeemed at the date 
that it was switched to repayment mortgage in 2002  had a repayment mortgage been  
established in July 1994 for £29,250 and a 25 year term. (Sum A). 
This should be compared with 25% of the redressed  transfer  value of the pension  plan. 
(Sum B).
For this purpose the transfer value:
 should only relate to the fund derived from contributions at the level recommended  at 
time of the sale (including any contractual increments) for mortgage repayment purposes.
 should not include the value  of any protected rights as they could not be used  to 
provide a lump  sum.  
Any existing pension  provision in place at the time of advice should not be included. This 
includes the contributions paid between  1991 and 1994 when the mortgage increased to 
£29,250. Thats because  the contributions cannot  be used to calculate the loss on the 
mortgage because  we do not have  enough details of the mortgage in 1991 to calculate  the 
loss.
Additional single premiums should not be included.
SLoC may reduce the capital repaid in the same  proportions  as the contributions  reduced 
from 2001.
If Sum A is greater than Sum B, the difference should be paid to Mr J as compensation.
2. Comparison of Past Outgoings
SLoC should compare:
 what the capital  and interest  payments  would  have been on a repayment mortgage 
for a term until Mr J was aged  55, including the cost of joint Decreasing  Term Assurance 
(Sum C);
With
 what the interest payments actually were on the interest-only  mortgage plus 25% of 
the net pension plan contributions plus the cost of any life cover  to support the mortgage 
arrangement (Sum D).
Existing pension  contributions being paid before the 1994 when the pension was used to 
repay the mortgage should be excluded.  
Ref: DRN33957458Increments (except contractual increases set up at time of sale) and single premiums should  
not be included.  Similarly, the calculation should be adjusted if Mr J was paying contributions 
to the pension at a rate intended to provide a greater tax free cash lump sum than was 
required for mortgage repayment alone.
If Sum D is greater than Sum C the difference should be paid to Mr J.
If Sum C is greater than Sum D the difference ought to be ignored. This is because  Mr J will 
have arranged day-to-day expenditure on the basis of known outgoings,  and will not have 
the difference available. SLoC  may argue that these  notional savings should be taken into 
account, but as with mortgage endowments, they will need to show  that the consumer is of 
sufficient means as with mortgage endowment  complaints.
If calculation 1 (above)  shows that less capital  would have been paid off using a repayment 
mortgage, this difference may be offset  against any compensation  for increased  outgoings.
3. Term  of Mortgage
I think that the new mortgages in 1994  and 1996  would have been  taken  on a 25-year basis 
due to the comparative costs even though Mr J had said he wanted to retire  at age 55. Early 
retirement is often desirable but usually not financially practicable.
The pension is no longer supporting a loan as Mr J switched to a repayment basis  in 2002. 
The capital loss at that date should be brought forward with actual mortgage interest 
additions or failing this if impracticable, with interest calculated at 8% simple per annum to 
the calculation  date. Using the same  calculation date, SLoC can then deduct 25% of the 
notional redressed  value (if higher than the actual transfer value)  from the capital loss and 
interest additions.
But if the notional  transfer value is lower  than the actual value, the business, having taken no 
action to redress the plan, should  only use the actual transfer value.
In all other cases, the principles involved in calculating redress  should follow the mortgage  
endowment scenarios where possible.
4.  distress and inconvenience
SLoC should pay Mr J a sum of £500  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused by the 
change to his mortgage arrangements. He understandably suffered when finding out that the 
pension mortgage  advice given to him on three separate  occasions was not suitable for him 
and placed the repayment of his mortgage in jeopardy.
I have included an allowance for the fact that although I am satisfied that advice was given in 
1991 to use the pension  to repay  the mortgage,  it is not possible to quantify  that loss. This 
must have  caused  Mr J some difficulty with repaying  his mortgage and that has caused him 
additional distress  and inconvenience.
my provisional decision
I uphold the complaint. Sun Life Assurance  Company of Canada  (U.K.)  Limited should 
calculate any loss that Mr J has suffered and pay redress as set out above.
Ref: DRN3395745