K820x#14complaint
Mr V has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim he 
made on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Vs car was damaged while parked. Mr V asked Admiral to sort out repairs to the front of 
the car on the driver's side and the damage to the drivers door. He also said that since  the 
incident the dashboard showed  a warning light concerning his handbrake and he said that 
the boot wouldn't lock.
Admiral asked an independent engineer to assess the damage. The engineer  said that the 
front of the car had some pre-existing damage  unrelated to the claim. So he said that 
Admiral should offer to settle  Mr Vs claim on a cash in lieu basis to repair that damage. The 
engineer added that the issue with the handbrake and locking system wasn't related to the 
incident.
Mr V didn't  agree with the independent engineer. He took his car to the manufactures  dealer 
to run a diagnostic test, which Admiral  paid for. The diagnostic test said that the electrical 
issues, including the problem with the handbrake, were caused by water travelling along the 
wires and into the cars central junction  box. The independent engineer considered  this and 
said that this wasn't caused by the incident and in fact was a known problem with the model 
of Mr Vs car. Mr V didn't  agree. He said he wanted to withdraw his claim and he then sold 
his car. 
Mr V brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it; he thought Admiral 
had handled  the matter  reasonably. Mr V didn't  agree  so the complaint's  been passed to me 
to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr Vs made a number of detailed  points.  I've considered 
everything hes said. But in this decision I will focus on what  I see as being the key 
outstanding issues  following  our investigators  assessment  of the complaint.
Mr V is certain that the car was working  well before the incident. So he understandably 
thinks that the cars electrical faults,  including the issue  with his handbrake and locking must 
have been caused by the impact that led to the claim.
But the engineer Admiral  instructed said the impact to the car was light. And it wouldn't have 
caused water to travel into the central junction  box. So he said it wouldn't  have caused the 
problems with the cars electrics. I think its worth pointing out that the engineer isn't an 
employee of Admiral and works for an independent  engineering firm. And I note that Mr V 
hasn't provided  any other expert evidence to show that the cars electrical problems were 
caused by the incident.  
Ref: DRN35657562Mr Vs said that the manufacturers diagnostic report doesn't  say that the problem was pre-
existing. I agree thats the case. But the report doesn't say how long the car had had the 
problem or what caused it initially. So it doesn't say that the problem was not pre-existing 
either. And I've seen  evidence  from the manufacturer  that this is a known fault with that 
model of car when  they haven't been  in accidents. So I think  it was reasonable for Admiral to 
rely on the engineers expertise and conclude that the issues with the handbrake and locking 
weren't related to the incident  that led to the claim.  It follows that I think  it was fair for Admiral  
to tell Mr V that it wouldn't cover the costs  of putting those faults  right.
Mr V chose to withdraw his claim.  And as the car didn't  pass  its MOT he sold it for less than 
he thinks it was worth. But that was Mr Vs decision.  And as I think Admirals  decision not to 
pay to repair  the cars  electrics was reasonable I don't think  Mr V was forced  into that 
position by anything that Admiral did wrong.
For completeness Im aware that Mr V wasn't  happy  that although he withdrew  his claim 
Admiral has kept a record if it. But its standard practice across the motor  insurance industry 
that all insurers I'm aware of will want to know about any incident  that could give rise to 
claims, even where no claim  was made.  So I don't think Admiral  did anything  wrong  in 
recording the incident as notification  only, which means that it recoded that Mr V had told it 
about the incident but decided not to claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3565756