K820x#14complaint
Miss L says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Miss L took out in 1995. It was 
sold to her in store.  Its been  agreed  in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should  take 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL initially agreed with the adjudicators assessment 
but after further reflect it then disagreed with the opinion,  so the complaint was passed to 
me. I issued  my provisional decision in June 2019   I have attached a copy  of it to this 
decision. In it I explained  I was thinking of coming to a different outcome to that of our 
adjudicator and I gave my reasons  why. But I asked everyone to come back  to me with any 
further comments before I issued  my final decision.
No one had anything more to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Ls case. 
Having done this, and without any new information  to consider, my decision remains  the 
same for the same reasons. Im not upholding Miss Ls complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019
Ref: DRN39885352Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN39885353complaint
Miss L says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold  her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  attached to a store card Miss L took out in 1995. It was sold to 
her in store.  Its been agreed  in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should take responsibility for the 
complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL initially  agreed  with the adjudicators assessment but after 
further reflect  it then disagreed with the opinion,  so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ls case. 
Having done this, Im thinking of not upholding Miss Ls complaint. 
Miss L says she filled in a leaflet to apply for the policy. FICL says this wouldve  been done in a store.  
During that interaction FICL should have made sure Miss L was aware the policy was optional.  FICL 
has provided  a copy of Miss Ls application  form. On the form, I can see it asks applicants to tick a 
box if they want the PPI. On Miss Ls form, the box has been selected and Miss L has signed  the 
application. 
Miss L would have the opportunity to review  and query anything  on the application she wasnt sure 
about before she signed it. So I think its most likely FICL made  Miss L aware she had a choice about  
buying the policy and she chose  to take it. 
Miss L says she was advised to take out the policy. But from what we know about how FICL sold 
these policies,  it didnt make personal recommendations  so it didnt  have to check  if it was suitable for 
her. But it did have to make  sure Miss L got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss L about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any 
of the exclusions or limits on the PPI cover. 
Miss L says she wouldve  received six months full sick pay followed by six months half pay in 
employee benefits. Shes also said she had a substantial amount of savings she could have used at 
the time. Our adjudicator thought Miss L had enough with her sick pay benefits and her savings  to 
manage without the policy so they upheld  the complaint. 
After initially agreeing,  FICL said that in a conversation  with Miss L a few years earlier she had said 
she had only statutory sick pay, so it didnt  agree with the uphold and asked for further evidence  from 
Miss L. Miss L agrees that when she first spoke to FICL she wasnt sure what  benefits she had, but 
she has since  spoken to a formal colleague who confirmed what  she has told us. She says she 
doesnt have any further evidence  to show this. 
So Ive thought carefully about  the limited  information Miss L has told us. Having done this, I dont 
have enough evidence that she would have had enough means  to manage without the PPI. Although 
Miss L had sick pay benefits from her employer, the PPI wouldve paid out alongside  these benefits. It 
would have also covered  her repayments if she became unemployed.  And having  the PPI wouldve 
Ref: DRN39885354meant any savings Miss L did have couldve been used to cover other essential costs if she did 
become unemployed or was too unwell  to work.  
So I think it would have been useful  for her if something went wrong.  
Overall I dont think Miss L has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong. 
Ref: DRN3988535