K820x#14complaint
Mr H says HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr H took out around 1995.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. HSBC disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, and Ill explain  why.
Its not clear whether  HSBC recommended the policy  to Mr H or not. So to be fair to HSBC  
Ive assumed it didnt.  That means  it didnt have to check it was right for him. But it did have 
to give Mr H information about the PPI that was clear,  fair, and not misleading   so he could 
decide for himself  whether it was right for him. 
From what  we know about this type of HSBC policy, it doesnt seem clear  whether Mr H 
wouldve been able to claim on it, since he was connected to another  individual in control of 
the company where he worked. It looks like he wouldve only been  able to claim at the 
discretion of the insurer. And from what Ive seen  of HSBCs sales  process from the time, Im 
not satisfied that this wouldve been made  clear during the sale.
I think that if Mr H had been aware  that he might only be able to claim at the discretion of the 
insurer, then he wouldnt have bought the PPI policy. So I think Mr H has probably  lost out 
because of what HSBC  did wrong. 
putting things right
HSBC should  put Mr H in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken  out PPI.
A.HSBC should find out how much Mr H would have owed when he closed his credit  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
HSBC should  then refund the difference between  what Mr H owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, HSBC  can take off what he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes him.  
Ref: DRN34306672B.HSBC should add simple interest on the difference between what  Mr H would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
C.If  when  HSBC  works out what Mr H would  have owed each month without  PPI  he 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, HSBC  should also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr H paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when Mr H 
wouldve owed HSBC something on his credit card. The interest rate should again  be 
15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
D.HSBC should tell Mr H what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr H a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3430667