K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly paid the proceeds of a life 
policy into their mortgage  current account.
background
Mr V says he assigned a life policy to Barclays  when he had an overdraft facility on a 
business account. He says the overdraft was repaid in full and the account was closed in 
2008. Mr V says the policy  should have been re-assigned  to him. But in 2018 when the 
policy matured Barclays received the proceeds (about £27,000) and paid them into their 
mortgage current account. Mr V says Barclays had no right to do this and should return  the 
money to him. He says Barclays made other  errors  such  as the money disappearing from 
the account and having to be re-credited.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Barclays 
had made  errors and provided poor service. But it had paid compensation of £1,123.28 in 
total, including compensation for lost interest.  The adjudicator said this was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs V didnt  agree. In summary, Mr V said Barclays  had no right to take the 
proceeds of the life policy. He said the assignment of the life policy  related to the business  
overdraft, not the mortgage. He asks that Barclays transfers the money from the mortgage  
current account to the premier account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. Ive rounded numbers used in my decision.
At the heart  of this complaint is Mr and Mrs Vs request that Barclays transfer an amount 
equivalent to the life policy proceeds (about £27,000) from their mortgage current  account to 
their premier  account. I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays  to do this. Ive 
explained why below.
Mr and Mrs V have  an offset mortgage  with Barclays.  They  have a mortgage  current account 
with an overdraft facility  that allows them to borrow up to a certain amount (the reserve  limit) 
at the mortgage  interest rate. 
The mortgage current account reserve limit was about £290,000 until early  2018. Barclays 
says the attempt to credit the life policy proceeds  in early 2018  (which was reversed) 
triggered an increase in the limit to about  £317,000. The limit stayed at £317,000 until June 
2018. Barclays reduced the limit back to £290,000 in early June. 
The statements  for Mr and Mrs Vs mortgage  current account shows the life policy  proceeds  
(£27,000) crediting the account on 6 June 2018.  This reduced the overdraft to £235,000.
Mr and Mrs V transferred £55,000 from the mortgage current  account on 22 June 2018. This 
increased their overdraft to £290,000  almost  up to the reserve  limit.
Ref: DRN34843902I think Mr and Mrs V would be in substantially the same position if the life policy proceeds 
hadnt been paid into the mortgage current account   or if Barclays had transferred £27,000 
out of the mortgage current account in early June. This would have  meant that the 
overdrawn balance would have  been  higher. So, later in June, Mr and Mrs V wouldnt have 
been able to transfer £55,000 out of the account. Theyd only have been able to transfer  
£28,000.
Mr V wants  proof that Barclays  had a valid charge on the life policy. I havent  seen  the 
original assignment or charge, so I dont know if it related only to the business debt, as Mr V 
says, or to any debt he owed to Barclays. But I dont think  my decision would be different 
either way. Barclays isnt saying its entitled to the proceeds. Barclays  asked for instructions 
about where the payment  should be made  (although it did then make  errors in fulfilling the 
instructions it received). It paid the proceeds into Mr and Mrs Vs account. Mr and Mrs V then 
transferred £55,000  out of the account. So theyve received  the money.
In the circumstances, I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Barclays  to make a 
further transfer out of the account  especially as this would take Mr and Mrs Vs overdraft 
over the reserve limit. 
Other errors
Mr V wrote to Barclays in January 2018  with his instructions about the life policy  proceeds.  
Barclays didnt act on his letter.  Barclays then acted on instructions from Mrs V to pay the 
proceeds into the mortgage  current  account.  As the policy was in Mr Vs name, I think this 
was an error.
Barclays sent inconsistent  information to Mr V in early 2018 about the amount it had 
received from the life policy.
The life policy proceeds were paid into the account  in February 2018   and removed from 
the account the same day. It seems  the money  was in a holding account but Barclays didnt  
immediately explain this to Mr V.
The attempt to credit  the life policy proceeds triggered an increase in the reserve  limit which 
was later reversed. I think its right that the reserve limit was corrected,  but I can understand 
if this added to the confusion  about  what was happening with the account and the life policy 
proceeds. 
The effect of Barclays errors was that the life policy proceeds werent available  to Mr V from 
mid January to early June  2018. Barclays paid interest for this period at 8%. I havent seen 
evidence that Mr V would  have received  a better  interest rate if the funds had been available  
to him. Barclays also paid £430 for Mr and Mrs Vs upset and inconvenience and the cost of 
their calls. In the circumstances,  I think this is fair and reasonable. 
Ref: DRN34843903my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint because I find the steps taken and the 
compensation paid by Barclays Bank UK Plc fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3484390