K822xcomplaint
Ms B is unhappy with the repairs carried out by AXA Insurance  UK Plc (AXA) following a 
claim on her home insurance.
background 
In August  2018  Ms B had a fire in her home and made a claim on her home insurance. The 
property needed  significant repairs and Ms B had to move out of the property while  these 
repairs were taking place.
The claim has now been settled but Ms B has raised  some outstanding issues that she 
remains unhappy about:
Ms B says when  she returned to her home,  she had a gas leak and no hot water. 
She says she was told this was because part of the boiler  was missing.  She also 
complains that she wasnt  provided with gas safety paperwork when  the new boiler  
had been fitted.  This meant  she couldnt  provide it to the network  provider when it 
came to inspect the boiler and turn off the gas following the gas leak.
Ms B says her electrics werent  repaired  properly  as it was discovered  that the wrong 
fuse was put in the electricity board. She is unhappy that this was the second 
occasion AXAs contractors put her familys  lives at risk. And she says she incurred 
additional electricity  costs as a result of the fault.
AXA has acknowledged  that it has made  mistakes  in its handling of this claim and has paid 
Ms B a total of £600 compensation  to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
But it said it didnt think its contractors had caused  the problems with the electrics  and 
thought this was more  likely to be Ms Bs own contractors.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld in part. She agreed that the claim 
hadnt been handled as well as it should  have been  but thought the £600 compensation paid 
to Ms B was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. But she did think that, as AXAs 
contractor had installed a new electricity board, the incorrect  fuse was most  likely to have 
been installed by them. And she asked AXA to pay the additional cost of electricity Ms B had 
incurred as a result of the this. AXA agreed to cover these costs.
Ms B didnt agree with the investigator, so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for the same reasons.
boiler issues
Ms B says there was gas leak when she moved  back into the property and as a result she 
was without heating  and hot water. She says this was due to a fault in the boiler caused by 
AXAs contractor. AXA has acknowledged that there were  issues  with the boiler after it was 
installed. And when  it was informed of these, appears to have arranged for an engineer to 
visit Ms Bs property as soon as possible to ensure the issues were  fixed  and Ms B wasnt 
Ref: DRN39832122without hot water and heating. So while there  was am issue  with the newly installed boiler, I 
think AXA took reasonable steps  to correct  this as soon as possible.
Ms B is concerned that AXA allowed her and her family to move back into a house that was 
unsafe as she wasnt given the gas safety  paperwork until after she moved back  into the 
property. The network engineer that visited the property  and turned off the gas informed 
Ms B that it was illegal for her to be staying in a property that didnt have a safety  pass 
certificate. I can understand that this would have caused Ms B more  stress, particularly given 
the traumatic event  she had already been through. But it seems the paperwork was 
forwarded to her a short  time after she moved in. And while  she may not have had the 
paperwork herself, there is nothing to suggest  that the boiler installation wasnt safe at the 
time Ms B moved back  into the property  just that Ms B didnt have the paperwork  showing 
that.
electrical issues
AXAs contractor fitted the new electricity board in Ms Bs property. Ms B has told us that 
although she did have  her own contractors in after this, they were  plasterers to do one wall 
upstairs in the property  and she sees no reason that they would have  touched the electricity 
board. Based on what both parties have  told me, I think its most likely the incorrect  fuse was 
fitted by AXAs contractors. So it follows that I think AXA is responsible for the problems with 
the electricity.
This has caused Ms B financial loss as she says her electricity bill for that period was more 
than it would have  been had the electricity board been working as it should  have  done   and 
her electricity supplier has confirmed that is likely  to be the cause of her high electricity bill. 
So, as it has agreed,  I think  AXA should cover the additional costs Ms B incurred.
I note Ms B would like AXA to cover  the entire bill for this period, but Ms B moved back into 
the property during the period the bill was for and therefore would have used electricity in the 
time she lived in the house. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask AXA to pay 
for electricity that Ms B and her family used  and always  would have used  in their day-to-
day lives. Rather, I think AXA needs to cover the extra cost Ms B incurred as a result of its 
error.
compensation
AXA has paid Ms B a total of £600  compensation for the errors it made  in handling her claim. 
She believes it should pay more compensation as she says it put her and her family  in a 
dangerous situation twice as the works  hadnt been  carried out properly. She says AXA has 
caused ongoing stress and anxiety.
Ms B has commented that AXA put her family  at risk  and I can understand why that would 
have caused her a lot of worry, especially as her family has already been through a 
traumatic event. But I have to consider  what  actually  happened, rather  than what could have 
happened. So while I can appreciate how upsetting  it must be to consider what  could  have 
happened, the events  that actually took place thankfully did not cause any harm  to Ms B or 
her family.
I dont doubt that Ms B has been  caused a significant  amount of distress through  the issues  
with her boiler and the electricity. And I can see that AXAs  agents  havent always provided  a 
good level of customer service, which has meant that Ms B needed to chase  things more  
Ref: DRN39832123often than she should have done.  But I also have to consider that AXA rectified the issues 
with the repairs  fairly  quickly  and has already acknowledged where its handling of the claim 
could have been better. So taking everything  into account, I think the compensation AXA has 
already paid to Ms B is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the distress 
and inconvenience  Ms B has been caused.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. If it hasnt done so already, AXA 
Insurance UK Plc should pay Ms B the additional costs she incurred for her electricity  due to 
the faulty fuse.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3983212