K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Virgin Money  Plc (Virgin)  incorrectly  placed  fraud  prevention markers 
on her account, and that this has caused her distress  and inconvenience.
background
In September  2018 Mrs D applied for a Virgin credit card account. Her application was 
granted, and her identification documents were  submitted. But while  waiting for her account 
to be activated  she became  aware  that it had been  closed and a CIFAS  marker had been 
placed on it. 
CIFAS is a fraud prevention organisation, and its markers are there to inform  other  lenders. 
It transpired that the reason the account was so quickly closed was that a third party,  
claiming to be Mrs D, said that her personal details had been fraudulently used to open the 
account. 
Mrs D (who made the complaint to this service)  complained to Virgin, and after some  
investigation the original protective CIFAS marker was removed, but replaced with another  
one saying Mrs D had been impersonated.  
Mrs D wants all markers removed from her account, as well as compensation for the distress 
she suffered when this happened,  which she says was at a time when her daughter was 
sick.
The complaint came to our service. Our investigator  agreed that Virgin was right to do what  it 
had done originally when it became concerned about the security of the account, but now 
that the matter  had been investigated it should remove any remaining CIFAS markers, as 
well as paying her £250 compensation, and reimbursing her for any other losses  she could 
substantiate. 
As far as I can see, while Mrs D said she incurred around £300  in interest/charges on 
another account, this hasnt been proven.  So Im unable to add this to her settlement sum.  
Mrs D accepted the removal of the CIFAS  markers and offer of £250, but Virgin  didnt agree. 
It sent further search information in support of its position. But our investigator  didnt  think 
this changed matters, and still believed there was insufficient evidence  for Virgin  to continue 
to rely on the CIFAS marker. Virgin asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im happy with our investigators  decision  to uphold the complaint, and also 
the sum of £250 compensation thats  been  recommended to Mrs D. 
I agree  that Virgin was correct to respond  to its security concerns when the account was 
being opened, and dont  criticise it for closing it. That was its right to do. However, in relation 
to the CIFAS markers, their impact  on a consumer is significant. And this is rightly  so. But 
this means a high bar needs to be met evidentially before  they should be applied. While  I 
Ref: DRN36964962can see why Virgin has concerns in this case, and theres clearly something odd going on, 
knowing all the information we do now, I still dont believe  that bars  been reached. It needs  
to be more than a suspicion or concern.  As a result, I think Mrs Ds been unfairly prejudiced 
by the marker  thats on her file.
I wont go into the full details of the evidence here,  as thats been done in our investigators 
two views. But I will say its quite persuasive  that despite an impersonation marker being 
applied, theres  no connected police report for a loss of passport/ID. Id expect  to see that at 
the very least to show Virgins genuine  belief that theres been criminal activity.
Overall, for the CIFAS marker  to remain in place, Virgin  and I would have to be satisfied that 
Mrs D was guilty of potentially criminal activity. And Im not persuaded by the evidence  that 
we can say she was. Further,  because the account was closed so promptly, Virgin sustained 
no financial  loss. Which  is another condition  to justify the application  of a CIFAS marker.  
As such,  I think the remaining  CIFAS  marker/s  should be removed, and Virgin should pay 
Mrs D £250 in compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve matters, Im asking 
Virgin Money Plc to:-
Remove any remaining CIFAS marker/s  from Mrs Ds account;  and
Pay Mrs D £250 in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3696496