K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BOS) failed to correct a mistake  it made  in 
relation to his credit  card account  which  meant he wasnt able to use it.
background 
In 2015 Mr K asked  for his wife to be added to three of his accounts  with BOS  a current 
account, a credit card account and a savings  account. Unfortunately  BOS failed to do this, 
and instead removed Mr Ks name from each account. 
Mr K raised a complaint with BOS  and it accepted it had made an error. It said it added Mr K 
(and his wife) back on to the savings and credit card account. It couldnt do that on the 
current account, so it opened a new joint account  and Mr K had to transfer  his existing 
payments over. BOS paid Mr K £500 compensation for the inconvenience hed been caused  
as well as £60 for associated costs.  Mr K said he thought things had been resolved.
In 2018 Mr K wanted to make a balance transfer from his credit  card account, but he was 
unable to do so and it came to light that his name had not been added  back to the account  
when BOS said it had in 2015.  
Mr K raised another complaint with BOS. He said that hed intended to use the funds for a 
family emergency, and being unable to apply for the funds from his credit  card account, he 
took out a loan. He said that hed been  financially disadvantaged because  hes paying a 
higher rate of interest on his loan than he would have on his credit card.  
BOS accepted that it had made  an error. It added Mr Ks name to his credit card account  
and sent him a new card. It offered  to pay him £650  compensation  for the trouble and upset 
caused. It also said that he wouldve needed  to apply  to take funds from his credit card 
account and it wouldnt have been  guaranteed  to be successful. It said that Mr K could have 
withdrawn cash from his credit card account  at 18.19%.
Mr K raised a complaint with our service. He said he wanted  more compensation because 
the issue had been going on for so long. He asked to be paid £3,500  because  thats  how 
much he needed  for his family emergency.  
Our investigator thought that BOS  had offered a fair amount of compensation for what had 
happened. She was also satisfied, based  on what shed seen, that BOS had corrected its 
error. 
Mr K disagreed. He reiterated that he felt he had to take out a loan at a higher rate of interest 
and also that he and his wife had recently had issues  with their current  account which  he 
thought was linked to this. 
Our investigator maintained that the compensation offered was fair. She also said that any 
recent issues should be referred  to BOS first so it had an opportunity to respond to those  
under a separate complaint. 
The case  was passed to me to decide what should  happen.
Ref: DRN30048772Before issuing my decision I asked both Mr K and BOS for further  information  because I 
didnt think that wed established whether Mr K wouldve  likely  been successful in his request  
for the funds from BOS,  and if so, on what terms. 
I asked Mr K to provide  evidence of the loan he took as well as a little background as to why 
he felt it necessary to do that. I also asked BOS to tell me whether it wouldve given Mr K the 
funds he needed  and on what terms.  
Mr K didnt respond by the deadline I set, but BOS did. It said Mr K couldve only requested  
90% of his credit limit at the time,  which was £3,400. That means he would only have  been  
able to apply for £3,060. Additionally, the transfer wouldve been subject to a 3% fee, and 
interest wouldve  been charged at 18.19% as no promotional rates were available.  
As I hadnt  heard back from M K, I issued a provisional decision.  In summary, I said;
I think its clear  that BOS made an error  by not adding Mr Ks name  back on to his account. 
Its accepted that, and its also accepted  that this caused Mr K trouble and upset.  I havent  
heard from Mr K, so I dont know if taking a loan elsewhere represented reasonable steps, 
on his part, to mitigate the impact of BOSs error. But even if I accept that it was reasonable 
for Mr K to do this, Im satisfied that that the £650  compensation  BOS  offered Mr K 
represents fair compensation for the trouble, upset and inconvenience  he was caused.  
However, Mr K has also said that hes been  caused a financial loss by whats  happened.  To 
determine whether  or not this is the case, Id need to compare the terms of the loan he took 
with another business, with the terms of the funds  that could have been available to him from 
BOS. I havent been able to do this because Mr K hasnt provided those details. 
What I can say, however,  is that assuming Mr Ks request to make  a withdrawal from his 
credit card account wouldve been successful, its clear that he wouldnt have been able to 
withdraw the £3,500 he says he needed.  Additionally, whilst I dont know the terms of the 
loan he took with another business, even if hed opted to withdraw  the £3,060 that could 
have been available to him, it wouldve been  subject to a flat 3% fee and interest would then 
have been charged at 18.19%. Taking into account  some of the interest rates  available from 
high street lenders at the time,  I find it unlikely  that the loan Mr K took would have been on 
less favourable terms. 
For the reasons  explained above, as things stand I cannot fairly conclude  that Mr K has 
been caused a financial loss by BOSs mistake. I say this mainly  because Ive not been 
presented evidence to demonstrate this but Im willing  to reconsider this position  should Mr K 
provide such evidence.
I concluded that BOS  had already  done enough to put things right by correcting  its mistake  
and offering to pay Mr K £650 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
Both BOS and Mr K responded  to my provisional decision. BOS  said it had nothing  further  to 
add, and Mr K told our investigator  that he would accept BOSs original offer in light of my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN30048773Given that neither  BOS  or Mr K had anything further  to add, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional decision, and make those findings  final as set out below.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc has already 
done enough to put things right for Mr K. So on acceptance of this decision, it should now 
pay Mr K the £650 compensation  it offered, if it has not done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2019.
Stephen Trapp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3004877