K821x#15complaint
Mr R complained about 2 loans  he took out with a company called  Provident  Personal Credit 
Limited, trading  as Satsuma. Mr R says Satsuma lent to him irresponsibly and this went on 
to cause him financial problems.
To keep  things simple,  Ill refer mainly to Satsuma.
background
We now know Mr R took out 2 loans, in February  and September 2018. Ive attached a 
summary of the borrowing  at the end of this decision.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and said they thought  it should  be upheld  
in respect on loan 1 only. Satsuma didnt agree and so Ive been asked to make  an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this approach when thinking  about  Mr Rs 
complaint.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr R could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks  ought  to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amount being lent, the total 
repayment amount  and the consumers income  and expenditure.  
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. However,  certain factors  might point to the fact that 
Satsuma should  have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. So Satsuma was required to establish  
whether Mr R could sustainably repay the loans, not just whether  the payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ref: DRN34385522Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication that Mr R 
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case. This is because  the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular, the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments as well as without having to borrow  to meet the 
repayments. So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought to have fairly and 
reasonably realised, that a borrower  wont be able to make their repayments  sustainably if 
they are unlikely to be able to make them without borrowing further.
Satsuma told us it carried out certain  checks before  agreeing to lend to Mr R, including 
assessing his income,  expenditure  and creditworthiness.  It says that all this information  
showed that Mr R would be able to make  the loan repayments he was committing to.  
But Im afraid I dont agree that its lending in this case was sustainable for Mr R in respect  of 
loan 1. This is because  I can see it was fairly  obvious that Mr R was on a low wage and 
because the loan 1 repayments  represented  such a large part of his disposal income, I dont 
think it was right to lend him this amount of money over the term it did. In short, I think that 
any reasonable assessment would have shown he had virtually nothing left of his monthly  
income once this loan was committed  to. He couldnt afford  to repay it without undue  
difficulties. 
I therefore uphold  his complaint in respect of loan 1.
For loan 2, however,  I note the amount lent was much smaller and because  it was also 
spread out over 3 instalments, I think the loan would have looked much more affordable this 
time. The monthly repayments  for this loan were considerably smaller than the first.
I accept that by loan 2 Mr R may have been experiencing other financial problems, for 
example, from borrowing  elsewhere. But taking into account what Ive said above, about the 
length of the lending relationship, I think the financial checks Satsuma carried out would 
have been quite basis ones; but they would have  nevertheless also been appropriate to the 
situation. I therefore dont uphold the complaint in relation to loan number 2.
putting things right
In order to put things  right for Mr R, Satsuma should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr R paid on loan 1; 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Rs credit file in relation to loan 1.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest.  It must give Mr R a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Mr Rs complaint and I direct Provident Personal  Credit Limited to put 
things right for Mr R as set out above.  
Ref: DRN34385523Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Appendix
Loan Taken Out Repaid Amount Monthly  Repayments
1 02/02/2018 15/05/2018 £700 £443
2 14/09/2018 15/12/2018 £200 £98
Ref: DRN3438552