K820x#14complaint
Miss B says MEM Consumer Finance Limited (trading as PaydayUK) lent her money that 
she couldnt afford to repay. 
Miss B wants PaydayUK to refund any interest  and charges  together with interest on the 
refund. Miss B wants PaydayUK to remove any negative  information about the loans from 
her credit file.
background
Miss B took out three loans with PaydayUK  between January 2013 and February 2014. 
Before this service became involved, PaydayUK offered to put things right for loans one and 
two. PaydayUKs  offer was in line with the way that the adjudicator wouldve recommended  if 
hed upheld  this part of Miss Bs complaint. So the adjudicator didnt  consider  Miss Bs 
complaint about  loans  one and two.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that Miss Bs complaint about loan three be upheld.  He 
explained that although Miss B had deferred  earlier loans, more than nine months had 
passed between  repaying loan two and applying for loan three.  The adjudicator  thought it 
was reasonable  of PaydayUK to assume that Miss Bs financial situation had improved. 
The adjudicator thought  that it was reasonable of PaydayUK to agree loan three based on 
knowing Miss Bs income, living costs  and regular expenditure.
Miss B doesnt agree with the adjudicators recommendation. She questions why it was 
irresponsible of PaydayUK to agree loans one and two but not three. Miss B thinks  that 
PaydayUK shouldve  carried out a credit  check and asked for bank statements before 
agreeing loan three. Miss B thinks that if PaydayUK  had done this, it wouldve realised that 
her financial  situation  was in a downward spiral with multiple loans to repay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with adjudicators  
recommendation. I appreciate this is likely to disappoint Miss B.
PaydayUK was required to carry out checks before agreeing to lend to make sure Miss B 
was able to repay each  loan. These  checks had to be proportionate to things  such  as the 
amount of the loan, the repayments and any lending history.  But there wasnt  a set list of 
checks PaydayUK had to carry out.
loans one and two
PaydayUK has already  offered to refund interest and charges on these  loans and pay 
interest on the refund as well as removing any negative information about the loans. As it 
doesnt appear that these two loans are in dispute,  I dont think I need to say anything more 
about them.
Ref: DRN34864712loan three
Almost nine months had passed since Miss B had repaid loan two. Although  Miss B had 
deferred loan two on two occasions,  I think it was reasonable  of PaydayUK to assume  that 
Miss Bs financial situation  had improved since then, particularly as her declared monthly 
income had increased  quite substantially to £1,300. 
I consider it was reasonable of PaydayUK to treat loan three as a new chain of lending. 
I think a proportionate check wouldve involved asking  Miss B for details of her living costs 
and regular credit  commitments. PaydayUK has given us evidence that it asked Miss B for 
this information.  
Given the relatively modest  proportion of Miss Bs declared income  that the repayment on 
loan three  represented, I dont think  PaydayUK needed to carry out a credit  check before 
agreeing to lend.
I think it was reasonable  of PaydayUK  to take what Miss B said at face value. I wouldnt 
have expected PaydayUK to try and independently  verify the financial information  that    
Miss B gave. This means I wouldnt  have  expected  PaydayUK to ask to see bank statements 
for example.
Although I appreciate that Miss Bs true financial situation was worse than she told 
PaydayUK, I dont  think what I consider were proportionate checks wouldve shown this.
Based on what PaydayUK knew about Miss B, it looked as though  she had enough 
disposable income to afford loan three. It follows that I dont uphold  Miss Bs complaint about 
loan three.
If Miss B accepts  PaydayUKs offer it will:
Refund any interest and charges that Miss B paid on loans  one and two (including the 
deferrals);
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  and
Remove any negative  information recorded on Miss Bs credit file in relation to loans one 
and two.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PaydayUK to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint in the sense that I consider PaydayUK 
has offered to do enough. 
I leave it with Miss B to let PaydayUK know  if she wants to accept the offer outlined  in the 
above bullet points.
Ref: DRN34864713Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 March  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3486471