K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc didnt take action when he reported  he was the victim 
of identity fraud. This meant  he missed  out on a re-mortgage deal.
background
Mr B contacted Santander in April 2018 to say his credit record was showing defaulted 
borrowing held with it that he hadnt taken  out. He is unhappy that it didnt confirm  he had 
been the victim of identity fraud  until November  2018. And that it hadnt removed the 
adverse credit information from his credit file by July 2019.  He said that hed wanted  to re-
mortgage after 30 April 2018   the date when his fixed  interest  rate products with two 
different financial businesses expired. But he couldnt do this and had to accept the higher 
rates available with those  existing businesses.
Santander paid Mr B £400  in November 2018  for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
And it offered to pay him a further £200 for not amending his credit record.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. She looked at information Mr B 
had provided about  his plans to re-mortgage  existing borrowing to a different financial 
business in April 2018. She said that in addition to the payment for distress and 
inconvenience he should be compensated for the higher interest  he would now pay 
compared to the interest rate of 1.55 per cent hed said would have been available.  The 
calculation for the two mortgages involved she recommended was as follows:
-Pay 0.09%  (1.64% less 1.55%) for mortgage 1 on a balance  of £327,091.96 from 1 
May 2018 to the date of settlement.
-Pay 1.19%  (2.74% less 1.55%) for mortgage 2 on a balance  of £191,911 from 1 
May 2018 until the settlement date.
Santander didnt  agree and wanted an ombudsman to review  the complaint. It said that the 
evidence provided  by Mr B showed that the interest  rate available with the new lender had 
increased to 1.65% by the time an application  was made. So, there was no loss on mortgage  
1. It believed mortgage 2 to be a buy to let mortgage that would have had a higher rate. It 
also said it wasnt made aware of the fraud  until after Mr Bs mortgage application was 
declined. He didnt  visit a branch as it had requested until June 2018  so that his true identity 
could be verified. It understood that there was fraud at other lenders in his name so didnt  
think that the information it had reported  to credit  reference agencies  was the only reason for 
the application decline. And it had already offered to compensate  Mr B for the time it took to 
deal with things.
Mr B said that his credit record  had still not been fully corrected.  He forwarded an extract  of 
his credit record from January 2020  still showing a connection with Santander at three 
different addresses.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 2 June 2020.  I set out below what  I said.
Ref: DRN37174942further information
I asked Santander  to look into the associations  it was still showing with Mr B. It responded 
and said that it accepts that there  were multiple  profiles and addresses linked to Mr B. It told 
this service on 19 May 2020 that these have  been removed from Santanders  systems  
and an address deletion request will be made in the update to credit reference  agencies...  
that it said was due on 22 May 2020. It added it can take up to 10 working days  for the 
changes to take effect and possibly up to four weeks if Mr B looks  at his record using  a free 
credit report  service. I said I will take this further  issue into account  in my overall  assessment  
and as this is a provisional decision  Mr B will be able to provide me with any comments  
about this.
evidence about  what happened in 2018
Mr B accepts that he has limited information about  his mortgage application in April 2018  
and said that his broker doesnt  keep  records of declined applications. He has provided 
some email  correspondence and paperwork.
I understood from this that Mr B knew about  the fraud issues  before he made the application.  
It seemed to be in joint names. An email from his broker  dated  29 March 2018  said of the 
proposed application we can see how you fair in their credit scoring systems (re your i.d 
fraud issue) . And while I was considering this email, I also noted  that it states as Santander 
pointed out that before  the application  was made the interest rate had risen  to 1.65%. I had a 
copy of Mr Bs credit record hes provided  from one agency dated  11 February 2019. That 
gives searches over the past year and indicates to me that there had been a credit  report 
generated in March  2018. Theres been reference to him having a portfolio of buy to let 
properties and although I could see evidence of other such  mortgages  on his credit  record, 
we dont have  details about  these.
On 3 May 2018  Mr B wrote to his broker and said hed decided to go with a two-year  fixed 
rate switch  deal with his current lender (for mortgage 2). A table of rates was attached to that 
email. He indicated  he was thinking  about  taking a deal without an arrangement fee  and it 
did seem  that the product deal with the new lender would have involved an arrangement fee 
of some £1,499.  I wasnt clear from what Id seen that the application to re-mortgage 
covered his residential mortgage but as shown above the rate he was able to achieve with 
his current lender was around that available  elsewhere at the time.
I could see from Mr Bs timeline of what happened that he first contacted Santander on 9 
April 2018 and was then told on 12 April 2018  that he couldnt complain over the phone. 
Santander said it told him he would need  to visit a branch.  The reason given by Santander 
for that was because  he was alleging identity theft and fraud  and a close verification of his 
actual identity and documents was required face to face with him. From his timeline I 
understood he went into a branch on 6 June  2018 after he had received debt collectors 
letters sent on behalf of Santander. Within two days hed provided  all the evidence  
Santander had asked as a follow up. He received further debt collectors  letters in July 2018 
and contacted Santander again. And as nothing was happening,  he contacted this service  in 
September 2018. He received a final response  letter in November 2018. But hes shown that 
his credit record wasnt corrected fully, and Santander accepts that this was an oversight.
Ref: DRN37174943my assessment
Its clear to me that Santander  didnt deal with this issue in a timely way. Having said that I 
didnt think it could  reasonably investigate this until Mr B had visited a branch. This was an 
involved fraud with a number of accounts and had taken place over the previous three  years. 
There was borrowing of over £50,000  involved.  Mr B was clearly distressed to discover  this 
and to have this debt hanging over him and to be contacted by debt collectors. He was also 
inconvenienced by having to contact Santander  repeatedly. And to find that it hadnt done  
everything it ought to have done even by November 2018. I wasnt  clear on the extent of the 
fraud beyond that at Santander, but his credit record indicates protective registration  has 
been marked on CIFAS, the national fraud  database, with other lenders too.
I appreciated Mr Bs position may be that even if he had contacted  Santander before his 
application this wouldnt have been  resolved. But its clear to me that he decided  with his 
advisor to try the application  to see what would  happen. Although he contacted  Santander 
after it was declined as Id said above, he didnt go to the branch. It seemed to me that he 
decided to accept  the fixed interest  rates available to him at the time. 
As I said I didnt think there  was an interest  rate disadvantage on the residential  mortgage. A 
comparison of the buy to let mortgage  deals isnt straightforward - there seemed to be a 
portfolio involved  and arrangement fees would need  to have been taken into account.
And I didnt  think there was ever sufficient time for Santander  to have investigated this fraud 
before an existing buy to let mortgage product rate expired on 30 April 2018. Had Mr B say 
waited then I could  perhaps have looked at whether Santander was responsible  for a loss 
taking into account  whether  there  was other fraudulent borrowing on his credit record  
affecting any application. And also,  I might have needed to think  about any issues  that might 
have affected  the application linked to any other joint borrower.  But he didnt contact 
Santander again until June 2018  after he had taken decisions on his mortgages.  So, with all 
this in mind I didnt think I could hold Santander responsible for any lost opportunity  or 
financial loss.
I thought that the appropriate way of recognising what  happened here is with compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.  I highlighted the key elements underpinning this as follows:
-On any view Santander didnt  confirm identity fraud for five months.
-During this period   in July 2018   Mr B received  contact from debt collectors.
-Hes shown he contacted Santander a number  of times.
-Santander didnt  correct his substantive record until July 2019.  Clearly Mr B was 
looking at this regularly  as he provided a credit report dated February 2019. I didnt 
doubt his frustration and distress  at the lack of action then by Santander.
-It hasnt removed all of the information  on the record until the further intervention of 
this service as set out above which only adds to the distress  for Mr B here.
Santander has offered  him £600 in total. In my view thats not enough  to reflect  everything  
thats happened. I judged  the appropriate amount  is £1,000 and I placed weight on the time 
taken to resolve all aspects of what happened for him. This is a different resolution to that 
proposed by our investigator which I knew hell be disappointed with. But I hoped Ive 
explained why Ive come  to this and in my provisional view it is the fair outcome here. 
Ref: DRN37174944my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander said it accepted my provisional decision.
Mr B didnt agree and made some  detailed comments which  Ill summarise  here.  He said 
that he was sad to hear that the fine for Santander had been reduced. He said that this 
service was soft towards the industry and so financial businesses thought that they could get 
away with doing  what they wanted  without any consequences.
The issue  with Santander had been  going  on for more than two years. He had to complain 
many times and he said that it had still not corrected  his credit record.  He sent an extract 
with his response of 10 June 2020. Mr B said that Santander was still not giving correct 
information and he had recordings of calls with it hed obtained if I wanted to have a copy. 
Mr B said he didnt  see why he should  have a financial loss because Santander didnt 
correct his record. He said it was breaking the law and it was too big for him to sue - he was 
relying on this service to help him. He thought that Santander had showed a contempt for 
things that do not make  it money. It had delayed matters,  not accepted it had made  a 
mistake and made it difficult to resolve  things. He said that when this complaint is concluded 
he will raise a further one based on the errors  on his credit  report  that still exist.
I have considered what Mr B has said. I need to make clear that we arent the regulator and 
our financial  awards are to reflect the impact on the complainant and not designed to be 
punitive or a fine. 
I have taken into account the time over which this issue has been outstanding in reaching  
my decision.  And Ive accepted what Mr B has said about his contact with Santander and 
that clearly it hadnt during that period fully corrected his credit record despite his reasonable 
expectation that it would and its assurances.  So, I dont feel I need to request to these 
recordings to reach  a final decision here.
I went carefully through the evidence Mr B had provided to support he had made  a financial 
loss. Unfortunately, I didnt agree he had made a loss and I explained  my reasons for this. 
Mr B hasnt pointed to any specific issues he has with my analysis. So, Im afraid I remain  of 
the view that there hasnt  been a financial loss caused by Santander here.
In my provisional decision I set out that Santander had told me it could be 10 working  days  
from 19 May 2020 for the connected information on Mr Bs credit  record  to be corrected. And 
that if he viewed  this through a free credit  record reporting service it could take four weeks.  I 
expect Santander  to make the correction within that timescale and have taken that additional 
period into account  in my award. I dont know how and when  Mr B generated an extract from 
his record. But if he remains of the view that Santander hasnt corrected the entries  within 
the timescale Ive given  then that would  be a new complaint point that I havent  considered  
here.
I thought carefully  about the compensation for this complaint taking into account  the impact  
of what had happened. Ive reviewed this in light of his comments  and I am still of the view 
Ref: DRN37174945that £1,000 in total is the fair and reasonable amount  and this includes what Santander has 
already paid him - £400 in November 2018. I know this will remain a disappointment to him.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to pay Mr B a 
further £600 making a total of £1,000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020 .
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3717494