K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about the way in which BUPA  Insurance Limited has increased  the 
premium for his private  medical  insurance  policy. 
background
In 2018, BUPA invited Mr B to renew his policy for an annual premium of £2,965.  This was 
an increase of over 12% on the previous  years  premium of £2,627. Mr B complained  to 
BUPA about  this. He also pointed out that his low claims  discount  (LCD) had been adversely 
affected by the late submission of an invoice by the hospital at which hed received 
treatment.
BUPA explained to Mr B in broad terms how it calculated his premium  and why it had 
increased. It said that it wasnt responsible for the fact that the hospital  took so long to 
invoice it for his treatment. Nonetheless, it acknowledged that if the hospital had invoiced it 
sooner, then Mr B would have benefitted  from a 3% discount to his premium due to the fact 
BUPA would then have  paid no claims during the relevant period. It agreed to apply the 
discount and to reduce his premium accordingly.
Mr B was unhappy with BUPAs response. Even  with the application of the discount, his 
premium had increased from the previous  year and he felt that BUPA hadnt adequately 
explained why this was the case.  He also felt it had generally provided a poor service when 
dealing with his enquiries about  the price.  He referred his complaint to us.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. She was satisfied 
that BUPA had calculated Mr Bs renewal premium  accurately and had furthermore acted 
fairly by later agreeing to reduce this to allow for the late receipt  of the invoice. However, she 
thought BUPA had provided  a poor service  from the time he had first raised his concerns. 
She thought  it should pay him £100  compensation for this.  
BUPA agreed to the adjudicators findings but Mr B did not. He considered that BUPA still 
hadnt adequately explained why his premium had increased. He felt that £100 was 
inadequate compensation for the trouble  to which hed been put by BUPAs  failure  to 
address his concerns.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint in 
part. I shall explain why.
We generally take the view it is up to an insurer  to decide on the price of its policies. 
Provided it exercises this judgement fairly and consistently, in accordance  with its internal 
guidelines, it is an area in which we dont  normally interfere.
BUPA has explained  to Mr B that, while  his individual LCD didnt cause his premium  to either 
rise or fall, the renewal  premium was nonetheless subject to a general inflationary rise to 
cover the increasing  cost of claims overall.  I find this to be reasonable. I dont think Mr B 
should reasonably have  expected his premium  to remain unchanged simply because  he 
personally had made  no claims  during the previous year. Furthermore,  I dont think  BUPA  
should have been expected to provide Mr B with a more detailed  explanation for the 
Ref: DRN38081812premium increase because information about  the precise way in which  it calculates its 
premiums is commercially  sensitive. In the end, it was up to Mr B to decide whether or not to 
renew the policy for the offered price.
Mr B questioned why he hadnt received a 3% reduction in his premium through  the LCD 
scheme given that hed made no claims during the policy year.  BUPA explained that this was 
because it had paid claims of his to the value of under £1,000 during the relevant 12 month 
period for treatment  which had been carried out in the 2016 policy year. The hospital had 
been slow to invoice  BUPA  for this treatment  with the result that it affected the LCD at the 
2018 renewal.  If the hospital  had invoiced  BUPA more promptly,  the claim would have been 
taken into account  at the 2017 renewal and wouldnt have affected this because  the LCD in 
that year had already been  affected  to the maximum extent  by other claims. Im satisfied  that 
BUPA had acted  in accordance with the policy terms and it wasnt its fault that the hospital 
had taken so long to submit  its invoice. BUPA nonetheless agreed  to amend Mr Bs LCD in 
2018 to what it would  have been had the hospital submitted its invoice promptly. This caused 
Mr Bs premium  to reduce by 3%. Im satisfied  this was fair by BUPA.
Despite BUPAs action in allowing this 3% discount,  I consider  that BUPA provided a poor 
service in other ways.  When  Mr B first raised  his concern about the price increase, BUPA 
didnt make clear the limited information it could provide about the reasons for this. As a 
result, Mr B ended up going back to BUPA on repeated occasions because  he felt it hadnt 
understood his concerns. BUPA also failed to call him back  when it had promised to do so. 
The adjudicator recommended it pay him £100  compensation for this and while Mr B thinks  
this is inadequate  I am satisfied it is a fair amount. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require BUPA Insurance Limited  to pay Mr B £100  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3808181