K820x#14complaint
Mrs H is complaining about the interest rate Santander UK Plc has charged on her 
mortgage. Shes unhappy that whilst shes been  paying Santanders  standard variable rate 
(SVR), the rate hasnt  varied in line with changes to the Bank  of England  base rate.
background
Mrs H took her mortgage out with Santander (previously Abbey National) in 2003. She 
initially borrowed £45,000  over 15 years on a two-year fixed  rate. Since then, shes taken 
additional borrowing  in 2005 and 2006,  which has led to her mortgage being split into four 
sub accounts. One of the sub accounts  has been on Santanders  SVR since  2006,  another 
moved over in 2008. From 2011,  Mrs Hs whole mortgage was on the SVR,  until December 
2017 when she successfully applied for a new fixed rate.
In 2006 when Mrs H began paying the SVR on part of her mortgage, the rate was 6.5%.  This 
increased gradually until it reached 7.84%  in 2007. The SVR gradually decreased, and by 
2011 was at a level of 4.24% when  Mrs H began paying this rate on her whole mortgage. 
Since then,  the SVR increased to 4.74% in 2012, before falling again to 4.49% in 2016. 
Mrs H successfully applied for a new fixed rate of 1.84% in 2017, which is due to end in 
2020. 
Mrs H complained to Santander  about  the fact that her mortgage was on the SVR from 2011 
onwards, which  our service considered as a separate complaint. Afterwards Mrs H then 
complained directly to us about the fact that the SVR hasnt varied  in line with changes to the 
Bank of England  base rate, which we raised  directly to Santander for her.
Santander explained that Mrs Hs contractual monthly payment had changed following 
changes to their SVR, which is not required  to track  the Bank of England base rate. They 
said the mortgage has operated in line with the terms  and conditions of the mortgage 
account. Our investigator looked into things, and explained that she didnt think  Santander  
had applied  their interest  rate unfairly,  and said their SVR is not required to track the Bank  of 
England base rate.
Mrs H disagreed. She also wanted  to know why she hadnt been sent letters  to tell her about  
the interest rate changes that applied to her mortgage. So the complaints been passed to 
me to issue  a decision.
I note that Santander have  since reviewed  Mrs Hs mortgage account and made  her an offer 
of redress. Having looked at this, Im satisfied that the reasons for the offer fall outside of the 
scope of this complaint,  so I wont be commenting  on the fairness  of it in this decision.  In this 
decision, Ill only be considering Mrs Hs concerns about the SVR, and the fact it hasnt 
changed in line with the Bank of England base rate. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at Mrs Hs account  history, I can see that her contractual  monthly  payment  has 
varied significantly over the life of the mortgage.  Some of these changes  have been a result  
of changes to the mortgage  such as when the mortgage moved to interest only, and when 
her fixed  rate products ended. But there  have  also been changes whilst  the mortgage  has 
Ref: DRN35482402been on Santanders SVR. In this decision, Im not considering whether Mrs Hs mortgage 
should have been on the SVR  as our service has made a decision on that already. I will 
however consider the fairness  of the interest  rate that Mrs H has been charged whilst on the 
SVR.
In order to do this Ive considered the terms and conditions of Mrs Hs mortgage, and the 
information she was given when she took it out, and also when she applied for new fixed  
rate products.  Following the expiry of Mrs Hs first fixed rate in 2005, she switched  to a new 
fixed rate  5.69% until August 2008.  Ive looked at this conversion offer,  as well as all of her 
subsequent mortgage offers, and Im satisfied that its clear  that once the interest rate 
product expires,  the mortgage will move onto Santanders SVR for the remaining term of the 
mortgage. The offers also explain that this rate will vary from time to time, and that more 
information about how interest is charged can be found in the Standard Mortgage Conditions  
booklet.
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Hs mortgage explain in more detail how the SVR works,  
and what can influence  any changes to it. Looking at the terms and conditions, and the 
mortgage offers, Ive not seen anything  to suggest that Santanders  SVR is linked to the 
Bank of England  base rate, or that its intended to track it. The terms of the mortgage explain 
that the interest  rate is variable, and the bank set this rate taking into account a number of 
factors. 
Ive also considered the variable interest rates charged by comparable high street lenders 
over the same period of time. Im satisfied  the SVR that Mrs H has been paying Santander is 
not out of line with other similar  lenders  in the market. So whilst I appreciate that Mrs Hs 
unhappy that the SVR hasnt fallen as low as the Bank of England base rate over time,  I 
dont think the interest  rate Santander charged  Mrs H was unfair. 
Santander havent been able to provide us with copies of the actual letters they sent Mrs H 
when they changed the SVR, but they have shown me sample copies of the letters, and what 
they said.  These letters set out what the change to the interest rate would be, the reason for 
the change, and what Mrs Hs new monthly payment would be as a result. Some of these 
changes were due to a change in the Bank of England base rate, but there were other factors 
that influenced the changes too. The letters also invited Mrs H to call Santander if she thought 
the new monthly payments would be a problem for her. Looking at the information Mrs H would 
have been given, Im satisfied she would have had enough information to show how the 
changes would affect her monthly mortgage payments, and information about what she could 
do if she thought this would cause problems for her.
Whilst Mrs Hs mortgage was on the SVR, there was no Early  Repayment Charge (ERC) 
payable if she wanted to redeem the mortgage and move to another  lender. So Im satisfied  
there were no contractual barriers preventing her from redeeming her mortgage early if she 
wanted to look for another interest  rate elsewhere,  if she was unhappy with the rate that 
Santander were charging.
Considering everything, whilst I appreciate  Mrs H feels the interest  rate shes  been  paying is 
higher than it should have  been   Im not satisfied  this is because Santanders SVR has 
been charged unfairly. The rate was not intended to track the Bank of England  base rate, 
and wasnt out of line with other variable rates charged across the market at the time. Whilst 
changes to the Bank of England base rate did often result in changes to the SVR,  there  
were other factors that influenced the rate too, and Im satisfied this is fair.
Ref: DRN35482403my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3548240