K821x#15complaint
Mr K complained that The Equine and Livestock  Insurance Company Limited 
refused his claim under his caravan insurance policy.
background
After Mr Ks caravan was stolen from a storage site, he made a claim under his policy.  But 
E&L refused it because  they said that he hadnt complied with the terms of his policy  
regarding his caravans security. 
Mr K thought  this was unfair and complained to E&L. But E&L didnt agree and so Mr K 
brought his complaint to us. The investigator  who assessed Mr Ks complaint recommended  
that it should be upheld. She thought that E&L hadnt acted fairly or reasonably in refusing 
the claim because they hadnt drawn the policys security requirements  to Mr Ks attention  
sufficiently. She recommended that E&L consider his claim in line with its remaining terms 
and conditions.
E&L disagreed  and so the case has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K usually kept his caravan at his home,  but had to move  it to a storage site for a few 
weeks. It was stolen  from that site during the day. E&L refused Mr Ks claim because they 
said that the storage site didnt meet the policys security requirements  and that this 
invalidated his cover. They said that the site wasnt secure during the day because  it was 
open to the public and anyone could access it then. E&L decided this after considering the 
basis of the police report, loss adjuster report and information from the storage site. 
E&L say that the policy is clear, all the security  requirements are defined, and that Mr K 
agreed to the policy terms when  he took out the policy online and confirmed that he 
understood them.
But Mr K said the site was a secure  storage facility with an array of security  measures in 
place and that he took all feasible precautions  when  he stored it there. He felt that it met the 
minimum security  requirements which this service mentions in our technical guidance on 
our website. So he felt that E&L were being  unreasonable to reject his claim when only one 
of their security measures hadnt been  met. He also said that hed let E&L know  where and 
when the caravan was going  into storage and theyd  agreed to that and didnt ask him any 
questions about  the security  there  or refer him to policys security requirements.
As the investigator  explained to Mr K, our relevant technical guidance just gives  examples  of 
security measures rather than sets any standard, and different insurers will have different 
requirements and are entitled  to have those. So we cant  say that E&Ls policys  stipulated  
requirements are unreasonable. The issue is whether E&L made them  clear  to Mr K.
Again as the investigator explained, we expect businesses to make  consumers  aware of any 
significant or unusual terms and exclusions. And we think that security  requirements are 
Ref: DRN39058752significant terms, because  they allow insurers to reject claims for reason that arent 
necessarily matters of obvious common sense to consumers.
E&Ls security  requirements appear  in a table in the policy. They  differ depending on the 
sum insured, and are described  by way of abbreviations. The investigator  thought  that this 
wasnt a particularly clear  way for E&L to present it, and that they should have brought the 
requirements separately to Mr Ks attention  when he bought  the policy. It wasnt enough that 
their online process just asked consumers  to agree that theyd read and understood the 
terms, even if this included security requirements. But E&L said that they did highlight their 
security requirements both in the policy summary  and during the online purchase process, 
which requires applicants  to confirm theyll comply with them.  So they felt theyd done all 
they could do to bring the terms to policyholders attention. However  although E&L do 
highlight their requirements, wherever they do so its by reference to the table, which I dont 
think is straightforward to interpret.
The investigator also thought that the requirements  werent brought  to Mr Ks attention when  
he told them  he intended  to place his caravan in storage. Ive listened  to the recording of this 
phone call with E&L. They didnt discuss security, but took the name and address of the 
storage site and told Mr K theyd alter his policy.  They  didnt ask him then about the sites 
security nor did they refer him to the policy to check that the proposed site was suitable. E&L 
say they didnt have to ask him about security issues or check those  with him, because it 
was his responsibility to check his policy  to ensure that the site met all the policys  security 
requirements. But I still think  that it would have been reasonable at that point, when hed 
phoned them specifically  about storage, for E&L to at least  refer him to the policy 
requirements. This is particularly since it had been many months since hed taken out the 
policy, and its home  and site storage security requirements were very different. 
And though  E&L thought  that Mr K should  have known that a storage site which  was open to 
the public  during the day would compromise  security, I dont think  thats  reasonable. I think  
that most  people would consider a storage  site with security measures and onsite 
employees to be secure. 
So I still think that when  Mr K phoned  them that it would have been  reasonable for E&L to 
bring the security  measures to his attention. And so I dont think that it was reasonable for 
E&L to refuse his claim because he didnt comply with them.
The investigator and E&L have each  referred to cases that this service had previously made 
about E&Ls policys security arrangements, which  reached different conclusions. E&L feel 
that this is inconsistent. I dont consider either  of these decisions to be binding on this case, 
and a decision will always  depend  on the facts and circumstances of the individual case. In 
this case, I think that E&L didnt adequately bring the policy  security requirements  to Mr Ks 
attention when he took out the policy,  nor did they do so some  months  when he told them 
that he was going to put it into storage. 
For that reason  I think that they didnt  act fairly and reasonably in refusing his claim and they 
should now deal with it in accordance with the remaining terms and conditions  of his policy.
Ref: DRN39058753my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above  my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I require The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limited to consider Mr Ks claim in 
line with its terms and conditions, and add interest* to any cash settlement at the simple  
yearly rate of 8%, from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
*If E&L consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr K how much theyve taken off and should  also him a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN3905875