K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Santander UK Plc (Santander), trading as Abbey National, mis-
sold them  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a mortgage.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 1994. The 
policy provided joint cover to Mr and Mrs W on a 50:50 basis if one of them wasnt  able to 
work because of an accident,  sickness  or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with 
the adjudicators  view,  so the case has been passed  to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding it for the 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Ive first thought about whether Mr and Mrs W agreed to take the PPI cover  offered to them, 
knowing that they could choose  not to. 
Mr and Mrs W say that they were strongly  advised to take out the PPI policy  by the 
Santander mortgage advisor they spoke to at the time and felt pushed  into doing so. They  
thought that unless they agreed they might not get their mortgage approved.
Ive no doubt that this is an honest recollection of what Mr and Mrs W think happened  in their 
meeting with the Santander advisor.  But I need  to bear in mind that this sale took place  over 
twenty years  ago and memories do tend to fade over such long periods of time. So I need to 
consider all the information  thats available to me in deciding what  I think is most likely to 
have happened  at the time.
Unfortunately, neither  Santander or Mr and Mrs W have copies of any of the paperwork that 
was completed at the time of this sale. Thats not particularly surprising given the very long 
timescales involved. But from what I know about how Santander normally sold PPI on 
mortgages at around this time, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs W would  have been  required 
to complete a separate application form and direct debit mandate  to obtain this cover.  And I 
think that this should  have  made them aware  that the policy was optional  and that they could 
choose not to take it.
Its possible that in advising Mr and Mrs W to take out the PPI policy, the mortgage advisor 
they spoke to unfairly pressurised them  into thinking they had to agree to the cover  to get 
their mortgage. But I dont think that Mr and Mrs W recollection of what was said at the 
meeting is sufficiently vivid or detailed  for me to conclude that this is what  is most  likely to 
have happened. I think its probably more likely that the advisor did strongly recommend that 
they take out the cover, but didnt mislead them into wrongly thinking that they had to have it 
to get their mortgage.
Ref: DRN34125792So on the very limited  information available to me, I think Mr and Mrs W actively  agreed  to 
take out the PPI policy, knowing they had a choice. But I can understand why they may not 
recall this now.
Both Santander and Mr and Mrs W say that this was an advised  sale.  This means that 
Santander needed to ensure that the PPI policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances at the time. With so little information still available  from the time of the sale I 
cant now know how it did this. But from what I know about  their circumstances then, I dont 
think theres any reason  to think the policy wasnt suitable. I say this because:
Mr and Mrs W appear to have  been  eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its 
main exclusions  or limitations.
Mr and Mrs W dont  think that they needed  the cover that the policy  gave them. They  say 
they were both eligible for sick pay from their employers and that Mrs W would have 
received a redundancy payment if shed lost her job. She also says she could have  relied 
on financial support  from a parent if shed needed it. And Mr W says he was protected  
from becoming unemployed by his employers no compulsory redundancy agreement.
This policy would  have paid out for up to thirty  six months if Mr and Mrs W werent able 
to work because of an accident or sickness, which is much  longer than they would likely 
to have been able to rely on their employers  sick pay. 
The policy would also have paid out for up to twelve months if Mr or Mrs W became 
unemployed. And whilst  Mr W says that his employer had a no compulsory redundancy 
agreement in place at the time,  I havent seen anything which makes me think that this 
agreement was likely  to have been legally binding and that Mr Ws future employment 
was effectively guaranteed by his employer.  And although Mrs W says she would have 
received a redundancy payment if shed been  made  redundant,  I dont think that this 
means that they wouldnt have benefited from having this cover in place at what  would 
likely to have been a difficult time. 
Ive thought about what Mrs W has said about  being  able to rely on parental support in 
need. But I dont  think relying on this support would have given them  the same level of 
security as a PPI policy specifically designed  to pay their mortgage repayments if theyd 
needed it.
This policy would  have paid out in addition to any other means they might have had to 
make their mortgage repayments if one of them couldnt work. And a mortgage  is a big 
financial commitment - one where your home  is potentially at risk if monthly repayments 
cant be made. So notwithstanding the reasons given by Mr and Mrs W for now thinking 
they didnt need the policy, at the time of the sale I think they would have valued the 
extra security it gave  them if things  went wrong.
Ive no reason for thinking the cost of the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs W. And 
as it was paid for by a monthly  premium, they could have cancelled  it if it no longer met 
their needs.
Santander also needed to ensure that it gave Mr and Mrs W enough clear information about  
the PPI policy  for them to be able to make an informed decision about  taking  it. 
Mr and Mrs W dont  think that Santander  did do this. And to illustrate this they have said that 
if theyd known they could claim under the policy for periods of sickness they would have  
Ref: DRN34125793done so when Mrs W was off work for about six months in late 1999 because of a serious 
illness.
I think its likely that the information  which Santander  gave Mr and Mrs W could have been 
better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy was unsuitable 
for them, I dont think better  information would have changed their minds about  taking  it. I 
think theyd still have  thought the policy gave them useful  additional  protection  at an 
affordable price.
Ive thought about what Mr and Mrs W have said about not making a claim on the policy in 
late 1999. But this was over five years  after theyd taken it out and I think  that they may 
simply have forgotten  that this cover  was in place by then. At the time of the sale I think that 
as well as discussing the cover with an advisor,  they are likely to have received written 
information about the policy, together  with a certificate of insurance for the cover  theyd 
taken. So I think they would have known then that the policy  would provide protection if they 
werent able to work because of an accident,  sickness or unemployment. But Mr and Mrs W 
may wish to think about approaching the insurer of their PPI policy  to make a backdated 
claim for the period of Mrs Ws illness, if they still have the evidence  needed to support this.
Ive thought carefully about all the points  that Mr and Mrs W have made in responding to the 
adjudicators view. But these dont change  my mind about not upholding their complaint. This 
means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W. But 
Santander has offered  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because  Santander didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Santander has offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander UK Plc does not have  to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it hasnt already done this, I 
direct that it should now update its offer and do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 May 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3412579