K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs W bought the policy in 2007  at the same  time as taking out a mortgage.  They  
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in-branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs W for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £865 a month  towards Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage balance in the event of a successful  claim  split 60/40  in favour of Mr W. 
At the time,  it cost around £52 a month.  
At the time,  Mr W was employed as an electrical  engineer. He has told us he was entitled to 
at least six months full sick pay. He initially said that he was entitled to redundancy pay of 
twice his annual  salary. But later on he said it was six months pay. He also said he didnt 
have any other means of repaying their mortgage should he be unable  to work. Mr W has 
given us different  information about his health  at different times  in the original  PPI 
questionnaire he said he was in good  health at the time of the sale,  while  in response to the 
adjudicators assessment  he said he had suffered from a medical  condition  in the past. Ill 
come back  to this later on. 
Mrs W was employed  as a buyer.  She has told us she was entitled  to at least six months  full 
sick pay. And like Mr W, she initially said she was entitled to redundancy pay of twice her 
salary but later on she said it was six months pay. Mrs W said she didnt have any other 
means of repaying  their mortgage should she be unable  to work. Mrs W has also given us 
different information  about her health  in the original  PPI questionnaire she said she was in 
good health at the time of the sale, while she later said she had suffered from a medical 
condition before the sale. Again, Ill come  back to this later on. 
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2007 and 
ended in 2013.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ws representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs W 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ws representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN39246792The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs W about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs W 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs W received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ws. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ws 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was a regulated  mortgage  contract. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2007 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Ref: DRN39246793Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result it is appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
key questions
Ref: DRN39246794Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs W sufficient, appropriate and timely information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs W, I must then go on to consider  whether  and to what  extent  Mr and Mrs W 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs W 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs W know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Mr and Mrs W have  said 
they were advised  by the branch representative  that the mortgage offer was contingent on 
them signing  up to the Santander PPI. They say that at no time were they advised they could 
go to an independent party for cover. They say they felt pressured  to take out PPI.
Santander has provided copies of some  of the paperwork from the time of sale.  Looking at 
this I can firstly see that Mr and Mrs W were advised  to take out PPI (I will talk more  about 
this below.) The adviser  recommended they take out PPI and its recorded  that Mr and Mrs 
W accepted the recommendation.
Mr and Mrs W have  said they felt pressured  to take out the Santander cover and werent told 
they could seek  cover elsewhere.  But looking  at the mortgage offer letter I can see that 
within a separate  section  headed Insurance  it says:
Insurance you must take out through Santander
Youre not required  to take out any insurance  through Santander.
It went on to say that the only insurance requirement was for Mr and Mrs W to take out 
buildings insurance, which  in my view is a typical requirement of a mortgage  lender. But this 
also says it didnt have  to be taken out through Santander. So it wasnt  a condition of the 
mortgage that PPI had to have taken out.
Ref: DRN39246795Because this was an important document for the transaction  Mr and Mrs W were 
undertaking, I think its reasonable to assume  they wouldve read and considered this 
carefully  a copy would  also have been  seen by their conveyancing solicitor.  So if what  was 
written here about the insurance  requirements  was at odds with their understanding of what 
they were told during  the meeting in which PPI was discussed, I think its likely they wouldve 
queried it at the time.
I accept that I dont know exactly what was discussed during Mr and Mrs Ws meeting with 
the Santander representative.  But based on what Ive seen, including what the paperwork 
shows, I think its more likely that the adviser  encouraged Mr and Mrs W to take out the 
policy because they thought it was suitable and appropriate for them  in the circumstances. 
Ive not seen enough evidence to persuade me that things went  further than this and undue  
pressure was placed on them to take it out.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  Mr and Mrs W knew  the policy was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Mr and Mrs W say that advice  wasnt  given  to them. Santander says it did provide advice 
during this sale. As I said above, the paperwork from the time refers to Mr and Mrs Ws need 
for cover being discussed and a recommendation made to them. So looking  at what  
happened when  Santander sold Mr and Mrs W the PPI, Im persuaded that it provided 
advice.
This means  Santander  had to advise Mr and Mrs W with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
While as I said above I dont know what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary 
evidence suggests  that Santander took some  steps to establish  whether the policy was a 
suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs W. The adviser had information  about some of Mr 
and Mrs Ws financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. A high- level needs 
analysis document  has been given to us, which  presumably  was completed as part of the 
advice process to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs W had a need for the policy. But this 
only says that a need was identified  it doesnt  provide any further detail. The available  
evidence doesnt  show that the adviser  asked specific questions about Mr and Mrs Ws 
wider circumstances,  such as any health issues and existing means. I can see that reference 
is made to a fact find document where  these questions might have been asked, but this 
hasnt been provided. 
So based  on what Ive seen, I dont think Santander  did enough to ensure the PPI was 
suitable.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs W given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded Santander  advised with reasonable care and skill.
Ref: DRN39246796While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs W, I do think its more likely than not that the policy  was ultimately  
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs W both met the eligibility criteria  for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs W had a need  for the policy  it seems likely  that Mr and Mrs Ws ability 
to continue to meet their mortgage  repayments  would have been  put under strain  if 
they werent working for an extended  period of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy benefits and sick pay they say they would have been  entitled to. They 
said they didnt  have any savings they could fall back on, so I think  the policy would 
have helped Mr and Mrs W manage  the consequences if they were unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs W. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs W. 
Despite what Mr and Mrs W have said about Mr Ws occupation being high risk, 
there was nothing about Mr W or Mrs Ws employment or occupation which  would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions  
as I said earlier, Im mindful that weve been  given  different information  about Mr and 
Mrs Ws health prior to the date of sale. They initially said that they were in good  
health. But latterly  Mr and Mrs W have told us that they each had a medical condition 
 Mr W said he had back problems in 1999  and Mrs W said she had a mental health 
condition in 2003. Both said they had taken time off work  at the time of suffering from 
their conditions.  But neither of them  has said that their problems persisted or 
recurred.
So given the terms of the policy, which said that the pre-existing  medical condition 
exclusion would only apply for the first 12 months  of cover, given what Mr and Mrs W 
have said about  their conditions i.e. they happened several years before the sale 
date and havent recurred,  I dont think this limitation made the policy  unsuitable. 
There were also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
gainful occupation condition, the requirement  that Mr and Mrs W be disabled  or 
unemployed for 28 days before  they could make  a claim and the fact the policy would 
only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months  for each claim), the policy still 
provided worthwhile cover given:
Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances,  including their employers sickness  and 
redundancy provisions (which  they might expect to provide an income during 
the policys excess period) and the limits  to those provisions,  which mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs W be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their home.
Ref: DRN39246797Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs W 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what Santander was recommending  to them and make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs W were  given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs W were unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because the paperwork from the time, 
including the subsequent  advisers recommendation confirmation letter, suggests that the 
nature of the cover was discussed. I also think its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have taken  
out the policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium 
might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Santander  gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs W agreed to take out the policy (the advisers confirmation of 
recommendation paperwork which set out some of this information likely came after the 
branch meeting where the advice took place.)
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs W, Im not persuaded 
Santander did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Santander  gave Mr and Mrs W all of 
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ws representative has raised a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ws. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ws representative  considers  to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs W about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ws representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
Ref: DRN39246798and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs W have suggested. And taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs W? To what extent  did 
Mr and Mrs W suffer  loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and 
Mrs W. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs W suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether 
or not Mr and Mrs W would have still taken out the policy, had Santander done things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs W, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs W have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if Santander had explained  things 
properly, Mr and Mrs W would have acted differently,  or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs W say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should  presume  this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs W had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Santander advised them  that there was 
a suitable product they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event 
they were unable to work because of accident, sickness  and unemployment, they concluded 
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information, 
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances 
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
I think Mr and Mrs W understood and indeed chose the benefit amount because  the 
advisers confirmation of recommendation  letter said this was discussed in the meeting. But 
although I consider  it more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs W knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear from the available evidence  that Santander told 
them the exact premium at the point Mr and Mrs W applied  for the policy. 
Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs W would have been told the cost before the 
policy started and they paid for the policy for a number  of years (it wouldve appeared on 
their bank statements  as a separate direct debit  entry from their mortgage payment) so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible they 
might have raised that with Santander at the time or reconsidered their decision.
Ref: DRN39246799Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs W would have found  the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs W thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or associated  
symptoms whether diagnosed or not that Mr and Mrs W knew  about when cover 
started or saw a doctor about  in the 12 months before taking the policy  out, and 
which persist or return during the first 12 months  of cover;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs W werent permanent  employees;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs W be 
unable to do their own job or any similar  job which their experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified them to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs W pause for thought  and may well have caused  them  to conclude  the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs W from taking out the 
policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved beneficial  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. Although Mr and Mrs W say they 
had previously suffered  with medical conditions before  the PPI was taken out - and the 
policy wouldnt have likely provided cover  had they needed time off work because  of this 
condition for the first 12 months of cover - I dont  think better information about this exclusion 
would have put them off agreeing to it. I say this because  as I detailed above,  their 
conditions happened  some time before  the policy started (in Mr Ws case  eight years prior to 
the sale),  and theyve  not said their problems persisted  or recurred.  Its also the case  that 
after the first 12 months they couldve claimed for these things. 
So given this and because I havent  seen any evidence to suggest they wouldve been 
caught by any of the other significant exclusions,  I still think they had some good reasons to 
take the policy out. Its also the case that the policy didnt exclude  back or mental health 
conditions or place any additional restrictions or more onerous evidential  requirements in the 
event of a claim on those grounds than would have applied to any other disability claim. And 
I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs W would have expected to make a disability claim on the 
policy without first providing some evidence  to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs W had known they could only claim for disability if they were  unable to do both 
their own jobs and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers  view they might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into their thinking about what they 
would have done. And I accept it may have  given them pause for thought   although  its 
possible they may not have been overly  concerned  given that if they were unable  (through 
Ref: DRN392467910disability) to carry on their own occupation the chances that they would be able to take up a 
similar occupation would also, in all probability, be limited.
Santander may not have told Mr and Mrs W that any claim they made would be limited to a 
12-month period  during the meeting.  This may have differed from what  they expected  and 
might have hoped for. But 12 months  was a longer period  than both Mr and Mrs W would 
have received full sick pay for, and their statutory redundancy entitlement  was also 
significantly less than 12 months income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs W would still have thought a policy  
that paid up to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr and Mrs W be unable  to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and perhaps uncertain  time, ensure their 
home was not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve their sick pay or redundancy 
money for other use such as ongoing household expenditure.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs W would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable  for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr and or Mr W were made 
redundant, or unable to work through accident or sickness.  In the circumstances I consider  it 
more likely than not Mr and Mrs W would have  taken  out the policy in any event 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ws representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs W would not have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ws 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs W found herself in as a result  of the sale was the same  position they would have been  in 
had the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs W believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN392467911Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs W in the position  they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Mr and Mrs W compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs W think Santander misrepresented  the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and Mrs 
W, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards  I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 2007 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ws representative says a court might take 
if it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs W and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that Santander had been in breach of 
its duty of utmost  good faith.  But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs W in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 September 2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3924679