K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) didnt carry out an 
international bank transfer as per her instructions, causing a loss to the recipient of the 
funds.
background
Mrs S was the executor of her late grandmothers  estate and she was required to distribute 
funds to her siblings. On 8 February 2018 Mrs S asked Halifax  to transfer  the sum of 
£35,000 to her sister, Mrs Y, who lives in Portugal.
On 9 February 2018 Mrs S complained to Halifax that the funds had been  received  by Mrs Y 
in Euros. She said shed  asked for the money  to be sent in Sterling and Mrs Y had lost out 
as a result  of the exchange rate Halifax had used. She asked whether the payment could be 
recalled.
Halifax wasnt able to recall the funds but it didnt agree it had done anything  wrong.  It said 
the staff member whod  processed the transaction,  who Ill refer to as Mr B, recalled 
explaining the process to Mrs S. He said hed presented her with the option to transfer the 
sum in Sterling or in Euros and Mrs S chose to send it in Euros.  Mr B said at no time did Mrs 
S say that Mrs Ys account  in Portugal was a Sterling  account  had she done so, he 
wouldve sent the funds in Sterling.  He added that he gave Mrs S a confirmation slip that 
showed the exchange rate used  and hed written the sum Mrs Y would receive in Euros  on it 
by hand.
Mrs S remained unhappy  and referred her complaint to our service.  She said shed 
specifically told Mr B that she wanted  £35,000  Sterling to be sent to Mrs Ys Sterling account 
in Portugal. Mrs S said Mr B gave  her the hard sell to persuade  her to send the money in 
Euros, saying  it would be better value to change it into Euros at this end. However, Mrs S 
says she told Mr B she didnt want to have any involvement in the exchange, preferring to 
leave this to Mrs Y. Mrs S says that as far as she was aware, the money  had been sent in 
Sterling. She explained  the confirmation  slip had a Euro amount written  on it because  shed 
asked, out of nosiness, how much  Mrs Y could get when she exchanged it. Mrs S said 
shed paid Mrs Y £624 to cover the loss Mrs Y had experienced in the exchange, based on 
the exchange rate she would have been  able to get using  a third party.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He thought it was most likely Mr B had made an 
assumption that Mrs S wanted to send the funds to a Euro account. He thought  this was why 
Mr B had presented  the two options,  emphasising  that it would be better to convert into 
Euros at this end. He didnt think there was any logical reason why Mrs S would agree to 
send the funds in Euros,  when Mrs Y had set up a Sterling account  for the sole purpose of 
receiving these funds. He thought Halifax should  pay Mrs S £624 in compensation.
Halifax didnt agree, it maintained Mrs S couldnt have mentioned that Mrs Ys account was a 
Sterling account  otherwise  Mr B wouldve sent the funds in Sterling. It also didnt think  
Mrs Ss explanation for the handwritten Euro sum on the confirmation  slip was plausible.  
Halifax added that Mrs Y wouldve likely always experienced a loss when she exchanged  the 
Sterling funds for Euros. It said it couldnt  be known when she wouldve made the exchange 
and what rate could  have  been achieved, given the current  political  climate.
Ref: DRN37992862I issued a provisional decision on 18 June 2019  explaining  why I wasnt intending to uphold 
Mrs Ss complaint. Overall,  I thought  Mrs S had most likely agreed for the payment to be 
sent in Euros.  An extract is attached and forms part of my final decision.
Halifax accepted  my provisional decision.  Mrs S didnt accept my provisional decision and 
made the following points:
she couldnt see the screen  that Mr B input  the details of the transaction into  she 
was sitting at the far end of the desk and the sunlight was shining on it;
she made another transfer to Mrs Y some weeks later which  the bank representative 
took her through using an iPad  she noticed that when Portugal  was entered, the 
currency automatically changed  to Euros.  Mrs S believes  this shows  how Mr B made  
the mistake when he completed  the transfer for her;
she made Mr B aware that Mrs Y had two accounts and joked that she hoped shed 
given him the correct  account number.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know Mrs S will be very disappointed with this but I hope she understands why Ive reached 
this decision.
I dont intend to repeat my findings  as per my provisional decision here, as Ive attached 
them below. But Ill address the points  Mrs S has raised in reply.
In my provisional decision I said I thought Mr B had most  likely  taken  Mrs S through  the 
screens and offered her the choice of sending the funds in Sterling or Euros. On balance 
I thought Mrs S had chosen to send the funds in Euros and wouldve known this was the 
case. This was because  the confirmation  slip she received  confirmed the exchange rate and 
the exact amount that Mrs Y would receive  was written on it by hand.
Mrs S has said that she couldnt  actually  see the screens Mr B was using because  of where 
she was sat and because sunlight was reflecting  on them.  Shes also said she thinks  the 
currency defaulted to Euros when Mr B said Mrs Ys bank was in Portugal and that he either 
didnt notice or forgot to change it back to Sterling.  She asserts that she gave clear 
instructions for him to send the funds in Sterling.
Ive considered these  points  carefully,  but overall I still think Mrs S wouldve known her 
transfer was being sent in Euros. Whilst Mrs S says she couldnt see the screens well, Mr B 
says he showed  them to Mrs S and confirmed  she was happy to proceed with the 
transaction in Euros. If Mrs S couldnt  see the details of the transaction on the screens  
I wouldve  expected  her to say so and ensure the transfer had been  set up as per her 
wishes.
Its possible the transfer defaulted  to Euros when Mr B input the location  of Mrs Ys bank. 
But based  on what I know about  how the transaction is processed,  Mrs S still needed  to 
confirm she was happy with the details before the transaction was completed.  Perhaps 
Mrs S didnt notice the funds were being sent in Euros, but that wouldnt mean the blame  lay 
with Halifax. Im also still persuaded by the explanation  that the handwritten Euro amount 
was a confirmation of the exact amount Mrs Y would receive  in her account, rather than a 
Ref: DRN37992863hypothetical sum Mrs Y could receive  if she changed the Sterling amount herself. For this 
reason I still think Mrs S understood the funds had been sent in Euros.
I also said in my provisional decision that I thought  Mrs S probably wasnt aware Mrs Ys 
account was set up to receive Sterling. But Mrs S has said she knew  her sister had two 
accounts and remembers joking that she hoped  shed given Mr B the correct one.
Ive taken this into account but as I still think Mrs S was aware the funds were  being sent in 
Euros, it seems unlikely to me that she knew the account details Mrs Y had given her were 
for a Sterling account. I say this because I think she wouldve ensured the funds were sent in 
Sterling if she knew the account had been set up to receive Sterling.
In summary,  it doesnt appear to me that Halifax procedurally  did anything wrong when it 
processed Mrs Ss request to make an international payment  to Mrs Y. Its possible  there  
was a miscommunication or a misunderstanding between Mrs S and Mr B. But I havent  
seen enough evidence to persuade me that Halifax made a mistake in response to a clear  
instruction from Mrs S. I think  Mrs S wouldve known the funds were being sent in Euros, so 
it was for her to correct it if she knew Mrs Ys account could receive  Sterling. For this reason, 
I dont think Halifax needs to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN37992864my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im not inclined to uphold it and Ill explain why. But 
first I wish to offer my condolences  to Mrs S on the loss of her grandmother. I dont doubt  this has 
been a difficult time for her and I appreciate the experience with Halifax  would have added to her 
distress.
This is a case  where it is essentially one partys version of events against anothers. Mrs S says she 
told Mr B she wanted to send £35,000 to her sisters  Sterling  account and didnt  agree to convert the 
funds to Euros. Halifax  says Mr B was an experienced member of staff who wouldve presented Mrs S 
with the option to send the funds in Sterling or Euros, and ultimately  Mrs S decided  to send the money  
in Euros.
In cases  where  its one partys word  against anothers I have to make a decision on the balance of 
probabilities. That is, what I consider is most likely to have happened after taking into account all of 
the evidence.
Ive given  careful thought to Mrs Ss testimony and have  compared this with Mr Bs testimony. Mr B 
has provided  a detailed statement explaining  the process he went  through  with Mrs S. Halifax has 
also provided  screen  shots of the steps  Mr B wouldve  taken when arranging the payment.  Mr B 
confirmed Mrs S asked to transfer £35,000 Sterling  to her sisters account  in Portugal.  Mr B has also 
told us the following:
I explained that there  are two ways of processing  payments:
Method 1 is to send  the money  in Sterling which would mean that we cannot advise how much would 
be received in the foreign account as well as what charges would  be incurred on the receiving  end 
and Method 2 which would allow  us to send the money in the country's currency which was Euros  in 
this case  and this way she would know the exact amount  to be received. I also confirmed that 
regardless of which options she goes with, the same amount would leave  her account. She 
acknowledged that she understood the 2 methods and asked whether the £9.50 charge would come 
out on top of the £35,000.00  or as part of it, I confirmed that this would be a separate charge  on top of 
the transferred  funds  which  she was happy with.
On the payment screen I pointed out the Sterling  amount  and the Euro  amount that will be received if 
we send the payment in Euros (I physically  pointed at these two amounts on the screen).  I then asked 
the customer  if she wanted  to send the money in Euros so that she could quote exactly how much will 
be received or if she wanted  to make this in Sterling. She said she was happy to proceed with the set 
up on the screen (Euros)  and I again double checked that she was sure  The confirmation did not 
have the Euro amount on it so the customer asked what this was again. I then used  the exchange 
rate on the confirmation to work  out the Euro amount and wrote this down  on the confirmation.
Ive compared this explanation with the screen shots  Halifax sent us showing the steps Mr B would 
have taken to send  the payment. This shows that Mr B wouldve had to select the currency the 
payment would be sent in. Mrs S also recalls  a discussion about whether to she wanted to send the 
payment in Sterling or Euros. So, on balance,  I do think Mr B wouldve explained the payment could 
be sent in Euros or Sterling, as per his statement. However, this is where  the two accounts differ.  
Mrs S says she declined the conversion and understood the payment had been sent in Sterling.
Ref: DRN37992865Overall, I dont think Mrs S was led to believe the funds had been sent in Sterling. I say this because  
as per Mr Bs statement and the screen shots Ive seen, I think Mrs S wouldve  seen that the currency 
hed selected was Euros. Mrs S then received a transaction  confirmation  slip, which showed the 
Sterling to Euro  exchange  rate. I wouldve thought shed have questioned this at the time if she hadnt 
agreed for the funds to be converted to Euros. Although the slip didnt note the amount sent in Euros, 
Mr B says he wrote this on the slip by hand so Mrs S knew exactly  what  sum had been  sent. I find this 
explanation to be more  persuasive than Mrs Ss explanation, which was that she asked what sum 
Mrs Y could get in exchange for this amount,  for her information only.  This is because  the sum written 
down, €38,776.50, was the exact conversion  of £35,000 using the exchange rate recorded on the 
confirmation slip. For these reasons, I think  Mrs S wouldve known the funds had been sent in Euros.
Ive also considered whether  Mr B couldve  made the assumption that Mrs S wished to send the funds 
in Euros rather than Sterling. Mrs S told both Halifax and our service  that she knew Mrs Ys account  
was a Sterling account  and made  it clear  to Halifax at the time. But Mr B says Mrs S didnt tell him 
this. It isnt in dispute that Mrs Y set up a Sterling  account with her Portuguese bank to facilitate the 
transaction  Ive seen evidence to this effect.  Id also seen emails exchanged between  Mrs S and 
Mrs Y discussing the transaction and the account details. But I hadnt seen any objective  evidence  
that Mrs S was aware the account was a Sterling account before she made  the complaint.
For this reason, I asked Mrs S whether she had any additional email correspondence  with Mrs Y 
showing that shed told her the account she wanted the money sent to was a Sterling account.  
Unfortunately, Mrs S wasnt able to find any additional correspondence where this was discussed. But 
she said she knew she didn't say she wanted the funds sent in Euros. Mrs S said she wanted Halifax  
to do the transfer because they should know how to do it and she wasnt familiar with the process. 
She maintained  that she asked Mr B to send  the sum in Sterling to Mrs Ys Portuguese Sterling 
account so Mrs Y could exchange it herself.
Its possible Mr B made  an assumption that Mrs Ys account would  be receiving the funds in Euros  
without checking with Mrs S. I dont necessarily think  that was an unreasonable assumption,  given the 
account was held by a bank  in Portugal.  But as Ive said above, I think Mrs S wouldve known the 
funds were being sent in Euros. So, if she knew that Mrs Ys account was a Sterling account,  its 
logical to assume she wouldve told Mr B this fact. Even  if she wasnt familiar with the process, I think  
she wouldve  understood no conversion  would  be necessary if she was sending Sterling  to a Sterling  
account, even if that account was held abroad.
Mr B said Mrs S didnt  tell him this  he says he wouldnt  have had any reason to send the funds in 
Euros if he knew the receiving  account was a Sterling account. The transaction fee payable was the 
same regardless of the currency the payment was sent in. I cant know for certain what  was said at 
the time, and its possible  Mrs S told Mr B it was a Sterling account. But as Ive said above, I think  its 
clear the payment was going to be sent in Euros. So, if this isnt what Mrs S wanted, I think she 
needed to tell Mr B otherwise.
Overall, it doesnt appear to me that Halifax procedurally did anything wrong when it processed 
Mrs Ss request  to make  an international payment to Mrs Y. Its possible there was a 
miscommunication or a misunderstanding  between  Mrs S and Mr B. But I havent seen enough  
evidence to persuade me that Halifax made  a mistake in response to a clear instruction from Mrs S. 
I think  Mrs S wouldve known the funds were being sent in Euros, so it was for her to correct  it if she 
knew Mrs Ys account could  receive Sterling. For this reason, I dont think Halifax  needs to do 
anything to put things right.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not intending  to uphold  this complaint.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3799286