K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that the loan he had from MYJAR Limited was unaffordable.
background
Mr M borrowed £800 from Myjar  on 21 July 2018.  It was to be repaid with six instalments of 
£254.28 with the final payment due on 31 January 2019.
Mr M says Myjar didnt  do enough checks before approving the loan as he had other  large 
loans and a large  overdraft  at the time. He adds that his credit  file would have shown a poor 
financial history. Mr M says the situation  has caused both his financial and mental health to 
suffer.
Myjar says it asked  Mr M about his income and expenditure before it approved the loan. It 
says it believed its checks were  proportionate and found no reason  to decline the 
application. Myjar adds  that it froze interest  and charges on the account when it received 
Mr Ms complaint and it agreed  a repayment  plan with him.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that 
Myjar carried out proportionate checks and there was nothing in the available  information 
that indicated  Mr M might  be in financial difficulty.
Mr M responded to say, in summary,  that he did not feel his complaint had been properly 
investigated. He says he was rejected for credit by numerous companies before the Myjar, 
loan, was already  in a large amount of debt and had a really  poor credit  history.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Myjar was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks  to make sure Mr M 
could afford  to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed  to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr M was borrowing, and his lending  history.  But 
there was no set list of checks Myjar had to do.
When Mr M applied for the loan from Myjar he was asked about his income  and expenditure. 
He told Myjar his income was £2,225, with expenditure  of £700. As the monthly repayments 
were a relatively small proportion of Mr Ms declared income and appeared affordable based 
on his disposable  income, Im satisfied Myjars checks  were proportionate to the 
circumstances of the loan.
I acknowledge Mr M says he was in a large amount of debt at the time,  but he declared his 
monthly expenditure on credit commitments to be £50 per month and I cant  see there  was 
anything in Myjars credit  check  that should  have caused it to decline the loan application.
As this was Mr Ms first loan from Myjar, it was entitled to rely on the information  he provided  
at the time of the application and, having  seen  Myjars affordability analysis Im satisfied the 
loan met its criteria.
Ref: DRN38620182So I cant conclude Myjar was wrong  to approve Mr Ms loan.  I acknowledge there is still a 
balance outstanding which Myjar has placed on hold during the investigation of this 
complaint. Myjar is obliged to respond positively and sympathetically to customers in 
financial difficulty so I would encourage Mr M to contact it to agree a repayment  plan going  
forwards.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020..
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3862018