K821x#15complaint
Mr M is complaining about  a fridge  freezer which he thinks  has been misrepresented to him 
by Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited  (Shop Direct).  
background
Mr M purchased a fridge  freezer from Shop Direct.  Mr M is unhappy as he thinks Shop  
Direct misrepresented this item to him. He thinks a specific drawer in the fridge freezer is 
only recommended  for meat and fish. And as a vegetarian, he feels this item isnt suitable for 
him. 
Mr M raised  a complaint with Shop Direct. Shop  Direct didnt agree that there had been any 
misrepresentation of the item.  They claim the information on the website didnt specify  that 
the drawer in question had a specific use. Instead they say it was multifunctional. An error  
did occur  involving the buy now pay later process. Shop Direct has advised theyve 
refunded any incurred charges to Mr M and amended  his credit file. Shop  Direct also paid 
Mr M £30 compensation  in recognition  of customer service issues.  Unhappy with the 
situation, Mr M referred his complaint to our service.
An investigator has already looked  at this complaint. He felt there hadnt been a 
misrepresentation in respect of the fridge  freezer.  But he thought  that Shop Direct couldve 
handled this matter better and addressed the issues more promptly.  So he proposed Shop 
Direct pay Mr M a further £100 compensation. Shop Direct has agreed to pay this additional 
sum. 
As Mr M remains  dissatisfied, this complaint has now been referred to me to look at.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive firstly  looked at the issue of the alleged misrepresentation  of a particular drawer  in the 
fridge freezer. This has involved looking at the information provided and available to Mr M 
about the item. Having done  this, whilst  I appreciate Mr M doesnt think the product 
information was adequate, Im unable to say that a misrepresentation has occurred. I think 
the drawer in question was multifunctional. And not specifically for meat  and fish. So I cant 
agree theres been a misrepresentation. 
Given the returns policy, Shop Direct wasnt contractually obliged  to accept a return of the 
fridge freezer. But I can see they agreed to do this to try to resolve  the case. As I 
understand, during the process of trying  to arrange a collection of the item,  Mr M advised 
Shop Direct that hed already disposed of the fridge freezer. Ive seen no evidence to 
support the case that Shop Direct  told Mr M to do this. I think  it most likely Mr M decided to 
dispose of the item himself after Shop Direct took too long, in his opinion, to collect it.
An error does  seem to have occurred by Shop Direct in respect of the buy now pay later  
process. Im satisfied though that this administrative error has now been  rectified.  
Ref: DRN39872852Shop Direct has already  paid Mr M £30 compensation. Just like the investigator,  I think  a 
further sum of £100 compensation is fair to put things right.  I think they couldve  done more 
to put things right sooner with Mr M.
my final decision
My final decision is that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited  should  pay Mr M £100  
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3987285