K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that TenetConnect Limited,  through an appointed representative (AR) 
advised her to surrender a personal  pension plan (PPP) to raise  capital that she wanted for a 
property investment. Mrs L says that this was unsuitable as it caused her to pay tax that 
could have been avoided by using  other  investments.
background
Mrs L was a client of Acumen Associate Financial Services, which  was a trading style of 
Aspire Financial Management Ltd (Aspire). Aspire were an appointed representative of 
TenetConnect. As Aspires  principal, TenetConnect are responsible  for the regulated 
activities that Aspire were authorised to carry out.
In 2014 Mrs L signed  a client agreement  with TenetConnects AR. The agreement  was for 
the AR to provide financial  advice regarding  investments. The AR completed a fact find 
which detailed Mrs Ls income  and expenditure and listed her assets, investments and 
personal pension  arrangements. In 2014 a recommendation was made  for around  £460,000 
worth of investments  to be invested with a fund manager  Brewin Dolphin. No retirement 
planning advice  was provided.
Mrs L contacted the AR in June 2015 about  her intention to purchase  a buy-to let property. 
Mrs L wanted to release  money in order to fund a deposit for the purchase and wanted 
advice on a buy-to-let  mortgage and asked  TenetConnects AR about surrendering a PPP 
that she held with Aviva.
On 12 August 2015 Mrs L applied to withdraw  all of the money held in her Aviva  PPP.  This 
PPP had a fund value in excess of £30,000  and had guaranteed  benefits in the form of a 
guaranteed annuity rate (GAR). The application  form was signed by the AR of TenetConnect 
as having provided Mrs L with financial  advice.
Mrs Ls Aviva PPP was surrendered in September 2015. It had a fund value of £33,052. 
Aviva deducted £9,602  for tax, and Mrs L received a net lump  sum of £23,450.
Mrs L complained to TenetConnect that shed been given unsuitable advice  to surrender her 
Aviva pension. She said that she should  have been  advised to use alternative investments 
or savings  rather than surrender that PPP. She said that shed ended up paying more in tax 
than she would have  if shed been  given  better  advice. And she said that the money 
purchase annual  allowance (MPAA) rules meant she could only now contribute up to £4,000 
a year towards a new money purchase pension.
In response to Mrs Ls complaint TenetConnect said the following:
it could find no suitability letter or fee agreement  between Mrs L and their AR that 
related to advice  to surrender the Aviva pension. So it didnt think  that its AR had 
provided formal financial  advice  on this issue to Mrs L; 
it said that Aviva had sent clear information regarding the tax that would be applied  
should Mrs L surrender  her PPP. So she understood this when she made her 
decision;
it didnt identify any losses that Mrs L had incurred but offered £250 for the trouble 
and upset caused as a result  of the dealings with its AR.
Ref: DRN34314202Mrs L didnt agree and brought  her complaint to our service. This case  has been looked at 
by two different  investigators in the time it has been with us. The most  recent  view given by 
our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Mrs L didnt agree so the case was referred 
for an ombudsmans  decision.
I considered the evidence  and issued a provisional decision to make both parties  aware of 
my view of Mrs Ls complaint and allow them an opportunity  to respond.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said:
TenetConnect were  responsible for the actions  of their AR for the issues  that Mrs L 
complained about.
The AR was aware of Mrs Ls PPP, and the fact that it had a GAR, from the fact find 
completed in June 2014.
That this decision would only focus on the part of Mrs Ls complaint relating to the 
surrender of her Aviva pension in 2015. There was a second  pension that was 
surrendered in 2016. I explained that I thought  that should be dealt with as a different 
complaint as the circumstances were likely to be different so the outcome of any 
decision our service  gives could be different.
That the correspondence between Mrs L and the AR in the run up to the surrender of 
her PPP,  together  with the signed  declaration  by the AR on the application form, 
made it more likely than not that Mrs L had been  advised  on that matter  by the AR. 
Mrs Ls PPP had a value over £30,000 and contained a guaranteed benefit  in the 
form of its GAR.  This meant that Mrs L had to have received financial advice if she 
wanted to take her pension in any way other than an annuity.  By signing to say that 
Mrs L had been advised the AR was enabling  the transfer to take place. And I 
wouldnt expect a responsible financial adviser  to sign to say theyd provided advice if 
theyd not.
Surrendering her Aviva PPP didnt appear to be suitable advice. I explained that I 
thought it was a product best taken as an annuity using its GAR. And noted that 
Mrs L had access to other means to have raised the capital needed for her purposes,  
without sacrificing this PPP.
That I didnt think that the fact that Mrs L was adversely affected by the MPAA  limits.  
She wasnt making any pension contributions and I didnt  think that there was reason 
for the AR to consider that would  change.  So I didnt think it was an issue that would 
have affected  the advice  she should  have been  given.
I thought that the AR should have advised  Mrs L not to surrender her PPP, explaining 
why not. And I thought that if the AR had done that, it was more  likely than not that 
Mrs L would have  followed that advice.
I proposed redress to account  for Mrs Ls past loss, assuming that shed have taken  
an annuity with her PPP at age 70 or when she stopped working (if sooner).  I 
explained how I thought past loss should  be calculated, considering her notional  
Ref: DRN34314203annuity income, offset for the pension lump sum that shed already taken. And I 
proposed that future loss be calculated by working  out the cost of providing Mrs Ls 
notional annuity  and paying that sum directly  to Mrs L allowing  for income  tax that 
would be paid on it.
the response to my provisional  decision
Im grateful  to all parties  who have responded with their thoughts on my provisional decision.  
Mrs L responded to my provisional decision with no additional evidence  or comments to add.
The AR has been kind enough to review my decision and provide further background of his 
own. He has made  the following additional  points:
Further explanation  from the AR stated I also believe that some points [in the 
provisional decision] are based on conjecture. This is understandable in the absence  
of a client file outlining the exact  details of any advice given at the time but there is a 
good reason why no file exists, I did not give advice  on the matter of encashing  the 
clients pensions but purely helped in the facilitation of the exercise.
The AR has explained that he wasnt engaged by Mrs L to provide financial advice on 
this issue. And explained  that when Mrs L contacted  him in 2015 she had already 
made up her mind so simply wanted  assistance in facilitating her wishes.  He explains 
that he did understand the significance of what  Mrs L wanted to do and outlined that 
to her. The AR has stated that he explained the impact of the decision to Mrs L.
In relation to my opinion that it was unlikely Mrs L was advised  not to surrender her 
pension, the AR explained that he had verbally made Mrs L aware  of the implications 
of cashing in her PPP.  And said that she was adamant that she wanted  to do it 
anyway.
TenetConnect made the following points in relation  to my decision:
That the fact the application form was signed by the AR doesnt mean advice was 
given.
That I had said that I didnt believe that the client intended  to encash her PPP when it 
was clear that she contacted the AR with that in mind. 
A questionnaire  completed by Mrs L was referred to that it said showed that Mrs L 
received no advice.
It doesnt believe that Mrs L ever intended to use this PPP to take an annuity or that 
on a balance of probabilities that she would have done so.
It queried why Mrs L wouldnt have simply encashed more  of her investment portfolio 
when shed encashed the £100,000,  rather than use her PPP.
It said that my proposed redress failed to account for past and future growth of the 
sums that remained invested because her PPP was used instead of having  to 
withdraw funds from another source.
Ref: DRN34314204Email  exchanges between Mrs L and the AR as well as her portfolio fund manager  
between October and November 2016 were referred to. It was suggested that they 
evidenced that Mrs L was confused about what advice actually meant and how it 
should be given.
Had Mrs L been provided with the correct advice she would have gone through  an 
advisory process for which she would also have been charged. TenetConnect thinks  
it would  be reasonable to take this notional charge into account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In coming to decisions I have to base my findings  on the evidence available.  Where there is 
disagreement about what happened, as in this case, I have to decide on the balance of 
probability, what was more likely than not to have been the case.
Ive looked at the relationship that Mrs L had with the AR. The client  agreement  sets out that 
they would  provide Mrs L with financial advice. The client agreement  that Mrs L signed  in 
June 2014 explained We are Independent  Financial  Advisers and will act on your behalf for 
the purposes of arranging  and advising on pure protection,  investments, pensions,  
mortgages and general insurance.  So I think that the AR was able to provide Mrs L with 
advice on any of these  areas, including pensions.  And Ive seen no evidence  that Mrs L had 
engaged the services  of a different financial adviser for pension advice. 
There is a disagreement  between the parties  here about whether  or not Mrs L was advised 
in this matter. Following my provisional decision the AR has re-iterated his belief that he 
didnt provide advice to Mrs L about  encashing  her Aviva PPP.  He has said that he facilitated 
the transfer for her. Although the AR has also said that he did understand the significance of 
what Mrs L wanted to do and explained  that to her.
TenetConnect is of the opinion that Mrs L was confused about what amounted to financial 
advice. Theyve provided examples of emails  where  Mrs L has asked her fund manager and 
the AR for advice. I think it would have been  encumbent on their AR to clear up any such 
misunderstanding with Mrs L if one existed. When she contacted their AR I dont  think it was 
for generic advice.  She made specific queries. The AR had the opportunity  to explain  the 
charge for answering those or to point out that he wasnt  in a position to advise. But that 
didnt happen.  Her queries were responded to, and ultimately the surrender of her pension 
went ahead.
In the Financial Conduct Authoritys conduct  of business sourcebook (COBS) Personal 
Recommendation is defined. It is a recommendation that is  advice on conversion or 
transfer of pension benefits, and is presented as suitable to whom  it is made,  or is based  on 
a consideration  of the circumstances of that person. Whilst some form of written  audit  is 
without doubt  the best practice  for the provision of a personal recommendation, and the 
agreeing and charging of a fee is normal, they arent required by the definition  in COBS.
In this case I dont believe  that any written  advice was provided to Mrs L. But the AR has 
said that he was aware  of the GAR with her PPP. As I said in my provisional decision,  I think  
its likely  that Mrs L originally had the idea of using this PPP towards the deposit for a 
buy-to-let investment. Correspondence  from shortly  after the event would tend to suggest 
Ref: DRN34314205she considered  the returns  on her portfolio  to be good. So I suspect that she would have 
been keen to avoid taking  too heavily from her investment  portfolio if she didnt have to. 
Whilst no written  recommendation exists,  there  are emails  that weve been shown. Mrs L 
contacted the AR about surrendering her PPP in July 2015. On 23 July 2015 the AR emailed 
Mrs L to say:
 As discussed for speed of process it is better you ring these companies direct  as I am 
not the servicing agent and this would take 10 days to get me listed on their system 
normally REQUEST THE FOLLOWING FROM EXISTING PLANS:
Switch to drawdown and take maximum tax free cash
Plus take ad hoc withdrawals the amount to be drawn will depend on fund value after 
tax free cash is taken.
As soon  as you receive this information,  please  let me know  and I will call in and sort all 
the paperwork for you
TenetConnect said that their AR was only providing generic information rather  than advice. 
But I dont think that its reasonable  to suggest  that this email  was generic because  it related 
specifically to Mrs Ls PPP. And the AR understood that Mrs Ls PPP had a GAR. And the 
AR says he understood the significance  of what Mrs L was asking. So understood the 
implications of what they were recommending here.
Mrs Ls PPP had a value  over £30,000 and contained a guaranteed benefit  in the form of 
its GAR.  This meant that Mrs L had to have received financial advice if she wanted  to take 
her pension in any way other than an annuity.  Aviva  had checks  in place to ensure that 
Mrs L had received advice. She wouldnt have been able to surrender this policy without 
having done so. 
It is not disputed  that when  Mrs L submitted  her application to Aviva  to surrender her PPP, 
the application was signed by the AR. The AR signed a declaration  on 12 August  2015 to 
say, as the FA advising on this business,  I can confirm that I have the appropriate  FCA 
permissions to undertake  this regulated  activity. The AR explains that he did this because 
Mrs L had already decided to surrender  this policy. But I think  the clear  implication from this 
declaration is that the AR took responsibility for having advised on this matter.
By signing to say that Mrs L had been advised the AR was going  further  than facilitating  
Mrs Ls wishes. He was telling the pension provider  that he had provided  advice.  And as I 
said in my provisional decision, I wouldnt  expect  a responsible financial adviser to say that 
theyd provided  advice if theyd not. Even  though there is no written audit other than the 
emails that were sent, I think that its more  likely  than not, that Mrs L was provided a 
personal recommendation. 
I explained in my provisional decision  why I didnt think it would have been suitable to have 
advised Mrs L to surrender this pension. It had a valuable guarantee and was most  valuable 
to Mrs L being  taken as an annuity.  TenetConnect havent argued that it was advisable  to 
have surrendered this so I wont elaborate  on this point here.
The absence of a written recommendation from 2015 means that Im unable  to determine  
exactly what personal recommendation Mrs L may have been  given.  I cant  know what  
Ref: DRN34314206discussion took place  and the parties involved have differing recollections. But on balance,  I 
cant say that Mrs L was advised  not to surrender her Aviva PPP in the way that she should  
have been. I say that because the emails  Ive seen indicate that the AR was advising on how 
to access that pension in a form other than an annuity before Mrs L had applied to Aviva.  
Nothing in the emails  suggested Mrs L shouldnt surrender her policies or explained what 
she was giving up. 
TenetConnect argue that Mrs L had already made  her mind up to surrender this PPP. So 
TenetConnect believe that Mrs L would have surrendered her PPP even if shed been 
explicitly advised against it. In my provisional  decision  I addressed  this issue.  I said:
I think  that its likely that she was interested in the idea of accessing that money.  
But if shed been  suitably advised shed have  understood  the significance  and value 
of the annuity.  And she had access to other means  to raise the deposit instead.  She 
had sufficient funds  in her investments and ISAs  that she could have taken instead. 
Which would have  preserved her guaranteed  benefit. And avoided the tax penalty 
that she ended up facing. So given the availability  of alternatives,  and the fact that 
shed followed the ARs advice  to that point,  I dont think shed have surrendered her 
PPP. I think that its more  likely than not that shed have retained  the PPP to use as 
an annuity.
I understand that TenetConnect  disagree with this. And I have considered the fact that Mrs L 
most likely instigated the process and was interested in surrendering her PPP. But Mrs L 
wasnt a financial adviser with pensions expertise. The rules in place, that required Mrs L to 
get financial advice  were there to protect Mrs L from making  a poor choice  due to a lack of 
understanding. I need to consider what she would most likely have done  if faced  with a clear  
explanation why it wasnt advisable. 
If Mrs L was advised not to go ahead with the surrender of the PPP she would have needed 
to have been treated as an insistent client were  she to do it anyway.  The FCA provide 
guidance in COBS 9.5A on how firms  should treat insistent  clients. It defines an insistent 
client as:
A client who has received a personal  recommendation  (advice) from a business;
Who wants to do something different than is recommended by the business; and
Who wants the business to facilitate that transaction.
And where  a business proceeds  with a transaction for an insistent client,  it should tell the 
client:
In terms that are clear,  fair and not misleading;
Having regard for the information needs  of the client so that the client is able to 
understand;
That the business hasnt recommended the transaction and that it isnt in line with its 
personal recommendation
The reasons  why its not in accordance with the personal recommendation.
I dont consider it likely  that Mrs L would  have gone against advice had it been explained to 
her in these  terms. She had followed the advice she was given regarding her investments. 
So I think its more likely  than not that shed have  followed  advice on this matter too. 
Especially as she had other funds  that she could have accessed. 
Ref: DRN34314207Mrs L had followed TenetConnects ARs recommendation to move  around £460,000 of 
investments into a Brewin Dolphin discretionary managed portfolio. This consolidated  all of 
her investments into this one place. It included funds that were held within ISAs. 
Correspondence between  Mrs L and Brewin Dolphin on 5 August 2014 confirmed that it had 
received £256,873 in cash to her ISA and had begun investing  it. I know  that Mrs L had 
already drawn  on her Brewin Dolphin investments  to raise £100,000 towards the deposit. But 
she still had alternatives  without surrendering her PPP. And had shown  a willingness to use 
those funds towards a deposit already.
For the above reasons, Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint about the surrender of her Aviva 
PPP in 2015.  TenetConnect should  compensate Mrs L for the loss she has suffered as 
follows.
putting things right
Where I find that a business has made  a mistake, I have to try to put the consumer as close 
as possible into the position theyd have  been but for the mistake.  It isnt possible to turn the 
clock back, so my intention is to try to provide  a fair and reasonable remedy.  In this case  I 
think that means that Mrs L wouldnt have surrendered her Aviva PPP at all. And would have 
retained it to provide her a retirement income. But, as TenetConnect have said,  Mrs L had 
the benefit of the net PPP lump  sum (£23,450) from 2015. Without  it I think she would have 
raised the money from her Brewin Dolphin investment portfolio instead. So she wouldnt 
have enjoyed the investment returns on that sum that she did. 
The availability  of funds  in her portfolio that were  in an ISA meant that she neednt have paid 
tax on this withdrawal if withdrawing  from the other  part of her investment portfolio would 
have incurred capital  gains tax in that tax year. So I dont intend  to make adjustments for 
notional tax Mrs L may have been liable for by accessing her savings. But I think that its fair 
to adjust redress to offset  for investment returns that Mrs L wouldnt have had if advised 
correctly. And the adjustment  should  account for the over payment of fees by having held 
more money in her portfolio.
Its clear that no charge  was agreed or paid by Mrs L for advice on surrendering her PPP. So 
TenetConnect suggest that if all things had been done as they should  have, Mrs L should 
have been charged for pension advice. But I am not going to ask for Mrs L to retrospectively 
agree to pay a charge that wasnt agreed up front.
Mrs L was about  64 when she surrendered her pension. Mrs L gave an intended retirement 
age of 70 in her fact find. Shed already passed state pension age when this pension  was 
surrendered, yet had deferred taking her state pension. And she was already of an age to 
take her annuity  but had chosen not to. I cant say when she may have accessed her 
annuity. But she has now passed age 70 and has told us that she hasnt  yet stopped  working 
entirely. If shed retained her PPP though  she would  have been in a different position and 
her choices may have  been very different.  Her understanding about  her options with the 
PPP would have  been different. She may have taken the PPP sooner. But I cant  know that. 
So in order to work out fair and reasonable redress, I think its more likely than not that Mrs L 
would have retained her Aviva PPP to use as an annuity when she reached age 70.
TenetConnect have  asked that instead  of asking them to pay Mrs L a settlement lump sum, I 
ask them  to purchase Mrs L the annuity  that she would  be in receipt  of. Contingent  on her 
paying them  the £23,450 plus past investment returns that she has so far benefitted from, 
Ref: DRN34314208towards the cost of that. But as Ive said, I can only now estimate when Mrs L may have 
taken her annuity, and how that would have affected  her overall choices about how much  or 
long she may have continued  to work.  Because Mrs L was never  able to make these 
choices, and will have adjusted her expectations over the past six years,  it's not possible to 
put her in the exact position she might be in today. So, on balance, I think  the redress  that I 
set out below is a fair and reasonable way to compensate Mrs L for the mistake made.
compensation for past loss
TenetConnect should calculate the past loss as follows:
A-total of all of the notional  past payments that Mrs L would have received, net of her 
marginal rate of tax, from Mrs Ls 70th birthday until the date of my final decision.
Notional past payments   calculated as follows:
Determine the potential value of Mrs Ls pension  if it had remained invested in the 
Aviva pension fund until her 70th birthday. Then calculate the available annuity, using 
her GAR, assuming a single life, non-escalating  annuity with a five year guarantee 
period. 
In working out the net payments, TenetConnect should assume  that in retirement Mrs L 
would have been a 20% rate tax payer.
compensation for future  loss
B-Having calculated the notional annuity  that Mrs L would have been  in receipt of from 
age 70, calculate the average market  purchase  price of that annuity at the date of my 
final decision which will represent the gross  future loss. This should  be adjusted  to 
allow for a notional reduction  for income  tax that would  otherwise have been paid on 
any pension income at her likely rate  presumed  to be 20%.  This will give Mrs Ls 
net future loss.
offset for benefit taken instead
Mrs L had the net benefit of £23,450 when she surrendered her pension  in 2015. 
Which meant that she didnt need  to utilise existing funds from her investment  portfolio. So in 
fairness, allowance should also be made for the benefits she has already had. In effect,  
Mrs L needs to repay that money and the returns she received on it, as if she had never  
taken it from her pension. 
I think the fairest way to achieve this is to allow TenetConnect to deduct  the total amount of 
benefit she has received,  to the date of the final decision, from the capital cost of providing 
her annuity.  Because of this it isnt necessary to consider future  returns  on the money she 
accessed early, as this deduction removes any future benefit from this sum.  The figure to be 
offset is calculated  as follows:
C-Net pension lump  sum (£23,450)  + Investment returns
Investment returns  calculated as follows:
Calculate the investment  returns  on £23,450  from September 2015 (when Mrs L 
received her pension lump sum) until the date of my final decision. TenetConnect 
Ref: DRN34314209should use the average investment return on her Brewin  Dolphin portfolio over the 
period in question. This calculation should take into account the effect of fees and 
charges over that period.
Total compensation
Compensation for overall loss = A+B-C
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im upholding Mrs Ls complaint.
I direct  TenetConnect Limited to pay Mrs L compensation for her overall loss as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 October  2021.
Gary Lane
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3431420