K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained Tesco Personal  Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank, wont  refund 
nearly £15,000 worth of debit card transactions he didnt authorise.
background
In August  2017  Mr M got in touch with Tesco Bank. There were  transactions on his account 
he told them  he hadnt made. Nor had he been in the foreign country these happened in.
Tesco reviewed the evidence. This included information from the hotel  where some of 
these transactions  were  made  including a copy of Mr Ms non-UK passport. After 
considering the other evidence they had about  how these transactions  were  made,  along  
with Mr Ms account history, they decided Mr M must have made these himself.
Mr M was extremely unhappy about  this. He brought his complaint to the ombudsman  
service. He was also upset about  how Tesco had treated him. This had involved blocking his 
account which he needed for his work.
Our investigator listened to a number of calls Mr M had had with Tesco.  She also considered 
how the card transactions were made. Overall she felt that Tesco hadnt done anything 
wrong in believing Mr M had made these. She also didnt  think Tesco had been  rude to 
Mr M. It was inevitable  Tesco had had to ask him some personal questions to help them  in 
making their decision about  the fraud.
Mr M was unhappy with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 22 November 2019. Based on the evidence  wed been  
given I believed Mr M had made  the transactions himself.
Mr M reiterated that hed been a victim of fraud.  I now have all I need  to complete my final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  a similar 
conclusion to one the reached  in my provisional decision.  What  follows is a similar  narrative 
and reasoning.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  but 
nothing that would have any other bearing  on Mr Ms case. So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
For each type of payment we look at how they were authenticated   so the security 
measures around  each payment to show they were properly used  and then whether the 
customer made them or allowed them to be made.
Ref: DRN38410172So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions  
themselves and how these were  carried out. Firstly Ive identified 13 different transactions 
totalling £14,958.75 that Mr M has disputed. Eight  of these were transactions at an overseas 
hotel and two were airline-based.  These appeared on Mr Ms statements as debiting  his 
account from 5 to 16 August 2017.
Everything Ive seen  which includes full information from Tesco about how these 
transactions were  authenticated   indicates the proper  card details were used at the hotel.  
But no PIN was required.  This is unusual as most countries require chip and PIN 
authentication but very likely the hotel  required  additional information to complete these. 
Some other transactions were authenticated online. Overall I believe all the transactions 
were authenticated.
Mr M didnt  report  his card as missing. In fact his statements  show that he was using  it 
himself in a supermarket on 18 August  2017,  just after the transactions  overseas. So Id 
have to wonder  how it could  be used  overseas one week  and then re-appear  in Mr Ms 
wallet the next. Id like to reassure  Mr M I have also considered whether a copy  of his card 
could have been used overseas since no PIN was required. But this doesnt match what  else 
seems to be true in this case.
One of the key pieces of evidence is when Tesco carried out their own investigation into who 
carried out these  transactions.  Both the hotel and the airline  confirmed the passport details 
for their customer. This passport matched Mr M, and used the same photograph as the one 
in his UK passport. The airline  also confirmed  it was Mr M on board their flight. Id be 
surprised the hotel would accept payment with a card and passport belonging to someone 
who wasnt the person  in their hotel at the same time.
At the same time as these  overseas  transactions, there were a number  of other transfers  
being made. Mr M hasnt  disputed these. They follow a regular pattern of transfers he makes 
from his Tesco account to another of his accounts. Tesco was able to provide us with data of 
how these transactions  were carried out. This includes the mobile device Mr M always  used 
and the different IP addresses.  This is not always  completely reliable information but can 
guide us to where the mobile device was at the time the transactions  were carried out.
I can see the IP address for the seven transactions  made on 7 August 2017 can apply to the 
same country as the hotel Mr M says he wasnt staying in.
Ive also considered the history of Mr Ms account  which Tesco has shared with us. In July 
2016 Mr M disputed a series of transactions which also took place in overseas hotels. These  
also totalled nearly £15,000.  These were processed  as chargebacks  and partly  refunded  
either by Tesco or the hotels involved.  But Tesco  tell us they never firmly challenged Mr M.
Overall based on the evidence  Ive seen I believe Mr M authorised the transactions he 
disputes.
Ive also considered the customer service issues Mr M raised. I agree its upsetting  when an 
account is blocked. But as far as I can tell this isnt the only account Mr M uses.  And in fact 
he arranged the payments  he regularly received   during the time his Tesco account was 
blocked  to be paid into another account.  So I dont think  overall  the blocking of his account 
caused problems.
Ref: DRN38410173There are a number of telephone calls between  Tesco and Mr M. I dont think  Tesco asked 
unreasonable questions during these. Mr M was disputing a significant  amount of money. 
Tesco were asking questions to help them get to the bottom of what happened.  They  didnt 
act in an unprofessional manner although I understand Mr M may have thought  he was 
being asked personal questions. Im not sure what else we would expect Tesco to do.
Ive also taken into account the medical evidence Mr M gave to us. Theres  no doubt  
disturbing events in his past will have had a major impact on him. I appreciate  that but 
overall this doesnt  change  what I think happened here.
Overall I dont think Tesco did anything  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision is not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint against 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC, trading as Tesco Bank.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020. 
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3841017