K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that she hasnt been consistently receiving statements for the current 
accounts she holds  with Barclays Bank  UK Plc. 
background
This complaint is about two of Mrs Ds sole current accounts she has with Barclays. This 
complaint has been brought  to our service by Miss G, who is representing Mrs D. Miss G 
holds lasting power of attorney (LPA) over Mrs Ds financial  affairs which  are registered with 
Barclays against her accounts.  
Miss G and Mrs D both require statements for these  accounts. In 2017 Miss G and Mrs D 
say they started  experiencing problems  receiving statements at both their addresses. Miss G 
tells us that they dont consistently  arrive at both addresses. They say this issue has 
continued for a long time. Miss G tells us this issue has resulted in problems in paying bills 
from the account. And shes had to spend  a very long time trying  to resolve this with 
Barclays. 
Barclays say that for account ending 67 statements were sent to both addresses  from 
November 2017  to September 2018. Except for February 2018, when they only sent a 
statement to Mrs D. For account  ending  86 (opened  in July 2018), statements were sent to 
Mrs D in July 2018 and August 2018. From  September 2018, statements were  sent to both 
Miss G and Mrs D.
Barclays have acknowledged  this situation  would have caused Miss G and Mrs D 
inconvenience. Theyve paid a total of £240  in compensation some of which  was intended  
for Mrs D personally and some was to recognise the inconvenience Miss G was caused  
sorting things out, in her capacity as Mrs Ds attorney. Barclays say they have  now set up 
Mrs Ds sole accounts so that statements for both accounts should be sent to both 
addresses.
Our investigator investigated Miss G and Mrs Ds concerns. Based on the information she 
had seen, Barclays had the correct address for Miss G and Mrs D, and she had information 
to say that the statements  were being sent.  So she didnt  ask Barclays  to do anything  more. 
And she felt the compensation  already paid to Mrs D for the inconvenience this issue  has 
caused was fair.
Miss G and Mrs D didnt  agree with our investigators opinion.  Miss G said theyre still not 
both getting statements consistently. She said that Barclays computer systems need 
updating and this is the reason that theyre  not both getting statements each month. Miss G 
doesnt feel that the level of compensation paid to Mrs D for these concerns is enough  
given the amount of time that has been spent  trying to resolve the issue.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint.
It isnt in dispute that there have been  problems with the statements for Mrs Ds account  not 
being received  by both parties.  Some of the issues were as a result of the correspondence 
Ref: DRN32752252preferences not being set up on the banks systems correctly. One of the issues was due to 
a gone away marker  being placed on Mrs Ds account as the bank had received returned  
mail that had been addressed to her. And there  was another situation where Mrs Ds sister 
(who is also appointed as an attorney in the LPA), updated the correspondence preference  
so that the statements were  made  available online,  and a paper copy  sent only to Mrs D. So 
not all the problems have been  a result of something Barclays  has done wrong. 
But there were occasions when  Barclays  told Miss G that the issue had been  resolved  and 
this hadnt been done. I can understand and empathise with Miss G here, its clear shes 
spent a lot of time  on Mrs Ds behalf  trying  to arrange for the statements to be sent to 
both addresses.  And on occasion this hasnt happened, which  I can understand would  be 
frustrating.  
Miss G has also told us there were concerns  over bills being  paid on time, because  they 
werent both receiving the statements. While  I appreciate this must  have  been  a worry, I 
havent seen any occasions when this actually became a reality. And I have  listened  to calls 
where Miss G contacts Barclays regularly to discuss transactions  on the account.  So, while I 
appreciate this has been an inconvenience,  I think the compensation Barclays has already 
paid is a fair amount in the circumstances. 
Going forward, Barclays has given me information that makes me think  its more likely than 
not two statements are being produced each month, and these are being sent to both 
Mrs Ds and Miss Gs addresses. 
I understand Miss G and Mrs D say theyre  still not always receiving  the statements  Miss G 
thinks this is because Barclays systems arent sophisticated enough to deal with the dual 
statement arrangement.  This service  doesnt  have the power to ask Barclays  to change  their 
IT systems.  But in any event, as Ive said the evidence Ive seen suggests the statements 
are being  sent.  And I cant hold Barclays responsible for whatever might happen once the 
statements have left their care.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3275225