K821x#15complaint
Ms D complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) irresponsibly  lent to her. 
She wants a refund of the interest  she paid and references removed from her credit  file.
background
This complaint is about 29 payday  loans  Quick Quid provided to Ms D between  June 2011 
and April 2014. Quick  Quid objected to us looking at the first nine loans due to the time 
passed since they were  taken. Ms D was happy for us to look at just the remainder. Ms D 
borrowed continuously from Quick  Quid and there  were no significant gaps in her borrowing. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Ds complaint and thought the loans from loan 10 onwards 
shouldnt have been given. Quick Quid disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Like the adjudicator,  Ive considered just loans 10 to 29. Quick Quid  objected to us looking at 
the earlier ones  as the complaint about  them was brought to us too late and Ms D was 
happy for us to consider  just the later loans.
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN36517752I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Quick Quid was required to establish 
whether Ms D could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ds complaint.
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Quick Quids  lending history  with Ms D, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Quick Quid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Quick Quid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ds case, I think that this point  was reached by 
loan 10. I say this because:
By loan 10 Ms D had been borrowing continuously from Quick  Quid for over a year. 
The size of the loans had doubled  and by loan 11 the amount Ms D had to repay was 
a significant amount  of her monthly income.
From  loan 10 onwards  Ms D was provided  with a new loan within  days/weeks  of 
settling a previous  one. She frequently topped up her loans. So Quick  Quid  ought to 
have realised it was more likely than not Ms D was having to borrow  further  to cover 
the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her finances  and that Ms Ds 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Ms D wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Quick Quid. Loan 29 
was taken out four years after Ms Ds first. And the amounts she tended to borrow 
didnt decrease  substantially. Ms D had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect,  
service a debt to Quick  Quid  over an extended  period.
I think that Ms D lost out because Quick Quid continued to provide borrowing from loan 10 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ds indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Ms Ds ability  to access  mainstream  credit and so kept her in the market  for these 
high-cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about 10 to 29 and Quick  Quid should put things right.
Ref: DRN36517753putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms D paid on loans 10 to 29;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 10 to 29 should be removed from 
Ms Ds credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. Quick Quid 
must give Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im partially upholding Ms Ds 
complaint. CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) should pay Ms D compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3651775