K820x#14Complaint
Mr E complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (trading  as Tesco Bank) allowed 
payments to be taken  from a debit card that should  have been  cancelled. 
Background
In August  2018,  Mr E contacted Tesco Bank  because hed tried to use his debit card to pay 
for something, but it hadnt worked.  Tesco Bank concluded there was a physical fault with 
the card, so it sent Mr E a replacement card. 
In March 2019, Mr E noticed a payment leaving his account each month of around £10. 
It concerned him that the reference for the payment was the last few digits of his old card. 
Mr E thought  the merchant shouldnt have been  able to take payment from a cancelled card. 
He therefore started  to worry  that Tesco Bank might not have cancelled the old card after 
sending him a replacement. He called  Tesco Bank  to make  a complaint. 
Mr E later followed  up his complaint with a letter explaining that hed since  threatened the 
merchant with legal action and received a refund. But he said he was disappointed that 
Tesco Bank had allowed  the payments to be taken in the first place. Tesco  Bank responded 
accepting it should  have followed up with Mr E to check the replacement card had arrived. 
And at that point  it should have cancelled the old card. It initially paid Mr E £50 
compensation for this, and later offered  a further £25, which  Mr E declined.  
Mr E felt Tesco Bank should  pay him in the region of £250 compensation instead. He said it 
was very worrying to find out someone had been able to take payments from his card 
without his consent. And hed woken up in the middle of the night worrying that his account 
was vulnerable to fraud. Hed also had the inconvenience of claiming reimbursement from 
the merchant. 
Our investigator didnt  feel Tesco Bank needed to do anything more. He said the payments 
related to a monthly subscription which  Mr E had set up while  he was still using the old card. 
He said Mr E agreed to pay for the subscription monthly under a continuous payment 
authority (CPA), which hed set up using his old card. But the CPA was linked to his account,  
rather than the card itself.  So, cancelling the card wouldnt have stopped  the payments. 
He couldnt see Mr E told Tesco Bank he wanted  to stop making  the subscription payments 
prior to raising a complaint, so he felt it had acted  fairly by honouring them.   
Mr E didnt agree. He said the merchant had refunded the payments as it recognised it had 
no authority to take them. He said Tesco Bank  had told him that any requests for payment  
against the old card would be declined.  It should therefore have refused the payment 
requests and told the merchant to seek a new payment authority. He also continued to feel 
Tesco Bank hadnt protected him from fraud.  I therefore need to reach  a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to award 
further compensation to Mr E. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN33774212Mr E feels  that the merchant used his debit card to take payments after the point  at which  it 
should have been cancelled. I can appreciate why he feels  this way. The reference for the 
payments was the last few digits of Mr Es old card number. And the transactions  appeared 
on his statements as card  payments. But when  Mr E signed up for a free trial of the 
merchants subscription  service in August 2018, it explained on the application form that: 
If you decide not to continue your membership, simply  log on, click the Help link, 
then select the Cancel  option to cancel during your trial period. Otherwise, well 
automatically extend your benefits for just £9.97 a month By submitting this form 
You agree that, following the 14-day trial period, your account will be charged £9.97 
per month for your membership until you cancel. 
This is known as a continuous payment arrangement. It meant that, once Mr E had provided 
his card details to the merchant, it had a standing  authority to take payments from his 
account when  they became due each month.  
Once a CPA has started, its linked to the account, not the card.  So, cancelling  the card that 
was used to set it up doesnt do anything. Mr E would  need to have asked the merchant or 
Tesco Bank to cancel the CPA if he didnt want to continue making payments. The payments 
wouldnt have stopped automatically if Tesco Bank had cancelled the card in August 2018. 
Mr E didnt tell Tesco  Bank  he wanted to stop the payments until March 2019, at which  point 
it contacted the relevant card scheme  to let it know hed withdrawn  his authority. I dont think  
Tesco Bank acted  unfairly  by honouring any payments the merchant  requested before then, 
because Mr E had given his authority for that to happen. The merchant had made the size 
and frequency  of the payments clear and had set out how Mr E could avoid being charged. 
So, I dont think Tesco Bank had any grounds to treat the CPA itself as unauthorised. 
And it was irrelevant that the card Mr E used to set it up should have been cancelled.  
I appreciate the merchant  has since agreed  to refund the payments. But this in itself isnt 
proof Tesco Bank did anything wrong  by honouring them.  Taking everything into account, I 
dont think Tesco Bank needs to compensate Mr E for the distress he experienced upon  
learning of the payments. Or any inconvenience he went through  in seeking a refund. 
Mr E says Tesco Banks error made  him more vulnerable to fraud, which  caused him worry. 
The reason  Mr E was concerned that his account had been compromised was because  he 
thought the merchant had taken payments without his consent.  But as Ive explained, Mr E 
had set up a standing authority for it to take monthly  payments. It would therefore seem that 
Mr Es concerns about the security  of his account arose from a misunderstanding  about the 
agreement hed made with the merchant, rather than Tesco Banks failure  to cancel his card. 
There was some additional risk in that Mr E had two active  debit  cards  for a period of time. 
And there was therefore a higher risk of one of them ending  up in the wrong hands due to 
theft or loss for example. Ive kept that in mind in deciding what would be fair compensation. 
But ultimately, neither  card was used to make  fraudulent payments, and I cant  compensate  
Mr E for things  that might  have happened but didnt.   
I appreciate it must have  come as a shock for Mr E to learn  that his old debit card hadnt 
been cancelled.  And I also recognise that Tesco Bank didnt clarify that the payments were 
taken under a CPA in its final response letter. But taking everything into account, I think 
Tesco Banks offer of £75 in total is a fair reflection  of the impact its errors had on Mr E.  
Ref: DRN33774213My final decision
I understand that Tesco Personal Finance PLC has paid Mr E £50 compensation and has 
since offered to pay a further £25. For the reasons  given above, I conclude  this is a fair offer.  
I therefore direct Tesco  Personal  Finance PLC to pay Mr E the outstanding £25. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN3377421