K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited wont  pay his motor insurance claim 
for the theft of his car. 
background
Mr Ms car was stolen, he reported  the theft to the police and contacted Calpe to make a 
claim. When reporting the theft,  Mr M said that he had two keys for the car but had only ever 
used one of them to drive it. Mr M said hed last used the car the evening  before it was 
stolen, and it had done approximately 130,000 miles.
As part of its investigation  Calpe had Mr Ms keys analysed. The key Mr M said he used to 
drive the car held data to show it was last used a month before the theft was reported. It also 
recorded the cars mileage as just over 125,000 miles. The second key held no data and 
wasnt a genuine  manufacturers key. Calpe  said Mr Ms testimony doesnt match up with the 
data taken from the keys.  Because  of this, it declined the claim and said it wouldnt look at it 
further unless  Mr M was able to give a plausible explanation for the differences.
Mr M said he cant explain why the key hasnt recorded any use of the car in the month 
before it was stolen,  he thinks  it must be broken. He asked his own local manufacturing 
garage to analyse  the key, but it gave the same  results.  Mr M gave Calpe a fuel card receipt  
which shows he filled the car with fuel about a week before it was stolen, and the mileage 
was recorded  as 126,000 miles. Mr M has said this should prove the key data isnt correct.
Our investigator looked into the case but didnt think Calpe had acted unreasonably. He said 
he thought it was unlikely the key data was incorrect,  and he wasnt  satisfied the fuel card 
receipt proved  it was. The investigator was satisfied  the terms of Mr Ms policy  meant he had 
to provide Calpe  with accurate information in order for it to process the claim. He thought  
Calpe was reasonable to ask the questions it had and decline the claim until it had 
satisfactory answers.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator, he reiterated that he cant explain why the key data 
doesnt show the car being used. He said he guessed the mileage the car had done when it 
was stolen, so he doesnt think its fair for Calpe  to say hes providing  false  information 
because of this.  
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
During the course of our investigation Mr M has raised issues with Calpe charging him 
investigation costs  and not cancelling  his policy. As these are separate  issues to this 
complaint Mr M would need  to make a different  complaint to Calpe if he is unhappy  with 
these issues. I therefore havent considered them as part of this decision. 
Ref: DRN38106862Mr Ms policy has a clause  which  lets Calpe refuse to pay a claim,  if it believes he has 
provided false information. What I need  to decide  is if Calpe is applying  this term in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Mr M believes Calpe has declined the claim as may have overestimated  the mileage  when 
he reported the car stolen. But this isnt the case.
The main  concern appears to be around  data the keys hold, and that this doesnt support 
Mr Ms statement of when  he last used the car. 
I think its more likely than not the data recovered  from the key is accurate. I say this becase  
both Calpe and Mr Ms reports, which have been  provided by two different  garages, have 
given the same results. Mr M has said he thinks the key is broken and thats why it hasnt 
recorded the later journeys he made. But neither  garage  has suggested there  is anything  
wrong with the key. The key data suggests the last known use of the car with that key, was a 
month before it was reported stolen, and I think its more likely than not this is correct.
The second  key holds no data and is not a genuine  manufacturer key. Mr M has also said he 
never used  the spare key - so this discounts the possibility this key could  have been  
inadvertently used to drive the car in the month  in question. 
Mr M has provided a fuel card receipt to show he was using his car after the last known date 
on the key. While this may have  been  the case, it doesnt answer the question of how the car 
was driven and why the key data doesnt  show further journeys. Im therefore not satisfied 
this is enough  to explain the discrepancy  in the key data and Mr Ms version of events.
Based on the above, Im not going  to interfere  with Calpes decision to decline the claim.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Ms complaint against  Calpe Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3810686