K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the very high cost of his home insurance with Liverpool Victoria 
Insurance Company Limited  from 2014  to 2017.
background
Mr M had had a policy with LV for a number of years,  through an ex employees association. 
In 2014 he received a renewal notice for £618. In May 2014,  shortly before the policy  was 
due for renewal, Mr M called LV to advise he had moved home. He was charged a £40 
additional premium  for that policy year (until  mid-June). He was sent a quotation for £198.25 
for a new policy  at his new address. But the old policy was on automatic renewal and the 
premium for the renewal  of that policy for his new address was £2,334.05.
Mr M let the policy renew, he has explained  to us that he was having a difficult time and just 
saw the monthly  direct  debit without considering how it added up. He let the policy  renew for 
the next three policy years. In 2018, when he received  the renewal notice for £2,650.88, 
Mr M noted the advice  in his renewal letter that he could  shop around. He contacted LV and 
obtained a new policy for £139.41.
LV wouldnt  agree to refund any of the premiums Mr M had paid. It said this was an old 
policy and had different cover and ratings  to the new policy. He had received renewal 
notices each year advising him of the availability of new products which might be more 
suitable, and hadnt contacted LV. It said that whilst the new products were  available to 
existing policyholders, it couldnt simply move them onto the new policy. This was because it 
needed to go through  a number of details with the policyholder.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator said that LV should  have moved  Mr M to the new 
policy for £198.25 in 2014. As a consequence, he said that LV should  repay,  for each year of 
the policy up until 2017, the difference  between that premium and the actual premiums paid 
by Mr M, and add interest at 8% per year.
LV didnt agree, it said its renewal notices made it clear that Mr M could move to a new 
policy, and the two policies couldnt  be compared.  It pointed out that this service had 
previously found  that the wording in these  notices was sufficient to advise the policyholder  of 
the availability  of new policies. Our adjudicator explained that the circumstances of this case 
were different.
The case  was passed to me for consideration. When I reviewed it I advised LV that I was 
considering making  an award of compensation for trouble and upset, of £200  in addition to 
what the adjudicator  had suggested. LV maintained its position  which was that Mr M was 
advised each  year of the renewal price and had chosen to renew rather than move  to a 
different policy. It now accepts that it could have followed up the new sale price and it 
unfortunately cant now evidence what was said to Mr M in the sales  call in 2014 as, given 
the time elapsed it no longer has a recording of the call. As a goodwill compromise, given it 
believes Mr M was partly  at fault,  LV has said it is prepared to offer 50% of the difference  in 
price. But it maintains that it has done  nothing wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN31798812First of all, I have looked at the information sent out at each renewal. For 2014, the only 
renewal notice sent to Mr M related to his old address and was for £618. LV has confirmed 
that no updated renewal notice was issued for 2014,  although it says it did send a 
confirmation of the renewal premium for the new property just before the policy automatically 
renewed. Given it was system  driven, no reference was made to the alternative much lower  
quote in that. Regarding possible alternative policies the original 2014 renewal letter  said:
We have newer products available which could in some instances (though not all) result  in 
premium savings. However, this will require you to provide us with more information about  
you and your home.
The subsequent renewal letters for 2015-2017 said:
We do have newer products available which could in some  instances save you
money. If you would  like a quote we will need  more  information about you and your
home  please  call us on 
That wording  may well be sufficient to make customers aware of newer products. Thats 
particularly the case if the customer is young,  is likely to have internet access, knows they 
can shop around  and isnt otherwise vulnerable. I dont think  its necessarily satisfactory to 
address the needs of elderly vulnerable  customers such as Mr M. This is particularly the 
case where this is an old legacy policy which has continued year after year at a very much 
higher price  than LVs other products. Consumer inertia, and the detrimental effect that this 
can have on some customers prices,  is something  that we take into account in complaints 
similar to Mr Ms. 
I think also there were other  factors  involved here. Mr M rang up LV to tell it of his change of 
address. As this appears to have been  very close to renewal, no updated renewal letter  for 
the new address  was sent out, although there was a subsequent  confirmation letter.  We 
dont have the recording of the phone call, but from what  Ive seen Mr M must  have  given LV 
enough information about his up to date circumstances  for it to send him out a new quotation  
(for £198.25)..  At the same time, presumably,  it would have told him that to renew his policy 
at his new address  would be over £2,300. It doesnt seem likely to me that Mr M would have 
been happy with his premiums nearly  quadrupling.
So it appears to me that Mr M had followed the advice in the renewal notice and had called 
LV and given  information to prepare a new quote.  In those circumstances, I simply dont 
accept LV couldnt  have moved  him across to the new policy.  Even if felt its processes didnt 
allow for that, it could  have marked his file to ensure he didnt take up the expensive  option 
of simply renewing. And its accepted that it could have followed up on the new sale price.  I 
think, in receiving the new information  and noting  how much  the policy increased by Mr M 
moving home, LV had an enhanced duty of care to ensure  he didnt renew the old policy. At 
the very least,  it could have recognised this as soon  as he complained,  and refunded the 
back premiums.
I note that there were  differences between Mr Ms new policy particularly in the amount of 
cover for contents and the various excesses. I have difficulty  in believing  that this justified 
the old policy costing  more than twelve times the new one. It appears that the old policy  was 
based on very little information (eg about flood risk) being given, so must have assumed the 
very highest risk. Even the sort of policies that cover  high net worth individuals with 
expensive properties  dont have the kind of premium seen here. 
Ref: DRN31798813LV has suggested  that this service has accepted that its pricing model is correct. I dont think 
thats the case at all for the old policy. Whist I understand the underwriting rationale in that 
the policy was based on very little information  being  given by the customer,  I dont see how it 
can possibly justify charging this level of premium  differential. If it needed more information 
from Mr M to properly  rate his risk, then it could  have obtained it. Ive seen no evidence that 
it made any effort to do this, other than the notice  about alternative  policies in the renewal 
letter.
I accept that Mr M could have noticed the premiums  on each renewal  notice, and it may be 
that he didnt read through  them properly.  He tells us he looked  at the monthly  direct  debit 
amount, had been going through a difficult time and didnt think about  how it added up. And 
the 2018 renewal  gave  more detailed information about the premium and his right to shop 
around as required  by the new Financial  Conduct  Authority rules.  While I wouldnt expect LV 
to know of Mr Ms difficulties, it did know that he was elderly and of the vast difference  in 
price for the new renewal.  It also knew about the individual  personal  possession items that 
he had recorded  with them. So these would have given an indication  that he was potentially  
vulnerable too.
So my decision is that LV should refund the difference between  the 2014  quoted  premium,  of 
£198.25, and the actual  premiums paid for the years 2014 to 2017  inclusive. It should add 
interest at 8% from the dates each instalment of the premiums was paid. Whilst I note LVs 
offer to pay 50% of this, I dont think thats sufficient in this case.
I advised LV that I intended  to require it to pay £200  compensation as well, for the trouble 
and upset caused. I think thats  appropriate, in light of what  Ive said above about LVs 
enhanced duty of care to Mr M.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Liverpool  Victoria Insurance  Company Limited to:
refund  the difference between the premiums Mr M actually paid under his policy, for 
each year from the 2014 renewal up to and including the 2017 renewal, and £198.25.
pay simple  interest*  at 8% per annum, from the dates each instalment of the 
premium was paid until the date of settlement.
pay Mr M £200 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited to take tax off 
any interest it pays to Mr M. Should Mr M request it, Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited 
should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off so he can reclaim  it if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN3179881