K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that a car she has been  financing through  an agreement brokered by RRG 
Group Limited (RRG), was mis-sold to her as the sales price was wrong.
background
Miss S took receipt of a new car in November 2017.  She financed  the deal through  a hire 
purchase agreement  that was brokered by RRG. She was told that the vehicle price  was 
£18,145 and that her part exchange value of £2,500 and a discount of £500 would be 
deducted from this figure.  RRG said this would leave  £15,145  to finance.
But Miss S says that when she received the invoice for the car the sales price was recorded 
as £15,145 so she now feels that the business have  overcharged her.
RRG explained that the on the road price shown on the invoice took account  of the discount 
Miss S had been  given of £3,000 (part exchange plus discount). They  explained it was 
necessary to show this figure in case of a total loss accident claim.
They thought the calculations theyd  completed  were correct and provided the following 
breakdown:
vehicle basic price  - £14,457.50
deliver charge  - £605
discount - £2,500
sub total - £12562.50
VAT @ 20% - £2512,50
road fund license - £15
registration fee - £55
total on road price  - £15,145.00
They also provided  a price list for our adjudicator to review and having done so he was 
persuaded that RRG hadnt made a mistake with the price  they had listed.
But Miss S disagreed  and she therefore asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Miss S so please  let me 
explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN32128502Miss S acquired her car under a hire purchase agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is 
a regulated consumer  credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  legislation  says that if Miss S was told something that was wrong when she 
signed up for the deal, and if this misrepresentation led her to proceed when she otherwise 
would not have, then the deal has been mis-sold and Id therefore think it reasonable to ask 
RRG to take some further action.
Im not persuaded that here Miss S was told something that was wrong. Ive considered 
RRGs calculations and the list price theyve provided, from the relevant period, that shows 
the vehicle price as £18,145. I find RRGs explanation of how the figures were calculated  to 
be reasonable and cant find evidence that they theyre inaccurate. So I dont think it would 
be fair to suggest theyve  made a mistake  or to ask them to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3212850