K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy at the service he received from U K Insurance Limited in relation to a motor  
insurance claim he made after a road traffic accident.
background
The background is known to the parties but in brief Mr A wanted  to make a personal injury 
claim using  his legal expenses insurance which was part of the motor  policy.  
The main  issue is that Mr A was originally  told he couldnt make  a claim for personal  injuries.  
UKI said this was an error as a claim could be made to the Motor Insurance  Bureau as the 
other drivers  details  were unknown. So UKI offered  £100 compensation for the mistake. 
There were issues raised with the service provided by the firm dealing  with the injury claim 
and Mr A says hes suffered further  because of what the firm did. Both UKI and the 
investigator have pointed out to Mr A that hed need  to take his concerns about that firm to 
the Legal Ombudsman as it is the body that deals with complaints about  such  providers.
UKI confirmed that Mr As claim is ongoing  as it awaits the police report, and it is also aware 
that the personal injury claim is active too. Our investigator didnt think UKI needed to do 
anything more as it had quickly corrected the incorrect information it gave Mr A. And the 
compensation UKI had offered was reasonable for any stress it had caused to Mr A from 
giving the incorrect  information.
Mr A disagreed with the investigator; in summary  he didnt think the amount of compensation 
was sufficient. Mr A pointed to an example of compensation he received from another  
business as justification for an increase. The investigator wasnt persuaded to change  his 
view because he didnt think the impact of UKIs error justified more  compensation. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue  in this case for me to decide  is what fair compensation is. Things went wrong 
because of the incorrect information  UKI gave to Mr A that he couldnt pursue a personal  
injury claim. But within a matter of days UKI gave Mr A the correct information.
I can make  a money award  for compensation that I consider to be fair, whether or not a court 
would award compensation. In coming  to this assessment  I look at the impact UKIs  error 
has had on Mr A. Im satisfied that UKIs  error caused Mr A some distress and frustration but 
I balance this with the fact it was rectified  quickly after  in a matter  of days. Im satisfied 
£100 fairly reflects the circumstances.
Mr A has other concerns with the service provided by the legal firm but he would need to 
take that issue to the Legal  Ombudsman  as it has specific jurisdiction over legal service 
providers. 
Ref: DRN31712472my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint as Im satisfied UKIs offer of £100 compensation is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3171247