K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Ageas  Retail  Limited unfairly cancelled his motor  policy.
background
Mr B bought his policy with Ageas  through  an online  aggregator site to start on 1 October 
2018. He opted to pay his premium by direct  debit after paying an initial payment of £57.77.
He also made a complaint about  something  other than this complaint  where  Ageas agreed  to 
pay him £100 compensation. Unfortunately, it paid him this twice in error and asked him for 
the return of £100.  It agreed with Mr B that he could repay it by instalments.  
However, Mr Bs direct payments through his bank failed  on 29 October  2018,  29 November 
2018, 29 December  2018, 9 January 2019,  1 March 2019 and 3 March 2019.  Mr B made a 
manual payment on 22 November 2019.  Ageas wrote off his November 2018  payment due 
this other  complaint he raised, which isnt part of this complaint. Mr B paid again  manually  
via his friend on 25 January 2019  this was for the December 2018 payment, and he 
manually paid again on 23 March 2019,  with Ageas writing off the January 2019 monthly 
payment prior to this. Mr B also manually  paid his premium instalment on 27 April 2019, 
which actually didnt  go through,  as it wasnt processed properly. But that had nothing  to do 
with Mr B.
On 30 April 2019, Ageas decided  to cancel his policy given Mr B was abusive on the phone 
to its advisors and all the payment problems it had to deal with. It said for this complaint, it 
had written off the January 2019  monthly  instalment, the extra £100 it had mistakenly given  
him (due to the previous complaint) plus the cancellation fee of £50. It also hadnt entered  
the cancellation on any external databases  so there was no need  for Mr B to disclose his 
policy had been  cancelled.
Mr B remained unhappy  his policy had been  cancelled and that he missed  one years  No 
Claims Discount (NCD). He was of the view that Ageas should  provide the one years  NCD. 
Ageas didnt agree so Mr B brought his complaint to us.
The investigator didnt  think Ageas  needed to do anything more.  Mr B disagreed so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
It does appear Mr B had problems in paying  his premium by direct  debit, considering  how 
many payments failed  to go through. Insurance law requires the payment of premium  in 
return for the cover provided. That should be paid up front before the contract and cover 
begins. But virtually  all motor insurers permit the payment  of the premium  to be spread 
throughout the policy year so that the policyholder can pay by instalments. However, this is 
concession by the insurer and not a right of the policyholder. 
So as Mr B opted not to pay the full premium upfront, it was then his duty to ensure the 
instalments payments went  through each month and on time. This didnt happen here. I 
Ref: DRN34183222consider that Ageas  did more than enough  in persistently accommodating Mr Bs manual 
payments, which  were often late as well. This clearly put Mr Bs policy  at risk of being 
cancelled, as all policies  are capable of being cancelled  if the premium  isnt paid.
Ive listened to the call recordings between Mr B and Ageas. Its clear Mr B wasnt happy 
with Ageas and that many  of the calls were fraught on the part of Mr B. Given  the policy 
provisions, which  clearly outlines Ageas  low tolerance of abusive, intimidating  and 
threatening language,  I dont consider Ageas was wrong to consider the tone used by Mr B 
on occasion was a problem and breached its policy conditions.
There were some mistakes on the part of Ageas, its advisers could have been clearer at 
times. But I consider  that as it waived premiums  payments, plus the cancellation charge and 
the direct  debit fee and permitted Mr B to keep the extra £100 compensation it gave him in 
error, it has done enough to recompense Mr B. It also didnt enter  this cancellation on any 
databases therefore Mr B doesnt have to declare this cancellation to other insurers and 
suffer the consequences of having a cancelled policy on his record.
I am of the view and agree with Ageas that NCD is only applied  once  the full policy  year has 
been served by the policyholder. I dont consider Ageas therefore did anything  wrong in not 
awarding this to Mr B in these circumstances.
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 July 2020
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3418322