K821x#15Complaint
Mr C has complained about advice he received from Portafina  LLP to transfer a defined 
benefit occupational pension scheme  (OPS) he held with his former employer to a Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
Mr C is being represented by a third party  but for ease of reading  the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mr C.
Background
In September  2014, Mr C met with an unregulated introducer who had a working relationship  
with an advisory firm C, which proposed to provide  Mr C with pension advice. A fact-find, 
risk questionnaire and letters of authority  to obtain  information from Mr Cs existing pension  
providers were completed.  However,  because one of Mr Cs pensions was an OPS, he was 
referred to Portafina  for pension transfer  advice.
Portafina discussed Mr Cs needs  and objectives  over the phone with him on 2 March 2015. 
It noted Mr C was aged 50 and was hoping  to retire at 65. He had two personal pension  
plans PPPs, one with company A and another with company R, and was a member  of a 
former employers OPS. Mr C had two periods of service with this employer, meaning he had 
separate OPS  benefits for each. Portafina  assessed  Mr Cs attitude  to risk as balanced.
In May 2015  Portafina recommended the transfer of Mr Cs second OPS  (the pension  where  
he had accrued the most service) to a SIPP. It didnt  recommend Mr C transfer the benefits 
held in the first OPS,  but recommended Mr C switch his PPPs  to the SIPP.  Portafina 
recommended the pension  benefits should  all be held in cash and said C would provide 
advice on how the funds would be invested. The rationale for recommending  the transfer  
was to provide  more  flexible access to Mr Cs pension benefits as he said he wanted to take 
the maximum tax-free cash at age 55. Portafina also said it provided improved death  
benefits for Mr Cs daughters.
The benefits  held in the PPPs were  switched to the SIPP in June  2015.  However,  the OPS  
benefits werent transferred until May 2016. It appears that the benefits held in both OPSs 
were transferred  it is unclear why. The funds  received by the SIPP  remained in cash  until 
Mr C transferred everything to an alternative provider in December 2017.
In 2017 Mr C complained  that the advice  to transfer  his OPS benefits was unsuitable  for him. 
He also said Portafina  had failed to provide any investment  advice so the funds were  left in 
cash and didnt experience any growth. Portafina  didnt agree, explaining that in light of 
Mr Cs balanced attitude to risk, he could expect sufficient growth through  a SIPP  to improve  
on his OPS benefits. It said C was responsible for any investment advice. Mr C referred his 
complaint to our service.
An adjudicator reviewed the complaint and recommended it should  be upheld.  He said 
taking into account  Mr Cs age, it was too early  to transfer the OPS  benefits for better access 
as he couldnt  drawdown from a new plan for at least five years.  He also said there  was no 
recorded discussion of using life assurance for death benefits and retaining the valuable 
OPS benefits. In addition, in his view, Mr Cs capacity for investment loss was very low, so 
he didnt think Mr C had a balanced  attitude to risk. He didnt think  it was in Mr Cs interests 
to place all of his retirement savings at risk. So, he didnt think the transfer was suitable  for 
Mr C. The adjudicator recommended  that Mr C should be put back into the position he 
Ref: DRN31007582wouldve been in but for the unsuitable advice and that Portafina should pay him £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Portafina disagreed,  they said it was achievable  for Mr C to match the OPS benefits 
following a transfer  and he wouldve achieved his other objectives of having greater flexibility  
and improved death benefits.  It said it wasnt responsible for any investment advice.
The adjudicators view remained  and the complaint was referred for a final decision.
Prior to the complaint being  allocated to me, a case reviewer clarified with Portafina and 
Mr C that Portafina wasnt  required to compensate Mr C for the transfer  of the OPS  
associated with Mr Cs first period  of service. This was because Portafina hadnt 
recommended Mr C transfer it and it appeared this had happened by mistake.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules about transferring benefits from an OPS 
requires firms to start from the assumption a transfer will not be suitable. A firm should only 
then consider a transfer or opt-out to be suitable  if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence,  that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's best interests  (Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook COBS 19.1.6). This guidance reflects the fact that defined 
benefits, offering  guaranteed, inflation-proof  income for life, are extremely  valuable. It 
follows that in order for a transfer, involving irreversible loss of the benefits to be suitable, 
there must be significant advantages in favour  of transfer, sufficient to outweigh  the 
significant disadvantage of loss of guaranteed benefits.
COBS 19.1.7 is also particularly relevant here:
When a firm advises  a retail client on a pension  transfer or pension opt-out, it should 
consider the clients  attitude to risk in relation to the rate of investment growth that would
have to be achieved  to replicate the benefits  being given up.
Portafina appears to have  been under the impression that, as it told Mr C it wasnt  providing  
any advice on the underlying investments, this enabled  it to provide advice on a restricted  
basis. But this wasnt right. It couldnt separate out the two elements. Its advice on the 
suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability  of the underlying  investments.
The FCA issued an alert in April 2014, following an earlier alert issued in 2013. This alert 
stated: 
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will transfer or 
switch from a current pension arrangement  to release funds to invest  through a SIPP, then 
the suitability of the underlying investment must form part of the advice given to the 
customer. If the underlying investment is not suitable for the customer, then the overall 
advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer or switch  at all as it will 
not be able to assess suitability of the transaction as a whole.
Ref: DRN31007583The failings outlined in this alert are unacceptable  and amount  to conduct that falls well short 
of firms obligations under  our Principles for Businesses and Conduct  of Business rules. In 
particular, we are reminding firms  that they must  conduct their business with integrity 
(Principle 1), due skill, care and diligence (Principle 2) and must pay due regard to the 
interests of their customers and treat them fairly (Principle 6).
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and COBS, which Portafina was subject to. And with reference to PRIN and COBS,  
the alerts  said a firm would fall short of its obligations under these rules if it didnt familiarise 
itself with the intended investment strategy and that it wouldnt be able to recommend  a new 
product, like a SIPP, without doing  so.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mr C under the regulatory system.  So, saying it was operating under a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration  of how Mr Cs funds  would  be invested.
COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mr R. To achieve this, COBS  9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain enough 
information from Mr R to ensure its recommendation met his objectives, that he could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that he had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.
COBS 9.2.2R included  the following wording:
() The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include, where 
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment.
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mr Cs objectives  two of 
which were ownership and control  and a willingness to accept investment risk  and the 
related risks.  It wasnt  free to ignore how Mr Cs funds were  going to be invested, 
irrespective of Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP to be 
inextricably linked to the risks relating  to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a 
transfer without  knowing  what Mr C would  invest in within the wrapper, doesnt in my mind  
seem reasonably possible.
So, I think its clear that in order to give suitable advice, Portafina had to have  a good 
understanding of the investments Mr C intended to make. This is because  it couldnt 
provide any assurance  that the transfer out of the OPS would be in Mr Cs best interest if it 
didnt know how his funds  would be invested and the likely  estimated return.
I know that Mr C was also advised to switch his PPPs, which  had a combined  transfer  value 
of around £10,000.  But I dont think he wouldve proceeded with the switch of these plans  
alone to a SIPP if he hadnt  been  advised to transfer his OPS  benefits, which  constituted the 
vast majority of his retirement funds. So, for the purpose of this decision,  Ive focused on 
whether the advice to transfer out of the OPS was suitable for Mr C. And when I refer to an 
OPS going forwards,  I am referring to the benefits  associated with Mr Cs second period of 
service, as Portafina didnt recommend Mr C transfer the benefits associated  with his first 
period of service.
Ref: DRN31007584Portafina recommended Mr C transfer out of his OPS to a SIPP  for essentially  the following 
reasons:
it believed Mr C would likely receive higher pension benefits  if he invested in a 
suitable model portfolio in line with his attitude to risk;
a SIPP  allowed Mr C to take ownership and control of his retirement benefits and 
vary his income;
a SIPP  provided  enhanced death  benefits for his nominated beneficiaries;  and
he could take 25% of the fund as tax-free cash at age 55, which it understood was 
important to him.
But as per the above rules and guidance,  the transfer needed to be in Mr Cs best interest 
and any advantages of transferring shouldve outweighed the disadvantages  of giving up the 
guaranteed benefits.
When a firm considers recommending a client transfers out of a defined  benefit scheme, the 
regulator requires  it to carry out a calculation to establish the investment  performance  
required by the new pension in order to match the benefits available  from the transferring
scheme. This is known  as the critical yield.
Portafina completed a pension  transfer value analysis report which showed that a critical 
yield of 9.2%  per year was required to match benefits from the OPS if Mr C retired  at 65. 
This reduced  to 8.6% if Mr C took the maximum tax-free cash. But this was based  on the 
full transfer value, so it made no allowance for advice, the plan or other ongoing  charges. 
This meant the growth needed just to match the benefits being  given up was understated. 
Like the adjudicator,  I think  the growth required to provide an increase in benefits  for Mr C 
was too high to make  the transfer viable. 
The advice was given  at a time when there were no industry standard  projection rates to 
assess the likelihood of the critical yield being  achieved. But at the time, the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pensions illustrations were 2% (lower); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (higher). So even  if the personal pension had achieved the highest 
maximum projected growth at that time, it was unlikely Mr C would receive  a higher pension 
at retirement as a result  of transferring. This also seems to meet with Portafinas own 
estimates of the growth Mr C could likely expect. In the suitability report dated 
25 May 2015, it estimated that based on Mr Cs attitude to risk, his personal pension  would 
grow at a rate of 6.69%, which didnt take account  of advice fees or plan charges. 
Nevertheless, Portafina based its recommendation on the lifetime hurdle rate, which  it said 
was 5.43%, rather than the critical yield. It did this because it assumed Mr C wouldnt 
purchase an annuity with his fund and would instead  take his benefits via income drawdown.
The guidance under  COBS 19.1.3 states that the comparison undertaken by Portafina 
should:
1)take into account all of the retail  client's relevant circumstances;
2)have regard to the benefits and options  available  under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing  them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
Ref: DRN310075853)explain the assumptions on which it is based  and the rates  of return  that would have 
to be achieved to replicate  the benefits  being given up; and
4)be illustrated on rates  of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which  the retail client's funds will be invested.
Having considered this carefully,  Im not satisfied that using the hurdle rate was appropriate 
in Mr Cs case. Firstly,  the hurdle rate is used to determine the growth required to match the 
starting pension of the OPS, without increases and without a spouses pension being  
included. Mr Cs OPS provided  a 50% spouses pension and it escalated  in retirement. So 
the hurdle rate doesnt replicate  the benefits  Mr C was giving up, which, as can be seen 
from the above guidance, was what the regulator  wanted businesses to do when comparing 
schemes. 
Mr C was aged 50 at the time the advice  was given, so he had around 15 years  before he 
was due to retire. I dont  think  Portafina,  or Mr C, could say with any certainty  15 years 
before he planned to retire that he was definitely going to take his benefits via income 
drawdown. So, it seems unreasonable to use the hurdle rate when comparing the OPS 
benefits with the SIPP.  Im therefore satisfied that the appropriate growth rate to use was 
the critical yield figure of 8.6%, as I think its clear  Mr C wanted to take tax-free cash  rather 
than the full pension.
In the suitability report, Portafina stated C would provide their investment 
recommendations. But without having  an understanding of Cs proposed investment 
strategy, I dont think Portafina were in a position to know whether the transfer  advice was 
suitable. But even  without knowing Cs proposed investments, the critical yield was far 
above the growth Portafina said Mr C could expect if he invested  in line with the suggested  
model portfolio  in its suitability report. And as explained above, it was also greater than the 
highest of the regulators  assumed future growth rates.  For this reason, I think  Mr C was 
likely to receive benefits of a substantially lower overall value than the OPS  at retirement, 
as a result  of transferring his OPS.  And I dont think that was at all made clear to Mr C in 
the suitability report, which actually gave  him the impression  he would obtain increased 
pension benefits  as a result  of transferring.
The critical yield isnt the only factor that needed  to be taken  into account when assessing 
whether Mr C should transfer  his benefits.  Consideration also had to be given to Mr Cs 
attitude to risk. 
Mr Cs attitude to risk was assessed  as being  balanced. This assessment was arrived at 
following completion of a risk attitude profiling questionnaire that appears to have been  
completed on behalf of C. Having considered the information provided, I dont think  Mr C 
could be fairly described as having  a balanced  attitude to risk. 
The FCA has made numerous comments over the years, including in guidance issued in 
March 2011 about assessing suitability, about  how firms  shouldnt  rely solely on risk profiling 
tools to establish  their clients attitude  to risk. The FCA said that firms should have a robust 
process for assessing  the risk a customer is willing and able to take, which includes 
assessing their capacity for loss; appropriately interpreting customer  responses to questions  
and not attributing inappropriate weight to certain answers; and ensuring that tools are fit for 
purpose with any limitations recognised and mitigated.  
Ref: DRN31007586Ive reviewed the information gathered  by Portafina  (and C) at the time. This includes the 
fact-find, the Risk Attitude  Profiling Questionnaire, the call recording  of the discussion in 
March 2015 and the suitability report. But it seems to me that Portafinas assessment of 
Mr Cs attitude to risk was mostly based on the outcome of the Risk Attitude Profiling 
Questionnaire, giving him a score of 54, which equated to balanced.
I dont think that was reasonable or in line with the FCAs guidance.  Furthermore, Mr C gave 
answers in the Risk Attitude Profiling Questionnaire that suggested a lower attitude to risk. 
For example, Mr C gave the following answers to the following statements:
2)I feel comfortable about investing in the stockmarket  Disagree
7)I find investment matters easy  to understand  Disagree
8)I am willing to take substantial investment risk to earn substantial returns  
Disagree
9)I have little experience of investing  in stocks and shares  Agree
10)I tend to be anxious about the investment decisions I've made  Agree
12)Im concerned by the volatility of stockmarket investments  Agree 
In Portafinas  suitability report,  a balanced  investor was described as follows:
Balanced investors typically have  moderate levels of knowledge about financial 
matters and will pay some attention to keeping up to date with financial matters.  They  
may have some  experience of investment, including investing in products containing  
risky assets such as equities  and bonds.
In general, balanced  investors understand that they have  to take investment  risk in 
order to be able to meet  their long-term goals. They  are likely to be willing to take risk 
with at least part of their available assets.
Balanced investors will usually be prepared to give up a certain  outcome for a 
gamble provided  that the potential  rewards from the gamble  are high enough. They  
will usually  be able to make up their minds on financial matters relatively quickly,  but 
do still suffer from some feelings  of regret when their decisions turn out badly.
With this in mind, I dont think Mr Cs attitude  to risk couldve  reasonably  been assessed  as 
balanced. In my view,  Mr Cs responses to the statements  show  him to be an inexperienced  
investor who is uncomfortable with investing  in the stockmarket and is generally  more risk-
averse. So, I dont think  he fit the profile  of Portafinas balanced attitude to risk.
Furthermore, Mr Cs circumstances at the time of advice do not suggest he had much 
capacity for loss, which is an important aspect  of any risk-profiling exercise. Mr C was 
employed with an income of £1,200  per month. His expenditure was detailed  as £994 per 
month and he received  food parcels from his mother. His home was rented and outside of 
his pension he held £650 in savings.  A small loan was noted as being his only liability. 
Furthermore, in the call in March 2015, Mr C said he was only prepared to accept a loss of 
10% to gain higher death benefits.
Ref: DRN31007587From the information gathered, its clear  to me that Mr Cs OPS benefits constituted the vast 
majority of his assets and he wouldve been  reliant on this for his future retirement. So, a 
loss to those benefits  wouldve had a big impact on his income later in life. Taking  this into 
account as well as Mr Cs inexperience, overall,  I think a fairer  assessment of Mr Cs attitude 
to risk was low-medium. 
Given Mr Cs true attitude to risk was most likely  low-medium, I dont  think it was reasonable 
for Portafina to recommend he transfer his OPS benefits. Mr C wouldve needed to take 
substantially more risk than he was prepared to take just to potentially equal the benefits he 
could expect in retirement  if he remained in the OPS. And there  had to be clear advantages  
to Mr C transferring out in order  to outweigh the security  of the benefits he was giving up.
Portafina says that Mr Cs combined objectives  of accessing his tax-free cash  at age 55 and 
providing higher  death benefits to his children, were sufficient grounds to recommend  the 
transfer. It also says that the funding position  of the OPS had to be taken into consideration, 
as this was a concern to Mr C.
But having  listened to a recording of the call in March 2015, I think  these objectives  and 
concerns have been exaggerated by Portafina. In the call, Mr C was asked if he would like to 
take a lump sum at 55 and he was informed  by the representative that there  had been  some 
talk that the government would ban tax-free cash.  Mr C said that he would like to take a 
lump sum at 55 if he could. This answer  isnt surprising given the suggestion  that he may not 
be able to do this in the future. The representative also informed  Mr C that the OPS was 
underfunded and asked  if that concerned him, as he wouldnt be able to take the tax-free 
cash if the OPS entered the pension  protection fund (PPF). However, that was very 
misleading, as Mr C wouldve still been  able to take a tax-free lump sum at retirement  if the 
scheme entered the PPF.
I accept Mr C had a need to access a lump-sum at age 55  the evidence  suggests he 
wanted to use this to purchase property. But given Mr C had a further five years  before it 
was even possible to access his pension benefits, I think it was too early to make a decision 
to transfer his OPS  benefits for that reason alone.
The only genuine  argument for Mr C transferring his benefits was that he could provide a 
higher level of death benefit to his daughters  by transferring out of the OPS. While  it is 
reasonable that a parent  should want to leave  as much money as possible to their children, 
long-term security in retirement should  not be sacrificed in order to provide a notional benefit  
for an event  that may not occur for decades.  If Mr C was genuinely concerned about 
providing a benefit  to his children in the event of his death, I wouldve expected Portafina to 
explore other options, such as life assurance, to meet this need rather than place his entire 
retirement funds at risk.
Overall for the reasons  set out above,  Im not persuaded the advice to transfer was suitable  
for Mr C. And if suitable advice had been provided, Im persuaded Mr C wouldve remained  
in his OPS. It follows that I also dont  think he wouldve switched his PPPs to the SIPP  
either.
Ive thought about the fact that C was supposed to provide Mr C with investment advice. But 
for the reasons already given, I think it is fair to hold Portafina fully responsible  for Mr Cs 
loss. Ultimately C didnt provide Mr C with any advice, and Portafina recommended Mr C 
should transfer his OPS  benefits to the SIPP to be held in cash, without  ensuring  the 
subsequent investments he would go on to make, either through  C or an alternative  adviser,  
Ref: DRN31007588were suitable for him. So, in my view, the entirety  of Mr Ns loss stems from Portafinas 
unsuitable advice  to transfer away from his OPS.
Overall, if Mr C had been given suitable  advice  by Portafina, Im satisfied  he wouldve 
remained in his OPS  and as such Portafina should  be held fully responsible for his loss.
Fair compensation
Mr Cs OPS
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for Portafina to put Mr C, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider he would have 
remained in the OPS.
Portafina must therefore undertake a redress calculation  in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance  as updated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress  for unsuitable DB pension  transfers.
The FCA has announced it intends  this month to update the inflation  assumptions used in 
this guidance.  This could  materially affect  the amount of compensation due. Portafina must 
therefore take into account any amendments  to the regulators Finalised Guidance FG 17/9.
The calculation should be carried  out as at the date of my final decision, using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Cs acceptance  of the decision.  If this is completed 
before publication of the FCAs intended amendments to the guidance, Portafina must re-run  
the calculation  within a month  of the amended guidance being  published   ensuring that any 
shortfall this shows in the original calculation is promptly  made  up to Mr C. Portafina need 
only re-run the calculation once, to take account  of amendments currently  planned  by the 
FCA. Portafina does  not subsequently need  to recalculate following any further amendments  
the regulator might later make.
Alternatively, Portafina may wait until publication  of the FCAs  amended Finalised Guidance 
(expected in March 2021) before calculating and paying the compensation due to Mr C in 
this case.
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Cs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P). 
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Cs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Cs pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr C as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to Mr Cs likely income 
Ref: DRN31007589tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately  reflects this.
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mr C within 90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must 
be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes 
Portafina to pay Mr C.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
For the avoidance of doubt, this calculation doesnt include the OPS benefits  associated with 
Mr Cs first period of service  which  appear to have  been transferred  by mistake.
For Mr Cs PPPs:
To compensate Mr C fairly, Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr C's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below  the notional values of Mr Cs PPPs if they hadnt been switched to the SIPP. 
If the fair value is greater  than the actual  value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Portafina should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr C's pension plan to increase  its value  
by the total amount of the compensation and any interest.  The amount paid should 
allow for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief.  Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or 
allowance. 
If Portafina is unable  to pay the total amount into Mr C's pension  plan, it should pay 
that amount  direct  to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan,  it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr C's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age  20%. However, if Mr C would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Pay to Mr C £250 for the trouble  caused by transferring Mr C's pensions  to an 
unsuitable plan.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr C how much has been  taken off. Portafina should give Mr C a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN310075810investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP transferredNotional 
value of A 
and
R PPPsdate of 
investmentdate 
transferred8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation  
from the point in time when it was actually paid in. 
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Portafina  totals  all those payments  and deducts  that figure 
at the end instead of deducting  periodically.
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair 
compensation requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may 
recommend that the business pays the balance.
Determination and money award: I require  Portafina LLP to pay Mr C the compensation 
amount as set out in the steps above,  up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portafina 
to pay Mr C any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I can only require Portafina to 
pay Mr C any interest  as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portafina pays Mr C the balance. I additionally recommend  any interest calculated as set 
out above on this balance  to be paid to Mr C.
If Mr C accepts my final decision, the money  award is binding  on Portafina. My 
recommendation is not binding on Portafina. Further,  its unlikely that Mr C can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr C may want  to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN310075811My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Portafina LLP should pay the amount calculated  
as set out above.
Portafina LLP should provide details  of its calculation to Mr C in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2021.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3100758