K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Santander UK Plc blocked  and closed his account. Hes also unhappy  
that Santander hasnt explained why. He wants Santander to release his funds and pay him 
compensation for the trouble and upset  hes suffered  by not being  able to access  his account.
background
Mr O had a current account  with Santander.
Between March  and July 2018,  several payments were made into Mr Os account.  Following  
each payment, Santander blocked Mr Os account and asked him to provide proof of his 
entitlement to the funds.
Mr O told Santander that he was an online trader and sold electrical equipment.  And that the 
money paid into his account was for goods  hed sold. Mr O provided Santander with 
documents to show he was entitled  to the money.  
For ease Ive set out a timeline of events  using the information provided by Mr O and 
Santander below.
On 26 March 2018, a £1,000.00 payment was received to Mr Os account. Blocks 
were placed on the account and Santander asked  Mr O to provide information about 
the payment.  
On 9 April 2018, Santander reviewed the information Mr O provided  as proof of 
entitlement for the funds paid to his account. The decision  was made to lift the blocks 
and allow Mr O to continue to bank with Santander. 
On 18 April 2018, a £11,649.00 payment was received into Mr Os account. 
Santander received  information from another bank  that Mr O wasnt  entitled  to the 
funds. And related  to a Bitcoin sale. Blocks were placed  on the account while 
Santander investigated the concerns raised.
On 19 April 2018, Santander contacted Mr O about the payment. Mr O told 
Santander that the sender  of the money was confused and agreed for the funds to be 
returned. Following  this Santander  removed  the blocks from the account. 
On 30 May 2018, £985.00 was paid into Mr Os account. Santander received a claim 
from another Santander customer regarding a £985.00 that Mr O wasnt entitled to 
the money. Blocks  were placed  on the account and Santander whilst Santander  
reviewed the payment.
On 31 May 2018, Santander contacted Mr O about the payment. He said the 
payment related to the sale of electrical goods. Santander asked him to provide 
evidence to support  his proof  of entitlement  in branch.
On 8 June 2018,  Santander decided to lift the account blocks.  However, it placed the 
disputed £985.00  in a sundry  account until proof of entitlement was provided.  
Ref: DRN31987052On 20 June 2018, £2,900.00 was paid into Mr Os account. Santander received a 
claim for another bank that Mr O wasnt entitled  to this money. So, it placed blocks  on 
the account while it looked into things.
On 21 June 2018, due to the number of claims  made Santander decided to close  
Mr Os account and provided him with 60 days notice. Mr O appealed the closure 
and asked Santander to reopen his account.
On 11 July 2018, Santander  received an indemnity from another bank for the 
£2,900.00 which  was paid into Mr Os account  in June  2018. Santander reviewed  the 
account and blocked  the account.
On 18 July 2018, Santander  reviewed  Mr Os appeal regarding  his account closure. 
The decision was made  to overturn the decision. And Mr Os account  was reopened.
On 2 October 2018, Santander decided to close  Mr Os account  and gave  him 60 
days notice. It issued  him a cheque  for the remaining balance  of the account. 
On 21 November 2018, a request, Mr O called Santander to say he hadnt received 
the cheque with the closing balance of his account. 
On 22 November 2018, Santander issued  a new cheque.
On 28 February 2019, Mr O contacted Santander to advise he was unable to cash  
the cheque it had sent him due to it being  in his business name. 
On 18 March 2018, a new cheque was issued in Mr Os name which  was received 
and cashed. 
Following this, Mr O contacted our service.  An investigator looked into Mr Os complaint. He 
said Santander acted  in line with its legal and regulatory  obligations  when it asked Mr O for 
more information  about the payments into his account. And it hadnt done anything wrong 
when it blocked  and closed Mr Os account. So, he didnt uphold the complaint. Mr O. 
disagreed. He said Santander  had no good reason to block and close  his account. And 
didnt send him a cheque  in the first place.
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN31987053I can appreciate that Mr O was caused inconvenience by what  happened. But the issue  here 
is whether Santander  acted fairly  when it blocked, reviewed and closed Mr Os account.
Ill start by setting out some context for the block of Mrs Os account. Anti-money laundering 
regulations and UK legislation place extensive  obligations on regulated  financial businesses  
to have suitable systems  in place for customer identification. Financial institutions  must also 
establish the purpose and intended nature of a business as well as the origin  of funds, and 
there may be penalties  if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships 
Santander has said that Mrs Os account  was blocked to meet these legal requirements.
Santander is required to have measures in place  to review payments to meet its legal and 
regulatory obligations. As part of its review process Santander are entitled  to ask a customer 
for more information. And its not for this service  to interfere with the banks processes. Our 
role is to see if the bank  has made any mistakes and then put the customer  back  in the 
position theyd  have been in if the mistake hadnt happened.
Mr O says he hasnt done anything wrong and he thinks Santander  treated  him unfairly.  
Whilst I understand Mr Os strength of feeling,  as Ive already explained businesses have a 
legal obligation  to comply with various  laws and regulations. Having looked at the evidence  
in this case, in particular  Mr Os account  activity, I think its fair and reasonable Santander  
took the action  it did when  it blocked his account.  
The terms and conditions  of Mr Os account also permit Santander to block  an account. 
Having considered those terms carefully, Im satisfied Santander acted  in line with them.  
I know Mrs O wants  Santander  to explain the reason it blocked his account.  And I can 
understand Mr Os frustration, especially given the number of occasions  Santander  blocked  
his account. But as the investigator has explained, Santander is under no obligation to 
provide this information to Mr O, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant  say Santander has 
done anything  wrong by not providing  this information to Mr O.
Overall, Im satisfied that Santander were acting in line with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when  reviewing Mr Os account  and asking him questions  about payments 
coming into the account. So, I dont think its done  anything wrong. 
account closure
A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Os account confirm Santander can close the account 
immediately under certain circumstances. And by giving  up to 60 days notice. I think 
considering what  happened in this case, its fair and reasonable Santander took the action it 
did. And it decided to close Mr Os account  immediately. I can see that Santander wrote to 
Mr O in October 2018 to let him know it was closing his account. So, Im satisfied Santander  
has complied with the terms and conditions of the account.
I know Mr O is frustrated that he hasnt been  told why Santander closed his account  and he 
wants a proper explanation. But as Ive explained, Santander can end its relationship with a 
customer in this way. Under  the terms and conditions Santander doesnt have to give 
Ref: DRN31987054Mr O a reason. So, I cant say Santander has treated Mr O unfairly when it closed his 
account.
I understand that Mr O didnt receive the cheque Santander initially issued to him in 
November 2018.  And it has since reissued a cheque to Mr O for his closing balance.  So, I 
wont be asking it to do anything further on this matter
In summary,  I recognise how strongly Mr O feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating  time. But overall, based  on the evidence I have, I cant say Santander  have 
acted unreasonably and treated Mr O unfairly  when  it blocked and closed his account. So, I 
wont be asking them to do anything
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3198705