K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should  accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things  simple, Ill refer 
to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Ms W says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  added  to a store  card account in 2001.  FICL says 
that the policy was sold to Ms W on the phone. Ms W thought it had been  sold to her in 
the store, at the same time as she took out her store card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ms W disagreed. She said,  in summary, 
PPI was not discussed and she didnt recall agreeing to it.  She also said she didnt  need  
PPI because she was working full time and eligible to get benefits from her employer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws case.
Im not going  to uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Ms W aware that the PPI was optional  and get her consent  before 
adding PPI to her account.  Based  on the limited information now available,  I cant  know  
what was said at the time the policy was sold. Ms W may be right about  PPI not being 
discussed in the store as FICL say the policy was sold to her over the phone.
FICL says that PPI was added during a phone call. It no longer has a copy  of the call 
recording. Businesses often only keep records for six years  and this policy was sold much  
longer ago than that. So, its not surprising that the call recording isnt available  now. I 
think FICL is probably right about  PPI being sold on the phone. I say this because  Ive 
seen Ms Ws store  card application and PPI is not selected on there.
Ive thought about what we weve learnt  about  FICLs sales processes from dealing  with 
other cases from around the time of sale. Based  on what weve learnt about FICLs usual 
telephone sales  process, I think it likely that PPI wouldve been discussed  and the 
customer wouldve been told that it was an optional and separate product and asked if 
they wanted it before it was added. I havent  seen  anything  to make me think that FICL 
wasnt following its usual sales process  in Ms Ws case. So, I think  it likely that she 
wouldve been asked  if she wanted PPI before it was added.  I think PPI was probably 
added because Ms W said she wanted  it on the phone.  So, I cant  fairly  uphold her 
complaint on this ground.
Ref: DRN36963222FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Ms W so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Ms W got clear information so she could make and informed 
choice and decide if it was right for her and she wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been, so I have to go on and consider whether Ms W wouldve likely  made  a different 
decision if she had been given clearer information.  I cant see that she wouldve. Ill say 
why.
Ms W appeared eligible to take out the policy and I cant see that it was unaffordable. Ms W 
couldve cancelled the monthly paid policy at any time.
Ms W said she couldnt remember  the benefits  she wouldve received through  work.  She 
said she had 3 months worth of pay in savings. The PPI wouldve paid out on top of any 
benefits she received  through  work, allowing Ms W to use her work benefits  and savings  
to meet  her other living expenses at what  might  be a difficult time for her financially if she 
wasnt working or was made redundant. So, I cant see that her other resources made  the 
policy clearly inappropriate for her.
I cant see that Ms W was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. As she couldve benefitted from everything  the policy offered, I dont  think having 
better information about these things wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. 
I cant see that Ms W has lost out because  of anything that FICL did wrong, so I do not to 
uphold her complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3696322