K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Miss C say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy  each. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr R and Miss C bought the policies in 2008, two years after taking out a joint mortgage. 
They applied for the mortgage in branch in 2006  and requested a PPI policy at the same 
time to cover  both of them. Due to an admin error, the policy  wasnt  set up until Miss C 
realised the error in 2008. She requested that they have a policy each to cover  the joint 
mortgage repayments. 
Both policies  provided cover for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to their 
exclusions and limitations. They each offered to repay £230 a month towards  Mr R and   
Miss Cs mortgage balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, each one 
individually cost £11.93 a month. 
At the time,  Mr R was employed  as a Warehouse  Operator. He has told us he was not 
entitled to any sick pay but had savings  available to him. He was also entitled  to some 
redundancy pay. He has mentioned a number of medical conditions he had some  time 
before the sale.  
Miss C was employed as a Support  Worker. Shes told us she didnt  have any sick pay but 
was entitled to redundancy pay and had some  savings available  to her. Miss C says she had 
some medical conditions some time before the sale. 
YBS has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account started in 2006 and its still 
running.
Mr R and Miss Cs representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr R and Miss Cs representative  says:
YBS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr R and Miss C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policies  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr R and 
Miss Cs representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policies excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of 
the most  common reasons people are off work.  This significantly reduced the value 
of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policies  were of inherently poor value as shown by the 
low claims ratio.  The common law duty of utmost good faith means  YBS should have 
told Mr R and Miss C about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN35479222The common law duty of utmost good faith also means YBS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr R and Miss C and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policies only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr R and Miss C received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr R and Miss C disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr R and Miss Cs. I dont intend to set 
that out in much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr R and Miss Cs 
complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in 2008, after the sale of general insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005 and after the FSA 
renewed its insurance conduct  rules in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN35479223Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
YBS, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so YBS was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP  App 3 when 
considering Mr R and Miss Cs complaint.
Ref: DRN35479224key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If YBS gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr R and Miss C with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policies were  appropriate  or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether YBS gave  Mr R and Miss C sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, 
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr R 
and Miss C, I must  then go on to consider whether  and to what  extent they suffered 
loss or damage and what I consider  would  amount to fair compensation for that loss 
or damage.  
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both parties,  Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr R and Miss Cs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Mr R and Miss  C know  they had a choice?
YBS had to make  it clear that the PPI policies  were optional. 
As mentioned previously,  Mr R and Miss C originally applied  for PPI when taking out their 
mortgage in 2006. YBS has given me copies of the separate PPI application form that set 
out the total monthly cost and a brief outline of the cover. I can see both Mr R and Miss C 
signed the forms at that time to confirm they wanted the policy. And I think its clear  they 
didnt have to take out the policy if they didnt want it. Unfortunately,  due to an admin error, 
the policies were never set up correctly. 
In 2008, Miss C was contacted about  taking out PPI and she realised it had never been set 
up correctly in 2006. I dont have a recording of the call, but Ive seen YBS notes which  say 
Miss C was upset that it hadnt been  set up correctly and wanted  this fixed. Mr R and Miss C 
were then sent PPI statements of fact in the post that set out who was covered by each 
policy, what level of monthly  benefit had been selected, that they were each covered for 
accident, sickness and unemployment and that their excess was 30 days before they could 
claim. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mr R and Miss C knew  the policies 
were optional and they agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did YBS provide advice?
Both YBS and Mr R and Miss C agree that advice  wasnt provided during this sale.  
This means  YBS didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr R and Miss C. Instead,  it 
had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mr R and Miss C to 
Ref: DRN35479225make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policies,  including  drawing to their 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr R and Miss C were  given  a broad description of what 
the policies were intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect their payments if     
Mr R and Miss C were  unable to work through accident, sickness  or unemployment)  and of 
the approximate  costs. Ive reached this conclusion because I think  its unlikely Mr R and 
Miss C would have taken out the policies without any sense of what  the policies were for and 
of how much the premium  might  be. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  YBS gave sufficient 
information about the exclusions  or limitations over the phone  before Mr R and Miss C 
agreed to take out the policies. 
So I dont  think YBS gave Mr R and Miss C sufficient,  appropriate  and timely information  to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policies, including 
drawing their attention  and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policies and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr R and Miss Cs representative  has raised 
a number of general  points  in regards to the requirements on a business  when providing  
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr R and 
Miss Cs. Ive considered  these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr R and Miss Cs representative considers to 
be poor value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather 
than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr R and Miss C about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone 
further and explained  the significance of them to them.  
Im not persuaded by Mr R and Miss Cs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr R and Miss C have  suggested. And taking into account the 
law, industry codes and standards  of good industry  practice applicable to this complaint, I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to conclude  that YBS ought to have done either. 
Ref: DRN35479226what effect did YBSs shortcomings have  on Mr R and Miss  C? To what extent  did    
Mr R and Miss C suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found YBS didnt do all it should have done when it sold these  policies to Mr R and   
Miss C. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude    
they suffered  loss and damage  as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
R and Miss C would  have still taken out the policies, had YBS done things properly. 
Mr R and Miss C say they would not have taken them  out and believe that I should presume 
this to be the case given the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered the 
representations of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr R and Miss C had to weigh up in their own minds the 
cost of the policies against the benefits  offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt 
insure against the risk of Mr R and Miss C being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr R and Miss C chose to take these policies out. So I consider  that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr R and 
Miss C thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr R and Miss C have suffered any 
loss or detriment. 
The information Mr R and Miss C were given about  the cost and benefit was clear.  But the 
information about other aspects of the policies, such as the limitations  and exclusions wasnt 
as clear as it should have  been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr R and Miss C thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policies excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr R and Miss C 
knew about or ought to have known about  when the cover  starts, or that theyve seen  
a doctor  about  in the 12 months  prior to the start date that then returns during the first 
12 months of the policy; 
The policies limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr R 
and Miss C werent permanent employees.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr R and Miss C 
be unable to do their own job, or any paid work which  their ability,  education or 
training reasonably qualified them to do.
The policies protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term 
of the mortgage.   
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr R and Miss C pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  
that the policies were  not as good as they thought  and they might  have decided not to 
proceed. The limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, 
might have dissuaded some consumers  in slightly different circumstances from Mr R and 
Miss C from taking  out the policies. 
But the evidence  about Mr R and Miss Cs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policies werent  fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them. They were eligible for the 
Ref: DRN35479227benefits and they provided cover that, despite  the limitations and exclusions, couldve proved 
valuable to them should the insured risks have become a reality. 
Although Mr R says he had a number of medical  conditions some time before the policy was 
taken out, I dont think better information about this exclusion would have  put him off 
agreeing to it. I say this because the first issue Mr R has mentioned is around his eyesight.  
He was diagnosed in 1987, over 20 years  before  the policy  was taken out, and he hasnt 
mentioned needing to take any time off work as a result of this. In addition to this he has 
mentioned taking some time off work due to depression  in 1996 and due to back issues  in 
2004. Ive thought about this carefully,  and in doing so Ive taken into account  other 
paperwork Mr R completed when taking  out his mortgage. I can see both Mr R and Miss C 
completed a medical  disclosures form. While  Mr R declared his eyesight, when asked if hed 
had mental health  or back issues in the five years prior, he said no. So I think its more likely  
Mr R didnt feel at the time of the sale in 2008  that these conditions  were causing him 
ongoing issues that he was likely to claim for. So I dont think  better  information about  the 
exclusion would have  made him change his mind about taking out the policy. 
This is also the case for Miss C. She mentioned taking a week of work  in 1982 due to joint 
pain and another week off in 1987 for back pain. But these were over 20 years before she 
took out the policy, and hasnt mentioned any recurring or ongoing  issues in relation to them.  
So I dont  think they would have affected  her decision to take out the policy  had she received 
clearer information about the medical  condition exclusion. 
And I havent seen  any evidence  to suggest  they wouldve been caught  by any of the other  
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policies out.
The policies didnt  exclude back or mental health  conditions or place any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr R 
and Miss C would  have expected to make a disability claim on their policies without first 
providing some evidence to support that claim.
If Mr R and Miss C had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do 
both their job and any other job which in the insurers  view they might  reasonably  become 
qualified for, it might  have  played into their thinking about what  they would have  done.  And I 
accept it may have given  them pause  for thought  although its possible they may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mr R and Miss C were unable  (through disability) to carry 
on their own occupation  the chances that they would be able to take up another  occupation 
would also, in all probability, be limited.
YBS may not have  told Mr R and Miss C that any claim  they made would be limited  to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they had limited other means to fall back on. In those circumstances, I consider it likely 
Mr R and Miss C would still have thought  a policy that paid up to 12 monthly  mortgage  
payments would have  been of benefit to them and would help them manage the 
consequences should Mr R and Miss C be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policies. The policies allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could  help reduce their 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home  was not placed  at risk. 
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr R and Miss C would still have taken out the policies. They were sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
Ref: DRN35479228manage the consequences  if Mr R and Miss C were made redundant, or unable to work 
through the accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that 
Mr R and Miss C would have taken out the policies in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr R and Miss Cs representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP  
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr R and Miss C wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr R and 
Miss Cs circumstances  as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr R and Miss C found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they 
would have been in had the breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr R and Miss C believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policies. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr R and Miss C in the position they would have been in 
if they had not bought the policies. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policies, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policies  
they were buying.  So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude YBS should  pay Mr R and Miss C compensation, as that would 
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
Ref: DRN35479229Im also aware that Mr R and Miss C think YBS misrepresented  the terms of the policies in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
YBSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why YBS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  YBS gave Mr R and Miss C, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in 2008  when providing information about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr R and Miss Cs representative says a court might 
take if it were to find YBS negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr R and Miss C and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that YBS had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr R and Miss C in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Miss C 
to accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3547922