K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Santander  UK Plc (trading at the time as Abbey National) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy for their mortgage in 1993. Mr and Mrs H paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered the mortgage 
payments in case Mr H was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided that Mr and Mrs Hs PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Because of all the time thats  passed, understandably  neither side have the original  
documents from the sale. But I have looked  at a sample copy of the application Mr and 
Mrs H wouldve used. From that, it looks like Mr and Mrs H wouldve been given an overview  
about how PPI worked  and what it cost, and it wouldve been up to them  to choose to buy it 
or not. Then  in order to get the policy, they wouldve had to sign and submit  an application 
specifically for PPI, separately  to applying for the mortgage. And to pay for the policy they 
wouldve had to set up a direct debit for it, separately to the one for the mortgage. So it looks 
like it wouldve been clear  the PPI was an optional  extra, rather than something that was 
necessarily included. And Ive not seen any evidence to show  that Abbey told Mr and Mrs H 
it would  help them get approved for their mortgage,  nor have I seen any wider problems with 
its sales process from the time. So I think its most  likely that Abbey made Mr and Mrs H 
aware they had a choice about buying the PPI, and that they chose  to take it at the time.
Abbey recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check it was right for them. And 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For instance,  Mr H 
wasnt affected by any of the policys  main  exclusions or limitations. While he said he had 
good sick pay through work, the PPI wouldve covered him for longer and paid out on top. 
And he doesnt seem to have had any other protection in case  he lost his job. Its worth  
bearing in mind that Mr H was the sole earner, and if Mr and Mrs H fell behind  on their 
mortgage payments  they were at serious  risk of losing  their home. So I think  the PPI 
couldve been useful  for them in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind.
Ref: DRN36547952Its possible that the information Abbey gave  Mr and Mrs H about PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their mind.  But as I explained above,  Mr H wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve really been useful for Mr and Mrs H in case  
something went wrong. The policy was not bad value given how much it would pay out in a 
claim, and if Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances changed they could cancel  it at any time without 
a penalty. So overall, I dont  think that better information was likely  to have put them off 
taking out the cover.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3654795