K822xcomplaint
Ms S says Elevate Credit  International  Limited,  trading as Sunny, lent to her irresponsibly.
background 
Ms S had three loans with Sunny. Ive summarised some of the details Sunny provided  
about the loans below.
Loan  no. Amount  (£) Start date End date
1 200 20/09/2016 30/09/2016
2 100 01/10/2016 Outstanding
3 100 03/10/2016 Outstanding
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and recommended  it be upheld  in part. They  didnt 
think Sunny  shouldve provided the first loan but didnt think Sunny had been wrong to 
approve loans  2 and 3. Sunny accepted this and made an offer in respect of loan 1. Ms S 
didnt accept what the adjudicator had said but didnt  give any reasons. As there was no 
agreement, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms S could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
With this in mind, my decision is that Sunnys offer is fair. Ms S hasnt given any reasons for 
disagreeing with the adjudicators view and I broadly  agree with what the adjudicator  said 
about loans 2 and 3. The checks Sunny carried out were  proportionate and suggested  the 
loans were affordable  for Ms S. So I see no reason to uphold the complaint about those 
loans.
Ref: DRN32748102putting things right
Sunny should  do what  it has offered and:
refund  the interest and charges Ms S paid on loan 1
add to the refund interest at 8% simple per year, from when Ms S paid the interest 
and charges, until the date of settlement
remove any adverse information  about  loan 1 from Ms S credit history
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest.  Sunny must  give Ms S a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
If Ms S still owes Sunny anything for loans 2 and 3, Sunny may offset the refund against  
those loans  but only if it still owns the debt(s).
my final decision
My final decision is that Elevate Credit International Limited has made  a fair offer to settle 
this complaint. Elevate Credit International Limited  must put things right by taking the steps  
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020.
Matthew Bradford
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN3274810