K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that WeFlex Ltd hasnt correctly  recorded information  on his credit file in 
respect of his finance agreement for a car.
background
Mr T entered  into a hire purchase  agreement  with WeFlex on the 24 April 2018 to finance 
the purchase of a used car. The agreement  was over 4 years.  Mr T borrowed £18,440 and 
the charge for credit was £10,472. Mr T agreed to repay in 208 weekly  instalments of £139.
At the same time Mr T took out some  other  agreements with WeFlex. He agreed to pay £20 
per week  to take out an insurance policy with WeFlex with no excess. He also agreed to pay 
£9.99 per week for unlimited mileage. This should  have  made  the weekly payments £168.99.  
Mr T signed a continuous payment authority for £219.
In April 2019 Mr T voluntarily terminated  the agreement. The car was returned and WeFlex 
say that there is an early  termination charge and damage charges outstanding on the 
account. 
Mr T is unhappy  that WeFlex has recorded a default  on his credit  file and the amount 
showing as outstanding on the agreement  is recorded  as £45,553 with arrears of £1875.  Mr 
T says he doesnt understand why the amount recorded on his credit  file is so high and why 
there is a default  and arrears when he paid what was owed and handed  the car back under 
a voluntary termination.
Initially an adjudicator  didnt think that WeFlex had done anything  wrong.  He said that the 
additional amount was as a result of the credit  relating to the car insurance and this was 
correctly recorded.  The complaint was looked at again by another adjudicator and he 
concluded that there were two agreements taken  out by Mr T, one for the car, and another 
for £10,440 for the insurance element. He thought that this agreement  should not be 
reflected on Mr Ts credit report as it had not been signed. WeFlex  agreed to remove it.
Mr T was still unhappy and said that this did not address  the issues with the default and the 
arrears and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.  Mr T said his credit 
file had still not been updated. After the matter was passed to me, I asked the business  to 
provide documents in support of what it was saying but it has failed to provide any 
documents. 
On 1 December  I issued a provisional decision setting out why I thought WeFlex had not 
acted correctly and what I was minded to ask it to do to put things right.  I asked WeFlex to 
provide documents in support if it didnt agree with my provisional findings.  Mr T agreed with 
my provisional decision but WeFlex has not responded.  In these  circumstances I havent  
seen anything that would alter my original conclusions. I confirm  my original  decision as set 
out below.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN33646712Because WeFlex hasnt been able to supply the documents I asked for I have made a 
decision based on what I have. 
I can see that Mr T signed a credit  agreement with a total amount borrowed of £29,663. Mr T 
voluntarily terminated  the agreement  in April 2019. I cant  see on the information  I have  that 
there is any reason  for the credit file to reflect an amount  of £45,553. WeFlex hasnt 
produced any further agreements  signed  by Mr T and so I dont  think it should have reported 
these amounts on his credit file. There is nothing in the agreements signed by Mr T, either 
for the insurance  or the excess mileage, that would suggest there  is a further  credit  
agreement.
Mr T did not fall into arrears but voluntarily terminated the agreement in April 2019.  WeFlex 
say that the arrears reported on the credit file are for early termination  and damage  charges. 
These are disputed by Mr T. I havent  seen any evidence of these and I have asked WeFlex 
for the information  about what was agreed  as part of the early termination. WeFlex hasnt 
provided this information  and so based  on what I have I cant see that the early termination 
or damage  charges have been  correctly applied and so they shouldnt  be on Mr Ts credit  
file.
I also cant see how a default  can have been  recorded in March 2019  based on the 
paperwork I have. I have  asked WeFlex to provide  the letters relating to the default so that I 
can see if has been correctly applied but the information hasnt been provided.  Based on 
what I have seen I cant see that the default is correct and so I think it should be removed.
I cant see how Mr T has been  paying £219  per week when the documents  he has signed 
show that he only agreed to £169.99  per week. I asked WeFlex  for a breakdown of the 
account so that I could  see what  the charges were for but WeFlex  hasnt  provided  it. 
Based on the evidence  I have currently, I think that WeFlex should waive  the outstanding 
charges and arrange to remove the default and any other negative  information recorded on 
Mr Ts credit file. It should  also notify  the credit  reference agencies of the correct  figure of 
£28,913 and show it as settled.
This has been very stressful  for Mr T and he explains  it has had a negative impact on his 
credit rating. In these  circumstances I think that WeFlex should pay Mr T £150 to reflect the 
trouble and upset  caused.  
  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and WeFlex should put things right as I have 
set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3364671