K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) taken  out in 2002. 
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  them the PPI.
background
The PPI was part of a Total Mortgage  Protection  Plan, which can also include other types  of 
cover like life cover  and critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs Ws complaint is about the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Theres very little from the time of the sale to go on. But from what we know  of how Halifax  
normally sold PPI like Mr and Mrs Ws in meetings,  I think Halifax  would normally make  it 
clear PPI didnt have to be taken  and give customers like Mr and Mrs W a choice about  
taking it. Mr and Mrs W say this didnt happen in their case.  Theyve said they were  told they 
had to take the PPI for the mortgage  to be agreed.
Ive thought about this carefully.  But apart from Mr and Mrs Ws recollections,  I dont  have 
anything else to suggest that Halifax didnt  give a choice to Mr and Mrs W like I think  it 
normally would. And Mr and Mrs Ws recollections are of an event that took place many 
years earlier.  Also theyve said they cant remember where the sale took place.
Taking all this into account, on balance I havent seen enough to make  me think Halifax  
misled Mr and Mrs W about  having  to take the PPI. And I havent  enough to make me think 
that Halifax didnt  make it clear to Mr and Mrs W the PPI was optional  or that Mr and Mrs W 
didnt agree to take it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, so it had to do more  and check  the PPI was 
right for them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think the PPI 
was right for them. For example the policy  cover  was on Mr W only and it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And Mr and Mrs W seem 
to have had a need for the cover.
I say this taking into account  that the PPI was protection for Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage  a 
significant and long term liability secured on their home. The benefits wouldve been paid out 
on top of any sickness  or redundancy benefits Mr W might  receive  from his employer. And it 
could help at what could be a difficult time if Mr W were unemployed or too sick to work.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I cant  say they didnt  want this type of cover  because  I havent seen 
enough to make me think they didnt choose to take it out. And, for the reasons  Ive given 
above, it seems like the cover would  have been useful for them  if something  went  wrong. It 
Ref: DRN32791302also looks like the cover was affordable. Taking everything into account, I dont think  better 
information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs W off taking out the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ws points but, for the reasons Ive already given above, 
these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs W paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs W back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs W now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3279130