K820x#14Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society  wont fully refund transactions  made from 
his account totalling £1,010, which he says he didnt make  or authorise 
Background
Mr G has a current account  with Nationwide. The daily ATM withdrawal limit on Mr Gs 
account was £300. 
On 5 December  2017, Mr G received just over £1,300 into his account, which was a 
payment from a fund hed been expecting for a number of years.  Mr G says only his close 
family were aware hed be receiving this money  and he owed some money to his mum, so 
technically the money belonged to her.
Mr G says he normally keeps his bank  card in his room. And when hes not at home his bank 
card is always  in his possession. Mr G has said that he has a written record of his PIN 
hidden in his room at his home address. And its not kept together  with his bank card. Mr G 
says he has never given his card to anyone else to use. But says hes shared his mother  is 
aware of his PIN. During the times  of the disputed transactions  Mr G says he was at home 
with his mother. And they had no visitors  to their address. 
On 22 December 2017, Mr G went into his local branch to withdraw £500 from his account.  
He says he intended to use the money  to buy some Christmas presents for himself and his 
family. He has said he didnt have his bank  card with him at the time, so instead took some 
identification along to make the withdrawal. Mr G says prior to this withdrawal he last used 
his bank card in November 2017.
On 28 and 29 December  2017, five other transactions were made from Mr Gs account. 
£550 were cash machine  withdrawals. The remaining £460 was a cash  withdrawal over the 
counter at a Nationwide branch on 29 December  2017.
Prior to the successful  £460 withdrawal an attempt  was made to withdraw the same amount 
over the counter in a different Nationwide branch. The bank has confirmed that on this 
occasion a third party went into the branch with Mr Gs bank card, claiming to be his cousin 
and tried to withdraw  all of the money  in the account. Due to the amount being  more than 
£500, branch  staff asked the individual an additional security question, which the individual 
failed to answer correctly.   So, the transaction was declined. And the branch staff placed a 
note on Mr Gs account.
Following this a number of ATM  withdrawals were attempted. But these were also declined 
as the daily limit had already been  reached. However, the card was subsequently used to 
successfully to withdraw £460 at another Nationwide branch  over the counter.
Mr G says he checked his online banking on 30 December  2018 and noticed the five 
transactions. He says he then contacted Nationwide to say he didnt make the disputed 
transactions.
Nationwide accepted that its staff failed to pick up on the warning  note that was applied  to 
Mr Gs account on 29 December 2017 following the failed £460 counter withdrawal. So, it 
refunded him £460. But Nationwide declined to refund the rest of the disputed transactions 
Ref: DRN38590892totalling £550. It concluded  the disputed spending was made  up of transactions  Mr G had 
either made himself or had authorised because:
Mr Gs genuine card and PIN was used. And there  isnt a plausible explanation for 
how someone else could have known Mr Gs PIN
the disputed  transactions  were made on 28 and 29 December 2017  Mr G checked 
his online banking  between  2.39pm  and 2.48pm  on 30 December 2017 but didnt 
report the transactions to Nationwide until 31 December 2017
there were no other online banking  logins in December 2017 apart from on 30 
December, so its not clear what caused Mr G to check his account that day
there were no failed PIN attempts which suggests the person who carried  out the 
transactions was aware of, or had been given Mr Gs PIN
the PIN had not changed  in the last two years
there were no attempts to use the card after 29 December 2017
An investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint  but didnt uphold it. She asked Mr G some  
additional questions  about the transactions. Mr G told the investigator  that he doesnt know  
how someone else could  have gained possession of his bank card.  He said he thinks he 
might have dropped  it somewhere or it was stolen but cant provide any information about  
when or where  this might have happened. Hes also said that he thinks his account may 
have been hacked.
Having looked  at the sequence of events, and Mr Gs online activity, the investigator said it 
was more likely than not Mr G authorised the disputed transactions.  Mr G disagreed. As no 
agreement could be reached the complaint has come to me to decide. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
A customer should only be responsible for transactions theyve authorised. Mr G says he 
didnt make any of the transactions  in dispute. But Nationwide can still hold Mr G liable for 
them if the evidence  suggests its more likely than not that he did make them, or if he 
authorised someone  else to make them, or if he failed to keep  his account safe  either by 
displaying a very high degree of carelessness  or by intentionally failing to keep his card and 
PIN safe.  
Nationwide is required to refund the amount of unauthorised transactions  if Mr G did not 
make or authorise them. The relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  
Regulations 2009 (the PSRs 2009). Mr G says he didnt make  the ATM  withdrawals. And 
hes seeking a refund of the remaining £550.  So, my primary concern is to come  to a view 
about whether  or not I think Mr G authorised these payments. 
Mr G suspects that someone hacked  into his account online. But Ive not seen any evidence  
to support this was the case.  Ive also kept in mind that all the disputed transactions were  
cash machine withdrawals. So, whoever made  the disputed payments, needed to have 
possession of Mr Gs bank card and PIN. And wouldnt have needed to hack  into Mr Gs 
account as he suspects. Ive also looked at the banks technical records  to understand how 
the disputed payments were made.  And Im satisfied  that the banks evidence show  the 
Ref: DRN38590893genuine card and PIN were used to make  the disputed transactions on the 28 and 29 
December 2017.  
The regulations relevant  to this case say this is not, on its own, enough to say Nationwide  
can hold Mr G responsible for the payments he disputes. A payment out of someones 
account can only be treated as authorised  if the payer has consented to it. So, Ive gone on 
to think about  the circumstances around the transactions and whether Mr G gave his 
consent to the payments being  made.  
Mr G rang Nationwide on 31 December  2017 to report the disputed transactions. During this 
call he told NatWest that he lost or had his bank card stolen during the previous two or three 
weeks. But he hasnt been  able to provide any more detail. And I havent seen any evidence  
that Mr G reported the loss or theft of his card to the bank prior to the disputed transactions 
being carried out. 
Mr G says the last genuine transaction he made was on 22 December 2017 when he 
withdrew £500 over the counter at a branch. But he didnt use his card for this withdrawal. 
And instead took some identification along to the bank. So, its possible Mr G was no longer 
in possession of his bank card, as hes suggested.  But if this were the case,  I think its 
reasonable to expect  him to mention this to Nationwide when he visited the branch to make 
his withdrawal. But I havent seen any evidence that he did so. 
Mr G says he doesnt use his bank card often.  Hes explained that he wasnt  working so 
there was never much money in his account. And he only became aware  of the disputed  
transactions on 30 December 2017  when he logged into his account  online at around 
2.40pm. But with this in mind its not clear  to me why Mr G waited until the following day to 
report the disputed  transactions to the bank. Especially as when Mr G logged into his 
account its likely he wouldve noticed  that the balance of his account had been reduced  to 
just £9 over a period  of two days. 
Mr G has consistently said that he kept his bank  card in his room  when he wasnt using  it. 
And hes said he kept a written record of his PIN due to him having a poor memory. 
However, hes said that the PIN and card were not kept together. And the PIN was hidden in 
his room at his home and wasnt easily guessable. Hes also said that over the two days  the 
disputed transactions  took place, he didnt have any visitors  to his home. So, no one else 
would have been able to gain access to his card and PIN. And he cant pinpoint who 
mightve been responsible for the disputed transactions.  
On 29 December 2017, an attempt to withdraw  the entire balance of Mr Gs account  was 
made over the counter  by someone at a Nationwide branch. The individual had Mr Gs card 
in their possession, which  was swiped by the cashier. As the withdrawal amount was above 
£500, the cashier at the branch asked the individual an extra security question, which was, 
what is Mr Gs middle  name, and the person  couldnt  answer.  So, the transaction  was 
declined. However,  a further attempt, which was successful was made within an hour at 
another Nationwide branch. And on this occasion £460 was withdrawn from Mr Gs account. 
I understand that a warning note was placed  on Mr Gs account after the failed attempted  
withdrawal. And this wasnt picked up at the subsequent branch. Nationwide has refunded 
the £460. And I think its right that it did so. 
Mr G thinks the person who made the counter withdrawal is also responsible for the cash  
machine withdrawals. And the CCTV would support this. I know  Mr G wanted us to review 
Ref: DRN38590894the CCTV evidence.  He now knows this isnt available so Im not able to examine it. I would 
just say that this evidence  may not have shown what  Mr G hopes it did. As the CCTV 
recording doesnt exist,  I can only decide on the evidence  in front of me. Having said that, I 
think its likely that had the footage been available it would show  a third party making the 
withdrawal. I say this because the individual wasnt able to provide Mr Gs middle  name 
when challenged  by the cashier.  But even though I think a third party  was involved in making 
the disputed transactions, Im not satisfied that they were carried out without Mr Gs consent. 
I say this because:
If Mr Gs card was lost in a public place  or stolen from him, the individual  in 
possession of his card would also need to be aware of the PIN
Mr G hasnt provided a plausible explanation for how an unknown third party  could 
gain possession of his bank card and PIN  he cant recall any visitors to his home  
and says his PIN is well hidden
Mr G hasnt disputed checking his account via Nationwides online banking after the 
disputed transactions  on 30 December 2017. But he didnt report  the disputed  
transactions until the following day. Given his balance wouldve reduced significantly 
 more than £1,000,  I find it unusual that he didnt  report the issue to Nationwide 
sooner than he did
even though Mr G says he was at home  at the time of the disputed transactions, I 
havent seen any plausible explanation  as to how an unknown third party  couldve 
obtained his card and PIN without Mr Gs authority
So, when I weigh everything up, I think its more  likely than not that Mr G authorised the 
transactions. I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Nationwide  to refuse him a refund  of 
the disputed transactions.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3859089