K821x#15complaint
Mr S is unhappy that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited declined a claim 
under his pet insurance policy.
While Mr S is named in the policy, the claim and complaint  have been  dealt with by his 
partner, Mrs M, as she co owns their pet. For ease, Ill mainly refer to her in my decision.
background
Mrs M has a dog, which Ill call F. In December 2018, Mrs M took F to the vet as she noticed  
he had been rubbing his left eye. The vet said F had a corneal ulcer. Mrs M contacted  
Red Sands  to make a claim.
Red Sands  declined the claim  as it said it was a pre-existing  condition.  It felt F had showed 
signs of the condition that gave rise to the claim, albeit in his other  eye, before the policy was 
set up. Thats because F had been successfully treated for a corneal ulcer in his right eye in 
August 2016.
Red Sands  explained the policy  doesnt provide cover for pre-existing conditions. The policy  
also had a clause  which treated illnesses  in body parts which an animal has two or more of,  
such as eyes and legs, as one condition. It said that as F had previously suffered from an 
ulcer in one of his eyes, any further  ulcers  wouldnt be covered under the policy,  regardless 
of the eye in which it occurred in. It also said that had it been  made  aware of the condition  
before the policy started,  it would have applied an exclusion to the policy,  for anything 
related to eyes and sight. Consequently,  the claim wouldnt have been  covered because of 
the exclusion
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He considered evidence from 
the vet that treated F in 2018  and his regular vet. The investigator  felt the treatment history 
provided by the vets supported the ulcer being  classed  as a pre-existing condition.  The 
investigator also said that when taking out the policy, Mr S had to agree to a set of 
assumptions. One of which was that he agrees  to Red Sands applying any exclusion to the 
policy for a condition or illness  it later finds out pre-existed the start of the policy.
Because of this, he felt Red Sands also acted reasonably in applying an exclusion for eyes 
and sight to the policy. So he didnt think that Red Sands had unreasonably declined the 
claim.
Mrs M disagreed, she said the policy and exclusions  are misleading. She also felt the term 
pre-existing was being misused by Red Sands. She pointed out that the ulcer F suffered 
from in 2016 was unrelated to the ulcer in 2018  and they were  caused by different things. 
She didnt  agree they could be treated as the same condition, especially as they occurred at 
different times and in different eyes.  She said F didnt have a pre-existing  condition at the 
time Mr S took out the policy  with Red Sands, so she didnt  agree  it should be excluded.
my provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 21 October 2019. I said I intended  to 
uphold the complaint in part, for the following reasons:
the claim
Ref: DRN33929572The policy is clear that theres no cover  for any claim relating to a pre-existing condition,  or 
for an illness that first showed clinical signs before the policy  started.
The policy defines  pre-existing condition as:
Any pre-existing condition or claim for costs relating to an injury  or illness that relates to or 
results from an accident, injury, illness or clinical signs your pet had before the 
commencement date
It further defines condition to mean  any manifestation  of an illness having the same 
diagnostic classification or resulting from the same disease process regardless of the 
number of incidents or areas of your pets body affected.
The policy also has a bi-lateral condition clause which in the context of this complaint 
means any pre-existing condition F had in one eye can be treated as having happened in 
the other as well. This is quite a common term in pet insurance policies. So I have to 
consider whether the condition itself was the underlying  cause of the problems with Fs eyes.
Having reviewed the notes from the treating vets and Fs regular vets,  I minded  to say that 
Red Sands  has applied the term fairly. Ill explain why.
Based on the definition  of a condition, as Ive set out above, as F suffered with a corneal 
ulcer in 2016 this would mean any further corneal  ulcer he suffers, would be excluded  from 
the policy. Thats because  they have the same diagnostic classification,  for me to say that 
Red Sands  applied the term unfairly  I would need  to see persuasive  contemporaneous  
evidence, ideally from the treating vet that the ulcers were  unconnected.
The notes from 2016 do not specify the cause of the ulcer  and in 2018, again no specific 
cause is noted.  The treating vet however did provide  a general comment that older  dogs can 
become more susceptible to ulcers due to the aging process of the eyes.
I appreciate Ms M has said the ulcer in 2016 was caused by conjunctivitis and in 2018,  by F 
scratching his eye, but this isnt supported  by the vets notes at those times. And the 
scratching an eye seems more suggestive  of a symptom of an ulcer  rather  than the cause of 
one. 
In the absence of any persuasive  vets evidence to the contrary, Im minded to say that 
Red Sands  has acted reasonably in treating Fs corneal ulcer as a pre-existing condition. So 
its entitled to rely on this exclusion to decline the claim.
retrospective exclusion added to the policy
When Mr S bought the policy, Red Sands  only asked him to tick a box to say hed read the 
statement of presumptions. One of those presumptions is that Red Sands  reserves the right 
to apply an exclusion in respect of any illness or conditions it subsequently learns were    
pre-existing at the start of the policy (or within the first 14 days).
The law does allow  the addition  of retrospective exclusions but only in cases  where there 
has been a relevant misrepresentation. In this case,  Red Sands didnt ask Mr S a clear 
Ref: DRN33929573question about  pre-existing  conditions when he bought the policy. If it had done  so, and Mr S 
gave incorrect answers,  it might be fair to apply the exclusion it has if thats what  it would 
have done, had it known the true position.
However, as Red Sands  hasnt shown me it asked Mr S a clear question about  any          
pre-existing conditions F may have had, I cant say there was any misrepresentation on 
Mr S part. Because  of this, Red Sands arent  entitled to apply a retrospective exclusion to 
the policy.
Ive also noted  that the relevant condition was a corneal ulcer. But Red Sands imposed an 
exclusion for eyes and sight which is far wider  than the condition F suffered from. I dont 
think that was fair as it would allow Red Sands to unreasonably exclude claims for illness or 
conditions that F may go on to suffer from, which are unrelated to the original  corneal  ulcer.
my provisional decision
Im minded  to uphold  this complaint in part and require Red Sands Insurance  Company 
(Europe) Limited to remove the exclusion  on all claims with respect to eyes and sight with 
effect from the start of the policy.
responses to my provisional  decision  
Red Sands  responded to my provisional decision and said in order  to make the exclusion 
more specific and relating only to the condition in question, it proposes the exclusion is 
amended to the following:
Excludes cover on all claims with respect to anything to do with Corneal Ulcers and 
Resulting condition with effect from 12 July 2018. 
Mrs M said shed  received my decision  but doesnt agree with it. She hasnt provided any 
further comments for me to consider.
  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.  Ill explain  why.
While Mrs M has said she disagrees  with my finding that Red Sands acted reasonably in 
treating Fs corneal ulcer  as a pre-existing condition, she hasnt provided any further  
evidence or arguments  for me to consider. Because of this, I see no reason to change  my 
provisional decision in relation to this. 
Red Sands  has proposed  the retrospective  exclusion is amended  to make it more specific;  
however, in my provisional decision I said it cant add a retrospective exclusion to the policy. 
It didnt ask Mr S clear questions when  he bought  the policy  and as such  no relevant 
misrepresentation took place. Because of this Red Sands  must  remove the retrospective 
exclusion entirely, not simply amend it. 
Ref: DRN33929574Having looked  at everything, my decision remains that Red Sands acted reasonably  in 
declining Mr Ss claim for Fs corneal  ulcer,  but it should remove  the retrospective exclusion 
from the policy.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint  about Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  in part. 
I find that it was reasonable to decline Mr Ss claim for Fs corneal ulcer, but I require it to 
remove the exclusion on all claims with respect to eyes and sight with effect  from the start of 
the policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 December  2019.
Alison Gore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3392957