K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
1991. Mr and Mrs P say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The PPI policy covered Mr P only so Ive mainly considered his circumstances at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Santander had to make Mr and Mrs P aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  I cant be certain  what  was said at the time Mr 
and Mrs P applied for their mortgage and PPI but Santander has provided a copy  of the 
paperwork Mr and Mrs P would  likely have seen  when they took out their mortgage and PPI.
The application for PPI was separate  to the mortgage and required Mr P to sign it separately 
to take the PPI. So, I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt have to take out 
the PPI and Mr P chose  to take it out
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr P so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
Mr P has told us he would  have been entitled to statutory sick pay when he took the policy  
and had savings.  But the PPI would  have paid out in addition  to Mr Ps sick pay and for 
longer. The PPI would also have protected  Mr Ps savings so they could  be used toward any 
other expenses he may have had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr Ps circumstances at the time he wasnt  affected by any of
the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  and Mr and Mrs P seem  to have had a need for
the cover. So, I think it was right for them.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs P about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  Mr P chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  It also looks
like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them
off taking out the cover.
Mr P has said he was unhappy with changes made to the policy after it was taken  out. But 
this is a complaint  about the sale off PPI so I am only able to look at what  happened at the 
time the policy was sold.
Ref: DRN38058622my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 September 2021.
Terry Woodham 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3805862