K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Eggar Forrester  Insurance Ltd mis-sold  a contents and buildings 
insurance policy to them,  failing to advise them that there was an exclusion for accidental 
loss of jewellery on their new policy. The policy was in joint names,  all communication over 
the sale of the policy  was with Mrs K.
background
In June 2018 Eggar wrote to Mrs K to advise that it proposed  to change their home  
insurance to a new provider. The email advised  that the new policy  had an  exclusion  for 
accidental loss or damage to jewellery  and watches. Mrs K was asked if she wished to 
proceed with the new policy.  She confirmed her wish to proceed.  The new policy was set up. 
Shortly after that Mrs K advised Eggar that she had lost a valuable bracelet. Eggar advised 
her that the policy didnt  cover accidental loss.
Mrs K was unhappy and said that she hadnt asked for the new policy to have the cover for 
accidental loss removed   she believed Eggar had failed to advise properly and that the 
policy wasnt fit for the purpose. She asked to cancel the new policy and for Eggars 
proposals for reimbursing  her.
The new policy  was cancelled. Eggar explained that the new exclusion was made clear  to 
Mrs K when it advised her of the new policy, and that she was specifically asked to confirm 
that she wanted to move  insurers.  It denied that there had been  any mis-sale.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Mrs K had been  adequately advised 
about the exclusion before agreeing to proceed  with the new policy. So he didnt  think the 
policy had been  mis-sold.
The matter  has been passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Eggar provided  an advised  service to Mr and Mrs K in this case. This means that it was  
recommending that they buy the particular  policy.  If the policy contained any unusual,  
onerous or restrictive terms, it needed  to clearly highlight  it. Eggar also had a duty to ensure  
that the policy it was recommending was suitable  for its customers needs.
In this case, prior to renewal of the insurance, on 8 June 2018 Eggar advised Mrs K that it 
had found a more competitively priced  policy compared to the renewal  terms for the old 
policy. It recommended that Mrs K buy the new policy. In the email which enclosed the policy 
documents and terms of business, Eggar set out that an endorsement applied, namely that 
the policy contained an exclusion for accidental  loss of jewellery or watches. It was the only 
exclusion highlighted.  Mrs K was asked specifically:  
Please  note that we require your confirmation  to move insurers  prior to renewal. 
and (in bold type):
Ref: DRN34829962In the event that we don't hear from you, your cover will automatically renew with your 
current insurer.
As it didnt  hear from Mrs K in reply it sent a further copy  of the email to her saying:
 We require confirmation in order to transfer your Insurance please confirm if you would like 
to do so. 
Mrs K replied Yes go for it!
I think that the exclusion in the new policy was adequately highlighted  being drawn to 
Mr and Mrs Ks attention in the email  and that Mrs K had the opportunity  to review it before 
accepting the policy. As to whether  the policy was suitable, it was a high value buildings  and 
contents policy and Ive seen no indication other than the new exclusion that it wasnt 
suitable for the demands and needs  of Mr and Mrs K. Its easy to say with hindsight that the 
addition of that exclusion wasnt suitable  for Mr and Mrs K but Eggar  gave a clear 
opportunity to them to make a clear and informed  choice  about it, before transferring their 
insurance to the new insurer.  They made that choice and Eggar acted as advised.  I cant  
reasonably find fault in the action it took.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 March 2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN3482996